PHILIPPI, WEST VIRGINIA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ord. -, passed 8-18-2020
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ROSTER OF OFFICIALS
of the
CITY OF PHILIPPI, WEST VIRGINIA
Mayor
Phil Bowers
City Clerk
Tammy Stemple
City Manager
Jeremy Drennen
Council
Amy Mick
Clint Newman
Drew Ciccarello
Mike Propst
Tony Wilson
CHARTER
Editor’s note:
   This Part contains the Charter of the City of Philippi as same is set out in
Acts 1923, Ch. 71, as amended, passed April 17, 1923, and in effect from
passage. Dates appearing in parentheses following section headings indicate
those sections were subsequently amended, added or repealed on the date given.
   THE CHARTER OF THE    CITY OF PHILIPPI, WEST VIRGINIA
   Be it enacted by the legislature of West Virginia:
   An Act to amend and re-enact Chapter Thirteen of the Acts of the legislature
of one thousand nine hundred and five, as amended by Chapter Seven of the Acts
of the legislature of one thousand nine hundred and seven, and as amended by
Chapter Seven of the Acts of the legislature of one thousand nine hundred
fifteen, concerning the Charter of the City of Philippi.
SECTION 1. CORPORATE NAME, RIGHTS AND POWERS.
   The inhabitants of that portion of Barbour County, this State, now and
hereafter residing within the boundaries described in the next section hereof,
shall be and they are hereby constituted a body politic and corporate, by and
under the name of “The City of Philippi”, and as such and by and in that name,
shall be in perpetual succession and a common seal and may sue and be sued,
contract and be contracted with, purchase, lease, hold and use real property
personal property necessary for corporate purposes and generally shall have all
the rights, powers and franchises, belonging to or pertaining to municipal
corporations in this State.
SECTION 2. CORPORATE LIMITS.
   The corporate limits of said City shall be hereafter as follows: Beginning
at a sugar tree on the east bank of the Tygarts Valley River above the present
brick and tile factory; thence south sixty-four degrees fifteen minutes east,
one thousand three hundred and seven feet to a stake in the County road; thence
north seventy-four degrees forty minutes east, one thousand one hundred and
eighty-four feet to a stake; thence north forty-eight degrees twenty-two
minutes east, one thousand six hundred and sixty-one feet to a chestnut in the
W.G. Key’s property; thence north nine degrees nine minutes east, one thousand
five hundred and five feet to a stake in the divide of the farm of J. Hop.
Woods; thence north twenty-five degrees forty-two minutes west, six hundred and
twenty-nine feet to a stake; thence north thirty-four degrees fifty-one minutes
west, four thousand five hundred and seventy feet to an apple tree in David
Smith’s farm; thence north seventy-eight degrees twenty-seven minutes west, six
hundred and twenty-seven feet to a stake on the said farm; thence south twenty-
seven degrees forty-six minutes west, seven hundred and fifty-seven feet to a
pear tree; thence south twenty-one degrees twenty-one minutes west, one
thousand six hundred and seventy feet to a stake in the Talbott farm; thence
south twenty-six degrees thirteen minutes east, one thousand four hundred and
sixty feet to a stone in the pike; thence north nine degrees fifty-five minutes
east, four hundred and forty-four feet to the east bank of Tygarts Valley
River; thence with the low water marking following the meanders of the east
bank of said river to the beginning.
SECTION 3. COUNCIL TO DIVIDE CITY INTO WARDS.
   The Council of said City, shall divide the territory of said City into
wards, of not less than four, and may increase the number of wards from time to
time, due regard being had to the increase of population, and shall, by
ordinance, bound each ward with reasonable certainty, and give to each ward
equal representation in the Council.
SECTION 4. MUNICIPAL OFFICERS; HOW ELECTED, QUALIFICATIONS; COMPENSATION.
   The municipal authorities of said City shall consist of a Mayor, City Clerk
and five (5) coucilmen to be elected by the voters of the whole City, (2
councilmen from the South District and 3 from the North District) with
residency requirements to insure equal distribution of representation. The
number of councilmen from each district can be increased and diminished by
ordinance with increase or loss of population. The Common Council shall receive
such compensation as the Council shall from time to time determine, and which
shall not be increased or diminished during their term of office.
(Amended 4-20-1984)
SECTION 5. MUNICIPAL AUTHORITIES, POWERS VESTED IN.
   The Municipal authorities of said City shall consist of the Mayor and
councilmen, who together shall form a Common Council, and all the corporate
powers of said Corporation shall be exercised by said Council, or under its
authority, except where otherwise provided.
SECTION 6. ELECTIONS; QUALIFICATIONS OF VOTERS; CONTESTED ELECTIONS;
REGISTRATION OF VOTERS; RETURNS OF ELECTIONS; TIE DECIDED BY LOT.
   The first election hereunder shall be held on the second Tuesday in March,
one thousand nine hundred and twenty-four, and annually thereafter. Every
person who has been a bona fide resident of the City for six months next
preceding any election, and otherwise a qualified voter under the Constitution
and laws of the State, shall be entitled to vote at such election in the ward
in which he resides. The elections shall be held, conducted and the result
thereof ascertained, certified, returned and determined under such rules and
regulations as may be prescribed by the Council, which shall not be
inconsistent with the general laws of the State governing municipal elections,
and shall conform as nearly as practicable to such laws. Contested elections
shall conform as nearly as may be to similar proceedings in the case of County
and district officers. Not more than five days before such election, or any
annual election thereafter in such City, the Clerk shall ascertain who are
legal voters in such City or any ward thereof and shall make a list of the
qualified voters for each ward and deliver same to the officers appointed to
hold such election in the respective wards; but any qualified voter whose name
is omitted from such list may cast his vote by making oath before the election
officers that he is a qualified voter in such ward. The Council shall be the
judge of the election, returns and qualifications of its own members. In case
two or more persons receive an equal number of votes for the same office, if
such number be the highest cast for such office, the Council shall determine by
lot which of them shall be returned elected, and shall make their return
accordingly.
SECTION 7. ELECTION DATE; TERMS OF OFFICE.
   Beginning with the calendar year of 1984, the election shall be held on the
third Tuesday of May and every four years thereafter, on the third Tuesday of
May. There shall be elected by the qualified voters of said City, a Mayor and
such other officers as may be prescribed by ordinance as provided for in
Section 4. The officers shall hold their office for the term of four years,
commencing on the first day of July after his election until their successor
shall be elected and qualified.
(Amended 4-20-1984)
SECTION 7a. ELECTIONS; MODE OF VOTING; LAW GOVERNING.
   The mode of voting shall be by ballot, but the voter shall be left free to
vote an open, sealed or secret ballot, as he may elect. The elections in said
City shall be held and conducted and the result thereof certified, returned and
finally determined under the laws in force in this State, relating to general
elections, as they exist at the time any such election is being held, except
that the persons conducting said elections shall, on the day after the election
is held, deliver the ballots, tally sheets and poll books to the City Clerk,
and thereafter the Common Council of said City shall meet on the sixth day
succeeding said election and canvass the returns of said election, and declare
the result thereof, and in all respects comply with the requirements of the
statutes relating to general elections as they are in force at the time of
holding said election. The corporate authorities of said City shall perform all
the duties in relation to such election required by general law of county
courts (county commissions) and officers in the general election laws of this
State, and the provisions of Chapter 3 of the Code of West Virginia, in effect
at the date of such election, concerning elections by the people, shall govern
such elections and be applicable thereto, and the penalties therein prescribed
for offenses relating to elections shall be enforced against the offenders at
such corporate election; and the said general election laws shall have the same
force and effect as if they were specially enacted for corporate elections and
were by this Charter specially reenacted in extenso, except as modified in this
amended Charter of the City of Philippi.
(Amended 4-20-1984)
SECTION 8. OATH OF OFFICE.
   Every person elected or appointed to any office in said City shall, within
twenty days after his election or appointment and before entering upon the
discharge of the duties thereof, take and subscribe an oath that he will
support the Constitution of the United States, and the Constitution of this
State, and that he will well and truly perform the duties of his office, to the
best of his skill and ability, which may be done before the Mayor, or Clerk of
said City, or before any person authorized to administer oaths; and the same
together with a certificate of the officer administering the oath shall be
filed with the Clerk of said City.
SECTION 9. POWERS AND DUTIES OF OFFICERS; BOND OF CHIEF OF POLICE.
   The Council shall by ordinance, consistent with this Act and general law,
prescribe the powers, and define the duties of the Chief of Police, and other
policemen, and of all other officers and appointees of the Council; and the
Council shall require from the Chief of Police a bond, with good security to be
approved by it, in the penalty of not less than one thousand dollars
conditioned for the faithful performance of his duties as such Chief of Police
and to account for and turn over all moneys or property coming into his hands
as such officer, and the Council may require and take from appointive officers,
respectively, bonds payable to the City, in its corporate name, with such
security and in such penalties as may be deemed proper, conditioned for the
faithful performance of their duties.
SECTION 10. BONDS OF OTHER OFFICERS.
   The Council shall require and take from all officers elected or appointed as
aforesaid, whose duty it shall be to receive funds, assets or properties
belonging to said City, or having charge of the same, such bond, obligations or
other writings as may be deemed necessary and proper, to secure the faithful
performance of their several duties. All bonds, obligations or other writings
taken in pursuance of any of the provisions of this Act shall be made payable
to the City of Philippi, with such securities and in such penalties as may be
deemed proper, conditioned for the faithful performance of their duties and for
the accounting for any paying over as required by law, all moneys coming into
their hands by virtue of their offices, and the respective persons and their
heirs, executors and assigns bound thereby shall be subject to the same
proceedings on said bond, obligations and other writings for enforcing the
conditions of the terms thereof by motion or otherwise, before any court of
competent jurisdiction held in and for the County of Barbour that collectors of
County levies and other sureties are or shall be subject to on their bond for
enforcing the payment of the County levies.
SECTION 11. REMOVAL FROM OFFICE; HOW VACANCY FILLED.
   The Council shall have authority to remove from office, any officer of the
City, whether elected or appointed, or any appointee, for misconduct or neglect
of duty, intoxication, or for any wilful violation of the laws of this State,
or of the City ordinances, by an affirmative vote of three-fourths of the
members of the Council; but only after reasonable notice to such officer or
appointee, and a hearing of the charges preferred; and any vacancy in office,
however occasioned, may be filled by the Council for the unexpired term.
SECTION 12. MEETINGS OF COUNCIL; MAYOR TO PRESIDE OVER; TIE VOTE; QUORUM, ETC.
   The Council shall fix the place and time of holding its regular meetings;
may provide for special and adjourned meetings; prescribe rules and regulations
not inconsistent herewith for the transaction of business for its own guidance
and government. The Council shall be presided over at its meetings by the
Mayor, or in his absence, by one of the councilmen selected by a majority of
the Council present, who may vote on any question as member of the Council. The
Mayor shall have a vote in case of a tie, and in no case shall the presiding
officer have more than one vote. A majority of the Council shall be necessary
to constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. No member of the
Council shall vote upon or take part in the consideration of any proposition in
which he is or may be interested otherwise than as a resident of said City.
SECTION 13. RECORDS AND ARCHIVES; COPIES BY CLERK PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE.
   The Council shall cause to be kept by the Clerk in a well-bound book, to be
called the “minute book”, an accurate record of all of its proceedings,
ordinances, acts, orders and resolutions, and in another to be called
“ordinance book”, accurate copies of all general ordinances adopted by the
Council, both of which shall be fully indexed and open to the inspection of
anyone required to pay taxes to the City or who may be otherwise interested.
All oaths and bonds of officers of the City and all papers of the Council,
shall be endorsed, filed and securely kept by the Clerk. All printed copies of
such ordinances purporting to be published under authority of the Council, and
transcripts of such ordinances, acts, orders and resolutions certified by the
Clerk, under the seal of the City, shall be deemed prima facie correct, when
sought to be used as evidence in any court, or before any justice.
SECTION 14. READING AND CORRECTION OF FORMER PROCEEDINGS; WHEN YEAS AND NAYS TO
BE ENTERED.
   At each meeting of the Council, the proceedings of the last meeting shall be
read, and if erroneous, corrected and signed by the presiding officer for the
time being. Upon the call of any members the yeas and nays on any question
shall be taken and recorded in the minute book.
SECTION 15. READING OF ORDINANCES.
   No ordinance or bylaw, and no resolution or measure for the expenditure of
money, other than to defray the current and incidental expenses of the City,
shall be deemed passed or adopted unless it shall have been fully read at two
consecutive meetings of the Council, and shall have received a majority of the
votes of the members present, when it shall stand and be declared adopted, and
not otherwise.
SECTION 16. POWERS OF COUNCIL.
   The Council of said City shall have the following general powers enumerated
in the subdivisions of this section as follows:
   (1)   To lay off, open, close, vacate or maintain public grounds, parks,
public places, name and rename the same, to have control and supervision
thereover, to protect the same from damage or other injury by persons or
property, to fix fines and punishments for any injury thereto in violation of
any of the orders of said Council, and to maintain good order and prevent
violations of the ordinances of said City therein or thereon.
   (2)   To establish, maintain and regulate free public libraries and reading
rooms and to purchase books, papers, maps, manuscripts and other proper things
therefor, to receive donations and bequests of money or property for the same,
in trust or otherwise, and to pay the necessary expenses for establishing,
maintaining and regulating the same out of the funds for general purposes;
provided, such expenditure shall not exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00) per
annum unless by unanimous vote of all the members of the Council.
   (3)   To protect divine worship within the limits of said City, and to fix
fines and punishment for disturbance of any assemblage of people, then and
there, met for the worship of God, to prohibit any interference with or
disturbance of divine worship or an assemblage of people met together for the
worship of God by any person or persons loitering about the premises or places
where such worship is being had or such assemblage is met, or from loitering in
the public streets or public places adjacent thereto in such manner as to
interrupt such worship.
   (4)   To acquire either by purchase, condemnation or any other modes
provided by general law, ground within said City for such streets and alleys as
the Council may deem proper; to locate, lay off, vacate, close, open, alter,
grade, straighten, widen or narrow, pave or repave, construct and keep in good
repair, the roads, streets, alleys, pavements, sidewalks, crosswalks, drains,
viaducts and gutters therein, and such bridges as may be owned or built by the
said City, for the use of the public or of any of the citizens thereof, and to
improve and light the same and to keep the same clean and free from obstruction
of every kind; provided, the Municipality shall not be liable for, or
responsible in damages for injuries to persons or property caused by or from
any defect or obstruction in or on any street or alley within said City, that
has been or may be taken over by the State Road Commission, under and by virtue
of the laws of this State; nor shall said Municipality be liable in damages for
injuries to persons or property caused by or from a defect or obstruction in or
on the plat of ground between the gutter or curb of any street and the paved or
plank sidewalks extending there along or between any such sidewalks and the
property lying next adjacent thereto, unless the Municipality had actual notice
of such defect or obstruction prior to the time of the injury complained of;
and, provided, further, that where said City shall be required to respond in
damages by reason of injury to persons or property occasioned by the failure of
any abutting owner to so provide or keep in repair any sidewalk along such
property, after being notified by the Council so to do, that such property
owner shall be liable to the City for any sum of money, costs and counsel fees
which it has been required to pay by reason thereof.
   (5)   To regulate the width of sidewalks and the streets and the width and
the care of public grounds or grass plots abutting thereon, and to order the
sidewalks, footways, crossways, drains and gutters to be curbed, paved, or
repaved and kept in good order, free and clean, and to provide for the removal
of snow and ice therefrom, and for sprinkling the same by the owners or
occupants of the real property next adjacent thereto, and to provide and
enforce punishments for obstructing, injuring or preventing the free and proper
use thereof, and to provide and enforce fines and penalties for throwing
therein or thereupon any paper, glass, rubbish, decaying substances or other
things that would make said streets, sidewalks, grass plots, crosswalks,
drains, or gutters unsightly or unhealthy.
   (6)   To regulate the use of the walks, highways, bridges, streets, alleys
and gutters and the rate of speed of travel thereon, and to prevent and punish
for fast riding or driving thereon of any horse, bicycle, wheeled vehicle,
wagon, steam or electric or traction engine, motor car or automobile and to
prevent injury to such streets, alleys, roads and highways from overloaded or
improperly loaded vehicles, and from dragging logs or other matter therein, and
to regulate the speed of engines or trains or streetcars upon or across any
such streets, alleys, highways, bridges, public places or any other place where
the Council deems the public safety requires such regulation.
   (7)   To regulate the planting, trimming and preservation of shade trees, by
persons and by corporations, in streets, alleys, roads, public grounds and
places, and shall require the owner of adjacent property to trim or remove any
shade tree or ornamental shrubbery or other tree that in the opinion of the
Council is an obstruction to the streets, alleys, or sidewalks, or a menace to
public safety.
   (8)   The Council shall have the right to require the owner or occupier of
any property in the City to keep his premises clean and free from all matters
that would endanger the health of the City, and may require the removal of any
wastepaper or waste material of any kind or character upon the private property
of any citizen or property owner that would cause the spread of fire or when
the Council deems the same should be removed; and may require the removal or
straightening of any fence, wire, railings, or other material enclosing any
lot, when, in the opinion of the Council, the same is dangerous or obstructs or
encroaches upon the streets, alleys or sidewalks; provided, that in all such
cases, if the owner or occupier of such property fails to do any of the things
enumerated in this section required by the Council, after notice by the
Council, the Council may take such action as may be necessary to perform such
acts and the expense thereof shall be charged to the property owner and
collected as taxes are collected.
   (9)   To regulate the making of division fences of an unsightly nature and
property walls by the owners of adjoining and adjacent premises and lots,
insofar as the same shall not be in conflict with the general law.
   (10)   To regulate or require drainage by the owner or occupier of any lot
or other real estate, by proper drains, ditches, and sewers, and to require the
owner or occupier of any lot to fill the same, at his own expense, so that
water will not collect in a body thereon, or so the same will not become a
menace to public health.
   (11)   To regulate or prohibit street carnivals, or street fairs, or street
parades, advertising exhibitions thereon, or the exhibition of goods, wares,
merchandise, material or artificial curiosities upon any street, sidewalk,
alley or public place of the said Town.
   (12)   To regulate or prohibit the ringing of bells, blowing of steam
whistles, or use of hand organs, or other instruments of any annoying
character, or other music of itinerant performers in the streets, or public
speaking and preaching in the streets, roads, parks, or public places of the
Municipality.
   (13)   To license, regulate or prohibit auctioneering.
   (14)   To license, regulate or prohibit the sale of goods, wares,
merchandise, drugs or medicine on the streets or other public places.
   (15)   To prevent the illegal sale, offering or exposing for sale, or
advertising of spiritous liquors, wine, porter, ale, beer, or drinks of a like
nature.
   (16)   To prevent the illegal sale of tobacco, cigars, snuff, or cigarettes,
within said Municipality, and to prevent the smoking, by any person under
twenty-one years of age of any cigarette, in any public building or upon any
public grounds, street, alley, sidewalk or public place within said City, and
to fix fines and punishments for violations thereof.
   (17)   To regulate, control or prohibit runners for hotels, boardinghouses
and eating houses, and to regulate draymen or persons hauling or transporting
for hire at and about the railroad depots and stations and other public places
and in an assemblage of people within the said City.
   (18)   To regulate, assess and collect a license fee for the said City for
the doing of anything or business on which a State license is required, subject
to the exceptions provided by general law.
   (19)   To provide, assess and collect a license tax from residents in said
City who own and operate or run an automobile therein, or from any person,
whether a resident of said City or not, who shall run or operate an automobile
for hire, or keep the same for hire within said City; provided, that any
person, not a resident of said City, who shall run or operate an automobile in
said City, not for hire, for a longer period than one month at any time, shall
pay the license tax assessed against resident automobile owners.
   (20)   To establish, when the Council may deem proper, locate and keep in
repair, market places, market houses, and regulate markets, prescribe the time
for holding the same, to authorize the seizure thereat and destruction of any
and all such food and drink products, as shall be found unwholesome, dangerous
or offensive, and without recourse against the Municipality for its cost or
value.
   (21)   To regulate the sale of food and drink products, milk, fresh meats,
fish and vegetables, and to provide penalties for the sale of any such that are
unwholesome and unfit for use.
   (22)   To regulate and provide for the weighing of hay, coal and other
articles for sale in the markets, or to residents of said City.
   (23)   To require the merchants and other persons selling goods, foods or
materials that must be weighed, to keep correct scales, to seize and destroy
such as are found to be incorrect, and not corrected after due and proper
notice to the owner or person using the same, without damage or expense to the
Municipality for the value thereof.
   (24)   To prevent injury or annoyance to the public or individuals from
anything dangerous, offensive or unwholesome.
   (25)   To regulate the keeping, handling and transportation of explosives
and dangerous combustibles within the Municipality; and to regulate or prohibit
the use of firecrackers, skyrockets, toy pistols, air rifles or guns, within
said Municipality.
   (26)   To regulate or prohibit the erection or operation, or maintenance in
what the Council deems an improper locality within said City, any blacksmith
shop, livery stable, barn, stable, cattle pen, poultry house, pigpen, privy,
billboard, signboard, gas or other engine, coal mine, coal plant, or coal bin,
or any other thing that may in the opinion of the Council be a menace to
persons or property or public safety, or that would injure private property or
annoy citizens of said City.
   (27)   To regulate or prohibit the use of walls or walks for signs; to
regulate or prevent the distribution or posting of any sign, bill or other
paper that, in the opinion of the Council or Mayor, is indecent or immoral.
   (28)   To define by ordinance what shall constitute a nuisance, and to abate
all nuisances whether defined or not, and to require the removal or abatement
of any building, obnoxious business, signboard, billboard signs, or other
thing, which in the opinion of Council is a nuisance.
   (29)   To regulate or prohibit the distribution of handbills, circulars and
other advertisements of like kind, on the streets, roads, alleys and public
places, or the placing the same in private yards, buildings or other
structures, without having first procured the consent of the owner or occupier
of such property.
   (30)   To regulate or prohibit within the Municipality or within one mile of
its corporate limits, the erection or maintenance of any slaughterhouse, soap
factory, glue factory, lampblack factory, tannery, or other house, shop or
factory of like kind or character.
   (31)   To establish within said Municipality public drinking fountains and
water troughs; and to regulate the time and place and manner of bathing in
pools, streams and public waters within the police jurisdiction of said
Municipal corporation.
   (32)   To prevent hogs, cattle, sheep, horses, and other animals and fowl of
all kinds, from going at large in the Municipality and to establish and
maintain places for their detention, make regulations respecting the same,
appoint a pound master and define his duties and provide for the sale of such
property impounded.
   (33)   To arrest, convict and punish any person for committing adultery or
fornication, or for any lewd or lascivious cohabitation within said City, and
for keeping an assignation house, house of ill fame, or for leasing or letting
to another person any house or other building to be kept or used as such, or
for knowingly permitting any house, under the control or owned by any person,
to be used as an assignation house or house of ill fame; and to convict and
punish for frequenting, entering or loitering in any assignation house or house
of ill fame within said Municipality.
   (34)   To arrest, convict and punish any person for importing, printing,
publishing, selling, giving away, exhibiting, or distributing any book, picture
or device, or other thing containing any obscene picture or language, or making
any indecent representation.
   (35)   To restrain, convict and punish vagrants, mendicants, beggars,
tramps, common prostitutes, and their associates, and drunken or disorderly
persons within the Municipality, and to provide for their arrest and manner of
punishment.
   (36)   To prevent and prohibit the use of indecent or profane language
within the corporate limits, and to provide and fix punishment therefor.
   (37)   To prevent and prohibit any tumult, riot, quarrel, angry contention,
abusive language, and to prevent the use of insulting epithets, assaults,
assault and battery, and fix fines and punishments therefor.
   (38)   To prevent and prohibit trespass upon private property or the doing
of anything which would annoy the occupier of any premises, and to fix and
provide fines and punishments therefor.
   (39)   To provide against danger or damages by fire, and to that end, to
require, when the Council may think necessary, an inspection of all the
properties within the said City, and to require the owner or occupier of any
property in which a defective or dangerous chimney or flue is found, to
immediately repair the same, and to prevent the use thereof until repaired as
required.
   (40)   To prohibit and prevent intoxication or drunkenness, and the drinking
of intoxicants in any public place, store, street, or alley, and to fix fines
and penalties therefor.
   (41)   To prohibit and punish for larceny where the amount stolen is less
than twenty dollars.
   (42)   To prohibit, prevent and punish for anything that is against the good
morals and common decency, or that would tend to corrupt, vice or crime.
   (43)   To protect the public schools in said City, and to prohibit and
prevent any disturbance thereof in and about the buildings or upon the grounds,
and to prevent injury, destruction or defacement of any school property or
building.
   (44)   To establish a board of health and vest it with the necessary power
to maintain its object, and to fix fines and penalties for any violation of its
lawful orders.
   (45)   To establish quarantine, and to erect and maintain pest houses and
places of detention, and to make and enforce necessary orders for controlling
or preventing the spread of infectious and contagious diseases and for abating
pestilences.
   (46)   To prohibit the bringing into the corporate limits by railroads,
carrier, persons, or in any manner, persons, who are paupers or persons who are
afflicted with contagious diseases; to punish by fine or imprisonment, or both,
any person who shall bring into the corporate limits any such pauper or person
afflicted with contagious disease, knowing or having reason to believe, at the
time that such person is a pauper or afflicted with such contagious disease,
and to collect and recover from any such railroad company, carrier, or other
person, the expense of keeping and maintaining such pauper or diseased person,
until such person can be lawfully removed from the corporate limits.
   (47)   To provide for the poor of the Municipality, and to that end, the
Municipality may contract with County Court of Barbour County, for keeping of
such poor person, or any number of them, at the County poorhouse, at a price
and on such terms as may be agreed upon between the County Court and the proper
Municipal authorities.
   (48)   To authorize the taking up and providing for the maintenance and
safekeeping, and educating of (for such period as may be deemed expedient) all
children within said City who are destitute of proper parental and other care.
   (49)   To arrest, convict and punish any person for cruelty, unnecessary or
needlessly beating, torturing, mutilating, killing or overloading, overdriving,
or wilfully depriving necessary substance, any horse or other domestic animal.
   (50)   To regulate the hitching of horses within the corporate limits, and
the driving of cows and cattle through, upon and along the streets and alleys
of the said City.
   (51)   To prohibit, prevent and punish for the pollution of any stream of
water running into or through the said Municipality; and to prohibit and
prevent the throwing into any such stream of any trash, dirt, filth, offal,
decayed substances or matters, or anything that would make said water unhealthy
or unfit for domestic use.
   (52)   To prohibit, prevent and punish for any desecration of the Sabbath
day; prohibit the playing of any game, exhibiting any show, theater picture
show, and the keeping open of business places, except hotels, eating houses,
boardinghouses, restaurants, drugstores and places where ice cream or soft
drinks are furnished.
   (53)   To restrain, prevent and punish fraudulent practices of any kind or
character within the Municipality.
   (54)   To arrest, convict and punish any person for gambling or keeping any
gaming table, commonly called “faro bank”, or table and chips used in playing
such game; crap table, chips or dice used in playing such game; or roulette or
the wheel, chips, or other equipment used in playing such game; or keno table
or table of like kind or device used in playing the same; or table of like kind
under any denomination, whether the game or games be played with cards, dice or
otherwise on which anything is bet or wagered, whether the same be playing in
any public or private room or residence; and may convict and punish any person
who shall be a partner or concerned or interested in the keeping of such
gambling devices theretofore enumerated, or in any game played, such as is
prohibited hereby, or in keeping or maintaining any gambling house or place of
gambling for money or anything of value; and. shall have the right to destroy
such gambling paraphernalia as may be found in use on any such premises; and
any officer armed with a warrant for the arrest of any person engaged in any
such unlawful game or for the search of any room in which gambling is
suspected, or for the seizure of any gambling paraphernalia, shall have the
right to break into any building, other than a private dwelling house, without
notice or demand, and into a private dwelling or room, after demand and refusal
to open same, to execute any such warrant.
   (55)   To restrain all felons and persons guilty of offenses against this
State or the United States, and deliver them over to the authorities or court
having jurisdiction of the offense whereof such persons are accused.
   (56)   To apprehend and punish any person who, without a State license
therefor, is guilty of carrying about his person, within the Municipality, any
revolver or other pistol, dirk, bowie knife, slingshot, razor, billy, metallic
or false knuckle, or any other dangerous or deadly weapon of like kind and
character, as provided by chapter fifty-one of the Acts of the legislature of
one thousand nine hundred and nine, or any amendment thereof, and the
punishment therefor, whether for the first or other offenses, shall be that
prescribed by said chapter for any such person guilty under the misdemeanor
clause provided therein; provided, that the Mayor acting as ex-officio justice
of the peace, may, after enforcing this ordinance, hold such offender to answer
to an indictment in the Circuit Court of Barbour County for such offense, under
the State law.
   (57)   To regulate the erection, construction, alteration and repair of
dwelling houses, buildings and other structures, within the Municipality, to
issue permits therefor, and to compel the numbering of such houses and
buildings by the owners and occupiers thereof; and to prescribe by ordinance
the distance which dwelling houses, and other structures in resident districts
shall be set back from the sidewalk.
   (58)   To regulate the hanging of doors, the construction of stairways and
elevators, and require fire escapes in theaters, churches, school buildings,
factories and other places deemed necessary by the Council.
   (59)   To establish fire limits and to regulate the construction of
buildings, and designate materials to be used in the construction of buildings
within such limits.
   (60)   To regulate the building of fire walls, fireplaces, chimneys,
boilers, smokestacks, stovepipes, and the burning of wastepaper, trash or other
waste matter, in the corporate limits.
   (61)   To regulate the height, construction and inspection of all new
buildings hereafter erected, the alteration and repair of all buildings now and
hereafter erected, to require permits to be obtained of the Council therefor,
and the submission of plans and specifications to the Council for its approval;
to regulate the limits within which it shall be lawful to erect any steps,
porticos, bay windows, awnings, signs, columns, piers, or other projection of
structural ornaments of any kind for the houses or buildings on any street or
alley.
   (62)   To provide for the prevention and extinguishing of fires, and for
this purpose, the Council may equip and govern fire companies, prescribe the
powers and duties of such companies and departments, and the several officers
thereof, and may authorize the organization of volunteer fire companies under
such rules and regulations as the Council may prescribe, and impose on those
who fail to obey any lawful command of the officer in charge of said fire
company or volunteer company, any penalty which the Council is authorized to
impose for violation of an ordinance, and to give authority to the chief fire
officer to direct the pulling down or destruction of any building, fence, wall
or other thing, if such officer deems it necessary to prevent the spreading of
any fire which is being extinguished under the direction of such officer, and
without any liability on the Municipality for damages therefor, and to regulate
the flow of traffic going to the scene of or returning from any fire.
   (63)   To protect the persons and property within the corporate limits and
preserve the peace and good order therein, and for this purpose, to appoint,
when necessary, a police force and such other officers as may be deemed
necessary; and to provide a lockup, jail or other suitable place to confine
persons sentenced to imprisonment for violation of the ordinances of said City;
provided, however, that the jail of Barbour County may be used for that
purpose, if authorized by the County Court of said County.
   (64)   To require any person violating any of the ordinances of said City,
or any order for which a fine, imprisonment or both is imposed, to work upon
the streets of said City in case of nonpayment of said fine, until the same is
paid by such labor, or in case imprisonment is imposed, to work upon the
streets of said City during the term of such imprisonment in addition to the
payment of such fine, under such regulations as the Council may prescribe.
   (65)   To prescribe the powers, define the duties of the officers appointed
under the corporate authority, fix their terms of service and compensation, if
not otherwise prescribed by this Charter, and to require and take from them
bonds, when deemed necessary, payable to the State of West Virginia or the City
of Philippi, with sureties, and in such penalties as may be prescribed,
conditioned for the faithful discharge of their respective duties; provided,
that the compensation of any officer, elected or appointed, shall not be
increased nor diminished during the time for which he is elected or appointed,
unless due notice of such intention is first served on the officer interested.
   (66)   To make regulations with respect to, and have supervision and control
over the erection, removal and relocation of all telephone, telegraph, electric
light or other poles within said City, and the extension of wires, lines or
poles by any individuals or corporations.
   (67)   To require the extension of any electric light wire, telephone lines,
gas line, water system, or other public service within said corporate limits,
to meet the needs of the inhabitants, when, in the opinion of the Council, such
extension is necessary and justifiable.
   (68)   To grant and regulate all franchises in, upon, over and under the
streets, alleys and public ways of said City, under such restrictions as shall
be provided by ordinances and general law; but no exclusive franchise shall be
granted by said City Council to any individual or corporation; nor shall any
franchise be granted for a longer period than twenty years.
   (69)   To acquire, erect or authorize or prohibit the erection of gas works,
electric light works or waterworks within the City limits; to prevent injury to
such works or the pollution of any gas or water used or intended to be used by
the public or by individuals; and to do all things necessary to adequately
supply said City and the inhabitants thereof with pure, healthful and wholesome
water; and to require any company furnishing gas or electricity for sale or
distribution in said City, to furnish an adequate supply thereof; to require
gas fixtures, electric light wires, telephone wires and all apparatuses used in
connection with any of these, to be kept in repair and suitable for use, and
free from danger, so far as practicable; to use, generate, distribute, sell and
control electricity and gas heat, light and power, and to furnish light for the
streets, highways, buildings, stores and other places in an about said City.
   (70)   To require any gas company or person furnishing gas for said City or
the inhabitants thereof, to put in standard meters for the measurement thereof,
and may appoint a competent person to inspect the meters and remove the same if
not standard and in good order; to prevent injury to any gas works, electric
light works, water system or any gas meter or meter within said Municipality.
   (71)   The Council shall have the right to require of any water company or
person furnishing water for the use of the inhabitants of said City, for hire,
compensation or regard, to obey any order of the Council with respect to
keeping the reservoir or other source from which said water is furnished, free
from filth and in a good, clean condition, and may require said water company
to put in such lines as may be necessary to pump the said water into the
reservoir or other receptacle therefor, without pumping the same into the main
distributing lines, or in any other way or manner effecting them; and may fix
fines and penalties for any failure on the part of any corporation, company or
other person distributing water, to obey and order of the Council or any
authorized officer of the Town, respecting the same, or any ordinance that may
be enacted by the Council relative thereto.
   (72)   The Council shall have the right to own, maintain, operate and
control any electric light plant within said City, or to provide for, or
purchase electric power and to use, generate, distribute, sell and control
electricity and gas for heat, light and power, and to furnish light for the
streets, houses, buildings, stores and other places in and about said City, and
for such electricity other than that furnished for the Municipality in lighting
its streets and public places, it may charge reasonable rates, but such rates
in all cases shall be uniform; and such electric light plant shall be under the
supervision and control of the Council, and its wires, poles, distributing
system and machinery shall be kept in such repair so that as little danger as
possible shall arise therefrom and so the same will furnish an adequate supply
of electricity to all persons in said City desiring to use same.
   (73)   The Council shall have the right to provide a sewerage system for
said City, and may require the owner of any property abutting upon any street
or alley in which a sewer had been laid or placed, to connect a sewer leading
from his or her property or lot into any public sewer which is located in such
street or alley adjoining the same, and if the owner or occupier of said lot or
property fails or refuses so to do, after having been given a reasonable
notice, the Council may enter upon such lot and construct such sewers, and may
levy the actual cost thereof against the lot upon which the same is built and
collect such costs from the owner of such lot in the same manner as City or
State taxes are collected; in addition thereto, the Council may punish by fine,
or fine and imprisonment, any person who permits any drainage from his
residence or lot to enter upon any street or upon any property after a sewer
has been placed in a street or alley adjacent to his property to which he
should connect, after notice has been given to him by the Council to make such
connection.
   (74)   The Council shall have the right to impose fines and penalties for
any interference with or destruction of the sewer system or any part thereof in
said City, or for the destruction of or damage to any street, alley or sidewalk
in said City, or any improper use thereof; it shall have the right to regulate
or prevent the use of the sidewalk for bicycles, pushcarts, sleds, tricycles,
roller skates and other things of like character, and to fix fines and
penalties for violation of the ordinances respecting same.
   (75)   To grant by ordinance or resolution permits for the temporary use of
such parts of its streets, roads, alleys and public places as the Council may
deem proper and right to be used in the construction, alteration or repair of
buildings located thereon, or for such other purposes as the Council may deem
proper and right, and under such regulations and for such time as the Council
may prescribe.
   (76)   The Council may buy, lease and operate either within or without the
Municipality, stone quarries, crusher and land for said purposes or for the
purpose of furnishing a supply of stone or other matter suitable for
macadamizing or paving the streets, sidewalks and alleys, and improving public
property.
   (77)   Whenever in the opinion of the Council it is necessary that any
sidewalk be built or repaired, it shall first have a competent engineer fix a
grade line for such sidewalk and shall then, by order of Council, name the
character of material out of which same is to be built, and fix the width
thereof, and put in such curbing as the Council may deem necessary, and shall
then give notice, in writing, to the owner or occupier of said lot, if he be
found, and if he be not found, posting a notice thereof upon the said lot and
at the front door of the Courthouse of Barbour County for at least ten days,
requiring the construction of said sidewalk in accordance with the requirements
of the Council and upon the grade fixed by the said engineer, and if such
sidewalk be not built, altered or repaired within twenty days afer such notice
is first given or posted, the Council shall proceed to put in the same under
its supervision and control, and shall charge the expense thereof against the
property along which the same is being placed, altered or repaired, and shall
cause an itemized account of the same to be made up and delivered to such
property owner or occupier of such premises, if found, and if he be not found,
have the same recorded in the County Clerk’s office of Barbour County, and the
same shall constitute a lien upon the same lot or property and shall be
collected as other taxes are collected; provided, nothing herein contained
shall prevent the Council from requiring immediate repair of such sidewalks now
or hereafter constructed that may become dangerous, and after notice to the
property owner along which the same run, the Council may make such immediate
repairs, if the property owner fails to make some after such notice, and the
expense thereof shall be a lien in the manner aforesaid.
   (78)   The Council shall have the right, when, in its opinion, it is
necessary or proper to do so, to pave any street or alley of said City, and to
prescribe the material to be used in such paving and to charge one-third of the
total costs of preparing and paving the said street, to the adjacent property
owners on each side of the said street or alley, and to pay one-third thereof
out of such funds as the Council may provide, but such paving shall be done and
such assessments and charges made against the property owner as provided by
chapter eight of the Acts of the legislature of one thousand nine hundred and
eight, and any amendments thereto, and hereafter made.
   (79)   To operate by ordinance such committees or boards, and delegate such
authority thereto as may be deemed necessary or advisable by the Council; and
to employ such legal counsel on behalf of the City, from time to time, as the
City may deem necessary to protect the interests of the City.
   (80)   To provide for the annual assessment of the taxable property in said
City, including dogs kept in said City, and to provide a revenue for the City
for Municipal purposes and appropriate such revenue to its expenses; provided,
nothing herein contained shall require the Council to keep in repair and
maintain any bridge or bridges within said corporation, now or hereafter owned
by the County of Barbour, but the officers of said corporation in the
preservation of law and order shall have jurisdiction over any such bridges
within such corporation; and provided, further, that the police regulations as
may be ordained by said City, and the right and power to enforce the same shall
extend one mile into the State of West Virginia beyond the corporate limits of
said City.
   (81)   The Council may, within any prescribed area, prohibit the erection on
any street or in any square, of any building, or of any addition to any
building more than ten feet high, unless the outer walls thereof be made of
brick and mortar or other fireproof material, and may require the removal of
any building or addition which shall be hereafter erected contrary to this
prohibition, at the expense of the owner or owners thereof.
   (82)   The Council shall keep all roads, streets and alleys within its
limits passable and in good repair, and may provide the expenses therefor by a
direct taxation, as provided under this Charter, or in any other manner
authorized by law; and the residents of said City who are taxed herein for the
purpose of maintaining such streets and alleys shall be exempt from the payment
of any County road tax.
   (83)   In the enforcement of the ordinances, orders, rules, regulations and
bylaws of the said City, no fine shall be imposed exceeding five hundred
dollars ($500.00), and no person shall be imprisoned or compelled to labor on
the streets of said City, as aforesaid, exceeding six. months; provided, that
any violation of the prohibition or liquor laws of this State shall be punished
by the fines and penalties herein prescribed; and violations of the road law or
automobile laws, may be punished by the fines and penalties prescribed by
general law, unless different fines and penalties are expressly prescribed by
the ordinances of said City, and in all cases where a fine is imposed for an
amount exceeding ten dollars or a person be imprisoned or compelled to labor as
aforesaid, an appeal may be taken from such decision upon the same terms and
conditions that appeals are taken from the judgment of a justice of this state;
and in no case shall a fine of less than ten dollars be imposed where the
ordinance prescribed a fine, if the defendant requests that such fine be made
at least ten dollars for the purpose of appeal.
   (84)   The Council shall have the right to enforce the attendance of its
members at all regular meetings and at all special meetings of which such
members have notice, and may cause the arrest and punishment, by fine or fine
and imprisonment, of any such member who refuses to attend and take part in its
proceedings.
   (85)   It shall be the express duty of the Council to present charges
against any of its members, or any officer of the City, who fails to perform,
or who does not promptly and diligently perform any duty prescribed by this
Act, or by any ordinance or resolution of the Council, and upon hearing thereof
before the Council, after notice to such officer, he shall be removed from
office by the Council, if the charges be found correct.
(Amended 11-22-1955)
SECTION 17. AUTHORITY TO MAKE AND ENFORCE ORDINANCES, ETC.
   To call into effect these enumerated powers and all others by this Act or by
general law conferred, or which may hereafter be conferred upon the said City,
or its Council, or any of its officers, the said Council shall have and possess
full authority to make, pass and adopt all needful ordinances, bylaws, orders
and resolutions, not repugnant to the Constitution of the United States, the
Constitution of West Virginia and laws of this State; and to enforce any and
all of such ordinances, bylaws, orders or resolutions, by prescribing for a
violation thereof fines and penalties, and imprisonment in either the County
jail of Barbour County, or the City prison, if there be one; but no fine shall
exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) and no person shall be imprisoned or
compelled to labor on the streets of said City for a longer period than six
months; provided, that any violation of the prohibition or liquor laws of this
State shall be punished by the fines and penalties prescribed by general law,
unless, different fines and penalties are prescribed by the ordinances of said
City. Said fines and penalties shall be imposed and recovered, and such
imprisonment inflicted and enforced by the judgment of the Mayor of said City,
or in case of his absence or inability to act then by the Clerk of said City or
in the case of the absence or inability to act of both of such officers then
one of the councilmen appointed for that purpose shall act.
SECTION 18. CONTRACT INTEREST.
   No officer, agent or employee of said City shall be pecuniarily interested,
either directly or indirectly, in any contract, sale or purchase for or on
behalf of the City, or in the proceeds of any improvements made by or on behalf
of the City, nor shall he receive, directly or indirectly, any compensation for
his services rendered on behalf of the City, other than herein specified.
(Amended 4-20-1984)
SECTION 19. DUTIES AND POWERS OF MAYOR.
   The Mayor shall be the chief executive officer of said City and shall take
care that the orders, bylaws, ordinances and resolutions of the Council
thereof, are faithfully executed. He shall be a conservator of the peace within
such City, and shall within the same have, possess, and may exercise, all the
powers and perform all of the duties, whether civil or criminal vested by law
in a justice of the peace. Any summons, warrant or other proceedings issued by
him may be executed at any place within the County. He shall have control of
the police of the City, and may appoint special police officers whenever he
deems it necessary; it shall be his duty especially to see that the peace and
good order of the City are preserved, and that persons and property therein are
protected; and to this end he may arrest and detain or cause the arrest and
detention of all riotous and disorderly persons before taking other proceedings
in the case. He shall, from time to time, recommend to the Council such
measures as he may deem needful for the welfare of the City. He shall not
receive any money due or belonging to the State, or to corporations, or to
individuals, unless and until he shall be given the bond and security required
of a justice of the peace West Virginia Code Chapter 50, and all of the
provisions of said chapter relating to moneys received by a justice, shall
apply in like manner to him.
SECTION 20. PROCEDURE TO ENFORCE ORDINANCES.
   In proceedings to enforce any ordinance which prescribes a fine or
imprisonment, or both, for the violation thereof, there shall be issued a
warrant by the Mayor of the City of Philippi, based upon a written complaint
duly signed and sworn to, directed to the Chief of Police or any police officer
or any constable of any district within the County, requiring such officer to
apprehend and bring before the Mayor for trial the person accused therein of
such violation and which person shall thereafter be dealt with according to
law. The complaint and warrant shall contain such a statement of the facts
alleged as will inform such person of the general nature of the offense against
the City with which he stands charged. Such warrant shall be issued only upon
complaint on the oath of some credible person. The mayor of the City, or in the
absence of the Mayor, the City Clerk shall have authority to receive such
complaint in writing of the violation of any ordinance and sign and issue a
proper warrant based on such complaint. The Mayor shall have, possess and may
exercise the power and authority belonging to a Justice of the Peace under West
Virginia Code Chapter 50 in issuing subpoenas and enforcing the attendance and
examination of witnesses in punishing for contempt, in granting continuance,
and in securing and enforcing the further attendance of the accused for a trial
or hearing. If any recognizance or bond is taken for such further attendance
and is forfeited the Mayor may record the default and an action may be
maintained in the name of the City, before the Mayor or any justice having
jurisdiction against the accused and his sureties, if any, to recover the
penalty thereof.
(Amended 11-22-1955)
SECTION 21. EXECUTIONS FOR FINES AND COSTS.
   The Mayor shall have power to issue an execution for any fine and costs
assessed or imposed by him, for the violation of any ordinance, or he may at
the time of rendering judgment therefor or at any time thereafter, and before
satisfaction of such judgment, by his order in writing, require the immediate
payment thereof, and in default of such payment he may commit the person so in
default to the jail of Barbour County, or, in his discretion, to the prison of
said City, if one shall have been provided by the Council, until the fine and
costs are fully paid; but such imprisonment shall not exceed ninety days.
SECTION 22. JAILER OF BARBOUR COUNTY TO RECEIVE PRISONERS.
   The Jailer of Barbour County shall take and receive into his custody any
person sentenced to imprisonment in the jail of said County, or committed for
the nonpayment of a fine and costs, or for the failure to enter into a
recognizance by the judgment or order of the Mayor, in proceedings for the
violation of an ordinance; and the expense of maintaining such persons while so
in confinement shall be paid by the City.
SECTION 23. POLICE DOCKET; CONTENTS THEREOF.
   A book well-bound and indexed, to be denominated the “docket”, shall be kept
in the office of the Mayor, in which shall be noted each case brought or tried
by him, together with the proceedings therein, including a statement of
complaint, the summons, the return, the face of appearance or nonappearance,
the defense, the hearing, the judgment, the cost and, in case the judgment be
one of conviction, the action taken to enforce the same. The record of such
cases shall be signed by the Mayor or other person acting in his stead; and the
original papers thereof, if no appeal be taken, shall be kept together and
preserved in his office.
SECTION 24. APPEAL FROM JUDGMENT OF MAYOR TO CIRCUIT COURT.
   In any case for the violation of an ordinance of said City, in which there
is a judgment of the Mayor of imprisonment or for a fine of ten dollars
($10.00) or more (and in all cases the fine shall not be less than ten dollars
($10.00) when the accused requests it) an appeal shall lie at the instance of
the person against whom such judgment is rendered to the Circuit Court of
Barbour County; such appeal shall not be granted by the Mayor unless within ten
days from the date of judgment, such person shall enter into a recognizance or
bond with security approved by the Mayor, to appear before said Court on the
seventh day of the next term, to answer for the offense against him and not
thence depart without leave of Court and which bond shall be a continuing bond
from time to time until the case shall be determined. The provisions of general
law, relating to a recognizance or bond in criminal cases shall be applicable
to the recognizance or bond contemplated by this section; but any money
recovered thereon by virtue thereof shall inure to said City.
(Amended 11-22-1955)
SECTION 25. APPEALS; TRANSCRIPT TO BE FURNISHED.
   If such appeal be taken the Mayor shall forthwith deliver to the clerk of
said Court the complaint in writing, if any, the summons, a transcript of the
record, including the judgment, the recognizance and any other papers belonging
to the case; and such clerk shall receive and file the same, and place the case
upon the trial docket of the next succeeding term of said court; and said court
shall proceed to try the same in its order.
SECTION 26. APPEALS; JUDGMENT UPON.
   If the appellant be found guilty of violation of the ordinance in question,
whether upon the verdict of a jury or otherwise, the Court shall ascertain by
its judgment the fine or imprisonment, or the fine and imprisonment, to be paid
or suffered by such defendant, having regard to the punishment prescribed by
such ordinance, and shall include in any such judgment the costs incurred by
said City, as well in the proceedings before the Mayor, as those in Court, and
the fee, if any, of the jailer or the keeper of the City prison; and the
proceedings to enforce the collection of any such fines and costs, may be the
same as provided in sections ten, eleven and twelve of chapter thirty-six of
the Code of West Virginia, except that the writ mentioned in the tenth section
may be issued by the Clerk upon the order of the Mayor of the City and the
notice contemplated by the eleventh section shall be given to such officer. If
the judgment be for the defendant he shall recover his costs from the City.
SECTION 27. APPEALS; IN CASES OTHER THAN FOR VIOLATION OF ORDINANCES.
   From all judgments by the Mayor in cases other than for violation of
ordinances, appeals shall be allowed as in similar cases before justices.
SECTION 28. CLERK; DUTIES OF.
   It shall be the duty of the City Clerk to keep a journal of the proceedings
of the Council and have charge of and preserve the records, bonds, papers, and
other documents belonging to the City. It shall be his duty to attend the
sessions of the Police Court and keep accurate records of its proceedings, and
all judgments shall be entered by him within twenty-four hours after the same
are rendered. He shall, in case of sickness or disability of the Mayor act, or
in case of his absence from the City, or during any vacancy in the office of
the Mayor, perform the duties of the Mayor and shall be vested with all powers
necessary for the performance of such duties. He shall also perform such other
duties pertaining to the fiscal affairs of the City or otherwise, as may be
required of him by this Act or by the Council.
SECTION 29. CLERK; DUTIES AND POWERS AS TO ASSESSMENTS (REPEALED).
Editor’s note:
   Former Section 29 was repealed on November 22, 1955.
SECTION 30. ESTIMATES AND LEVY.
   The Council shall hold a session on the first Tuesday of August of each year
for the general transaction of business, at which time it shall ascertain the
condition of the fiscal affairs of the City and make up or cause to be made up
an itemized statement of the same which shall set forth in detail the
following:
      A.   The amount due and the amount that will become due and collectible
from every source during the current fiscal year except from levy of taxes to
be made for the year.
      B.   The interest, sinking fund and amortization requirements for the
fiscal year of bonded indebtedness.
      C.   Other contractual indebtedness, not bonded.
      D.   All other expenditures to be paid out of receipts of the
Municipality for the current fiscal year with proper allowance for delinquent
taxes, exonerations and contingencies.
      E.   The total amount necessary to be raised by the levy of taxes for the
current fiscal year.
      F.   The proposed rate of levy in cents on each one hundred dollars
($100.00) assessed valuation of each class of property.
      G.   The separate and aggregate assessed valuation of real, personal and
public utility property in each class in the Municipality.
   The Clerk of the Municipality shall forward immediately a certified copy of
the statement to the Tax Commissioner and shall publish the statement
forthwith. The session shall then stand adjourned until the third Tuesday in
August, at which time it shall reconvene, hear and consider any objections made
orally or in writing by the City Attorney, by the Tax Commissioner or his
representative or by any taxpayer of the City to the estimate and proposed levy
or to any item thereof. The Council shall enter of record any objections so
made and the reasons therefor. After hearing objections, the Council shall
reconsider the proposed original estimate and proposed rates of levy and if the
objections are well taken shall correct the estimate and levy. No such estimate
and levy, however, shall be entered until the same shall have been first
approved, in writing, by the Tax Commissioner of the State. When same shall
have been approved by the Tax Commissioner the Clerk shall then enter the
estimate and levy, together with the order of the Council approving them, and
the written approval of the Tax Commissioner in the property record book. The
Council shall then levy as many cents per hundred dollars ($100.00) assessed
valuation on each class of property in the City as will produce the amounts,
according to the last assessments shown on the levy estimate.
(Amended 11-22-1955)
SECTION 31. CLERK; BOND; TO BE CUSTODIAN OF MONEYS; OTHER DUTIES.
   The Clerk of said City shall execute a bond conditioned for the faithful
performance of the duties of his office before entering upon the discharge of
same and to account and pay over as required by law all money which may come
into his hands by virtue of his office, with sureties satisfactory to Council,
payable to the City in the penalty of not less than three thousand dollars
($3,000), and as much more as the Council may deem necessary for its
protection. He shall be custodian of all money, bonds, notes, certificates and
other evidences of indebtedness of the City and all valuable papers which may
be placed in his possession by the Council. He shall be charged with and it
shall be his duty to receive the City taxes, levies and assessments, to collect
licenses and fees and to collect any and all money that may be due to the City
for regular City purposes or which may be due upon any proprietary function of
the City.
(Amended 11-22-1955)
SECTION 32. CLERK TO EXTEND LEVIES AND COLLECT TAXES; DISCOUNT AND INTEREST ON
TAXES (REPEALED).
Editor’s note:
   Former Section 32 was repealed on November 22, 1955.
SECTION 33. CLERK TO RETURN LIST OF DELINQUENT TAXES; ACCOUNTS, ETC.
   It shall be the duty of the Clerk, at least once in six months during his
continuance in office, and oftener when required by the Council to render an
account of the taxes, levies, assessments and other claims in his hands for
collection, and return a list of such as he shall not have been able to collect
by reason of insolvency, removal or other cause, to which list he shall attach
an affidavit that he has used due diligence to collect the claims therein
mentioned, but has been unable to do so, and if the Council shall be satisfied
with the correctness of said list, it shall allow him a credit for said claim,
but may thereafter take such lawful measures to collect the same as may be
prescribed. He shall keep regular books of account to be examined and approved
by the Council, of all moneys received and disbursed by him, and of other
matters pertaining to his office, which books shall at all times be open to the
inspection of the Council, or any committee appointed by it for such purpose.
All moneys belonging to the City shall be paid over to the Clerk, and no moneys
shall be paid out by him except upon the order of the Council, countersigned by
the Mayor. If the Clerk shall fail to collect, amount for and pay over all or
any of the moneys with which he may be chargeable, belonging to the City,
according to the conditions of his bond and the orders of the Council, the same
may be recovered by action or motion, upon ten days’ notice in the corporate
name of the City, in the Circuit Court of Barbour County, against him and his
sureties or any or either of them or his or their executors or administrators.
If the sum claimed does not exceed three hundred dollars, such recovery may be
had before the Mayor or any justice of said County.
SECTION 34. LIEN FOR CITY TAXES; MANNER OF ENFORCEMENT.
   There shall be a lien on real estate, within said City, for the City taxes
assessed thereon, and for all fines and penalties assessed to, or imposed upon
the owners thereof by the authorities of such City from the time the same are
so assessed or imposed, which shall have priority over all other liens, except
the lien for taxes due the State, County and district; and which may be
enforced by the Council in the same manner provided by law for the enforcement
of the lien for County taxes. And there shall also be a lien on the real estate
of adjoining property owners, for the amount due from such owner or owners for
building or repairing sidewalks and paving streets or alleys, under subsections
seventy-eight and seventy-nine of section sixteen of this Act, which lien may
enforced in a court of equity. If any real estate within said City be returned
delinquent for the nonpayment of the delinquent taxes thereon a copy of such
delinquent list may be certified by the Council to the auditors, and the same
may be sold for the City taxes, interest and Commission thereon, in the same
manner, at the same time and by the same officer as real estate is sold for the
nonpayment of State taxes.
SECTION 35. CHIEF OF POLICE, DUTIES AND BOND.
   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to preserve order and quiet in
said City, and to see that all subordinate police officers faithfully perform
their official duties. He shall be present in the Police Court, whenever the
same shall be in session, and see that all its orders and requirements are
properly executed. He shall, before entering upon the discharge of his duties,
execute a bond conditioned for the faithful performance by him of his duties of
his office, and for the accounting for and paying over, as required by law, all
money which may come into his hands by virtue of his office, with securities
satisfactory to the Council in a penalty of not less than one thousand dollars
($1,000) nor more than three thousand dollars ($3,000) as the Council may
prescribe.
SECTION 36. ARRESTS FOR VIOLATION OF ORDINANCES IN SIGHT OF POLICE OFFICERS;
CHIEF OF POLICE TO EXECUTE PROCESS; OTHER POWERS AND DUTIES AND COMPENSATION
THEREFOR, SURETY LIABLE FOR DERELICTION OF DUTY.
   In case a violation of any ordinance of said City is committed in the
presence or within view of the Chief of Police or other police officer, the
offender may be forthwith apprehended and taken before the Mayor, and a
complaint under oath, stating such violation there lodged and filed; and
thereupon such offender may be tried and dealt with according to law, without
summons. The Chief of Police shall execute within the County of Barbour, any
proper process issued by the Mayor in proceedings for the enforcement of
ordinances; and shall collect by a levy of execution or otherwise, and duly
account for all fines assessed and costs imposed in such proceedings. He shall
also have the rights and powers, within said City, in regard to the arrest of
persons, the collection of claims and the execution and return of process, that
are or may be lawfully exercised by a constable of the district within the
same, and shall be entitled to the compensation therefor; and he and his
sureties shall be liable for all fines, penalties and forfeitures for which a
constable is liable, and for dereliction of duty in office, to be removed in
the same manner and in the same courts, that such fines, penalties and
forfeitures for which a constable is liable, and for dereliction of duty in
office, to be removed in the same manner and in the same courts, that such
fines, penalties and forfeitures are recovered against constables.
SECTION 37. CITY TO HAVE RIGHT OF EMINENT DOMAIN.
   The Council shall have the right to institute proceedings the name of the
City, for the condemnation of real estate for streets, alleys, drains, market
grounds, parks, playgrounds, landings, wharves, City prison, or other work of
public utility. Such proceedings shall conform to the general laws of the State
of West Virginia; and the costs thereof shall be borne by the City, except that
in contests involving a hearing in the Circuit Court, costs shall be recovered
by the prevailing party.
SECTION 38. COUNCIL MAY ISSUE BONDS, ETC.
   The Council of said City shall have power to issue general obligation bonds
in behalf of said City for the payment of debts or for improvements and
establish a sinking fund for the payment thereof provided the same shall be in
accordance with Section 8, Article 8 of the Constitution and general laws of
the State. The Council shall have power to issue revenue bonds in behalf of
said City for any and all purposes for which the general law will permit the
issuance of revenue bonds, and to make, provide and establish a sinking fund to
make provision for, and establish a sinking fund for, the payment thereof.
(Amended 11-22-1955)
SECTION 39. OFFICERS SUBJECT TO THIS ACT.
   All officers elected under the present Charter of the City of Philippi shall
be subject to the provisions of this amended charter on and after the effective
date of same, as hereafter shown, and shall continue in office until the first
Monday in April, 1956, or until their successors are elected or appointed and
qualified and shall exercise all the powers conferred on them by the original
charter of the City or by this amendment after the effective date thereof.
(Amended 11-22-1955)
SECTION 40. GENERAL POWERS; RESPONSIBILITY; AND LIABILITY.
   The City of Philippi shall have all power and authority conferred upon any
City within its classification by the general laws of the State of West
Virginia and shall be subject to and accept all responsibilities and liability
imposed upon it by the general law of West Virginia, all as contained in
Chapter 8 of the official West Virginia Code.
(Amended 11-22-1955)
SECTION 41. SEVERABILITY.
   These amendments to the Charter of the City of Philippi and each paragraph,
section, sentence, clause or phrase is hereby declared to be severable and if
any part, portion, paragraph, section, clause or phrase shall hereafter be
declared unconstitutional or improper the remainder, nevertheless, shall be
valid and enforceable.
(Amended 11-22-1955)
PART ONE: ADMINISTRATIVE CODE
CHAPTER ONE - General Provisions
      
101.   Codified Ordinances
      
103.   Official Standards
      
105.   Elections
      
107.   Emergency Services
      
109.   Financial Procedures
ARTICLE 101: CODIFIED ORDINANCES
Section
   
101.01   Designation; citation; headings
   
101.02   General definitions
   
101.03   Rules of construction
   
101.04   Repeal of repealing act; effect of repeal
   
101.05   Construction of section references
   
101.06   Acts by agent or deputy
   
101.07   Conflicting provisions
   
101.08   Separability
 
   
101.99   General penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority to impose penalties, see W.Va. Code § 8-11-1, 8-12-2(a)(11)
   Codification of ordinances, see W.Va. Code § 8-11-4(b)
   Maximum penalty permitted, see W.Va. Code §§ 8-11-1, 8-12-(5)(58)
§ 101.01 DESIGNATION; CITATION; HEADINGS.
   (a)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the municipality
as revised, recodified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component
codes, chapters, articles and sections shall be known and designated as the
“Codified Ordinances of Philippi, West Virginia” for which designation
“codified ordinances” may be substituted. Code, chapter, article and section
headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the codified
ordinances.
   (b)   All references to codes, chapters, articles and sections are to such
components of the codified ordinances unless otherwise specified. Any component
code may be referred to and cited by its name, such as the “Traffic Code”.
Sections may be referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the
number, such as “§ 101.01”.
§ 101.02 GENERAL DEFINITIONS.
   As used in the codified ordinances, unless otherwise expressly provided or
the context otherwise requires:
   (a)   “Council” means the legislative authority of the municipality.
   (b)   “County” means Barbour County, West Virginia.
   (c)   “Land or lands and real estate or real property” include lands,
tenements and hereditaments, and all rights thereto and interests therein
except chattel interests.
   (d)   “Laws of the state” includes the Constitution of the State and the
Constitution of the United States, and treaties and laws made in pursuance
thereof.
(W.Va. Code § 2-2-10)
   (e)   “Municipality” or “City” means the City of Philippi, West Virginia.
   (f)   “Offense” includes every act or omission for which a fine, forfeiture
or punishment is imposed by law.
(W.Va. Code § 2-2-10)
   (g)   “Owner”, when applied to property, includes any part owner, joint
owner or tenant in common of the whole or part of such property.
   (h)   “Person or whoever” includes corporations, societies, associations and
partnerships.
   (i)   “Personal estate or personal property” includes goods, chattels, real
and personal, money, credits, investments and the evidences thereof.
   (j)   “Preceding, succeeding or following” used in reference to any section
or sections of an article means next preceding, next succeeding or next
following that in which such reference is made.
(W.Va. Code § 2-2-10)
   (k)   “Premises”, as applied to property, includes land and building.
   (l)   “Property or estate” embraces both real and personal estate.
(W.Va. Code § 2-2-10)
   (m)   “Public place” includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school
yard, body of water or watercourse, public conveyance or any other place for
the sale of merchandise, public accommodation or amusement.
   (n)   “Registered mail” includes certified mail.
   (o)   “State” means the State of West Virginia or any department, division,
commission, board, educational or other institution of the state.
   (p)   “Street” includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts and all other public thoroughfares within the municipality.
   (q)   “Tenant or occupant”, as applied to premises, includes any person
holding a written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part
of such premises alone or with others.
   (r)   “Written or in writing” includes any representation of words, letters
or figures, whether by printing, engraving, writing or otherwise. But when the
signature of any person is required, it must be in his or her own proper
handwriting, or his or her mark, attested, proved or acknowledged.
(W.Va. Code § 2-2-10)
§ 101.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (a)   General rule. All words and phrases shall be construed and understood
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in the law shall be construed and understood according to such peculiar
and appropriate meaning.
   (b)   Gender and plural. A word importing the singular number only may be
applied to several persons or things, as well as to one person or thing; a word
importing the plural number only may be applied to one person or thing as well
as to several; and a word importing the masculine gender only may be applied to
females as well as males.
(W.Va. Code § 2-2-10)
   (c)   Computation of time. The time within which an act is to be done shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last, or if the last
be a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday it shall also be excluded.
(W.Va. Code § 2-2-1(d))
   (d)   Joint authority. Words purporting to give a joint authority to three
or more persons confer such authority upon a majority of them, and not upon any
less number.
(W.Va. Code § 2-2-10)
   (e)   Exceptions. The rules of construction shall not apply to any law which
contains any express provision excluding such construction, or when the subject
matter or context of such law may be repugnant thereto.
§ 101.04 REPEAL OF REPEALING ACT; EFFECT OF REPEAL.
   (a)   When a law which has repealed another is itself repealed, the former
law shall not be revived without express words for that purpose.
(W.Va. Code § 2-2-9)
   (b)   The repeal of a law, or its expiration by virtue of any provision
contained therein, shall not affect any offense committed, or penalty or
punishment incurred, before the repeal took effect or the law expired, save
only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform as far as practicable to the
laws in force at the time such proceedings take place, unless otherwise
specially provided; and that if any penalty or punishment be mitigated by the
new law, such new law may, with the consent of the part affected thereby, be
applied to any judgment pronounced after it has taken effect.
(W.Va. Code § 2-2-8)
   (c)   The repeal by any provision of the codified ordinances of an ordinance
validating previous acts, contracts or transactions shall not affect the
validity of such acts, contracts or transactions, but the same shall remain as
valid as if there had been no such repeal, but no further.
(W.Va. Code § 2-2-11)
§ 101.05 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (a)   When reference is made to any section or group of sections of the
codified ordinances, such reference shall extend to and include any amendment
of or supplement to the section or group of sections so referred to or any
section or sections hereafter enacted in lieu thereof; and unless otherwise
provided, whenever a reference to a section or group sections is made in any
amendment or supplement to any section of the codified ordinances hereafter
enacted, such reference shall be deemed to refer to the section or sections as
the same shall then stand or as thereafter amended.
   (b)   Whenever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, such reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in such
reference.
   (c)   References in the codified ordinances to action taken or authorized
under designated sections of the codified ordinances include, in every case,
action taken or authorized under the applicable legislative provision which is
superseded by the codified ordinances.
   (d)   If a section refers to a series of numbers or letters, the first and
the last number or letters in the series are deemed to be included.
§ 101.06 ACTS BY AGENT OR DEPUTY.
   When a section requires that an act be done by an officer or person, it
shall be sufficient if it be done by his or her agent or deputy, unless it be
such as cannot lawfully be done by deputation.
(W.Va. Code § 2-2-5)
§ 101.07 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, articles or sections of the codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be construed so as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
§ 101.08 SEPARABILITY.
   Each section of the codified ordinances and every part of each section is an
independent section and part of a section, and the holding of any section or a
part thereof to be unconstitutional, void or ineffective for any cause does not
affect the validity or constitutionality of any other section or part thereof.
§ 101.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Whenever, in the codified ordinances or in any ordinance of the
municipality, any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an
offense, or whenever the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any
act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is otherwise
provided, whoever violates any such provision shall be fined not more than
$500. Each day any such violation continues shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Ord. passed 8-8-2017)
ARTICLE 103: OFFICIAL STANDARDS
Editor’s note:
   There are no sections in Article 103. This article has been established to
provide a place for cross-references and future legislation.
Cross-reference:
   Computation of time, see §
101.03(c)
Statutory reference:
   Legal holidays, see W.Va. Code § 2-2-1
ARTICLE 105: ELECTIONS
Section
   
105.01   Applicability of State law; duties of Council and City Clerk
   
105.02   Voter eligibility
   
105.03   Registration of voters
   
105.04   Voting precincts
   
105.05   Calling of election
   
105.06   Filing announcements of candidacies; requirements; filing fees
   
105.07   Election of Mayor and Councilpersons
   
105.08   Ballot Commissioners; selection; duties generally
   
105.09   Election Commissioners and Clerks; instruction; vacancies
   
105.10   Compensation of election officials; expenses
   
105.11   Electronic voting systems
   
105.12   Tie votes
   
105.13   Contested elections
   
105.14   Absentee voting
Statutory reference:
   Absentee voting in municipal elections, see W.Va. Code § 3-3-13
   Integration of municipal elections with systems of permanent registration,
see W.Va. Code § 8-5-13
   Municipal elections, see W.Va. Code § 3-1-2a
   Municipal precinct registration records, see W.Va. Code § 3-1-27
   Municipal voting precincts, see W.Va. Code § 3-1-6
   Special elections, see W.Va. Code § 8-5-15a
§ 105.01 APPLICABILITY OF STATE LAW; DUTIES OF COUNCIL AND CITY CLERK.
   (a)   The provisions of W.Va. Code Ch. 3 referring to elections, insofar as
such provisions can be applied within the city and insofar as not otherwise
provided by the City Charter, or the codified ordinances, shall govern the
conduct of city elections.
   (b)   The powers and duties prescribed for County Commissions by W.Va. Code
Ch. 3 shall be exercised and performed by the Common Council for the purpose of
all city elections, and the powers and duties prescribed for Clerks of Circuit
Courts and Clerks of County Commissions by W.Va. Code Ch. 3 shall be exercised
and performed by the City Clerk for purpose of all city elections, except as
may be provided otherwise in the City Charter.
§ 105.02 VOTER ELIGIBILITY.
   Citizens of the state shall be entitled to vote at all municipal elections
held within the precincts of the city in which they respectively reside. But no
person who has not been registered as a voter as required by state law or this
code, or who is a minor under the age of 18 years, or of unsound mind, or who
is under conviction of treason, felony or bribery in an election, or who is not
a bona fide resident of the state and this city, shall be permitted to vote at
such election while such disability exists.
§ 105.03 REGISTRATION OF VOTERS.
   (a)   For the conduct of all city elections, the system of “permanent
registration of voters” is hereby adopted, as required by W.Va. Code § 8-5-13.
   (b)   No voter otherwise qualified shall be permitted to vote at any
election unless he or she shall have been duly registered, and only those
persons who possess the constitutional and statutory qualifications for voting
shall be permitted to register, except that minors, otherwise qualified, who
shall have attained the age of 18 years by the time of the next ensuing
election, may be permitted to register.
      (1)   No voter so registered shall be required to register again for any
election while he or she continues to reside at the same address, or, having
moved from such address to another address within the city, is properly
transferred according to the provisions of subsection (d) below.
      (2)   Registration shall be made in the office of the Clerk of the County
Commission of Barbour County, West Virginia.
   (c)   No person may vote in an election when he or she has registered or his
or her voter registration has been altered, amended or corrected within a
period of 30 days next preceding such election, but this inhibition shall not
prevent, during such period of 30 days, additional registrations and changes in
voter registrations with reference to future elections. If, registered or his
or her voter registration is altered, amended or corrected, he or she shall not
be permitted or qualified to vote at such election.
   (d)   (1)   Whenever a voter removes his or her residence from one place to
another within the city, he or she shall request that the change be made on his
or her registration record. Such request shall be made by filing in, and, if he
or she is able, signing under oath or affirmation the necessary form, which may
be procured in person or by mail from the office of the Clerk of the County
Commission.
      (2)   Transfer of the registration record may be made throughout the year
except during the 30 days immediately preceding any election, and if the voter
shall remove from one precinct to another within the city the 30-day period, he
or she shall for that election only, vote in the precinct from which he or she
moved. If any voter shall move from one place to another within 30 days
preceding any election, he or she shall be permitted to vote in that precinct,
and the election commissioners upon request of the registrant shall make entry
of such change of residence upon the voter’s registration record in accordance
with procedures prescribed by the Secretary of State.
   (e)   At least three days prior to every city election the City Clerk shall
procure from the municipal precinct file in the office of the Clerk of the
County Commission the registration records necessary for the conduct of such
election.
      (1)   Such records shall, within ten days after the date of the city
election, be returned to the office of the Clerk of the County Commission by
the City Clerk.
      (2)   In case of a contested election, the registration record of any
challenged voter shall be made available by the Clerk of the County Commission
to the Common Council upon its request. Such record shall be returned to the
office of the Clerk of the County Commission within a reasonable time after the
contest shall have been finally decided.
   (f)   Any person who possesses the qualifications for registration, but who
is absent from the city and county on account of occupation, or for any other
necessary cause, including service in the Armed Forces of the United States,
may at any time register by mail according to the procedure prescribed by the
Secretary of State.
§ 105.04 VOTING PRECINCTS.
   All persons casting votes in the election shall do so at City Hall.
§ 105.05 CALLING OF ELECTION.
   (a)   The Common Council shall issue the call for each election not later
than March 21 next preceding each election.
   (b)   The call shall set forth the date of the election, the time and the
procedure for filing certificates of candidacy, the filing fees and such other
information as Council may deem appropriate.
   (c)   The Common Council shall cause the call of election to be published
one time in a newspaper of general circulation in the city within five days
after the call is issued and shall cause the same to be posted at the front
door of City Hall.
§ 105.06 FILING ANNOUNCEMENTS OF CANDIDACIES; REQUIREMENTS; FILING FEES.
   (a)   Any person who is eligible to hold office as Mayor or as a member of
the Common Council may file a certificate with the City Clerk, declaring
himself or herself a candidate for election to such office. Such certificate
shall be substantially in the following form:
 
I,_______________, hereby certify that I am a candidate for election to the
office of Mayor/Councilperson of ________ Ward, and desire my name printed on
the ballot to be voted at the city election to be held on the_______ day of
March, 20_____; that I am a legally qualified voter of the City of Philippi;
that the address of my residence in the City of Philippi is ______________ that
I am eligible to hold the office; and that I am a candidate therefor in good
faith.
                                    _______________________________________
         Candidate
Signed and acknowledged before me this ____________ day of ___________,
20______
                                    _______________________________________
Signature and official title of certifying officer
 
      (1)   Such announcement shall be signed and acknowledged by the candidate
before some officer qualified to administer oaths, who shall certify the same.
      (2)   Such certificate shall be filed with the City Clerk not later than
30 days before the day of holding of the election, and must be received by the
Clerk before midnight, eastern standard time, of that day or, if mailed, shall
be postmarked before that hour; provided, however, that if the above set forth
last day for filing is a Saturday or Sunday, such certificate shall be received
by the Clerk before midnight, eastern standard time, of the following Monday,
or, if mailed, shall be postmarked before that hour.
   (b)   Every person who becomes a candidate for election to office in any
election, shall, at the time filing the certificate of announcement as required
in this section, pay a filing fee as follows:
      (1)   A candidate for the office of Mayor shall pay a fee of $25, or
another amount as set by Council from time to time;
      (2)   A candidate for the office of Councilperson shall pay a fee of $10,
or another amount as set by Council from time to time; and
      (3)   A candidate for the office of City Clerk shall pay a fee of $25, or
another amount as set by Council from time to time.
(Ord. passed 3-5-1992)
§ 105.07 ELECTION OF MAYOR AND COUNCILPERSONS.
   (a)   All duly qualified voters within the city shall elect five members of
the Common Council, a Mayor and a City Clerk, who will run at large.
   (b)   The dividing line between the North and South districts will run with
the Tygart Valley River.
      (1)   The South District will be divided into two districts known as east
and west by Main Street/U.S. Route 250:
         A.   South East District. Shall begin at the southeastern corner of
the covered bridge and contain all properties lying to the east of Main Street
to the corporate limits; and
         B.   South West District. Shall begin at the southwestern corner of
the covered bridge and contain all properties lying to the west of Main Street
to the corporate limits.
      (2)   The North District will be divided into three districts known as
east, west and central. The description of these areas are as follows:
         A.   North East District. Begin at the northeast corner of the covered
bridge and shall be described as all property contained between the Tygart
Valley River and U.S. Route 119 to the corporate limits. Any corporate limit
extensions continuing north between the east side of U.S. Route 119 and the
Tygart Valley River shall be included in this district;
         B.   North Central District. Begin at the northern corner of John
Street and U.S. Route 119. This district will comprise all property located on
the northerly side of John Street across the Shooks Run Bridge and turn right
onto Jenny Street - north side- to the corporate limits. In addition, any
corporate limits extensions continuing north on the west side of U.S. Route 119
shall be included in this district; and
         C.   North West District. Begin at the southern corner of John Street
and U.S. Route 119. This district will comprise all property located on the
southern side of John Street across Shooks Run Bridge and turn right onto Jenny
Street - south side - to the corporate limits. In addition, any corporate limit
extensions continuing southwest from the Snooks Run Bridge shall be included in
this district.
      (3)   For purposes of this section, a detailed map shall be made
available at City Hall.
   (c)   The individual receiving the highest number of votes at large shall
serve from each area described.
(Ord. passed 9-16-2003)
§ 105.08 BALLOT COMMISSIONERS; SELECTION; DUTIES GENERALLY.
   (a)   The City Clerk and two persons appointed by the Common Council, who
shall be qualified voters of the city, shall constitute a Board of Ballot
Commissioners, of which Board the Clerk shall be Chairperson. Ballot
Commissioners shall be appointed between January 15 and 30 in each year in
which an election is to be held, for a term of two years beginning on the first
day of February next ensuing. They shall perform the duties of such
Commissioners at all regular and special elections held in the city during
their term of office.
   (b)   (1)   The Board of Ballot Commissioners shall cause to be printed in
large, clear type, on cards, instructions for the guidance of voters in
preparing their ballots. They shall furnish 12 of such cards to the
Commissioners of Election at the same time they deliver them to the ballots for
the precinct. The Commissioners of the Election shall cause to be posted one of
such cards in each place or compartment provided for the preparation of
ballots, and the others in and about the polling place, and one or more of the
cards outside of the 300-foot limit provided for in W.Va. Code § 3-1-37, on the
day of election.
      (2)   Such cards shall contain full instructions to the voters as to what
shall be done:
         A.   To obtain ballots for voting;
         B.   To prepare the ballots for deposit in the ballot boxes; and
         C.   To obtain a new ballot in place of one accidentally spoiled.
      (3)   Such cards shall contain a copy of the second paragraph of W.Va.
Code § 3-9-2 and a copy of W.Va. Code §§ 3-9-5, 3-9-6, 3-9-8 and 3-9-9.
      (4)   The Ballot Commissioners shall also cause to be printed, on a
different color paper than the official ballot ten or more copies of the
ballots provided for each voting place at each election therein, which shall be
designated sample ballots, and shall be furnished and posted with the cards of
instructions at each voting place.
   (c)   (1)   The Board of Ballot Commissioners shall provide printed ballots
for every election for public officers in which the voters or any of the voters
within the city participate, and cause to be printed, on the appropriate
ballot, the name of every candidate, but in no case shall the ballot contain
any title, position, rank, degree, or such, including, but not limited to,
doctor, reverend, Ph.D. or the equivalent, whose name has been filed with the
City Clerk as provided in this chapter.
      (2)   The printing of the ballots, and all other printing caused to be
done by the Board of Ballot Commissioners, shall be contracted for with the
lowest responsible bidder. Ballots other than those caused to be printed by the
Board of Ballot Commissioners, shall not be cast, received or counted in any
election.
   (d)   The Board of Ballot Commissioners shall appoint one or more of the
Commissioners of Election at each precinct of the city to attend at the office
of the City Clerk at least the day before each election to receive the ballots,
ballot boxes, poll books, registration records and forms and all other supplies
and materials for conducting the election at the respective precincts and to
deliver the same, such receipt and delivery to be made in the manner prescribed
by W.Va. Code § 3-1-24.
   (e)   Between the twenty-fifth and the tenth days next prior to the date of
the election, the Ballot Commissioners shall prepare from the lists and
certificates of announcements a sample official ballot, placing thereon the
names of all the candidates for office. At least ten days before an election to
fill any public office at which the voters of the city are entitled to vote the
City Clerk shall cause to be published the sample official ballot as a Class
II-O legal advertisement in compliance with the provisions of W.Va. Code §§ 59-
3-1 et seq., and the publication area for such publication shall be the city.
The second publication shall be on the last day upon which each newspaper is
published before the election.
   (f)   The provisions of W.Va. Code Ch. 3 with respect to the duties of
Ballot Commissioners so far as applicable, shall apply to city elections.
§ 105.09 ELECTION COMMISSIONERS AND CLERKS; INSTRUCTION; VACANCIES.
   (a)   (1)   At its first regular meeting of the month next preceding the
date on which any election is to be held, the Common Council shall appoint a
uniform Election Board, consisting of three Election Commissioners and two Poll
Clerks, to conduct each election in each precinct of the city in which an
electronic voting system has been adopted and is to be used. At such meeting
the Councilpersons from each ward shall submit a list of persons to be
appointed by the Common Council to serve as election officials in their ward.
      (2)   The Common Council shall call the necessary meeting or meetings for
the instruction of all election officials in the use of the electronic voting
system. Such meeting or meetings shall be held and the proper instruction given
not less than seven days prior to any election in which the electronic voting
system is to be used. No election officer, upon being so notified to appear for
instruction, shall fail without just cause to do so. If any officer does so
fail to appear, the Common Council may appoint some other qualified person, and
such person, after instruction, shall act in the place of the defaulting
officer.
   (b)   No person shall be eligible to be appointed as a Commissioner of
Election or as a Poll Clerk in any election precinct who is not a qualified
voter in the ward in which such precinct is situated; or who has anything of
value bet or wagered on the result; or who is a candidate to be voted for at
the ensuing election; or who is addicted to drunkenness; or who is not of good
character and standing.
   (c)   (1)   Each Commissioner of Election and Poll Clerk, appointed or
selected as aforesaid, shall, before entering upon the discharge of his or her
duties, take and subscribe an oath, respectively, to the following effect:
   (Commissioner’s Oath)
State of West Virginia)
County of Barbour   )                  ss:
City of Philippi      )
   I, _____________, do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of
the United States and the Constitution of this State; that I will faithfully
and impartially discharge the duties of Commissioner of Election assigned by
law; and I will not knowingly permit any person to vote who is not qualified,
and will not knowingly refuse the vote of any qualified voter, or cause any
delay to a person offering to vote further than is necessary to procure
satisfactory information of the qualification of such person as a voter; that I
have been a resident of the State of West Virginia for one year, and of the
City and Ward in which I am to act as Commissioner of Election, for 60 days
next preceding this date; that I will not disclose nor communicate to any
person how any voter has voted at such election, nor how any ballot has been
folded, marked, printed or stamped; that I have nothing of value bet or wagered
upon the result of said election; that I have not received any promise,
agreement or understanding or arrangement that I shall receive any sum of money
or portion of salary, fees or emoluments of any office for which any candidate
is to be voted for at such election, should such candidate be elected to such
or any subsequent election; that I am not a candidate at this election. So help
me God.
                                    ______________________________________
               Subscribed and sworn to before me this day ______of ___________,
20____.
                                    ______________________________________
   Signature and official title of person before whom sworn.
   (Clerk’s Oath)
State of West Virginia)
County of Barbour   )                  ss:
City of Philippi      )
   I, _______________, do solemnly swear that I will faithfully and honestly
discharge my duties as Clerk of the Election now about to be held in precinct
No. _________, in the City of Philippi, County of Barbour, State of West
Virginia; that I will not disclose nor communicate to any person how any
elector voted, or how any ballot was folded, marked, printed or stamped; that I
do not have any promises, agreement or understanding that I am to be appointed
to any position by any candidate to be voted for at such election; that I do
not have any agreement, understanding or arrangement that I shall receive any
sum of money or any portion of the salary, fees or emoluments from any office
for which any candidate is to be voted for at such election, should such
candidate be elected at such election or any subsequent election. So help me
God.
                                    ______________________________________
               Subscribed and sworn to before me this day ______of ___________,
20____.
                                    ______________________________________
   Signature and official title of person before whom sworn.
      (2)   Such oaths may be taken before any person authorized to administer
oaths, but if no other person be present at any place of holding any election,
they may be taken before, and administered by, one of the Commissioners of such
election so appointed, who in turn may take the same before another such
Commissioner. Either of the Commissioners may administer the oaths to the Poll
Clerks. For the purpose of this chapter all Commissioners of Election are
authorized to administer oaths. Such oaths shall appear completed and certified
on one of the poll books of every election precinct.
   (d)   The provisions of W.Va. Code Ch. 3 pertaining to the duties of
election officers in conducting electronic voting system elections shall,
insofar as applicable, apply to city elections.
§ 105.10 COMPENSATION OF ELECTION OFFICIALS; EXPENSES.
   (a)   Each Ballot Commissioner shall be allowed and paid a sum, to be fixed
by the Common Council, not exceeding $25 for each day he or she shall serve as
such, but in no case shall a Ballot Commissioner receive allowance for more
than ten days’ service for any one election. Each Commissioner of Election and
Poll Clerk shall be allowed and paid a sum, to be fixed by the Common Council,
not exceeding $25 for one day’s services for attending the school of
instruction for election officials and a sum not exceeding $50 for his or her
services at any one election.
   (b)   The compensation of election officers, cost of printing ballots, and
all other expenses incurred in holding and making the return of elections shall
be audited by the Common Council and paid out of the city treasury.
§ 105.11 ELECTRONIC VOTING SYSTEMS.
   (a)   The Common Council adopts for use in all city elections the electronic
voting system which has been adopted for use by the County Commission upon such
terms and conditions as may be agreed upon between the County Commission and
the city.
   (b)   The provisions of W.Va Code Article 3-4A et seq., relating to
electronic voting systems, shall, insofar as applicable, apply to city
elections.
§ 105.12 TIE VOTES.
   Whenever two or more persons receive an equal number of votes for Mayor or
Councilpersons, such tie shall be decided by ballot of the Common Council in
existence at the time the election is held.
§ 105.13 CONTESTED ELECTIONS.
   All contested elections shall be heard and determined by the Common Council
in existence at the time the election is held, and the contest shall be made
and conducted as provided for by state statutes for county and district
offices, and the Council by their proceedings in such cases, shall, as nearly
as is practicable, conform to similar proceedings of the County Commission in
such cases.
§ 105.14 ABSENTEE VOTING.
   The provisions of W.Va. Code Article 3-3 relating to absentee voting, being
W. Va. Code § 3-3-1 et seq., so far as applicable and except where clearly not
adaptable, shall apply to all city elections.
ARTICLE 107: EMERGENCY SERVICES
Section
   
107.01   Policy and purpose
   
107.02   Office of emergency services created; membership
   
107.03   Powers and duties of office
   
107.04   Civil defense and emergency services organization
   
107.05   Federal and state aid
   
107.06   Director
Statutory reference:
   Emergency services, see W.Va. Code Art. 15-5
§ 107.01 POLICY AND PURPOSE.
   (a)   In view of the existing and increasing possibility of the occurrence
of disasters of unprecedented size and destructiveness resulting from enemy
attack, sabotage or other hostile action, or from fire, flood, earthquakes or
other natural or human-made causes, and in order to ensure that preparations of
this city will be adequate to deal with such disasters, and, generally, to
provide for the defense and to protect the public peace, health and safety and
to preserve the lives and property of the people of this city, it is hereby
found and declared to be necessary:
      (1)   To create an Office of Emergency Services in the city;
      (2)   To confer upon the officials of the city the emergency powers
provided herein; and
      (3)   To provide for the rendering of emergency services within this city
and to cooperate with other governmental agencies with respect to carrying out
the emergency service functions.
   (b)   It is further declared to be the purpose of this article and the
policy of this city that all emergency service functions of this city be
coordinated to the maximum extent with the comparable functions of the county,
state and federal governments, including the various departments and agencies
thereof, as well as with other states and localities and with private agencies
of every type, so that the most effective preparation and use may be made of
the county, state and nation’s manpower, resources and facilities for dealing
with any disaster that may occur.
§ 107.02 OFFICE OF EMERGENCY SERVICES CREATED; MEMBERSHIP.
   (a)   There is hereby created the Office of Emergency Services, which shall
consist of the following members: the City Manager, who shall be ex officio
Chairperson of the Office of Emergency Services; the Director of Public Works;
the Chiefs of Police and Fire; and the Mayor.
   (b)   The terms of all members shall follow the term of their respective
municipal offices.
   (c)   The term of a registered professional engineer appointed in lieu of
the Director of Public Works shall be at the will and pleasure of the City
Manager.
   (d)   The term of Council’s appointee shall be until the second regular
meeting of Council following the next regular municipal election for Council
members.
§ 107.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF OFFICE.
   The powers and duties of the Office of Emergency Services shall include the
recommendation of a civil defense program and a program for emergency services
for the city and shall also include the following:
   (a)   Control and direction of the civil defense organization of the city;
   (b)   Control and direction of services during every type of emergency
within the city;
   (c)   Appointment of such voluntary personnel as the Office of Emergency
Services may deem advisable;
   (d)   The maintenance of necessary liaison with other municipal, area,
state, regional, federal or other civil defense or emergency services offices
or organizations;
   (e)   The marshaling, after the declaration of an emergency, of all
necessary personnel, equipment or supplies to aid the carrying out of the civil
defense plan or the emergency services plan;
   (f)   The institution of training programs and public information programs
and the taking of other preparatory steps including partial or full
mobilization of civil defense programs and emergency services programs in
advance of actual disaster or emergency; and
   (g)   On behalf of this city and subject to approval of the Office of
Emergency Services, the entering into mutual aid arrangements with other cities
and counties in the state, and also, under authority of the state, the entering
into of reciprocal civil defense agreements and emergency services agreements
with the federal government and other states for aid in case of disaster or
emergencies too great to be dealt with unassisted.
§ 107.04 CIVIL DEFENSE AND EMERGENCY SERVICES ORGANIZATION.
   The operational civil defense and emergency services organization of the
city shall consist of the officers and employees of the city designated by the
City Manager, as well as all volunteer municipal defense and emergency services
workers. The functions and duties of this organization shall be distributed
among such divisions, services and special staff as Council shall by resolution
prescribe. Insofar as possible, the form of organization and terminology shall
conform to the recommendations of the federal and state civil defense and
emergency services organization.
§ 107.05 FEDERAL AND STATE AID.
   Whatever the federal or state governments, or any agency or officer thereof,
shall offer or make available to this city, services, equipment, supplies,
material or funds by way of gift, grant, loan or matching funds, for the
purpose of civil defense or emergency services, the city, acting through the
City Manager, may accept such offer and, upon acceptance, authorize the proper
offices of this city to receive such services, equipment, supplies, materials
or funds on behalf of the city.
§ 107.06 DIRECTOR.
   Council may authorize the appointment of a Director of the Office of
Emergency Services. Upon such authorization, the City Manager is authorized and
directed to appoint a Director of the Office of Emergency Services to serve at
the will and pleasure of the City Manager.
ARTICLE 109: FINANCIAL PROCEDURES
Section
   
109.01   Appropriations and expenditures
   
109.02   Depositories of public funds
   
109.03   Establishment of dollar limits for competitive bidding
Charter reference:
   Contract interest, see
Charter § 18
§ 109.01 APPROPRIATIONS AND EXPENDITURES.
   (a)   Generally. No money shall be drawn from the treasury of the city, nor
shall any obligation for the expenditure of money by the city be incurred by
any officer, board or commission authorized to expend city money, except
pursuant to an appropriation and the allotment thereof. All fees received by
all city officers or employees in connection with their official duties shall
be accounted for and paid into the city treasury.
   (b)   Allocation of funds. Upon the adoption of the General Fund budget, the
head of each office, department, board, commission and other agency shall
submit to the City Manager, when required by him or her, a work program which
shall show the requested allotments of the appropriation for such office,
department, board, commission or other agency for the entire fiscal year by
monthly, bimonthly or quarterly periods as the City Manager may direct. The
City Manager shall review the requested allotments in the light of the
requirements of the office or agency concerned and may revise, alter or change
such allotments before approving the same. The aggregate of such allotments
shall not exceed the total appropriation available to such offices or agency
for the fiscal year. A copy of the allotment as finally approved by Council
shall be filed with the City Manager who shall approve all expenditures or
obligations for the various offices and agency of the city to be made from the
appropriations on the basis of the allotments; provided, that such allotments
shall be in conformity with the laws of the state. The allotments may be
revised during the fiscal year in the same manner as the original allotment was
made. If any time during the fiscal year the City Manager shall ascertain that
the available income plus unexpended balances in the General Fund for the year
may be less than the total appropriations, he or she shall reconsider the work
program and allotments of the several offices and agencies and shall revise
them so as to forestall any deficiencies.
   (c)   Contracts for expenditures. No office, department, board, commission
or other agency of the city shall during any fiscal year expend, or contract to
expend, any money or incur any liability, or enter into any contract for any
purpose in excess of the amounts appropriated or allotted; and no such payment
shall be made nor any obligation or liability incurred unless the City Manager
shall first certify that unencumbered or unappropriated funds for the
designated purpose are available. Any contract, verbal or written, made in
violation of this section shall be null and void and if any officer, agent or
employee of the city shall knowingly or willfully violate this provision, such
action shall be cause for his or her removal from office. Nothing in this
section shall prevent the making of contracts or leases providing for the
payment of funds at a time beyond the fiscal year in which such contracts are
made; provided, that the nature of such transactions conforms to the
Constitution of the state, the Charter of the city and the general law of the
state.
   (d)   Transfers of funds. The City Manager shall not at any time authorize
the transfer of funds from the appropriation for one office, department, board,
commission or other agency to another such office, department, board,
commission or other agency. Council by resolution may in the last three months
of any fiscal year transfer any unencumbered balance or portion thereof in any
General Fund appropriation from one office, department, board, commission or
other agency to any other such office, department, board, commission or other
agency.
   (e)   Additional appropriations. An appropriation in addition to those
contained in the General Fund appropriation ordinance may be made by Council by
the adoption of an ordinance, but only if the City Manager or his or her
designate certifies in writing that there is in the General Fund a sum
unencumbered or unappropriated sufficient to meet such appropriation.
   (f)   Lapse of appropriation. Any portion of an annual appropriation
remaining unexpended and unencumbered at the close of the fiscal year shall
lapse.
   (g)   Budget certification and filing. A copy of the budget as finally
adopted shall be certified by the City Manager and City Clerk and filed in the
office of the City Clerk. This copy shall be available at all reasonable times
for inspection to the public.
§ 109.02 DEPOSITORIES OF PUBLIC FUNDS.
   (a)   Authorized depositories. The following named banking institutions in
the city are designated as depositories for public funds and moneys of the
city: Barbour County First National Bank.
   (b)   Special funds. Special funds of the city as set forth below or as
hereafter created by the city or any of its departments, boards, commissions or
agencies shall be placed in the authorized depositories in such a way and
manner as to maintain the total funds as equal in the several depositories as
fair and reasonable:
First National Bank Philippi Communication System
First National Bank City of Philippi Waste Department
First National Bank City of Philippi City Building
First National Bank City of Philippi Transfer System
First National Bank City of Philippi Central Garage
Barbour County Bank Philippi Town Revenue Sharing Fund
Barbour County Bank City of Philippi Coal Severance Tax Revenue
Barbour County Bank City of Philippi General Fund
Barbour County Bank City of Philippi Electric Department
Barbour County Bank City of Philippi Water System
Barbour County Bank City of Philippi Sewerage System
First National Bank Philippi Sewer System
Barbour County Bank City of Philippi Electric Department
First National Bank Philippi Municipal Equipment Fund
Barbour County Bank City of Philippi - Mellie Parking Lot
 
   (c)   Depository bonds. No public funds or money of the city shall be
deposited or kept in any authorized depository until and unless such depository
has provided a depository bond as required in this section. Each authorized
depository shall on and before July 1 of each fiscal year provide and execute a
bond in an amount to be fixed by the City Manager which amount shall not in any
event be less than the maximum sum that shall be deposited in each such
depository at any one time. In the event that it shall appear during any fiscal
year that the bond given is not sufficient to exceed the deposited funds, the
City Manager shall require additional bond to be given. As security for the
aforementioned depository bond each authorized depository shall deposit
interest-bearing securities of the United States, the state or of the federal
land bank. Such securities shall be hypothecated by proper legal transfer as
collateral security to protect and indemnify the city from any and all loss or
default on the part of the banking institution in its capacity as an authorized
depository. Such securities may be either delivered or deposited with the city
in which event the city shall make ample provision for the safe keeping thereof
or such securities may be deposited under proper receipt of such securities
with the federal reserve or with one or more banking institutions within or
without the state for safekeeping. The City Manager may authorize withdrawal,
release or substitution of securities when satisfied that full and faithful
accounting and payment of all the money has been made or provided for.
   (d)   Signatures for checks and orders. Checks, orders and warrants of the
city drawn on the funds or money of the city as maintained in the several
depositories authorized in this article may be signed by either the City
Manager or the Mayor.
   (e)   Mechanical or electrical device for signatures. The signature of
either the City Manager or the Mayor may be affixed to checks, orders or
warrants of the city by either mechanical or electrical devices, subject,
however, to the liabilities for misuse as contained in W.Va. Code § 8-13-22.
   (f)   Certification of signatures. The authorized signatures of the City
Manager and the Mayor and the authorized mechanical facsimile thereof shall be
furnished upon forms of the several authorized depositories and certified as to
correctness by the City Clerk.
§ 109.03 ESTABLISHMENT OF DOLLAR LIMITS FOR COMPETITIVE BIDDING.
   (a)   Sealed competitive bidding shall be required in the case of:
      (1)   All contracts for any improvements costing $15,000 or more, or
another amount as set by Council from time to time;
      (2)   All purchases of supplies or materials costing $20,000 or more, or
another amount as set by Council from time to time;
      (3)   All purchases of new equipment costing $50,000 or more, or another
amount as set by Council from time to time; and
      (4)   All other contracts, except contracts for personal services,
involving the expenditure of $7,500 or more, or another amount set by Council
from time to time.
   (b)   All advertisements for bids pursuant to this article shall be
published as a Class II legal advertisement in compliance with W.Va. Code §§
59-3-1 et seq.
(Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER THREE - Legislative
      
115.   Council
      117.   Ordinances and Resolutions
ARTICLE 115: COUNCIL
Section
   
115.01   Regular meetings
   
115.02   Special meetings
   
115.03   Adjourned sessions
   
115.04   Conference sessions
   
115.05   Executive sessions
   
115.06   Presiding officer; duties
   
115.07   Quorum; summoning of absent members
   
115.08   Attendance at meetings
   
115.09   Signing of written petitions
   
115.10   Duties and privileges of members
   
115.11   Rules of procedures
   
115.12   Ordinances and resolutions
   
115.13   Miscellaneous rules
   
115.14   Smoking prohibited
   
115.15   Rainy Day Fund established
   
115.16   Investment of Rainy Day Fund
   
115.17   Procedures and policies of the Rainy Day Fund
 
   
115.99   Penalty
Charter reference:
   Authority to make and enforce ordinances, see
Charter § 17
   Council may issue bonds, see
Charter § 38
   Meetings; Presiding Officer; tie vote; quorum, see
Charter § 12
   Powers, see
Charter § 16
Cross-reference:
   Elections, see
Art. 105
Statutory reference:
   Open governmental proceedings, see W.Va. Code Art. 6-9A
§ 115.01 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   Council shall meet in regular session on the first and third Tuesdays of
each month at 7:30 p.m. When the meeting falls on a national or legal holiday,
the regular meeting shall be held at the same hour on the next succeeding
secular day not a holiday. Council may by motion dispense with any regular
meeting. The place and agenda of meeting shall be the Council Chamber in the
City Hall. The news media, including each local newspaper, radio station and
television station, shall be advised of the time and place of all regular
meetings by written notice at least 48 hours in advance of any regular meeting.
The City Clerk shall further post on the bulletin board on the first floor in
City Hall at least seven days before such meeting a notice to the public of the
time and place of the meeting. However, the foregoing notice shall not be
required in the event of an emergency requiring immediate official action.
§ 115.02 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   Special meetings may be called by the Mayor, the City Clerk or any three
Councilpersons. The City Clerk shall prepare a notice of the special meeting
stating time, place and object, and this notice shall be served personally upon
each member of Council, or left at their usual place of residence at least 48
hours before the time of the meeting. It shall also be the duty of the City
Clerk, immediately upon receipt of written request, to make diligent effort to
notify each member of Council in person, either by telephone or otherwise, of
such special session. The City Clerk shall further post on the bulletin board
on the first floor in City Hall at least 48 hours before such meeting notice to
the public of the time, place and purpose of the meeting and in addition shall
notify the news media, including each local newspaper, radio station and
television station, of the time, place and purpose of the meeting by written
notice at least 48 hours in advance of any special meeting. However, the
foregoing notice shall not be required in the event of an emergency requiring
immediate official action.
§ 115.03 ADJOURNED SESSIONS.
   Any session of Council may be continued or adjourned from day to day, or for
more than one day, but no adjournment shall be for a longer period than until
the next regular meeting thereafter.
§ 115.04 CONFERENCE SESSIONS.
   The rules of procedure for conference sessions of Council shall be:
   (a)   Council shall meet in conference session prior to the regular meeting
of Council;
   (b)   The Mayor may call Council together for a conference session at any
time;
   (c)   The conference session shall be devoted exclusively to any matters
regarding which the interchange of information preliminary to public discussion
is deemed to be essential;
   (d)   Any matter under discussion shall be regarded as confidential; and
   (e)   No formal vote shall be taken on any matter under discussion, nor
shall any Council member enter into a commitment with another respecting a vote
to be taken subsequently in a public meeting of Council; provided, that nothing
herein shall prevent a polling of Council, or the taking of an informal vote,
on any matter under discussion.
§ 115.05 EXECUTIVE SESSIONS.
   The rules of procedure for executive sessions shall be as follows.
   (a)   An executive session may be convened on call of the Mayor, or by a
vote of Council, but may be held only upon a majority affirmative vote of the
members present of the governing body.
   (b)   An executive session may be called during any regular or special
meeting of Council by a majority of the members present at such meeting.
   (c)   Attendance at the executive session shall be limited to the members of
Council. However, Council may invite such persons as may be required for advice
and information.
   (d)   No formal vote shall be taken on any matter under discussion, nor
shall any Council member enter into a commitment with another expecting a vote
to be taken subsequently in a public meeting of Council. Nothing herein shall
prevent a polling of Council or the taking of an informal vote on any matter
under discussion. Before the convening of an executive session during a
regular, special or emergency meeting the presiding officer must identify the
authorization therefor under the provisions of W.Va. Code § 6-9A-4.
§ 115.06 PRESIDING OFFICER; DUTIES.
   (a)   Presiding officer: calling of roll. The Mayor or, in his or her
absence, the City Clerk shall take the chair at the hour appointed for Council
to meet, and shall immediately call the members to order. The roll shall then
be called by the City Clerk, who shall enter in the minutes of the meeting the
names of the members present.
   (b)   Temporary presiding officer. In case of the absence of the proper
presiding officer, the City Clerk shall call Council to order and call the roll
of the members. If a quorum is found to be present. Council shall proceed to
elect, by a majority vote of Council, a Chairperson of the meeting to act until
the proper presiding officer appears.
   (c)   Decorum and order.
      (1)   The presiding officer of Council shall preserve decorum and decide
all questions of order, subject to appeal to Council.
      (2)   If a member transgresses the rules of Council, the presiding
officer shall, or any member may, call him or her to order, in which case he or
she shall be seated, unless permitted to explain.
§ 115.07 QUORUM; SUMMONING OF ABSENT MEMBERS.
   Three or more members of Council shall constitute a quorum. In case a less
number than a quorum shall convene at a regular or special meeting, the
majority of the members present are authorized to send the Chief of Police or
other person for any or all of the absent members.
§ 115.08 ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS.
   (a)   City Manager. The City Manager shall attend all meetings of Council,
unless excused by Council.
   (b)   City Clerk; duties.
      (1)   The City Clerk shall attend all meetings of Council, unless
excused, and shall keep minutes of the meetings and perform such other and
further duties in the meeting as may be ordered by Council.
      (2)   The City Clerk shall also notify each member of Council by letter,
at least 30 days in advance, of any appointment required to be made to City
Council or any commission or agency where such appointment is the
responsibility of Council.
   (c)   City Attorney; duties. The City Attorney shall attend all meetings of
Council unless excused by Council. The City Manager or any member of Council
may at any time call upon the City Attorney for an oral or written opinion to
decide any question of law or to advise the chair upon any parliamentary rule.
   (d)   Officers and heads of departments. The head of any department or any
officer of the city, when requested by the City Manager or Council, shall
attend any regular, adjourned or special meeting of Council.
§ 115.09 SIGNING OF WRITTEN PETITIONS.
   Written petitions to Council shall be signed only in the handwriting of the
person purporting to sign. Every person signing a petition shall place his or
her complete address after his or her signature.
§ 115.10 DUTIES AND PRIVILEGES OF MEMBERS.
   (a)   Seating arrangement. Members of Council shall occupy the seats in the
Council Chamber around the Council table as designated by the Mayor.
   (b)   Conduct during debate. When recognized by the chair, a member of
Council shall confine himself or herself to the question under debate, avoid
personalities and refrain from impugning the motives of any other member’s
argument or vote.
   (c)   Appeal to Council from ruling of presiding officer. Any member may
appeal to Council from a ruling of the presiding officer. If the appeal is
seconded, the member making the appeal may briefly state his or her reason for
the same, and the presiding officer may briefly explain his or her ruling; but
there shall be no debate on the appeal and no other member shall participate in
the discussion. The presiding officer shall then put the question: “Shall the
decision of the chair be sustained?” If a majority of the members present vote
“aye”, the ruling of the chair is sustained; otherwise, it is overruled.
   (d)   Limitation of debate. No member of Council shall be allowed to speak
more than once upon any one subject until every other member choosing to speak
thereon shall have spoken.
   (e)   Voting. Every member of Council present when a question is put shall
vote either “yes” or “no”; provided, that if any member of Council does not
desire to vote on any question, he or she may be shown on the record as having
“abstained”. The record shall show whenever the vote is unanimous. In all other
cases, the vote shall be called and recorded. No member shall vote on any
matter in which he or she has a personal interest other than as a taxpayer of
the city.
   (f)   Questions of personal privilege. The right of a member to address
Council on a question of personal privilege shall be limited to cases in which
his or her integrity, character or motives are assailed, questioned or
impugned.
   (g)   Recording of dissents or protests. Any member of Council shall have
the right to express dissent from or protest against any ordinance, resolution
or other action of Council and have the reason therefor entered upon the
minutes. Such dissent or protest shall be filed in writing couched in
respectful language, and presented to Council not later than the next regular
meeting following the date of passage of the ordinance, resolution or other
action objected to.
   (h)   Leaving Council Chamber during meeting. No member of Council may leave
the Council Chamber while in regular session without permission from the
presiding officer.
§ 115.11 RULES OF PROCEDURES.
   (a)   Order of business.
      (1)   The business of all regular meetings of Council shall be transacted
in the following order, unless Council, by a vote of at least two-thirds of the
members present, shall suspend the rules and change the order:
         A.   Roll call of members;
         B.   Minutes of the preceding meeting;
         C.   Petitions, communications and public hearings;
         D.   Consideration of any bids;
         E.   Reports from the City Manager;
         F.   Consideration of unfinished business;
         G.   Consideration of new business; and
         H.   Adjournment.
      (2)   Each member of Council shall be provided a copy of the minutes of
the previous meeting in advance of the next regular meeting whenever
practicable. The presiding officer may inquire “whether or not there are any
additions or corrections to the minutes as furnished Council members and as are
set forth in the minute book of Council”. If there are no corrections or
additions, such minutes shall stand approved and shall be signed by the
presiding officer and validated by the City Clerk.
   (b)   Filing copies before meeting. Every ordinance, resolution and document
to come before Council for consideration, except as hereinafter provided, must
be filed with the Clerk before noon on the Tuesday before the day on which
Council meets.
   (c)   Preparation of agenda. The Clerk shall have ready for delivery at 4:30
p.m., on the Tuesday prior to the day of Council meeting an agenda which
follows the pattern of the order of business which lists all reports,
communications, orders, ordinances, resolutions, contract-documents or matters
to come before Council.
   (d)   Amending agenda. No matters shall be considered by Council which have
not been properly placed upon the agenda; provided, that Council may amend the
agenda and place new matters thereon by a majority vote of Council at the
commencement of the meeting at which such matter is to be considered; provided
further, that nothing herein shall operate to prohibit the free discussion of
any matter by Council, nor simple orders directing preliminary work.
   (e)   Motions.
      (1)   When a question is before Council, no motion shall be entertained
except:
         A.   To adjourn;
         B.   To fix the hour of adjournment;
         C.   To lay on the table;
         D.   For the previous question;
         E.   To postpone to a certain day;
         F.   To refer;
         G.   To amend; and
         H.   To postpone indefinitely.
      (2)   These motions shall have precedence in the order indicated. All
motions, except the motion to amend, shall be put to a vote without debate.
   (f)   Motion to be stated by chair. When a motion is made and seconded, it
shall be stated by the chair before debate. Any member may demand that it be
put in writing. A motion may not be withdrawn by the mover without the consent
of the member seconding it.
   (g)   Introduction of motion or legislation out of regular order. The
presiding officer of Council may, at any time, by a majority vote of the
members present, permit a member to introduce an ordinance, resolution or
motion out of the regular order.
   (h)   Motion to adjourn.
      (1)   A motion to adjourn shall be in order at any time, except as
follows:
         A.   When repeated without intervening business or discussion;
         B.   When made as an interruption of a member while speaking;
         C.   When the previous question has been ordered; and
         D.   While a vote is being taken.
      (2)   A motion to adjourn is debatable only as to the time to which the
meeting is adjourned.
   (i)   Motion to lay on table. A motion to lay on the table shall preclude
all amendments or debate of the subject under consideration. If the motion
shall prevail, the consideration of the subject may be resumed at the same
meeting, or at the next meeting, by a majority vote, after some business has
been transacted after the original laying on the table.
   (j)   Previous question moved. When the previous question is moved, and
seconded by one other member, it shall be put as follows: “Shall the main
question be considered?” There shall then be no further amendment or debate;
but pending amendments shall be put in their order before the main question. If
the question, “Shall the main question be considered” be decided in the
negative, the main question remains before Council.
   (k)   Division of question. If the question contains two or more divisible
propositions, the presiding officer may, and upon request of a member shall,
divide the same.
   (l)   Amendment of ordinance generally. It shall be in order to amend an
ordinance at any time before final passage.
   (m)   Amendment to strike out and insert. On an amendment to “strike out and
insert”, the paragraph to be amended shall first be read as it stands, then the
words proposed to be stricken out and those to be inserted shall be read, and
finally the paragraph as it would stand if so amended shall be read.
   (n)   Motion to amend an amendment. A motion to amend an amendment shall be
in order, but one to amend an amendment to an amendment shall not be
introduced. An amendment modifying the intention of a motion shall be in order,
but an amendment relating to a different matter shall not be in order.
   (o)   Motion to postpone. All motions to postpone, except a motion to
postpone indefinitely, may be amended as to time. If a motion to postpone
indefinitely is carried, the principal question shall be declared lost.
   (p)   Motion to reconsider. After the decision on any question, any member
of Council who voted with the majority may move a reconsideration of any action
at the same or the next succeeding meeting; provided, that resolution
authorizing or relating to any contract may be reconsidered at any time before
the final execution thereof. A motion to reconsider shall require the same
number of votes as is required to adopt an ordinance or resolution. After a
motion for reconsideration has once been acted on, no other motion for
reconsideration thereof shall be made without unanimous consent.
   (q)   Robert’s Rules of Order. In the absence of a rule to govern a point or
procedure, reference shall be had to Robert’s Rules of Order, Revised.
   (r)   Anonymous communications. Unsigned communications shall not be
introduced in Council.
§ 115.12 ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS.
   (a)   Introduction. All ordinances and resolutions shall be introduced in
Council in printed, typed or written form, with the name of the Council member,
City Manager or City Attorney endorsed thereon. Any member of Council may
instruct the City Clerk to endorse the designation “By Request” on any
ordinance or resolution which is being introduced to Council in his or her
name.
   (b)   Approval by City Attorney.
      (1)   All proposed ordinances shall be approved by the City Attorney and
bear his or her notation that they are correct in form.
      (2)   The City Manager shall attach to each proposed ordinance a brief
digest of the provisions thereof, and where it is proposed to amend an existing
ordinance, such digest shall indicate the change sought to be made.
   (c)   Distribution of copies. The City Clerk shall prepare copies of all
proposed ordinances and resolutions, together with copies of the statement of
the City Manager in the form provided in subsection (b) above, for distribution
to all members of Council, together with the agenda for the meeting at which it
is to be introduced, not later than 4:30 p.m. on the Friday prior to the
Tuesday on which Council is to meet.
   (d)   Form. Each proposed ordinance or resolution shall contain not more
than one subject which shall be clearly stated in the title; provided that the
general appropriations ordinance and budget ordinance may contain the various
subjects and accounts for which money is appropriated, and a recodification
ordinance need not be subject to the above requirement. Each proposed ordinance
or resolution shall be appropriately numbered, indexed and filed in the office
of the City Clerk. The enacting clause of all ordinances passed by Council
shall be: “Be it enacted by the City of Philippi.”
   (e)   Forms of pronouncements: when may be passed.
      (1)   Pronouncements of Council may be made in the following forms:
         A.   Ordinance;
         B.   Emergency ordinance;
         C.   Resolution; and
         D.   Orders and motions.
      (2)   An ordinance cannot be passed on the day on which it was
introduced. An emergency ordinance, resolution, order or motion may be passed
on the day on which it was introduced.
   (f)   Procedure for enacting ordinances.
      (1)   An ordinance shall be read by title at not less than two meetings
with at least one week intervening between each meeting, unless a member
demands that the ordinance be read in full at one or both meetings. If such
demand is made, the ordinance shall be read in full as demanded.
      (2)   Except as hereafter provided, it shall not be necessary for Council
to publish in a newspaper any proposed ordinance prior to the adoption thereof,
or any adopted ordinance subsequent to the adoption thereof; provided, that in
conformity with the W.Va. Code § 8-11-4(a)(2), as amended, at least five days
before the meeting at which a proposed ordinance, the principal object of which
is the raising of revenue for the municipality, is to be adopted, Council shall
cause notice of the proposed adoption of the proposed ordinance to be published
as a Class I-O legal advertisement in compliance with the provisions of W.Va.
Code §§ 59-3-1 et seq., and the area for such publication shall be the
municipality.
      (3)   The notice shall state the subject matter and title or titles of
such proposed ordinance, date, time and place of the proposed final vote on
adoption, and the place or place within the municipality where such proposed
ordinance may be inspected by the public. A reasonable number of copies of the
proposed ordinance shall be kept at such place or places and be made available
for public inspection. Such notice shall also advise that interested parties
may appear at the meeting and be heard with respect to the proposed ordinance.
      (3)   An ordinance shall not be materially amended at the same meeting at
which finally passed.
      (4)   If any additional requirements are specified in other provisions of
the West Virginia Code for the passage of ordinances, then such other different
or additional requirements shall be applicable.
   (g)   Action of Council by ordinance. In the following enumerated cases, the
action of Council shall be by ordinance:
      (1)   Levying taxes or providing for the collection of fees of any kind;
      (2)   Requiring a license to do business;
      (3)   Relating to offenses and penalties;
      (4)   Authorizing the issuance of bonds or other forms of indebtedness;
      (5)   Providing for a public improvement;
      (6)   Providing for the purchase of private property by the city or for
the sale of property belonging to the city;
      (7)   Laying out or vacating a public street, alley or way;
      (8)   Relating to zoning;
      (9)   Granting franchises to public utilities;
      (10)   Providing for contractual or other agreement with another
jurisdiction; and
      (11)   When otherwise required by law.
   (h)   Enacting emergency ordinances. Council may enact an ordinance at the
same meeting at which it is introduced in the case of pressing public emergency
which would make procedure under subsection (f) above dangerous to the public
safety or morals; such action may be taken only after a suspension of the rules
of procedure and then upon the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the members of
Council. The nature of the emergency shall be set out in full in the ordinance.
(Ord. passed 3-16-1993)
§ 115.13 MISCELLANEOUS RULES.
   (a)   Addressing Council. Persons other than members of Council and city
officers shall not be permitted to address Council except upon introduction by
the presiding officer.
   (b)   Sergeant at Arms. There shall be a Sergeant at Arms, who shall be the
Chief of Police or his or her designate. The Sergeant at Arms shall attend
meetings of Council and act at the direction of the presiding officer.
   (c)   Use and control of Council Chambers. The Council Chambers shall be
under the supervision and control of the City Manager when Council is not in
session. Except as herein provided, it shall be used solely by Council and its
committees for the transaction of public business of the city. If not required
for such use, the City Manager may permit its use by agencies of the federal,
state or city governments for the transaction of public business. Application
for such use shall be made to the City Manager in such manner as may be
prescribed by him or her. Any permission so granted may be cancelled or revoked
by the City Manager forthwith where necessary for the protection of city
property, the preservation of order or other sufficient reason.
   (d)   Approval of project in cooperation with state or federal government.
All proposals for projects which contemplate cooperation with, or financial
participation by, the state or federal government shall be transmitted to
Council by the City Manager. If a city board or commission desires to propose
such a project, the proposal shall first be filed with the City Manager. All
proposals shall be in approved form and accompanied by proper plans and
specifications conforming to the requirements of respective state or federal
government. If Council approves the proposal, it shall by resolution authorize
the City Manager to make application to the proper authority.
   (e)   Suspension of rules. Any provision of the rules set out in this
article not governed by the Charter or the codified ordinances may be
temporarily suspended at any meeting of Council by a two-thirds vote of all
members elected. The vote on any such suspension shall be taken by yeas and
nays and entered upon the records.
§ 115.14 SMOKING PROHIBITED.
   (a)   No person shall smoke or carry a lighted cigarette, cigar or pipe in
the Council Chambers when such place is used by Council in the conduct of its
official, regular, special or emergency meetings.
   (b)   The City Manager shall have conspicuously displayed a sign reading “No
Smoking”, in the area where smoking is prohibited under this section.
   (c)   No person shall remove, deface or destroy any “No Smoking” sign posted
pursuant to the provisions of this section.
§ 115.15 RAINY DAY FUND ESTABLISHED.
   (a)   There is hereby created a financial stabilization fund for the city,
and said fund shall be known as the Rainy Day Fund.
   (b)   Council may receive appropriations, gifts, grants and any other funds
made available on behalf of the Rainy Day Fund.
   (c)   Council may appropriate a sum to the fund from any surplus in the
General Fund at the end of each fiscal year or from any other money available.
   (d)   The amount of money in the fund may not exceed 30% of the city’s most
recent General Fund budget, as originally adopted. When the fund exceeds the
30%, Council shall transfer the excess to any fund it considers appropriate.
   (e)   Council may invest the money in the fund as it considers appropriate,
with the earnings retained by the fund.
   (f)   Council may appropriate money in the fund upon a majority vote for the
following purposes:
      (1)   To cover a General Fund shortfall; or
      (2)   Any other purpose the city considers appropriate.
(Ord. passed 8-21-2001)
§ 115.16 INVESTMENT OF RAINY DAY FUND.
   (a)   Investments into the Rainy Day Fund (hereinafter “Fund”) from the
account designated as the General Fund shall be allocated based upon any
unappropriated surplus realized at the end of each fiscal year. Said investment
into the Fund shall be at least 40% of such unappropriated surplus for any
given year and shall be appropriated according to state law by July 28 of each
year. The Council shall have the discretion, by proper motion and affirmative
majority vote, to invest more than the minimum 40% of said surplus each year
into the Fund. All such investments shall always comply with relevant state
law, and shall specifically comply with W.Va. Code Chapter 8, Article 37, as
amended, and the Rainy Day Fund Investment shall be placed on the Council’s
agenda each year between July 1 and July 28 to allow for the appropriate
investment.
   (b)   Investments into the Fund from all funds other than the General Fund
shall be allocated and invested at the discretion of Council after considering
recommendations of the duly appointed City Manager.
   (c)   This section shall be implemented and construed in conjunction with §
115.15.
(Ord. passed 2-4-2003)
§ 115.17 PROCEDURES AND POLICIES OF THE RAINY DAY FUND.
   (a)   The Fund may be utilized for the financing of city projects and
expenditures. Said financing shall be accomplished by the lending of moneys
from the Fund for the designated projects and/or expenditures. However, only
the balance in the Fund which is in excess of $100,000 shall be used for said
financing of city projects and/or expenditures. The interest rate and all
necessary terms and conditions for each individual loan shall be set by Council
prior to the establishment of each loan.
   (b)   In a year where the city experiences a shortfall and/or deficit in the
General Fund, the Council shall have the discretion, by proper motion and
affirmative majority vote, to transfer up to 20% of the Fund to the General
Fund in order to offset said shortfall and/or deficit. At no time, shall said
transfer be in excess of 20% of the total Fund.
   (c)   The duly appointed City Manager is designated the authority to present
proposals to the Council, at any time, for the expenditure and/or lending of up
to 15% of the total Fund for the matching of grants, capital projects and/or
any purpose which is deemed necessary or appropriate for the city.
   (d)   This section shall be implemented and construed in conjunction with §
115.15.
(Ord. passed 2-4-2003)
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates §
115.14 shall be fined not more than $50.
ARTICLE 117: ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS
Editor’s note:
   There are no sections in Article 117. This article has been established to
provide a place for cross-references and future legislation.
Statutory reference:
   Action required to be by ordinance, see W.Va. Code §§ 8-11-3, 8-5-12
   Delegating discretion, see W.Va. Code § 8-11-2
   Penalty limitations, see W.Va. Code §§ 8-11-1, 8-12-5(58)
   Procedures, see W.Va. Code § 8-11-4
   To make powers effective, see W.Va. Code § 8-11-1
CHAPTER FIVE - Administrative
      
131.   Mayor
      
133.   City Manager
      
135.   City Clerk
      
137.   City Attorney
      
139.   Police Department
      
141.   Fire Department
      
143.   Department of Public Works
      
145.   Park and Recreation Board
      
147.   Planning Commission
      
148.   Library Board
      
149.   Sanitary Board
      
151.   Citizen’s Advisory Committee
      
152.   Housing Authority
      
153.   Electric Superintendent
      
155.   Water Commissioner
      
157.   Street Commissioner
      
159.   Sewer Superintendent
      
160.   Building Commission
      
161.   Employment Provisions
      
163.   Indemnification of Officers, Agents and Employees
      
164.   Historic Landmarks Commission
      
165.   Regional Airport Authority
      
167.   Convention and Visitors Bureau
ARTICLE 131: MAYOR
Section
   
131.01   General supervisory powers
   
131.02   Execution of contracts
   
131.03   To preside at Council meetings
Charter reference:
   Duties and powers, see
Charter § 19
§ 131.01 GENERAL SUPERVISORY POWERS.
   The Mayor shall have general supervision of all the affairs of the
municipality and may require such reports from the various officers and
employees of the municipality as he or she may reasonably deem necessary to
carry out his or her executive responsibilities.
§ 131.02 EXECUTION OF CONTRACTS.
   The Mayor shall execute all contracts authorized by Council.
§ 131.03 TO PRESIDE AT COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   The Mayor shall preside at all Council meetings.
ARTICLE 133: CITY MANAGER
Section
   
133.01   Appointment
   
133.02   General duties
   
133.03   Employees
   
133.04   Officers and departments
   
133.05   Contracts
   
133.06   Purchases
   
133.07   Appropriation and levies
   
133.08   Accounts
   
133.09   Inventories
   
133.10   Reports and publications
   
133.11   Elections
   
133.12   Records; certificates
   
133.13   Collector and comptroller
   
133.14   Maps; plats
   
133.15   Offices
   
133.16   Absence from city
Cross-reference:
   Employment provisions, see
Art. 161
   Financial procedures, see
Art. 109
   Indemnification of officers, see
Art. 163
   To appoint Director of Public Works, see §
143.01
§ 133.01 APPOINTMENT.
   The City Manager may be appointed by Council for an indefinite term as
provided by law. Before taking office the City Manager shall furnish a fidelity
bond in the amount of $50,000, conditioned upon the faithful performance of his
or her duties, with a corporation licensed to do business in this state as
surety. Such bond shall be filed with the City Clerk after being approved by
Council.
§ 133.02 GENERAL DUTIES.
   (a)   The City Manager shall have and exercise all powers and duties
assigned to him or her by statute and such other authority as may be granted by
Council. He or she shall be charged with the enforcement of all laws and
ordinances within the municipality insofar as their enforcement is within the
powers of the city.
   (b)   The City Manager shall attend all meetings of Council, shall keep the
Council informed as to the affairs of the city, and shall recommend to Council
such actions as may be necessary or expedient for the welfare of the city.
   (c)   The Assistant City Manager shall perform all administrative duties for
Council and for the municipality which are not expressly assigned by the
Charter or the codified ordinances to another corporate officer. He or she
shall also have custody of, and be responsible for maintaining all corporate
bonds, records and papers in such fireproof vault or safe as the municipality
shall provide.
(Ord. passed 12-21-1999)
§ 133.03 EMPLOYEES.
   The City Manager shall hire and discharge all employees, other than those
under civil service or other tenure of office laws, authorized by Council to be
hired, at such compensation as may be set or authorized by Council. All
employees shall perform their duties subject to the direction of the City
Manager or that of the superior to whom such Manager may assign such employee.
The City Manager may delegate to any other official or employee the authority
to hire or discharge any employee under such official or employee.
§ 133.04 OFFICERS AND DEPARTMENTS.
   (a)   All appointive offices of the city shall be filled by appointment by
the City Manager, except where otherwise provided by law; and such Manager
shall report to the Mayor and Council such appointments, for their approval, or
any removal from office, made by him or her as soon as possible after the
appointment or removal.
   (b)   Every administrative department of the city shall be under the
supervision and control of the City Manager, who shall have the power to remove
from office any officer appointed by such Manager.
§ 133.05 CONTRACTS.
   (a)   The City Manager shall examine all proposed contracts to which the
city may be a party, and may sign on behalf of the city any contract authorized
by Council, excepting where Council directs that some other officer or officers
shall do so.
   (b)   The City Manager shall see to it that all terms of any contract to
which the city is a party are fully performed by all parties thereto.
§ 133.06 PURCHASES.
   The City Manager shall be the general purchasing agent of the city, and
except where specific provision to the contrary is made by law or by Council,
he or she shall make all purchases of supplies, materials and equipment
authorized by Council, in the manner prescribed by, and subject to the
limitations imposed by law. No purchase shall be made or obligation incurred
excepting upon authorization by Council, and no expense shall be incurred,
except for the purpose for which no prior appropriation is required by law, if
the amount thereof is not covered by an unexpended appropriation for the
purpose.
§ 133.07 APPROPRIATION AND LEVIES.
   (a)   The City Manager shall cause to be prepared each year the annual
appropriation ordinance in time for consideration and enactment by Council
during the first quarter of the fiscal year; and shall prepare the tax levy
ordinance for passage and file a certified copy thereof with the State Tax
Commissioner within the time required by law.
   (b)   He or she shall keep current accounts of the amounts appropriated and
the amounts spent out of each appropriation, showing the unexpected
appropriations at all times.
§ 133.08 ACCOUNTS.
   The City Manager shall keep current accounts showing at all times the fiscal
condition of the city, including the current and anticipated expenses,
appropriations, cash on hand and anticipated revenue of all municipal funds and
accounts; and he or she shall see to the collection of all money due the
municipality.
§ 133.09 INVENTORIES.
   The City Manager shall keep a current inventory showing all real and
personal property of the city and its location, and shall be responsible for
the care and custody of all such property including equipment, buildings, parks
and all other city property, which is not by law assigned to some other officer
or body for care and control.
§ 133.10 REPORTS AND PUBLICATIONS.
   The City Manager shall see to the publication of all notices, ordinances or
other documents required by law to be published, and shall prepare or cause to
be prepared, all reports which the city or any of the officials thereof are
required by law to prepare.
§ 133.11 ELECTIONS.
   The Assistant City Manager shall prepare for the City Clerk all notices,
ballots and election supplies necessary in connection with municipal elections.
(Ord. passed 12-21-1999)
§ 133.12 RECORDS; CERTIFICATES.
   (a)   The Assistant City Manager shall prepare and have custody of all
municipal records required by law to be kept by the city and not by a specific
officer. Where the law makes it the duty of a specific officer to keep or
maintain records, the Assistant City Manager shall make available to such
officer all necessary clerical assistance for the preparation of such records
and shall make available a place for the custody of such records.
   (b)   Where the law requires or provides for certification of any records or
documents by any officer of the city, the Assistant City Manager shall cause
such records or documents to be properly prepared and presented to such officer
for his or her signature.
   (c)   The Assistant City Manager, unless otherwise expressly provided by
statute, shall furnish proper and reasonable opportunities for inspection and
examination of the records in his or her office and reasonable facilities for
making memoranda or abstracts therefrom, during the usual business hours, to
all persons having occasion to make examination of them. The Assistant City
Manager may make reasonable rules and regulations necessary for the protection
of the records and to prevent interference with the regular discharge of his or
her duties. If the records requested exist in magnetic, electronic or computer
form, the Assistant City Manager shall make copies available on magnetic or
electronic media, if so requested.
   (d)   All requests for information must state, with reasonable specificity,
the information sought. The Assistant City Manager, upon demand for records
made under this statute, shall as soon as is practicable but within a maximum
of five days, not including Saturdays, Sundays or legal holidays:
      (1)   Furnish copies of the requested information;
      (2)   Advise the person making the request of the time and place at which
he or she may inspect and copy the materials; or
      (3)   Deny the request stating in writing the reasons for such denial. A
denial shall indicate that the responsibility of the Assistant City Manager or
the Council, or other public body, to produce the requested records or
documents is at an end, and shall afford the person requesting them the
opportunity to institute proceedings for injunctive or declaratory relief in
the circuit court in the county where the public record is kept.
   (e)   The Council or other public body may establish fees reasonably
calculated to reimburse it for its actual cost in making reproductions of
records. The Council or other public body may not charge a search or retrieval
fee or otherwise seek reimbursement based on a person-hour basis as part of
costs associated with making reproduction of records.
   (f) The Secretary of State shall maintain an electronic data base of notices
of requests as required by W. Va. Code § 29B-1-3a. The database shall be made
available to the public via the internet and shall list each freedom of
information request received and the outcome of the request. The Secretary of
State shall provide on the website a form for use by the Council or other
public body to report the results of the freedom of information request,
providing the nature of the request and the public body’s response thereto,
whether the request was granted, and, if not, the exemption asserted under W.
Va. Code § 29B-1-4 to deny the request.
(Ord. passed 12-21-1999)
Statutory reference:
   Inspection and copying of public record; requests of Freedom of Information
Act requests registry, see W. Va. Code § 29B-1-3
§ 133.13 COLLECTOR AND COMPTROLLER.
   The City Manager shall be ex officio City Collector and City Comptroller
unless such offices, or either of them, are duly filled by appointment; and he
or she shall perform the duties of each such office in the absence of such
appointment to either of them.
§ 133.14 MAPS; PLATS.
   The City Manager shall cause to be kept a complete set of maps and plats
showing the location of all city utilities, and other municipal properties, all
street and other public places and all lots or parcels of land subdivided
according to law.
§ 133.15 OFFICES.
   The City Manager and the Assistant City Manager shall maintain offices in
the City Hall and shall spend such time in the performance of their duties as
may be required by Council.
(Ord. passed 12-21-1999)
§ 133.16 ABSENCE FROM CITY.
   In the event that the City Manager shall be absent from the city,
incapacitated from performing the duties of his or her position, or there is a
vacancy in the position, the Assistant City Manager shall act as City Manager
during such absence, incapacity or vacancy.
(Ord. passed 12-21-1999)
ARTICLE 135: CITY CLERK
Section
   
135.01   Bond
   
135.02   Duties
Charter reference:
   Duties generally, see
Charter § 28
Cross-reference:
   Election duties, see §
105.01
   Indemnification of officers, see
Art. 163
§ 135.01 BOND.
   The City Clerk shall be bonded in the sum of $10,000, or another amount set
by Council from time to time, with surety acceptable to Council, before
assuming the duties of this office.
§ 135.02 DUTIES.
   (a)   The City Clerk shall keep the minutes of all meetings of Council and
shall preserve the original copy of all ordinances in a separate ordinance
book.
   (b)   The City Clerk shall perform all administrative duties for Council and
for the municipality which are not expressly assigned by the Charter or the
codified ordinances to another corporate officer. He or she shall also have
custody of, and be responsible for maintaining all corporate bonds, records and
papers in such fireproof vault or safe as the municipality shall provide.
ARTICLE 137: CITY ATTORNEY
Section
   
137.01   Creation of office; appointment
   
137.02   Suits and actions
   
137.03   Judgments
   
137.04   Advice
   
137.05   Special assessments
   
137.06   Ordinances and documents
Statutory reference;
   Hiring special counsel, see W.Va. Code § 8-10-1a
   Notice of suit against municipality, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-2
§ 137.01 CREATION OF OFFICE; APPOINTMENT.
   There is hereby created the office of City Attorney, an executive office of
the City. The City Attorney shall be appointed by the Mayor, by and with the
advice and consent of Council.
§ 137.02 SUITS AND ACTIONS.
   The City Attorney shall prosecute or defend any and all suits or actions at
law or equity to which the city may be a party, or in which it may be
interested, or which may be brought against, or by, any officer of the city on
behalf of the city, or in the capacity of such person as an officer of the
city.
§ 137.03 JUDGMENTS.
   The City Attorney shall see to the full enforcement of all judgments or
decrees rendered or entered in favor of the city, and of all similar
interlocutory orders.
§ 137.04 ADVICE.
   The City Attorney shall be the legal advisor of the city, and shall render
advice on all legal questions affecting the city, whenever requested to do so
by any city official. Upon request by the Mayor or by Council, he or she shall
reduce any such opinion in writing.
§ 137.05 SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   The City Attorney shall see to the completion of all special assessment
proceedings and condemnation proceedings.
§ 137.06 ORDINANCES AND DOCUMENTS.
   The City Attorney shall draft or supervise the phraseology of any contract,
lease or other documents or instruments, to which the city may be a party; and
upon request of Council, shall draft ordinances covering any subjects within
the power of the city.
ARTICLE 139: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
139.01    Composition
   
139.02   Appointment
   
139.03   Supervision
   
139.04   Rules and regulations
   
139.05   Duties of Chief of Police
   
139.06   Duties of Sergeant, patrol officer first class and patrol officers
   
139.07   Probation
   
139.08   Police officer’s responsibilities
   
139.09   Reports
   
139.10   Witnesses, fees, rewards
   
139.11   Conduct
   
139.12   Resignation
   
139.13   Outside employment
   
139.14   Uniforms and equipment
   
139.15   Training
   
139.16   Hours of employment, sick leave, vacations
   
139.17   Violations
   
139.18   Reimbursement of training expenses upon voluntary termination
Statutory reference:
   Appointment of special police, see W.Va. Code § 8-10-1
   Civil service, see W.Va. Code §§ 8-14-6 et seq.
   Hours of duty; holidays, see W.Va. Code §§ 8-14-2, 8-14-2a
   Parking lot or building officers, see W.Va. Code § 8-14-5a
   Pension and relief fund, see W.Va. Code Art. 8-22
   Powers and duties, see W.Va. Code §§ 8-14-1, 8-14-3
   School zone officers, see W.Va. Code § 8-14-5
§ 139.01 COMPOSITION.
   The Police Department for the city shall consist of such officers and such
other members as may be provided for by the Council.
(Ord. passed 7-6-2004)
§ 139.02 APPOINTMENT.
   The Chief of Police and other police officers shall be appointed by the City
Manager with the approval of Council. Promotions within the Department shall be
made by recommendation by the Chief of Police with the approval of Council.
Qualifications for the Police Department shall be in compliance with the West
Virginia Code. Special police officers may be appointed by Council or the Chief
of Police, according to need, and may be compensated as designated by Council.
All rules of the Police Department shall apply to such special police officers.
(Ord. passed 7-6-2004)
§ 139.03 SUPERVISION.
   As Department head, the Chief of Police shall have supervision over all
officers and members. Next in order of authority shall be the Sergeant,
followed by the patrol officer first class, which shall be followed by the
patrol officers, ranked in order of seniority, unless otherwise designated by
the Chief of Police.
(Ord. passed 7-6-2004)
§ 139.04 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   Council has by separate ordinance adopted a manual setting forth the rules
and regulations for the city’s Police Department. Where such manual conflicts
with any provision of this article, the manual shall supersede this article.
(Ord. passed 7-6-2004)
§ 139.05 DUTIES OF CHIEF OF POLICE.
   The Chief of Police shall have the following duties.
   (a)   The Chief of Police shall keep such records and make such reports
concerning Department activities as may be required by state statute or by
Council. The Chief shall be responsible for the performance of the Police
Department, and all Department members shall serve subject to orders of the
Chief.
   (b)   All police vehicles are the responsibility of the Chief, who must see
that a Department car is available for each shift.
   (c)   The Chief of Police has the responsibility for the preservation of the
public peace and enforcement of all city ordinances. It is therefore imperative
that he or she be throughly familiar with all such ordinances.
   (d)   The Chief of Police shall have full power and authority to enforce
these rules and regulations and to file charges against any member or members
with Council for nonconformance to these rules.
   (e)   The Chief of Police shall have custody and control of all books,
records, machines, tools, apparatus or equipment necessary for the use of the
Department.
   (f)   The Chief of Police shall serve for a two-year term, and may be
removed in the manner provided for the removal of other city officials. In the
event of a vacancy within a term, an interim Chief will be appointed by the
City Manager. Upon expiration of his or her term, the interim officer shall
resume his or her former status and rank.
(Ord. passed 7-6-2004)
§ 139.06 DUTIES OF SERGEANT, PATROL OFFICER FIRST CLASS AND PATROL OFFICERS.
   (a)   A Sergeant shall have such administrative duties, authority and hours
as assigned by the Chief of Police.
   (b)   Every patrol officer first-class and patrol officer shall be
responsible for the preservation of the peace, the protection of life and
property, the prevention of crime, the arrest of violators of the law and the
proper enforcement of all laws and ordinances. Such duties should be performed
in an intelligent and efficient manner, with familiarity of all statutes and
ordinances.
   (c)   Every patrol officer first-class and patrol officer shall be ready at
all times to answer calls and obey the orders of their superiors, and shall be
accountable to their superior officers for the general conditions of the city
during their assigned hours.
(Ord. passed 7-6-2004)
§ 139.07 PROBATION.
   (a)   All appointments to the Police Department shall be for a probation
period of six months. Continuance in service shall depend on the conduct of the
appointee and the quality of his or her work, as indicated in the reports and
recommendations of his or her superior officers.
   (b)   If, during the probationary period, the appointee proves unfit, he or
she shall be dismissed by the Chief of Police with the approval of Council, and
shall not be entitled to appeal from such dismissal.
(Ord. passed 7-6-2004)
§ 139.08 POLICE OFFICER’S RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (a)   Regular working hours for the members of the Police Department shall
be assigned by the Chief. Members are subject to recall by the Chief in
emergency situations as he or she deems necessary.
   (b)   No member of the Department shall be absent from his or her duties
without permission from the Chief. In the event of illness or other valid
reason, the member should give sufficient notice to allow the vacancy to be
filled.
   (c)   No member of the Department on regular patrol shall go beyond the
corporate limits of the city, except upon direct order from the Chief or while
in hot pursuit of a felony.
   (d)   Sleeping or loafing on duty will be grounds for suspension or
dismissal.
   (e)   No alcoholic beverages shall be consumed while on duty.
   (f)   Members of the Department shall be responsible for the care of all
Department property and shall report promptly to the Chief the loss, damage to,
or unserviceable condition of such property.
   (g)   Any member found guilty of damages to or destruction or theft of city
property, whether through willfulness, negligence, roughness, or carelessness,
shall be required to pay all costs of repairs or replacement, in addition to
any penalty imposed.
(Ord. passed 7-6-2004)
§ 139.09 REPORTS.
   (a)   Every member of the Police Department shall keep an accurate and up-
to-date report of all activities and investigations on the officers daily log,
which shall be left on the Chief’s desk at the end of each officer’s shift.
   (b)   No member of the Department shall make or cause to be made any false
statement, oral or written, to or concerning the Department.
   (c)   No member of the Department shall give out or release any information
concerning the affairs, business or operation of the Police Department without
consent of the Chief.
(Ord. passed 7-6-2004)
§ 139.10 WITNESSES, FEES, REWARDS.
   (a)   Every member of the Police Department shall appear as a witness in a
prosecution for a violation of a city ordinance or any state or federal law, if
directed to do so by a Police Judge, Magistrate, Prosecuting Attorney, Chief of
Police or any lawful process as directed by law.
   (b)   (1)   No member of the Department shall retain any fee for service as
witness in any action or suit to which the city is a party.
      (2)   Any fees paid for such services shall be turned over to the Police
Chief, who shall deposit same with the City Manager.
   (c)   No member of the Department shall receive or cause to be received any
gift, regard or bribe in any form for services rendered, and shall report to
the Chief any such attempts.
(Ord. passed 7-6-2004)
§ 139.11 CONDUCT.
   (a)   Members of the Police Department shall conduct themselves in a
courteous and law-abiding manner, both on- and off-duty.
   (b)   Members of the Police Department shall treat their superior officers
with respect and their fellow officers with courtesy and consideration,
avoiding criticism or derogatory remarks within or outside of the Department.
It is their duty to inform the Chief of any known neglect or disobedience of
orders or violation of rules and regulations.
   (c)   In dealing with the general public, members of the Department shall
conduct themselves in a courteous manner, and shall be attentive and serious in
the discharge of their duties, controlling tempers and exercising patience and
discretion. They must refrain from using violent or profane language.
   (d)   Members shall not discuss or criticize publicly or privately the
personal habits, character or official actions or other actions of other
members of the Department.
   (e)   Members shall refrain from maltreatment of any person or prisoner, and
from physical altercations, except in the line of duty.
(Ord. passed 7-6-2004)
§ 139.12 RESIGNATION.
   (a)   All members of the Police Department shall give 14 days’ written
notice to the Chief of Police of their intentions of resigning.
   (b)   Any member leaving the Department without due notice shall be
disqualified from ever again becoming a member of the Department.
   (c)   Upon resignation, a member should return all equipment and property
belonging to the Department and the city. Failure to return property shall be a
misdemeanor with an additional penalty if the Department sees fit.
(Ord. passed 7-6-2004)
§ 139.13 OUTSIDE EMPLOYMENT.
   All regular members of the Police Department shall devote the major portion
of their time and effort to the business of the Department. Any outside
employment or business interest which does not interfere with the efficiency of
the Police Department should be approved by the Chief. Such approved work is
understood not to interfere with rights under the State Pension Plan. Outside
work should not be for a full eight-hour day or period, and in all cases, the
police officers must be available for emergency duty.
(Ord. passed 7-6-2004)
§ 139.14 UNIFORMS AND EQUIPMENT.
   (a)   All personnel of the Police Department shall wear the following at all
times while on duty: dark blue shirt, dark blue pants, blue or black socks,
black shoes, black belt and blue hat. All personnel shall have summer and
winter shirts and hats, and dark blue coat to be worn when weather requires it.
The date to change seasonal uniforms shall be established by the Chief.
Rainwear for use by all personnel shall be kept in police vehicles and at the
office. The hat may be removed while in a police vehicle or inside a building.
   (b)   Identification: patches on both shoulders, Philippi Police Department;
badge on hat and shirt; name plate; and collar insignia.
   (c)   Standard equipment: whistle, gun (.357 magnum or .38 special with
standard four-inch barrel); holster (standard black); handcuffs; chemical mace;
shell holders; billie club; communication radio on belt; note pad; pen; and
watch.
   (d)   All uniforms shall be kept clean and pressed; shoes shall be shined;
badges and the like, cleaned periodically; and all equipment kept in good
working order. Failure to comply shall be grounds for suspension or dismissal.
(Ord. passed 7-6-2004)
§ 139.15 TRAINING.
   All personnel shall become proficient in the use of all standard equipment
of the Department; failure to do so shall be grounds for suspension or
dismissal. In addition, all personnel required to use firearms shall qualify to
use all types of firearms owned by the Department to the satisfaction of the
Chief, at least once a year; failure to qualify shall be grounds for suspension
or dismissal.
(Ord. passed 7-6-2004)
§ 139.16 HOURS OF EMPLOYMENT, SICK LEAVE, VACATIONS.
   (a)   All work schedules shall be established by the Chief of Police, and no
personnel may change their working hours without prior approval.
   (b)   Sick leave shall be accumulated on the basis of four hours for each
two weeks of employment, and each employee may accumulate up to 30 days sick
leave. When any employee is ill for more than three consecutive days, a
physician’s statement certifying his or her illness shall be required when he
or she returns to work.
   (c)   Each employee who has been employed for a period of one year shall be
entitled to two weeks vacation, with requests for vacation time submitted and
approved by the Chief at least 30 days prior to its beginning. If more than one
employee requests the same vacation period, the employee with the longer period
of employment with the city shall be given first consideration. The Chief has
the right to refuse or cancel vacations or days off when proper maintenance of
the Department is a factor.
   (d)   Any employee whose absence due to illness exceeds the amount of
accumulated sick leave and vacation time, the employee shall not be paid for
such additional time. If failure to report to work exceeds 15 days beyond
accumulated sick leave and vacation time, his or her employment shall be
terminated.
(Ord. passed 7-6-2004)
§ 139.17 VIOLATIONS.
   (a)   Any member of the Police Department violating any provision of this
chapter may be suspended or dismissed at the discretion of the Chief of Police.
   (b)   In addition to the rules and regulations set forth in this chapter,
the laws of the state, city ordinances and federal laws pertaining to and
affecting police officers shall be enforced.
(Ord. passed 7-6-2004)
§ 139.18 REIMBURSEMENT OF TRAINING EXPENSES UPON VOLUNTARY TERMINATION.
   Pursuant to the provisions of W.Va. Code § 30-29-8, as amended, that on and
after the effective date of this section, all law enforcement officers shall,
before attendance at a law enforcement officers training academy, be required
to enter into a written agreement with the city, which agreement shall require
and specify if such employee should voluntarily discontinue employment with the
city within two years immediately following completion of such training
curriculum, such employee shall be obligated to pay to the city the pro rata
portion of the sum of such compensation which is equal to that part of such
years which the employee has chosen not to remain in the employ of the city.
(Ord. passed 7-6-2004)
ARTICLE 141: FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
141.01   Authority
   
141.02   Establishment
   
141.03   Objectives
   
141.04   Organization
   
141.05   Records and reports
   
141.06   Tenure
   
141.07   Training
   
141.08   Enforcement
   
141.09   Use of apparatus
   
141.10   Entering fire houses
   
141.11   Investigation of fires
   
141.12   Service outside corporate limits
Statutory reference:
   Authority of local fire departments, see W.Va. Code Art. 29-3A
   Civil service, see W.Va. Code §§ 8-15-11 et seq.
   Fire protection contracts, see W.Va. Code §§ 8-15-3, 8-12-5(57)
   Paid fire departments, see W.Va. Code §§ 8-15-9 et seq.
   Pension and relief fund, see W.Va. Code Art. 8-22
   Power of governing body, see W.Va. Code § 8-15-1
   Volunteer fire companies, see W.Va. Code §§ 8-15-4 et seq.
§ 141.01 AUTHORITY.
   To provide for the prevention and extinguishment of fires, Council may equip
and govern fire companies, prescribe the powers and duties of such companies
and departments and the several officers thereof and may authorize the
organization of volunteer fire companies under such rules and regulations as
Council may prescribe and impose on those who fail to obey any lawful command
of the officer in charge of such fire company or volunteer company any penalty
which Council is authorized to impose for violation of an ordinance, and to
give authority to the chief fire officer to direct the pulling down or
destruction of any building, fence, wall or other thing, if such officer deems
it necessary to prevent the spreading of any fire which is being extinguished
under the direction of such officer, and without any liability on the
municipality for damages therefor, and to regulate the flow of traffic going to
the scene of or returning from any fire.
§ 141.02 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established a Volunteer Fire Department to be supported and
equipped from appropriations by Council. All apparatus, equipment and supplies
shall be purchased by or through the city and shall be and remain the property
of the municipality. The Fire Department shall be a volunteer fire department,
with authority to adopt bylaws and regulations for the organization governing
the operation, subject to this article and approval of Council.
§ 141.03 OBJECTIVES.
   The Fire Department shall have as its objectives to:
   (a)   Prevent uncontrolled fires from starting;
   (b)   Prevent the loss of life and property in case of a fire;
   (c)   Confine a fire to the place of origin;
   (d)   Extinguish uncontrolled fires;
   (e)   Prevent loss of life from asphyxiation or drowning; and
   (f)   Perform such rescue work as its equipment and/or the its personnel
makes practicable.
§ 141.04 ORGANIZATION.
   The Fire Department shall consist of as many members and officers as may be
established in the bylaws. The Fire Department may have any organization
approved by Council, and may hold meetings and engage in social activities. The
Secretary of the Fire Department shall keep a record of meetings and make them
available to Council upon request.
§ 141.05 RECORDS AND REPORTS.
   The Chief of the Fire Department shall keep adequate records of all fires,
inspections, apparatus, equipment, personnel and work of the Department.
§ 141.06 TENURE.
   The Fire Chief shall hold office for a period of two years, at which time he
or she shall be re-elected or replaced. However, so that adequate discipline
may be maintained, the Chief shall have the authority to grant a leave of
absence when on duty if he or she thinks it proper, for disobedience of orders
or contempt of the bylaws, rules and regulations on the part of any member.
§ 141.07 TRAINING.
   The Chief of the Fire Department shall be fully responsible for all training
of the firefighters, and shall certify all new members to the operation of the
fire apparatus a minimum of 90 days after being elected to the Fire Department.
§ 141.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of all officers of the Fire Department and all police
officers of the city to see that the provisions of this article are enforced
and to arrest on view any person who shall be found violating any of the
provisions of this article or who shall hinder, resist or refuse to obey any
such officer in the discharge of his or her duty, and to that end all such
officers are hereby vested with the usual power and authority of police
officers.
§ 141.09 USE OF APPARATUS.
   (a)   Whoever shall use any fire engine, hose, cart or any other apparatus
belonging to the city for any private purpose, other than the extinguishment of
fires, or whoever shall remove the same or any part thereof from its place of
deposit, or having control thereof, shall permit such engine, hose, cart or
other apparatus to be used for any private purpose other than aforesaid, shall
be fined not more than $200, or another such amount set by Council from time to
time, for each offense.
   (b)   Whoever shall willfully or negligently break, deface, or in any manner
injure any fire engine, hose equipment or other fire apparatus belonging to the
city or shall remove any screw, bolt, nut or any part of such engine or other
fire apparatus or in any manner interfere with the same when being used by the
proper person or authority, shall upon conviction be fined not less than$200,
or another such amount as set by Council from time to time.
§ 141.10 ENTERING FIRE HOUSES.
   (a)   No person or persons shall enter the Fire Department House or any
place where the equipment and apparatus of the Fire Department is stored, at
any time except on business pertaining to the Fire Department or other city
business.
   (b)   The penalty for the violation of this section shall be a fine of not
more than $10, or another such amount as set by Council from time to time.
§ 141.11 INVESTIGATION OF FIRES.
   The Fire Marshal shall investigate the causes of all extended or destructive
fire occurring within the city.
§ 141.12 SERVICE OUTSIDE CORPORATE LIMITS.
   Members of the Fire Department are authorized to go outside the corporate
limits of the city for the purpose of rendering aid to the other fire
departments, or of extinguishing fires or rendering aid in the case of
accident, and as provided by mutual agreement of the County Court and the
city’s Volunteer Fire Department.
ARTICLE 143: DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
Section
   
143.01   Director of Public Works
Statutory reference:
   General power to regulate, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-5(36)
   Street assessments, see W.Va. Code Art. 8-18
§ 143.01 DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS.
   (a)   The City Manager shall appoint a Director of Public Works, to serve
for an indefinite term. Subject to the direction and control of the City
Manager, the Director of Public Works shall be responsible for the supervision
and administration of the Department of Public Works.
   (b)   In addition, except as otherwise provided in the codified ordinances
and subject to the supervision of the City Manager, he or she shall have the
power and it shall be his or her duty to:
      (1)   Inspect the construction or repair of all buildings, the
installation of all electrical wiring or equipment, and the installation of all
plumbing, to the extent that such activities are controlled or regulated by the
city, for the purpose of seeing that all city regulations are obeyed;
      (2)   Issue permits for the construction or repair of homes and other
buildings upon the payment of such fee as may be fixed by Council, but he or
she shall issue no such permit unless the proposed construction or repair is in
conformity with city zoning laws and regulations;
      (3)   Supervise all work done by any contractor for the city while the
work is being performed;
      (4)   Make surveys, fix grades and prepare plats, plans and
specifications for all improvements which may be undertaken by the city, when
required to do so by the City Manager;
      (5)   Furnish on the demand of any resident the grade of any street or
sewer upon the payment of such fee as may be fixed by Council;
      (6)   Make complete maps of all streets, alleys, lanes, parks and public
property owned by the city, keep such maps on file in his or her office and
available for public inspection, and furnish a copy thereof to the City
Manager;
      (7)   Require that all pavements, sidewalks, curbs, gutters and sewers in
the city are kept clean and repaired; and
      (8)   Perform such other duties as may be required of him or her by the
codified ordinances, by general law, or by city ordinance or order of the City
Manager not inconsistent with general law.
ARTICLE 145: PARK AND RECREATION BOARD
Section
   
145.01   Established; members
   
145.02   Powers and duties
   
145.03   Appointment
   
145.04   Management of recreational facilities
   
145.05   Clerk or Treasurer; bond
   
145.06   Charge for use of recreational facilities; use of funds
Statutory reference:
   Board of Park and Recreational Commissioners, see W.Va. Code Art. 8-21
§ 145.01 ESTABLISHED; MEMBERS.
   Pursuant to the authority vested in the Council by W.Va. Code Article 10-
2 there is hereby created a Board to be known as the Park and Recreation Board.
It shall consist of seven qualified voters of the city appointed by Council.
(Ord. passed 2-17-1982)
§ 145.02 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   When hereafter directed by Council to do so, the Park and Recreation Board,
above created, shall have the power to take all steps and proceedings, and to
enter into and make all contracts or agreements necessary or incidental to the
performance of its duties and the execution of its powers under this section,
provided that any contract relating to the financing, or the acquisition,
construction, extension or improvement of the gymnasium, youth center, North
Philippi Park and Dayton Park, or any trust indenture herein provided for shall
be approved by Council. The Commission may employ engineers, architects,
inspectors, superintendents, managers, collectors, attorneys and such other
employees as in its judgment may be necessary in the execution of its powers
and duties, and may fix their compensation, all of whom shall do such work as
the Commission may direct. All such compensation and expense incurred in
carrying out the provisions of this section shall be paid solely from funds
provided under the authority of this article, and the Commission shall not
exercise or carry out any authority or power herein given if so as to bind the
Commission or the municipality beyond the extent at which may have been, or may
be, provided under the authority of this article. The Commission shall operate,
manage and control the recreation facilities and in connection therewith shall
manage, operate and control all activities and may order and complete any
extensions, betterments and improvements to the facilities that the Commission
deems expedient, if funds therefor are available, or are made available, as
provided in this article, and shall establish rules, regulations for the use
and operation of the works, and all things necessary or expedient for the
successful operation thereof.
(Ord. passed 2-17-1982)
§ 145.03 APPOINTMENT.
   At any time after the adoption of this article. Council may appoint such
Park and Recreation Board. The term of office of the Board members shall be for
a period of four years, except that the members of such Board first appointed
shall be appointed for such terms that the terms of not more than two-fifths of
the members shall expire annually thereafter. Therefore, the first appointed
members shall be appointed as follows: two members appointed for a period of
four years; two members appointed for a period of three years; two members
appointed for a period of two years; one member appointed for a period of one
year. If any member of the Board shall die, resign, become wholly incapacitated
or shall move away from the municipality, the office shall be deemed vacant and
Council shall select a proper person to fill the remainder of his or her
unexpired term.
(Ord. passed 3-17-1982)
§ 145.04 MANAGEMENT OF RECREATIONAL FACILITIES.
   (a)   The Park and Recreation Board shall assume full duty and
responsibility for the operation, management and control of the following
recreation facilities:
      (1)   Dayton Park;
      (2)   Proposed extension of Dayton Park leased from the County Board of
Education;
      (3)   North Philippi Park;
      (4)   Property from Jesse Greene in North Philippi;
      (5)   Covered Bridge Roadside Park;
      (6)   Recreation equipment at Mansfield School;
      (7)   All facilities used for recreation or entertainment in the Philippi
City Building, including, but not limited to, the gymnasium, the entire
basement complex including weight room, showers, kitchen and the entire large
room areas, Scout room and the like; and
      (8)   Any and all other recreation facilities now owned but not
separately set out and future acquired facilities or equipment beginning on May
1, 1982, and continuing thereafter in perpetuity unless the Board is dissolved
in accordance with W.Va. Code Article 10-2.
   (b)   The Board shall manage and operate the aforesaid facilities in
accordance with W.Va. Code Article 10-2.
(Ord. passed 3-17-1982)
§ 145.05 CLERK OR TREASURER; BOND.
   When the Park and Recreation Board assumes the duty and responsibility of
operating the recreation facilities, it shall appoint a Clerk or Treasurer to
receive and disburse the moneys that shall come into the recreation fund and
shall require the Clerk or Treasurer to give a fiduciary bond in a penalty at
least equal to the maximum amount of money which shall be in his or her hands
at any one time and conditioned according to law. The Commission may also
require a fiduciary bond with a proper penalty for any and all employees of the
Commission which shall handle any money in connection with the recreation
projects.
(Ord. passed 3-17-1982)
§ 145.06 CHARGE FOR USE OF RECREATIONAL FACILITIES; USE OF FUNDS.
   The Park and Recreation Board may make reasonable charges to the public for
the privilege of using any of the recreational facilities provided in a park,
and may use the funds so created for the purpose of constructing, operating and
maintaining the park.
ARTICLE 147: PLANNING COMMISSION
Section
   
147.01   Membership
   
147.02   Organization, rules, staff and finances
   
147.03   Powers and duties
   
147.04   Criteria for street naming
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of comprehensive plan, see W.Va. Code §§ 8-24-16 et seq.
   Approval of subdivision plats, see W.Va. Code §§ 8-24-28 et seq.
   Authority to establish, see W.Va. Code § 8-24-1
   General provisions, see W.Va. Code §§ 8-24-5 et seq.
   Zoning recommendations, see W.Va. Code §§ 8-24-42 et seq.
§ 147.01 MEMBERSHIP.
   The Planning Commission shall consist of nine citizens who shall be
residents of the city, appointed by Council. Five-ninths of the members shall
have been residents of the municipality for at least ten years prior to
nomination. They shall be nominated by the administrative authority and
confirmed by Council. One member of the Commission shall also be a member of
Council and one member shall also be a member of the administrative department
of the municipality. The terms of these two members shall be coextensive with
the terms of office to which he or she has been elected or appointed, unless
the administrative authority and Council, at the first regular meeting of each
year, appoint others to serve as the municipality’s representatives. The terms
of the remaining members shall be for one year, two years and three years,
divided equally as possible between these terms. Thereafter, members shall be
appointed for terms of three years each. Any vacancy in membership shall be
filled for the unexpired term by Council. All members shall serve without
compensation but may be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred in connection
with their official duties.
(Ord. passed 12-4-1990)
§ 147.02 ORGANIZATION, RULES, STAFF AND FINANCES.
   (a)   The Planning Commission shall elect its President and Vice President
from among its members. The term of the President and Vice President shall have
authority to act as President of the Commission during the absence or
disability of the President. The Planning Commission shall appoint a Secretary
and such employees as are necessary for the discharge of the duties and
responsibilities of the Commission. The Planning Commission shall make its own
rules of procedure and determine its time of meeting, but it shall meet at
least once in the months of January, April, July and October. All meetings of
the Planning Commission at which official action is taken shall be open to the
public and all records of the Planning Commission shall be public record.
   (b)   The Planning Commission may appoint such employees and staff as it may
deem necessary for its work and may contract with the Governor’s Office of
Economic and Community Development, city planners and other consultants for
such services as it may require. The expenditures of the Planning Commission,
exclusive of gifts, shall be in accordance with the purpose for which such
funds are appropriated.
(Ord. passed 12-4-1990)
§ 147.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   From and after the time when the Planning Commission shall have organized
and selected its officers and shall have adopted its rules of procedure, then
such Planning Commission shall have all powers, duties and responsibilities set
forth in the West Virginia Urban and Rural Planning and Zoning Act (W.Va. Code
Chapter 8, Article 24), and any amendments thereto.
(Ord. passed 12-4-1990)
§ 147.04 CRITERIA FOR STREET NAMING.
   (a)   There shall be no duplication of names already established within the
city limits. Where name changes are required to eliminate existing road name
duplications, first priority will be given to residents using the street name
as their home address. For example, if there are two “Main Street(s)” in the
city, and the residents of the first Main Street use a house number followed by
Main Street (i.e. 103 Main Street) for their mailing address, but the residents
of the second Main Street have a postal route/box number address (i.e. Route 3,
Box 27), then the name of the second Main Street shall be changed.
   (b)   All name changes shall be thoroughly reviewed by the Planning
Commission and due consideration will be given to the number of persons
affected by such changes, and the positive/negative outcomes which are
anticipated by such changes.
   (c)   Names for streets will be selected according to appropriateness,
pleasing sound, easily pronounced and spelled, and not confusing or closely
similar to another street name already in use or under consideration.
   (d)   Names shall not be selected due to political or emotional influences
or requests.
   (e)   Family, or other personal names suggested, shall have serious
consideration before approval is given, and general guidelines will be followed
such as:
      (1)   The person or family has made an outstanding contribution to the
community; and
      (2)   The person or family had early origins in the development of the
city.
   (f)   That family or individual requests for personal or memorial names be
referred to the Planning Commission and be requested to submit written proof of
why the specific name should be considered.
   (g)   The city’s Planning Commission will make their recommendation to the
City Council for final decision.
   (h)   When new names are chosen or street names are changed, the residents
of such streets, avenues, roads and the like will be notified in writing and
assistance will be provided where needed to make necessary address changes and
residence numbering.
   (i)   The city office staff will designate the person or staff who will be
responsible for the notification of residents regarding changes.
   (j)   Persons developing subdivisions may name streets within their
subdivisions as they choose, but will be advised of these criteria and shall
avoid duplication or confusing similarity with existing names. Road name
approval for new streets will be obtained by the developer, in advance, from
the city.
(Ord. 96-02, passed 4-2-1996)
ARTICLE 148: LIBRARY BOARD
Section
   
148.01   Public Library established
   
148.02   Board of Library Trustees members; term; vacancies
   
148.03   Powers and duties of the Board
   
148.04   Annual report
   
148.05   Board to be a corporation; bequests or donations
   
148.06   Fees and service charges; assessment of fines; sale of materials or
equipment; receipts
   
148.07   Cooperation with the County Court
   
148.08   Cooperation with State Library Commission
   
148.09   Effective date
Statutory reference:
   Authority to establish library, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-5(38)
   Public libraries, see W.Va. Code Art. 10-1
§ 148.01 PUBLIC LIBRARY ESTABLISHED.
   The city hereby establishes a public library to be known as the Philippi
Public Library, which shall be free for the use of all persons living within
the county.
(Ord. passed 7-26-1988)
§ 148.02 BOARD OF LIBRARY TRUSTEES MEMBERS; TERM; VACANCIES.
   The operation of the library shall be under the authority and jurisdiction
of a Board of Library Trustees who shall be known as the Philippi Public
Library Board. The Trustees shall be chosen from the citizens at large at the
city with reference to their fitness for such office, and their term of office
shall be for a term of five years from July 1 following their appointment, and
until their successors are appointed and qualified; provided, however, that
upon their first appointment under this section a proportionate number shall be
appointed for one year, for two years, for three years, for four years and for
five years; and thereafter all appointments shall be for terms of five years.
Vacancies in the Board shall be immediately reported by the Board to City
Council and filled by appointment in like manner, and if an unexpired term, for
the remainder of the term only. The Trustee may be removed for just cause in
the manner provided by the bylaws of the Library Board. No compensation shall
be paid or allowed any Trustee.
(Ord. passed 7-26-1988)
§ 148.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE BOARD.
   The Board of Trustees of each public library established or maintained under
this article shall:
   (a)   Immediately after appointment, meet and organize by electing one
member as President, and one as Secretary, and such other officers as may be
necessary. All officers shall hold office for one year and shall be eligible
for reelection;
   (b)   Adopt such bylaws, rules and regulations as are necessary for its own
guidance and for the administration, supervision and protection of the library
and all property belonging thereto as may not be inconsistent with the
provisions of this article;
   (c)   Supervise the expenditure of all money credited to the Library Fund.
All money appropriated or collected for public library purposes shall be
deposited in the treasury of the governing authority to the credit of the
Library fund, to be paid out on the certified requisition of the Library Board,
in the manner provided by law for the disbursement of other funds of such
governing authority, or shall be deposited as the library’s Board of Trustees
shall direct and be disbursed by the officer designated by that Board, such
officer before entering upon his or her duties to give bond payable to and in
an amount fixed by the Board of Trustees of the Library, conditioned for the
faithful discharge of his or her official fiscal duties. The cost of such bond
shall be paid from the Library Fund. The books, records and accounts of the
Library Board shall be subject to audit and examination by the office of the
State Tax Commissioner;
   (d)   Lease or purchase and occupy suitable quarters, or erect upon ground
secured through gift or purchase an appropriate building for the use of such
library; and have supervision, care, and custody of the grounds, rooms or
buildings constructed, leased, or set apart for library purposes; and
   (e)   Employ a head librarian and upon his or her recommendation employ such
other assistants as may be necessary for the efficient operation of the
library.
(Ord. passed 7-26-1988)
§ 148.04 ANNUAL REPORT.
   (a)   The Board of Trustees shall make an annual report for the fiscal year
ending June 30 to the governing authority or authorities appointing it, stating
the conditions of the library property, the various sums of money received from
the Library Fund, and all other sources, and how such money was expended, the
number of books and periodicals on hand, the number added and withdrawn during
the year, the number of books lent, the number of registered users of such
library, with such other statistics, information and suggestions as may be
deemed of general interest.
   (b)   A copy of this report shall be sent to the state’s Library Commission.
(Ord. passed 7-26-1988)
§ 148.05 BOARD TO BE A CORPORATION; BEQUESTS OR DONATIONS.
   (a)   The Board of Trustees of such public library shall be a corporation;
and as such it may contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, plead and
be impleaded, and shall have and use a common seal.
   (b)   The title to all bequests or donations of cash or other personal
property or real property or real estate for the benefit of such library shall
be vested in the Board of Trustees to be held in trust and controlled by such
Board according to the terms and for the purposes set forth in the deed, gift,
devise or bequest: provided, however, that the person making the bequest or
donation of cash or other personal property or real estate for the benefit of
such library shall have the right and privilege to vest the title thereto in a
Trustee, or Trustees, of his or her own selection, and to provide for the
selection of successor Trustees, and to designate the manner in which the fund
or property shall be invested and used.
(Ord. passed 7-26-1988)
§ 148.06 FEES AND SERVICE CHARGES; ASSESSMENT OF FINES; SALE OF MATERIALS OR
EQUIPMENT; RECEIPTS.
   (a)   The Board may fix, establish and collect such reasonable fees, service
and rental charges as may be appropriate; may assess fines, penalties, damages
or replacement costs for the loss of, injury to or failure to return any
library property or material; and may sell surplus, duplicated, obsolete or
other unwanted materials or equipment belonging to the library.
   (b)   All moneys received from these or other sources in the course of the
administration and operation of the library shall be deposited in the Library
fund and shall be disbursed by the Board of Trustees in the manner prescribed
elsewhere in this article.
(Ord. passed 7-26-1988)
§ 148.07 COOPERATION WITH THE COUNTY COURT.
   The city’s Public Library Board shall have the right to cooperate with the
County Court in the establishment of branch libraries within the county and to
offer free use of the library to persons of the county and to receive funds
from the County Court for such purposes.
(Ord. passed 7-26-1988)
§ 148.08 COOPERATION WITH STATE LIBRARY COMMISSION.
   The city’s Library Board shall have the right and power to cooperate with
the state’s Library Commission.
(Ord. passed 7-26-1988)
§ 148.09 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This article shall be effective upon passage and upon the Trustees
qualifying. The Board shall supersede the present Library Board. Any lawful act
done by the Board or contract entered into by them prior to the passage of this
article shall be deemed binding on this Library Board.
(Ord. passed 7-26-1988)
ARTICLE 149: SANITARY BOARD
Section
   
149.01   Established; members; term; vacancies
   
149.02   Eligibility
   
149.03   Officers; bylaws
   
149.04   Salary; expenses
   
149.05   Powers and duties
Statutory reference:
   Composition, see W.Va. Code § 16-13-18
   Publication of financial statement, see W.Va. Code § 16-13-18a
§ 149.01 ESTABLISHED; MEMBERS; TERM; VACANCIES.
   There is hereby created the Sanitary Board of the city, which shall be
composed of the Mayor and two persons appointed by Council, one of whom, during
the construction period, shall be a registered professional engineer. The
registered professional engineer member of the Board need not be a resident of
the municipality, but after construction of the plant has been completed the
engineer member of the Board may be succeeded by a resident of the city, who is
not an engineer. The appointees shall originally be appointed for terms of two
and three years, respectively, and upon the expiration of the initial terms an
appointment of a successor shall be made in like manner for a term of three
years. Vacancies shall be filled for an unexpired term in the same manner as
the original appointment, to run for the duration of the term that is being
filled.
(Ord. passed 5-5-1959)
§ 149.02 ELIGIBILITY.
   No officer or employee of the city whether holding a paid, or unpaid office,
shall be eligible to appointment on the Sanitary Board while holding such
office, or employment, nor shall he or she be eligible until at least one year
after the expiration of the term of his or her public office or employment.
(Ord. passed 5-5-1959)
§ 149.03 OFFICERS; BYLAWS.
   The Mayor shall act as Chairperson of the Sanitary Board, which shall elect
a Vice Chairperson from its members, and shall designate a Secretary and
Treasurer, but the Secretary and Treasurer may be one and the same who need not
be a member or members of the Sanitary Board. The Vice Chairperson, Secretary
and Treasurer shall hold such offices at the will and pleasure of the Sanitary
Board. The Sanitary Board shall have power to establish bylaws, rules and
regulations for its own government, not inconsistent with general law, the City
Charter, city ordinances or this article.
(Ord. passed 5-5-1959)
§ 149.04 SALARY; EXPENSES.
   (a)   Each member of the Sanitary Board shall serve without compensation but
may be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred in connection with their
official duties.
   (b)   All compensation and expenses incurred by the Board, its officers and
employees, shall be paid solely from funds provided under authority of state
law.
(Ord. passed 5-5-1959; Ord. passed 3-7-2006)
§ 149.05 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (a)   The construction, acquisition, improvement, equipment, custody,
operation and maintenance of all works for the collection, treatment or
disposal of sewage, either within or without the corporate limits of the city,
the collection of revenues therefrom for all services rendered thereby, and the
employment of all attorneys, engineers, architects, inspectors,
superintendents, managers, and other employees, as in the judgment of the Board
may be necessary in the execution of its powers, duties and responsibilities,
shall be under the supervision and control of the Sanitary Board.
   (b)   The Sanitary Board created by this article, in addition to the powers
enumerated herein, shall have all other powers provided for such boards under
state law.
(Ord. passed 5-5-1959)
ARTICLE 151: CITIZEN’S ADVISORY BOARD
Section
   
151.01   Creation
   
151.02   Members
§ 151.01 CREATION.
   There is hereby created a Citizen’s Advisory Committee for the city.
§ 151.02 MEMBERS.
   The members of the Citizen’s Advisory Committee will serve at the will and
pleasure of the City Manager; subject, however, to the concurrence of a
majority of Council. The duties of the Committee are to aid, assist and advise
the City Manager and the City Planner relative to accomplishment of community
goals.
ARTICLE 152: HOUSING AUTHORITY
Section
   
152.01   Findings relative to dwelling accommodations
   
152.02   Authority established
   
152.03   Appointment of Commissioners
Statutory reference:
   State provisions, see W.Va. Code § 16-15
§ 152.01 FINDINGS RELATIVE TO DWELLING ACCOMMODATIONS.
   (a)   It is hereby found and determined that unsanitary and unsafe inhabited
dwelling accommodations exist in the city.
   (b)   It is hereby found and determined that there is a shortage of safe and
sanitary dwelling accommodations in the city, available to families of low
income, at rentals they can afford.
(Ord. passed 12-4-1990)
§ 152.02 AUTHORITY ESTABLISHED.
   It is hereby determined that there is a need for the creation of a public
corporate body in the city, to be known as the Philippi Housing Authority, and
such Housing Authority shall be comprised of five Commissioners with the terms,
powers, duties, functions and authority provided for in W.Va. Code Article 16-
15.
(Ord. passed 12-4-1990)
§ 152.03 APPOINTMENT OF COMMISSIONERS.
   The City Manager is hereby directed to appoint five persons as Commissioners
of the Housing Authority, and such Commissioners, when so appointed, shall
proceed to act in accordance with the purposes of this article and the laws of
the state.
(Ord. passed 12-4-1990)
ARTICLE 153: ELECTRIC SUPERINTENDENT
Section
   
153.01   Appointment
   
153.02   Responsibilities
   
153.03   Annual report
Cross-reference:
   Electrical rules and regulations, see
Art. 929
Statutory reference:
   Power to regulate utility systems, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-5(32)
§ 153.01 APPOINTMENT.
   The Electric Superintendent shall be appointed by Council.
§ 153.02 RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The Electric Superintendent shall have charge of the municipal electric
plant and shall keep the same in good repair and running order. He or she shall
be in charge of construction, service, test meters, trouble shooting and line
construction. His or her duties include street lighting and the reading of
meters. He or her shall coordinate activities with the City Manager and sign
work orders and inventory.
§ 153.03 ANNUAL REPORT.
   The Electric Superintendent shall, with the cooperation of the City Clerk,
make an annual report, in ample time before the adoption of the appropriation
ordinance, of all expenses which he or she estimates will be incurred and of
all revenue expected from the operation of the electric plant.
ARTICLE 155: WATER COMMISSIONER
Section
   
155.01   Appointment
   
155.02   Responsibilities
   
155.03   Employees
Cross-reference:
   Water regulations, see
Art. 921
Statutory reference:
   Power to regulate utility systems, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-5(32)
§ 155.01 APPOINTMENT.
   The Water Commissioner shall be appointed by Council.
§ 155.02 RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The Water Commissioner shall have charge of the maintenance, repair and
operation of the water distribution system of the city, and of all intakes,
wells, reservoirs, mains, hydrants and other appurtenances thereto. He or she
shall be in charge of meter reading and construction of new water and sewer
lines and he or she shall coordinate planned activities with the City Manager.
Included in his or her duties are installation, purchasing and signing work
orders; and in addition he or she shall perform such other duties as may be
assigned to him or her by the Mayor and Council.
§ 155.03 EMPLOYEES.
   All employees assigned to the maintenance or operation of the water plant
shall be under the supervision and direction of the Water Commissioner.
ARTICLE 157: STREET COMMISSIONER
Section
   
157.01   Appointment
   
157.02   Responsibilities
Cross-reference:
   Street obstructions, see §
311.01
Statutory reference:
   Action for damages occasioned by defective streets, see W.Va. Code § 17-10-
17
   Connection to state road system, see W.Va. Code §§ 17-4-26 et seq.
   Special charges for street cleaning and the like, see W.Va. Code § 8-13-13
§ 157.01 APPOINTMENT.
   The Street Commissioner shall be appointed by Council.
§ 157.02 RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The Street Commissioner shall have charge of the construction and
maintenance of all public streets and alleys in the city, and the keeping of
the same clean, including salting and snow removal. He or she shall be in
charge of construction of water and sewer lines and the reading of meters as
well as backhoe work. He or she shall see to it that all gutters and drains
function properly and that the same are kept free from defects. He or she shall
coordinate activities with the City Manager, sign work orders and inventory.
The Street Commissioner shall have charge and custody of sanitary and storm
sewer systems of the city, and shall see to it that the same are kept in good
repair and that they function properly; and in addition he or she shall perform
such other duties as may be assigned to him or her by the Mayor and Council.
ARTICLE 159: SEWER SUPERINTENDENT
Section
   
159.01   Appointment
   
159.02   Responsibilities
Cross-reference:
   Sewer rules and regulations, see
Art. 925
Statutory reference:
   Power to regulate utility systems, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-5(32)
§ 159.01 APPOINTMENT.
   The Sewer Superintendent shall be appointed by Council.
§ 159.02 RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The Superintendent of the sewage disposal plant shall have charge of the
maintenance and operation of the sewage disposal plant of the city and
supervision over all employees assigned thereto.
ARTICLE 160: BUILDING COMMISSION
Section
   
160.01   Established
   
160.02   Members
   
160.03   Powers
   
160.04   Indebtedness
   
160.05   Reserve funds
   
160.06   Tax exempt
   
160.07   Deposit of funds
   
160.08   Transference of property
   
160.09   Reimbursement of contributed funds
   
160.10   Worker’s Compensation Fund
   
160.11   Interpretation
Statutory reference:
   Authority to establish, see W.Va. Code Art. 8-33
§ 160.01 ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby created, the Philippi Municipal Building Commission, which
shall be a public corporation and shall have perpetual existence.
(Ord. passed 12-1-1970)
§ 160.02 MEMBERS.
   (a)   The management and control of the Building Commission shall be vested
in a Board consisting of five members to be appointed by the Council. Each
member shall be appointed for a term of five years, provided, however, that the
initial appointments shall be made for periods of one to five years, so that a
member shall be appointed each year. All members of the Board shall be
residents of the city, shall not be employed by any governmental body, nor
shall hold any public office or any office of any political party, and no more
than three-fifths of the Board shall belong to the same political party. No
member of the Board shall receive any compensation for his or her services, but
shall be reimbursed for any expense actually incurred in the discharge of his
or her duties. The Commission can choose who shall serve as Secretary-Treasurer
for the Building Commission.
   (b)   If any member of any Board die, resign or for any reason cease to be a
member of the Board, the governmental body which such member represented shall
appoint another individual to fill the unexpired portion of the term of such
member.
(Ord. passed 12-1-1970; Ord. passed 6-15-2010)
§ 160.03 POWERS.
   The Building Commission shall have plenary power and authority to:
   (a)   Sue and be sued;
   (b)   Contract and be contracted with;
   (c)   Adopt, use and alter a common seal;
   (d)   Make and adopt all necessary, appropriate and lawful bylaws and rules
and regulations pertaining to its affairs;
   (e)   Elect such officers, appoint such committee and agents and employ and
fix the compensation of such employees and contractors as may be necessary for
the conduct of the affairs and operations of the Commission;
   (f)   Acquire, purchase, own and hold any property, real or personal, and
acquire, construct, equip, maintain and operate public buildings, structures,
projects and appurtenant facilities, of any type or types for which the
governmental body or bodies creating such Commission are permitted by law to
expend public funds (all hereinafter in this article referred to as
facilities);
   (g)   Apply for, receive and use grants-in-aid, donations and contributions
from any source or sources, including, but not limited to, the United States of
America, or any department or agency thereof, and accept and use bequests,
devises, gifts and donations from any source whatsoever;
   (h)   Sell, encumber or dispose of any property, real or personal;
   (i)   Issue negotiable bonds, notes, debentures or other evidences of
indebtedness and provide for the rights of the holders thereof, incur any
proper indebtedness and issue any obligations and give any security therefor
which may be deemed necessary or advisable in connection with exercising powers
as provided herein;
   (j)   Raise funds by the issuance and sale of revenue bonds, it being hereby
expressly provided that for the purpose of the issuance and sale or revenue
bonds, each Commission is a “governing body”;
   (k)   Exercise the power of eminent domain for business corporations, for
the purposes set forth in subsection (f) above, which purposes are hereby
declared public purposes for which private property may be taken or damaged;
   (l)   Lease its property or any part thereof, for public purposes, to such
persons and upon such terms as the Commission deems proper, but when any
municipality or county court is a lessee under any such lease, such lease must
contain a provision granting to such municipality or county court the option to
terminate such lease during any fiscal year covered thereby; and
   (m)   Do all things reasonable and necessary to carry out the foregoing
powers.
(Ord. passed 12-1-1970)
§ 160.04 INDEBTEDNESS.
   No constitutional or statutory limitation with respect to the nature or
amount of indebtedness which may be incurred by the city shall apply to the
indebtedness of the Building Commission. No indebtedness of any nature of a
Commission shall constitute an indebtedness of the city creating and
establishing such Commission or a charge against any property of the city. No
indebtedness or obligation incurred by any Commission shall give any right
against any member of the governing body of the city or any member of the Board
of any Commission. The rights of creditors of any Commission shall be solely
against the Commission as a corporate body and shall be satisfied only out of
property held by it in its corporate capacity.
(Ord. passed 12-1-1970)
§ 160.05 RESERVE FUNDS.
   If the Building Commission should realize a surplus over and above the
amount required for the improvement, maintenance and operation of its
facilities and for meeting all required payments, on its obligations, it shall
set aside such reserve for future improvements, maintenance, operations and
contingencies as it shall deem proper and shall then apply the residue of
obligations not then due, and after all such recognized and established
obligations have been paid and discharged in full, the Commission shall, at the
end of each fiscal year, set aside the reserve for future improvements,
maintenance, operations and contingencies, as aforesaid, and then pay the
residue of such surplus, if any, to the governmental bodies creating and
establishing such Commission in direct proportion to their financial
contribution.
(Ord. passed 12-1-1970)
§ 160.06 TAX EXEMPT.
   The Building Commission shall be exempt from the payment of any taxes or
fees to the state or the city. The property of each Commission shall be exempt
from all municipal and county taxes. Bonds, notes, debentures and other
evidences of indebtedness of each Commission are declared to be issued for a
public purpose and to be public instrumentalities, and, together with interest
thereon, shall be exempt from taxation.
(Ord. passed 12-1-1970)
§ 160.07 DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.
   All funds received by the Building Commission shall be deposited in such
banking institution or banking institutions within the city as the Board may
direct and shall be withdrawn therefrom in such manner as the Board may direct.
(Ord. passed 12-1-1970)
§ 160.08 TRANSFERENCE OF PROPERTY.
   The city is hereby empowered and authorized to convey or transfer to the
Building Commission which it has created and established either alone or with
another governmental body, property of any kind, heretofore acquired by the
city, to carry out the purposes of the Commission. When property is conveyed or
transferred as aforesaid, the conveying or transferring city and the Board
shall agree in writing at the time the conveyance or transfer is made as to the
fair market value of such property. The members of the Board appointed by any
municipality or country court conveying or transferring property shall not
participate in connection with, otherwise than to provide a quorum, or vote on,
any motion or resolution by which the Board agrees to the fair market value of
the property so conveyed or transferred.
(Ord. passed 12-1-1970)
§ 160.09 REIMBURSEMENT OF CONTRIBUTED FUNDS.
   In the event a majority of the governmental bodies contributing funds or
property to the Building Commission shall so direct in writing and if all
indebtedness of the Commission has been paid in full, the Commission shall sell
all or any part of its properties and assets so directed and distribute the
proceeds thereof among the governmental bodies creating and establishing it in
direct proportion to their contributions of funds or property to the
Commission.
(Ord. passed 12-1-1970)
§ 160.10 WORKER’S COMPENSATION FUND.
   The Building Commission shall subscribe to the Worker’s Compensation Fund of
this state and pay all necessary premiums thereto, to the end that all eligible
employees of such Commission shall be covered by worker’s compensation.
(Ord. passed 12-1-1970)
§ 160.11 INTERPRETATION.
   The provisions of this article are hereby declared to be remedial and shall
be liberally constructed to effectuate the purposes hereof. The provisions of
this article are in addition to and not in derogation of any power granted to
or vested in the city under any constitutional, statutory or Charter provisions
which may now or hereafter be in effect.
(Ord. passed 12-1-1970)
ARTICLE 161: EMPLOYMENT PROVISIONS
Section
   
161.01   Worker’s compensation; physical examination
   
161.02   Public employee’s retirement system
   
161.03   Old age and survivors insurance
   
161.04   Personal handbook
   
161.05   Social Security
   
161.06   Leaves or absences from employment
   
161.07   Health insurance
   
161.08   City holidays
   
161.09   Restrictions
   
161.10   Bonds
   
161.11   Tobacco free work place
Statutory reference:
   Bonds, see W.Va. Code §§ 8-12-5(46), 8-12-5(47), 6-2-11
   Compensation of officers and employees, see W.Va. Code § 8-5-12
   Conflict of interest, see W.Va. Code § 8-5-19
   Employee benefit fund, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-5(56)
   Insurance and indemnification, see W.Va. Code §§ 8-12-7 et seq.
   Reimbursement of employment applicant, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-5(54)
   Retirement benefits, see W.Va. Code Art. 8-22
§ 161.01 WORKER’S COMPENSATION; PHYSICAL EXAMINATION.
   (a)   The City Manager shall enter into agreement with the Worker’s
Compensation Commissioner of the state for coverage of all employees of the
city.
   (b)   The City Manager is authorized to pay for such coverage at the
prescribed rate.
   (c)   The City Manager shall require of all city employees as he or she
shall deem necessary, a thorough physical examination, a record of which
examination shall be placed in the personnel files of such employees for
reference.
§ 161.02 PUBLIC EMPLOYEE’S RETIREMENT SYSTEM.
   The city does hereby elect to be a participating public employer under W.Va.
Code § 5-10-16, and thereby include employees of this city in the membership of
the public employee’s retirement system.
§ 161.03 OLD AGE AND SURVIVORS INSURANCE.
   (a)   All employee groups, except those excluded by law, are to be included
in and verified to be under the jurisdiction of old age and survivors
insurance.
   (b)   All employee groups which may be established or acquired by the city
and which are otherwise eligible under law are hereby authorized to be covered
by the old age and survivors insurance.
   (c)   The City Manager and the Mayor are hereby authorized and directed to
sign any and all documents, instruments, papers and verifications necessary to
carry out the purpose and intent of this section.
§ 161.04 PERSONAL HANDBOOK.
   The city is in the process of adopting an Employee’s Handbook. Please
consult the City Clerk for copies of or information pertaining to such
handbook.
§ 161.05 SOCIAL SECURITY.
   (a)   It is hereby declared to be the policy of this municipality to provide
for all eligible employees and officials of the municipality, whether employed
in connection with a governmental or proprietary function, the benefits of the
system of federal old age and survivors insurance. In pursuance of such policy,
and for that purpose, the municipality shall take such action as may be
required by applicable state and federal laws or regulations.
   (b)   The Mayor is hereby authorized and directed to execute all necessary
agreements and amendments thereto with the State Executive Director of old age
insurance, as agent or agency, to secure coverage of employees and officials as
provided in subsection (a) above.
   (c)   Withholdings from the salaries or wages of employees and officials for
the purpose provided in subsection (a) above, are hereby authorized to be made
in the amounts and at such time as may be required by applicable state or
federal laws or regulations, and shall be paid over to the state or federal
agency designated by such laws or regulations.
   (d)   There shall be appropriated from available funds, such amounts at such
times, as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations
for employer’s contributions, and the same shall be paid over to the state or
federal agency designated by such laws or regulations.
   (e)   The municipality shall keep such records and make such reports as may
be required by applicable state and federal laws or regulations.
(Ord. passed 12-21-1983)
§ 161.06 LEAVES OR ABSENCES FROM EMPLOYMENT.
   (a)   Applicability of section. This section shall apply to all full-time
(those working 40 hours per week) municipal officers and employees except those
operating under the jurisdiction of a school, utility or other separate board
or commission.
   (b)   Vacation leave.
 
Years of Service Days of Vacation
1—5            10
6—10           15
11—15          18
16 and over      20
 
   (c)   Sick leave.
      (1)   All officers and employees shall be given a credit of one working
day of sick leave with pay for each full calendar month of employment.
      (2)   Sick leave shall be taken only when approved by the City Manager or
by the department head and shall be approved, up to the number of days accrued,
for all officers and employees whose absence from duty is due to illness,
bodily injury, exposure to contagious disease, death in the immediate family of
the officer or employee, illness in the immediate family of such a critical
nature as to require the presence of the officer or employee, or illness due to
pregnancy of the officer or employee. A pregnant employee may continue to work
until the date of expected delivery if her doctor determines her physically
able to perform her regular duties. A doctor’s statement to this effect is to
be presented to the department head or the City Manager. The City Manager may,
in his or her discretion, require doctor’s certificates or other satisfactory
evidence that absences are properly chargeable as sick leave.
      (3)   The maximum credit for accrued sick leave under the provision of
this section shall be 30 working days, provided that when the employee is off
due to illness lasting longer than the accrued sick leave, such employee may
petition Council for additional sick leave beyond the days accumulated,
presenting such evidence of illness as may be pertinent; and at discretion of
Council, such additional leave may be granted, with or without compensation, or
at such compensation as Council may from time to time determine.
      (4)   Upon the termination of employment, whether voluntary or otherwise,
all sick leave accumulated will be cancelled as of the date of exit and the
employee shall not be entitled to any extra compensation or wages.
   (d)   Jury duty leave. Regular compensation shall be granted without charges
on either annual vacation leave or sick leave for employees who are required to
perform jury duty.
   (e)   Maternity leave. Sick leave may be charged for illness due to
pregnancy; however, a pregnant employee may continue to work as stated in
subsection (c) above. Annual leave may be applied to the period six weeks prior
to or after expected delivery as the employee may desire. Further compensation
shall not be granted except under conditions provided in subsection (c) above.
   (f)   Leave of absence. A leave of absence shall not be approved under any
circumstances.
   (g)   Paid holidays. Employees other than police officers shall receive the
holidays listed in §
161.08 at full pay. Police officers will receive those legal holidays at full
pay as defined in §
161.08 according to the provisions of W.Va. Code § 8-14-2a.
   (h)   Compensatory time. Any employee who is required by the City Manager or
department head to work overtime or on a holiday will be allowed compensatory
time off, with the approval of the City Manager or department head. Such
compensatory time off must be taken consistent with other provisions of this
article, with the laws of the state, and as ordered by Council from time to
time.
   (i)   Leave records. The City Manager shall cause to be kept, for each
officer and employee, a record currently up to date at all times showing
credits earned and leave taken for all vacation, sick leave, compensatory time,
or any other type of credit or leave allowed under the provisions of this
section.
   (j)   Funeral leave. In case of death of a member of an employee’s immediate
family three days of sick leave may be used. Immediate family shall include the
following: wife, husband, mother, father, brother, sister, son, daughter,
mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandmother,
grandfather, granddaughter, grandson, step-mother and step-father.
      (1)   If the employee does not have accumulated sick leave, time off will
be without pay.
      (2)   If a family member not listed above such as an aunt, uncle and the
like, or a friend passes away the department head shall grant the employee time
off without pay or the employee may use annual leave (vacation) with pay as
needed if the employee requests the time off from work.
      (3)   In the event the employee has an earned holiday or compensatory
time that has not been taken, this may be used in lieu of vacation.
(Ord. passed 12-21-1983; Ord. passed 4-4-2000)
§ 161.07 HEALTH INSURANCE.
   (a)   Policy and purpose as to coverage. It is hereby declared to be the
policy and purpose of this municipality to provide for all eligible employees
and officials of the municipality, whether employed in connection with a
governmental or proprietary function, a health insurance plan. In pursuance of
such policy, and for that purpose, the municipality shall take such action as
may be required by applicable state laws or regulations.
   (b)   Necessary agreements to be executed. The Mayor is hereby authorized
and directed to execute all the necessary agreements and amendments thereto
with the insurance system as agent, to secure coverage of employees and
officials as provided in the preceding section.
   (c)   Withholdings from salaries and wages. Withholdings from the salaries
or wages of employees and officials for the purpose provided in subsection (a)
above are hereby authorized to be made in the amounts and at such times as may
be required by applicable state law or regulation, and shall be paid over to
the insurance agency designated by such law or regulations.
   (d)   Appropriations for employer’s contributions. There shall be
appropriated from available funds such amounts at such times as may be required
by applicable state laws or regulations for employer’s contributions, and the
same shall be paid over to the insurance agency.
   (e)   Records and reports to be made. The municipality shall keep such
records and make such reports as may be required.
§ 161.08 CITY HOLIDAYS.
   In compliance with W.Va. Code Article 2-2, all city employees will observe
the following holidays:
   (a)   New Year’s Day, being January 1;
   (b)   Martin Luther King, Jr. Day, being the third Monday in January;
   (c)   President’s Day, being the third Monday in February;
   (d)   Good Friday, being the Friday before Easter Sunday;
   (e)   Memorial Day, being the last Monday in May;
   (f)   Juneteenth Day, being June 19;
   (g)   West Virginia Day, being June 20;
   (h)   Independence Day, being July 4;
   (i)   Labor Day, being the first Monday in September;
   (j)   Columbus Day, being the second Monday in October;
   (k)   Veterans Day, being November 11;
   (l)   Thanksgiving Day, being the fourth Thursday in November;
   (m)   Day after Thanksgiving, being the fourth Friday in November;
   (n)   Christmas Eve Day, being December 24;
   (o)   Christmas Day, being December 25; and
   (p)   New Years Eve, being December 31.
(Ord. passed 12-21-1982; Ord. passed 4-4-2000)
§ 161.09 RESTRICTIONS.
   (a)   Business dealings. Except for the receipt of such compensation as may
be lawfully provided for the performance of his or her municipal duties, no
city officer or employee shall be privately interested in or profit, directly
or indirectly, from business dealings of the city.
   (b)   Acceptance of gratuities. No municipal officer or employee shall
accept any money or other consideration or favor from anyone other than the
municipality for the performance of an act which he or she would be required or
expected to perform in the regular course of his or her duties; nor shall any
officer or employee accept, directly or indirectly, any gift, gratuity, or
favor of any kind which might reasonably be interpreted as an attempt to
influence his or her actions with respect to city business.
   (c)   Outside employment. No full-time officer or employee of the city shall
accept any outside employment without written authorization from the City
Manager or Council. The City Manager or Council shall not grant such
authorization if the work is likely to interfere with the satisfactory
performance of the officer’s or employee’s duties, or is incompatible with the
municipal employment, or is likely to cast discredit upon or create
embarrassment for the municipality.
   (d)   Political activity. Municipal officers and employees may individually
exercise their right to vote and privately express their political views as
citizens. No municipal officer or employee shall solicit any political campaign
contribution. These restrictions shall not apply to elective officials.
   (e)   Use of municipal time, facilities and the like. No municipal officer
or employee shall use or authorize the use of municipal time, facilities,
equipment or supplies for private gain or advantage to himself, herself or any
other person or group; provided however, that this prohibition shall not apply
where Council has authorized the use of such time, facilities, equipment or
supplies, and the municipality is paid at such rates as are normally charged by
private sources for comparable items.
   (f)   Use of position. No municipal officer or employee shall make or
attempt to make private purchases, for cash or otherwise, in the name of the
municipality, nor shall he or she otherwise use or attempt to use his or her
position to secure unwarranted privileges or exemptions for himself, herself or
others.
   (g)   Strikes and unions. No municipal officer or employee shall participate
in any strike against the municipality nor shall he or she join, be a member
of, or solicit any other municipal officer or employee to join any labor union
which authorizes the use of strikes by government employees.
   (h)   Violations. A violation of any section of this article shall be
punishable by a fine of not more than $50, or another such amount as set by
Council from time to time, for each separate violation and shall, if Council so
determines, be grounds for immediate dismissal.
(Ord. passed 12-21-1982)
§ 161.10 BONDS.
   The following officers and employees of the city shall be bonded as follows,
or in other such amounts set by Council from time to time:
 
Chief of Police and patrol officers $3,500
City Clerk and Manager              $100,000
Computer operator                   $100,000
Executive secretary                 $100,000
Mayor                               $5,000
Office manager                      $100,000
 
§ 161.11 TOBACCO FREE WORK PLACE.
   (a)   Definition. “Smoking” means the lighting of any cigarette, cigar or
pipe, or the possession of any lighted cigarette, cigar or pipe.
   (b)   Prohibited use of tobacco. No person shall use tobacco products in the
municipal airport buildings.
   (c)   Tobacco use areas allowed.
      (1)   Tobacco may be allowed in city owned, leased and/or operated
vehicles, with the approval of the city department head, providing no
objections are raised to the smoker from passengers in the vehicle.
      (2)   Tobacco may be allowed on city premises but outside of city owned,
operated and/or leased buildings and offices with the approval of the city
department head.
      (3)   In any building leased by the city, tobacco use shall be
prohibited, or allowed, at the discretion of the lessee.
   (d)   Posting of notice.
      (1)   The City Manager, or his or her designee, shall post the following
notice in city owned, leased and/or operated buildings and offices:
 
USE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS PROHIBITED
BY ORDER OF CITY COUNCIL
CITY OF PHILIPPI
ORDINANCE 93-001, AMENDED
 
      (2)   Other signs and notices shall be placed on doors and in access
areas to clearly reflect the city’s policy of prohibited use of tobacco
products.
   (e)   Penalties.
      (1)   Any person convicted of violating the provisions of this section
shall be fined the maximum of $25 for the first offense; $50 for the second
offense; $100 for the third offense; and $250 for any subsequent offense, or
another such amounts as set by Council from time to time.
      (2)   The provisions of this section are considered standards of personal
conduct for city employees. Therefore, city employees may be subject to
disciplinary action up to and including termination of employment for violating
the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 93-001, passed 3-16-1993)
ARTICLE 163: INDEMNIFICATION OF OFFICERS, AGENTS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
   
163.01   Purpose
   
163.02   Indemnification
   
163.03   Insurance
   
163.04   Expenditures from General Fund
   
163.05   Exclusions
   
163.06   Indemnification by independent agencies
Statutory reference;
   Indemnification of officers, agents and employees, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-7
§ 163.01 PURPOSE.
   (a)   The purpose of this article is to provide authority for the City
Manager with the concurrence of Council by resolution or motion, to indemnify
with city funds or provide liability insurance for any officer, agent or
employee of the city.
   (b)   It is the intent of this article to provide indemnification and
liability insurance coverage as extensive as permitted by W.Va. Code § 8-12-7,
as amended, unless otherwise restricted or limited by this article.
§ 163.02 INDEMNIFICATION.
   (a)   The city shall indemnify all of its elected or appointed officers,
agents or employees against any and all legal liability, including, but not
limited to, expenses, costs, damages, judgments, fines, settlements, court
costs, reasonable attorneys fees, and any other amounts actually and personally
incurred in connection with, arising from, growing out of, by reason of or in
any way connected with, any acts or omissions of the city, or its officers,
agents or employees while acting within the scope of their official duties.
   (b)   Such indemnification shall extend to any officer, agent or employee of
the city who was or is a party, or is threatened to be made a party, to any
proceeding by reason of the fact that such person is or was an officer, agent
or employee of the city, without regard to the period of time in which such
official duties were performed, and without regard to the fact that the
performance of such official duties may have been professional in nature.
   (c)   Such indemnification shall be provided to the officers, agents or
employees of the city by the purchase of insurance as provided in §
163.03, or by the expenditure of funds from the General Fund of the city as
provided in §
163.04.
§ 163.03 INSURANCE.
   The City Manager, with the concurrence of Council, shall have plenary power
and authority to contract and expend public funds for the purchase of one or
more policies of public liability insurance, which may include professional
liability insurance, providing the city and its officers, agents and employees,
insurance coverage for any and all legal liability, including but not limited
to, expenses, costs, damages, judgments, fines, settlements, court costs,
reasonable attorney fees, and any other amounts actually and personally
incurred in connection with, arising from, growing out of, by reason of or in
any way connected with, any acts or omissions of the city, or its officers,
agents or employees while acting within the scope of their official duties.
§ 163.04 EXPENDITURES FROM GENERAL FUND.
   If the insurance coverage provided pursuant to §
163.02 is deemed to exclude an act or omission of the city or any of its
officers, agents or employees, or if an insurance carrier refuses to provide
coverage for the city or any of its officers, agents or employees for any
reason, expenditures from the city’s General Fund shall be made for payment of
any and all of the legal liability contemplated by §
163.02.
§ 163.05 EXCLUSIONS.
   (a)   No indemnification shall be made under this article to any officer,
agent or employee of the city for: any conversion or diversion of public funds;
any criminal act as defined by the laws of the United States, any state,
municipality or other governmental body; any criminal act which could or does
result in civil liability to any third party or the city; any act or omission
committed by such officer, agent or employee while the same was insane or
mentally incompetent; any amounts in settling or otherwise disposing of a
threatened or pending proceeding without approval of the city; any expenses
incurred in defending a threatened or pending proceeding which is settled or
otherwise disposed of without approval of the city.
   (b)   Provided however, none of the exclusions contained herein shall be
interpreted to inure to the benefit of any liability or other insurance carrier
of the city, unless specifically contained in the contract of insurance between
the city and such carrier.
§ 163.06 INDEMNIFICATION BY INDEPENDENT AGENCIES.
   Any of the independent agencies of the city, such as the Sanitary Board,
shall likewise have plenary power and authority to adopt a resolution at a
regular or special meeting called for that purpose providing for the
expenditure of the public funds of such agency to indemnify its elected or
appointed officers, agents or employees for any acts or omissions while acting
within the scope of their official duties in the manner and to the extent
provided in this article.
ARTICLE 164: HISTORIC LANDMARKS COMMISSION
Section
   
164.01   Legislative policy
   
164.02   Establishment; membership; term
   
164.03   Officers; compensation
   
164.04   Employees
   
164.05   Powers and duties of Commission
   
164.06   Restrictions on use of property designated as historic landmark
   
164.07   Notice to County Assessor of designation of historic district
   
164.08   Assistance of State Agencies; coordination
Statutory reference:
   Historic Landmark Commission, see W.Va. Code Art. 8-26A
§ 164.01 LEGISLATIVE POLICY.
   (a)   The city is richly endowed with numerous historic buildings,
structures and sites which have a close and immediate relationship to the
values upon which this city and state and the nation were founded.
   (b)   Such historic buildings, structures and sites can best be identified,
studied, preserved and protected for the benefit of residents of this city by
the establishment of the Historic Landmarks Commission.
   (c)   There is little hope of preserving and protecting such historic
buildings, structures and sites unless recognition is provided for the owners
thereof in order that the same should be preserved and protected.
(Ord. passed 3-8-1989)
§ 164.02 ESTABLISHMENT; MEMBERSHIP; TERM.
   (a)   (1)   There is hereby created a commission which shall be known as the
Philippi Historic Landmarks Commission, which shall consist of five members and
shall be appointed by the City Manager. All members must be residents of the
city and at least one member shall be nominated by Council.
      (2)   Nominations for the remaining appointments shall be received from
the following:
         (a)   Philippi/Barbour Chamber of Commerce;
         (b)   Local chapter of American Bar Association;
         (c)   Barbour County Historical Society; and
         (d)   Historical Preservation Committee.
   (b)   The original appointees shall be appointed to serve for a term of one
year, one for a term of two years, one for a term of three years, and two for a
term of four years. Following the expiration of the term of a member, his or
her successor shall be appointed to serve for a term of four years. A vacancy
in the membership shall be filled in the same manner as the original
appointment is made and for the balance of the unexpired term.
(Ord. 95-06, passed 10-19-1995)
§ 164.03 OFFICERS; COMPENSATION.
   (a)   The Historic Landmarks Commission shall select one of its members as
Chairperson. It shall designate a Secretary and Treasurer, who may be one and
the same person.
   (b)   Members of the Commission shall receive no salary, but shall be
reimbursed for all reasonable and necessary expenses actually incurred in the
performance of the duties.
   (c)   A majority of the members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum.
   (d)   The Commission shall meet monthly in the Council chambers and minutes
of such meeting shall be forwarded to Council within a reasonable time after
the meeting. Rules and regulations adopted by the Commission, including any
specific action taken by the Commission under §
164.05(e) and (f), shall have the same force and effect as ordinances passed by
Council until altered, repealed, revoked or amended by Council. Such rules and
regulations shall be recorded in the office of the City Clerk and shall be a
public record. The City Clerk shall prepare an index of the rules and
regulations adopted by the Commission and approved by Council.
(Ord. passed 3-8-1989)
§ 164.04 EMPLOYEES.
   The Historic Landmarks Commission is authorized and empowered to employ,
within the limits of funds available therefor, such employees, assistants,
technical personnel and consultants as are necessary to discharge the duties
and responsibilities of the Commission.
(Ord. passed 3-8-1989)
§ 164.05 POWERS AND DUTIES OF COMMISSION.
   The Historic Landmarks Commission shall have plenary power and authority,
within the jurisdictional limits of the municipality or county, as the case may
be, and within the limits of available funds, to:
   (a)   Make a survey of, and designate as historic landmarks, buildings,
structures and sites which constitute the principal historical and
architectural sites which are of local, regional, statewide or national
significance. No building, structure or site shall be deemed to be an historic
one unless it has been prominently identified with, or best represents, some
major aspect of the cultural, political, economic, military or social history
of the locality, region, state or nation, or has had a major relationship with
the life of an historic personage or event representing some major aspect of,
or ideals related to, the history of the locality, region, state or nation. In
the case of buildings or structures which are to be so designated, they shall
embody the principal or unique features of an architectural type or demonstrate
the style of a period of our history or method of construction, or serve as an
illustration of the work of a master builder, designer or architect whose
genius influenced the period in which he or she worked or has significance in
current times;
   (b)   Prepare a register of buildings, structures and sites which meet the
requirements of subsection (a) above, publish lists of such properties and,
with the consent of the property owners, inspect such properties from time to
time and publish a register thereof from time to time setting forth appropriate
information concerning the registered buildings, structures and sites;
   (c)   With the consent of the property owners, certify and mark with
appropriately designed markers, buildings, structures and sites which it has
registered;
   (d)   Establish standards for the care and management of certified landmarks
and withdraw such certification for failure to maintain the standards so
prescribed;
   (e)   Acquire by purchase, gift or lease and administer registered landmarks
and easements and interests therein, both real and personal;
   (f)   Lease or sell property so acquired under terms and conditions designed
to ensure the proper preservation of the landmark in question;
   (g)   Establish historic districts for registered landmarks utilizing the
same guidelines set forth in subsection (a) above, and designate the area
thereof by appropriate markers;
   (h)   Identify historical districts for registered landmarks and aid and
encourage the municipality or county to adopt rules and regulations for the
preservation of historical or architectural values;
   (i)   Prepare and place historical markers on or along the highway or street
closest to the location which is intended to be identified by such marker;
   (j)   Seek the advice and assistance of individuals, groups and departments
and agencies of government who or which are conducting historical preservation
programs and coordinate the same insofar as possible;
   (k)   Seek and accept gifts, bequests, endowments and funds from any and all
sources for the accomplishment of the functions of the Commission;
   (l)   Adopt rules and regulations concerning the operation of the
Commission, the functions and responsibilities of its officers, employees,
assistants and other personnel and such other matters as may be necessary to
carry out the purposes of this article;
   (m)   Adopt such other rules and regulations as may be deemed necessary to
effectuate the purposes of this article, but no such rules and regulations
shall be inconsistent with the provisions of this article or with any plan of
the Planning Commission of the municipality or county;
   (n)   Review all rehabilitation projects in the city; and
   (o)   Serve as the Advisory Board for Main Street.
(Ord. passed 3-8-1989; Ord. passed 10-19-1993)
§ 164.06 RESTRICTIONS ON USE OF PROPERTY DESIGNATED AS HISTORIC LANDMARK.
   Whenever the Historic Landmarks Commission, with the consent of the property
owner, certifies property as being a registered landmark, it may seek and
obtain from such property owner an agreement as to such restrictions upon the
use of the property as the Commission finds are reasonable and are calculated
to perpetuate and preserve the features which led it to designate such property
as an historical landmark. All such agreements between the Commission and the
property owner shall be in writing, and when duly signed and acknowledged,
shall be recorded in the office of the Clerk of the County Court and when so
recorded shall be notification to the Assessor of the county of the
restrictions therein set forth.
(Ord. passed 3-8-1989)
§ 164.07 NOTICE TO COUNTY ASSESSOR OF DESIGNATION OF HISTORIC DISTRICT.
   When the Historic Landmarks Commission establishes an historic district, it
shall notify the County Assessor of the fact of such establishment and the
boundaries of the district, together with the restrictions which are applicable
to the properties located in such district which have been mutually agreed upon
by the Commission and the owners of property within such district. The
agreement shall be recorded in the same manner as the recordation of agreements
between the Commission and owners of designated landmarks entered into pursuant
to the provisions of §
164.06. The County Assessor shall take such factors into consideration in
assessing the properties therein.
(Ord. passed 3-8-1989)
§ 164.08 ASSISTANCE OF STATE AGENCIES; COORDINATION.
   (a)   Upon the request of the Historic Landmarks Commission, all agencies of
the state shall assist the Commission in the discharge of its duties and
functions.
   (b)   The Commission shall cooperate and coordinate its activities with the
state’s Department of Archives and History, the West Virginia Historical
Society and the West Virginia Antiquities Commission, with the view of
developing a unified program for the identification, study, preservation and
protection of all historic buildings, structures and sites in this state.
(Ord. passed 3-8-1989)
ARTICLE 165: REGIONAL AIRPORT AUTHORITY
Section
   
165.01   Creation of authority
   
165.02   Members
   
165.03   Powers and authorities
   
165.04   Voting
Statutory reference:
   Airports and aviation, see W.Va. Code Art. 8-28
   Regional airport authorities, see W.Va. Code Art. 8-29
§ 165.01 CREATION OF AUTHORITY.
   There is created hereby a Regional Airport Authority, as described and
authorized in the West Virginia Code, to be known and designated as the
“Barbour County Regional Airport Authority”. As used hereinafter, the term
“Authority” means the Regional Airport Authority hereby created. The Authority
shall have such powers and authorities as described in the Act.
(Ord. passed 3-5-1991)
§ 165.02 MEMBERS.
   Management and control of the Authority shall be lodged and vested in a
Board consisting of 11 members, six appointed by the county and five appointed
by the city. Each Board member shall serve a term of three years except for the
first Board which shall serve staggered terms.
(Ord. passed 3-5-1991; Ord. passed 7-10-2001)
§ 165.03 POWERS AND AUTHORITIES.
   The Authority shall have such powers and authorities as described in the
West Virginia Code and in furtherance of such the Authority shall do the
following things as soon as practicable:
   (a)   Adopt a common seal;
   (b)   Make and adopt all necessary bylaws and rules and regulations for its
organization and operations not inconsistent with law; and
   (c)   Elect its own officers.
(Ord. passed 3-5-1991)
§ 165.04 VOTING.
   It is agreed that during the first year of the Authority each participant
shall have three votes on all questions coming before the Authority, which
votes shall be represented and cast by the members heretofore appointed.
(Ord. passed 3-5-1991)
ARTICLE 167: CONVENTION AND VISITORS BUREAU
Section
   
167.01   Name
   
167.02   Purpose
   
167.03   Organization
   
167.04   Membership, powers and duties
Cross-reference:
   Hotel occupancy tax, see
Art. 749
Statutory reference:
   Hotel occupancy tax, see W.Va. Code Art. 7-18
§ 167.01 NAME.
   The name of this organization shall be Philippi Convention and Visitor’s
Bureau. The letters, “PCAVB” may be officially used to designate the
organization, its units or members thereof.
   (a)   This shall be a non-profit, non-political and non-sectarian
organization of voluntary membership.
   (b)   Individuals cannot be denied membership in the Philippi Convention and
Visitor’s Bureau because of race, sex, creed, religion or national origin.
(Ord. passed 8-2-1993)
§ 167.02 PURPOSE.
   (a)   Primary purpose. The primary purpose of this non-stock, non-profit
organization is to enhance the economic climate of the city by developing and
promoting the tourist resources and convention attractions.
   (b)   Contributory purposes.
      (1)   Revitalize the economy of the city through developing tourist
potential;
      (2)   Identify and develop community resources for tourism;
      (3)   Enhance communication among those community groups conducting
tourist development activities;
      (4)   Coordinate activities designed to promote tourism;
      (5)   Develop a long-range tourist development plan for the city;
      (6)   Publicize tourism objectives;
      (7)   Collect data relating to the effect of tourism on our economic
well-being;
      (8)   Disseminate information conducive to promoting specific tourism
projects in our area; and
      (9)   Facilitate the working relationships between governmental agencies
and the private sector interested in tourism.
(Ord. passed 8-2-1993)
§ 167.03 ORGANIZATION.
   The Philippi Convention and Visitor’s Bureau is an organization concerned
with enhancing the economic vitality of the local community by promoting the
industry of tourism. The organization is intended to complement, not supplant
the efforts of other groups involved in the tourism industry. The fiscal year
for this organization shall be July 1 to June 30.
(Ord. passed 8-2-1993)
§ 167.04 MEMBERSHIP, POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Philippi Convention Visitor’s Bureau shall be governed by a seven member
Board of Directors selected as follows.
   (a)   Appointees. Six members shall be chosen by the Mayor with the consent
of Council, of whom at least two may be engaged in the travel/tourism industry.
The appointees may be a Council member, administrative employee or a public
member selected from groups such as, but not limited to, Philippi Main Street,
the Chamber of Commerce, the Barbour County Historical Society, the Parks and
Recreation Board, or from any other organization related to tourism and visitor
promotion as deemed appropriate by Council.
   (b)   The seventh member. The seventh member shall be elected annually by
the six members and shall be engaged in the travel or tourism industry, such
appointment to be made subject to the approval and consent of the city.
   (c)   Terms of members. Members appointed by Council shall serve for three
years with their original terms staggered in such manner that each government
shall subsequently appoint one member each year for a three-year term. The city
shall determine the length of the term for each initial appointees.
   (d)   Travel/tourism industry defined. Travel and tourism industry is herein
defined as any business or organization involved in lodging, retail shopping,
restaurant, entertainment or promotion that caters to and attracts consumers
primarily from outside the city. The qualification for any appointee to be
appointed to the Philippi Convention Visitor’s Bureau as a member of the travel
and tourism industry shall be at the sole discretion of the appointing
authority, that is, the city, and in the case of the annually appointed seventh
member, at the sole discretion of the six sitting appointees.
   (e)   Election of officers. The officers of the Bureau shall be a President,
Vice President, Secretary and Treasurer who shall be elected from among the
voting members of the Bureau for one-year terms at the annual meeting which
shall be the first meeting following the appointment of the news members by the
city.
   (f)   Duties of officers.
      (1)   The President shall preside at meetings of the PCAVB, shall appoint
committees not otherwise provided for, shall authorize calls for special
meetings, shall see that all orders and resolutions of the PCAVB are carried
into effect, and generally perform the duties pertaining to the office. He or
she shall be ex officio member of each committee.
      (2)   The Vice President shall assist the President and perform the
duties of the President in his or her absence.
      (3)   The Secretary to the PCAVB shall send notices and keep minutes of
all meetings of the PCAVB.
      (4)   The President, Vice President or Treasurer shall have the power to
sign vouchers and checks. All vouchers and checks shall require two signatures.
   (g)   Establishment of executive committee. The elected officers of the
Board shall serve as an executive committee and shall be empowered to act for
the Board between meetings or in situations where it is not possible to convene
a meeting of the entire Board.
   (h)   Meeting schedule. The Visitor’s Bureau shall meet at least quarterly
and at other times by call of the President or of any four members of the Board
of Directors. The dates of quarterly meetings shall be set at the annual
meeting of each year. All meetings of the Visitors Bureau shall conform to and
be governed by the provisions of W.Va. Code §§ 6-9A-1 et seq.
   (i)   Powers and duties of the Visitor’s Bureau.
      (1)   Expend all funds allocated to the Visitor’s Bureau from hotel/motel
taxes and from other sources in the promotion of travel and tourism;
      (2)   Hire and direct employees to carry out its functions at least one
of whom shall be full time devoted exclusively to the promotion of tourism;
      (3)   Lease space and purchase office furnishings for offices;
      (4)   Enter into contracts necessary to carry out its mission;
      (5)   Raise finances from other sources to carry out its mission such as,
but not limited to:
         A.   Voluntary membership dues from tourist businesses;
         B.   Advertising on Visitor’s Bureau maps, brochures and publications;
and
         C.   Contributions from individual businesses to fund special
literature distributions, take part in conventions and meetings, and other
activities not a part of ordinary operations.
      (6)   Stage special events to benefit the travel/tourist industry.
   (j)   Annual financial report. The Visitor’s Bureau shall maintain a
complete and accurate statement of revenues and expenses and shall submit the
same in quarterly financial statements to the city and shall submit the same at
least annually for audit by the city, or the state’s Tax Commission.
   (k)   Use of taxes not allotted for tourist promotion. The Visitor’s Bureau
shall be responsible only for those funds turned over to it pursuant to the
state law powering political subdivisions to enact hotel/motel taxes and to set
up Visitor’s and Convention Bureaus. Any funds from the one-half of taxes
collected which may be spent at the discretion of the political subdivisions
and which are not turned over to the Visitor’s Bureau for tourist promotion,
shall be allocated to the city.
(Ord. passed 8-2-1993)
CHAPTER SEVEN - Judicial
      
173.   Municipal Court
ARTICLE 173: MUNICIPAL COURT
Section
   
173.01   Court created; jurisdiction generally
   
173.02   Municipal Judge; qualifications, terms and the like
   
173.03   Powers and duties of Municipal Judge
   
173.04   Warrants, orders and process
   
173.05   Rules governing Court and Judges; maintenance of records
   
173.06   Appeals
   
173.07   Contempt; acts punishable
   
173.08   Procedure upon occurrence of contemptuous act
   
173.09   Judgment and commitment
   
173.10   Payment may be condition of probation or suspension of sentence
   
173.11   Good behavior until fine and costs are paid
   
173.12   Procedure upon default in payment under agreement
   
173.13   Reinstatement fees; driver’s license
   
173.14   Community service work may be substituted in lieu of incarceration or
a fine in Municipal Court
   
173.15   Home incarceration for Municipal Court offenders
   
173.16   Deferred adjudication
   
173.17   Severability
§ 173.01 COURT CREATED; JURISDICTION GENERALLY.
   There is hereby created a court, to be known as the Municipal Court, which
shall have criminal jurisdiction over violations of city ordinances and the
criminal jurisdiction of a magistrate of the state with respect to offenses
committed within the city limits and those offenses committed outside the city
limits that are enforceable by virtue of the extraterritorial powers conferred
upon the city pursuant to W.Va. Code § 8-12-19.
(Ord. passed 12-15-2015; Ord. passed 10-16-2018)
§ 173.02 MUNICIPAL JUDGE; QUALIFICATIONS, TERMS AND THE LIKE.
   (a)   There shall be a judge, to be known as the Municipal Judge. Pursuant
to the provisions of W.Va. Code § 8-10-2, Council shall appoint a qualified
person to the office of Municipal Judge to serve at the will and the pleasure
of Council. The Municipal Judge and Municipal Court shall have jurisdiction,
exercise the powers and perform the duties specified for municipal courts and
municipal judges respectively, as set forth in W.Va. Code §§ 8-10-1 and 8-10-2.
   (b)   A qualified person for the office of Municipal Judge must be a
resident of the city and shall be an upstanding citizen of good moral
character.
   (c)   In the case of the temporary absence of the Municipal Judge from the
city or in the case of his or her inability to act from any cause or in case of
a vacancy in the office of the Municipal Judge, the Municipal Court Clerk may
act as Municipal Court Judge; provided, that the Municipal Court Clerk shall
comply with the requirements set forth in W.Va. Code §§ 8-10-1 et seq.
   (d)   In the event of the death, resignation, removal or permanent
disability of the Municipal Judge, Council shall appoint a qualified person to
fill the vacancy of Municipal Judge.
(Ord. passed 12-15-2015; Ord. passed 10-16-2018)
§ 173.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF MUNICIPAL JUDGE.
   (a)   The Municipal Judge shall preside over the Municipal Court. The
Municipal Judge shall be a conservator of the peace within the city, and
insofar as any ordinance of the city is concerned, shall have and exercise all
such powers and duties in criminal cases as a magistrate may lawfully exercise
under the statutes of the state, and the Municipal Judge shall also be ex
officio a magistrate within the city, and shall, within the city, have and
exercise all of the criminal powers and perform all duties fixed by law in a
magistrate, except that the Municipal Judge shall have no jurisdiction in civil
cases; and the Municipal Judge shall have such further powers and perform such
other duties as may be from time to time prescribed or conferred by any law of
the state or by ordinance of the city.
   (b)   The Municipal Judge shall have power to issue warrants upon complaint
under oath by any person or officer for the arrest of anyone charged with any
offense within the jurisdiction of the Court. The Municipal Judge shall hear
and determine all cases over which the Court has jurisdiction, and within the
limits prescribed by ordinance or by general law shall have the power to punish
by fine or imprisonment, or both. The Municipal Judge shall have power to
summon persons or subpoena witnesses for the trial of any case before the
Municipal Judge, to compel the attendance of police officers of the city, to
require the Chief of Police to enforce all judgments or orders entered by the
Municipal Judge in the exercise of powers as Municipal Judge and issue
executions for all fines, penalties and costs imposed by the Municipal Judge.
The proceedings for the recovery of fines or for the enforcement of penalties
fixed by any ordinance or law shall, so far as applicable, conform to the
provisions of the general law governing civil proceedings before a magistrate
of the state.
(Ord. passed 12-15-2015; Ord. passed 10-16-2018)
§ 173.04 WARRANTS, ORDERS AND PROCESS.
   All warrants and other process and orders of the Municipal Court shall be
directed to the Chief of Police or such other law enforcement agency having
jurisdiction, to be executed by a police officer for the city’s Police
Department or such other law enforcement agency having jurisdiction. The city’s
police officer executing any such process or order shall have the same
authority and be subject to the same liability as a sheriff of the state in
performance of like services.
(Ord. passed 12-15-2015; Ord. passed 10-16-2018)
§ 173.05 RULES GOVERNING COURT AND JUDGES; MAINTENANCE OF RECORDS.
   In the discharge of his or her duties and in the trial of cases, the
Municipal Judge shall follow the rules prescribed by law for criminal
proceedings before a magistrate of the state. The Municipal Judge shall keep a
record of all warrants issued by the Municipal Judge; of all persons arrested
and brought before the Municipal Judge; and of all trials, fines or sentences
imposed or judgments entered by the Municipal Judge in a permanent book to be
known as the Municipal Court docket. A record of all entries made in such
docket shall be signed by the Municipal Judge on the date of the resolution of
the criminal proceeding.
(Ord. passed 12-15-2015; Ord. passed 10-16-2018)
§ 173.06 APPEALS.
   (a)   Any person sentenced to imprisonment, or any individual or corporation
against whom a fine of $50 or more is assessed, shall have the right of appeal
from such judgment of the Municipal Judge to the court having jurisdiction over
appeals therefrom, upon the payment of costs and the execution of an appeal
bond, with security deemed sufficient by the Municipal Judge, in a penalty of
an amount deemed sufficient by the Municipal Judge, and costs, conditioned that
the appellant will appear before the appellate court on the date the matter is
scheduled for hearing before the Circuit Court of the county to answer to the
offense with which he or she is charged and to perform and satisfy any judgment
which may be entered against him or her by the appellate court on such appeal.
   (b)   In no case shall a fine of less than $50 be imposed by a Municipal
Judge if the defendant, his or her agent or attorney object thereto.
   (c)   If an appeal be taken, the warrant of arrest, transcript of the
judgment, the appeal bond and other papers and exhibits in the case shall be
forthwith delivered by the Municipal Judge to the Clerk of the appellate court
which shall have jurisdiction to try the case in accordance with law.
(Ord. passed 12-15-2015; Ord. passed 10-16-2018)
§ 173.07 CONTEMPT; ACTS PUNISHABLE.
   The Municipal Judge may punish for contempt a person guilty of any of the
following acts:
   (a)   Contemptuous or insolent behavior towards him or her while he or she
is engaged in the trial of a case or in any other judicial proceeding;
   (b)   Any breach of the peace, willful disturbance or indecent conduct in
the presence of such Judge while so engaged, or so near as to obstruct or
interrupt his or her proceedings;
   (c)   Violence or threats of violence to such Judge or any officer, juror,
witness or party going to, attending or returning from, any judicial proceeding
before such Judge in respect to anything done or to be done in the course of
such proceeding;
   (d)   Misbehavior of any officer in his or her official character in respect
to any action or judicial proceeding had or pending before such Judge or any
process, judgment, order or notice therein; and
   (e)   Willful resistance, in the presence of the Judge by an officer, juror,
witness, party or other person to any lawful process or order of such Judge.
(Ord. passed 12-15-2015; Ord. passed 10-16-2018)
§ 173.08 PROCEDURE UPON OCCURRENCE OF CONTEMPTUOUS ACT.
   An order of arrest may be issued by the Municipal Judge on which any person
guilty of contempt may be taken and brought before him or her, or such person
may be taken in custody by any officer or person present, upon the oral order
of the Judge, and held to answer for the contempt. An opportunity must be given
him or her to be heard in defense or explanation of his or her conduct; and the
Judge may thereupon discharge him or her, or adjudge him or her guilty of the
contempt, and punish him or her by fine or imprisonment, or both. The fine
shall not exceed $50 or imprisonment for five days.
(Ord. passed 12-15-2015; Ord. passed 10-16-2018)
§ 173.09 JUDGMENT AND COMMITMENT.
   The conviction for contempt, specifying the particular circumstances of the
offense and judgment thereon, shall be entered by the Municipal Judge in his or
her docket. A warrant of commitment for the term of imprisonment adjudged may
be issued by the Judge, commanding an officer to take the offender to the jail
of the county, regional jail or such other place of confinement, and the jailer
to imprison him or her therein for the adjudged term; and such warrant shall
contain a transcript of the entry in the docket. The judgment may include, in
addition to the fine, all costs in the case, including costs of arresting and
keeping in prison the offender.
(Ord. passed 12-15-2015; Ord. passed 10-16-2018)
§ 173.10 PAYMENT MAY BE CONDITION OF PROBATION OR SUSPENSION OF SENTENCE.
   If a defendant is sentenced to pay a fine and payment of the fine and/or
costs is ordered to be made on an installment basis or on other conditions, and
if the defendant is also placed on probation or imposition of the execution of
sentence is suspended, the Municipal Court may make payment of the fine a
condition of probation or suspension of sentence.
(Ord. passed 12-15-2015; Ord. passed 10-16-2018)
§ 173.11 GOOD BEHAVIOR UNTIL FINE AND COSTS ARE PAID.
   If a defendant is permitted to pay a fine and/or costs on an installment
basis, or under such other conditions as the Municipal Court shall fix, the
Court may require as a condition that the defendant be of peace and good
behavior until the fine and costs are paid.
(Ord. passed 12-15-2015; Ord. passed 10-16-2018)
§ 173.12 PROCEDURE UPON DEFAULT IN PAYMENT UNDER AGREEMENT.
   When any person sentenced to pay a fine defaults in the payment of any such
fine or of any installment thereof, the Municipal Court may issue a summons for
such person to appear before the Court for a hearing on the question of whether
such person’s failure to pay the fine or any installment was attributable to
intentional refusal to comply with the prior order of the Court or to a lack of
a good faith effort to comply therewith. The Court may, after hearing, order
that the person in default be allowed additional time for payment, may reduce
or remit the amount of the fine or the unpaid portion thereof in whole or in
part, or upon a finding that the default was intentional or due to the lack of
a good faith effort to comply with the prior order of the Court, may impose an
additional fine not to exceed $50 and/or order such person confined for such
period up to 30 days as the Court in its discretion shall determine.
(Ord. passed 12-15-2015; Ord. passed 10-16-2018)
§ 173.13 REINSTATEMENT FEES; DRIVER’S LICENSE.
   (a)   A fee, not to exceed $50, may be imposed upon any person whose
driver’s license or privilege to operate a motor vehicle in this state is
reinstated after having been suspended for any of the following:
      (1)   Failure to timely pay costs, fines, forfeitures or penalties
imposed by the Municipal Court;
      (2)   Default on a payment plan for such costs, fines, forfeitures or
penalties; or
      (3)   Failure to appear or otherwise respond in court when charged with a
municipal violation, all as provided for by the West Virginia Code.
   (b)   The fee imposed by this section shall be paid at the time the person’s
driver’s license or privilege to drive is reinstated by the State Division of
Motor Vehicles. Such fee is imposed to defer the costs to the city associated
with administrative expenses related to the suspension and reinstatement.
(Ord. passed 12-15-2015; Ord. passed 10-16-2018)
§ 173.14 COMMUNITY SERVICE WORK MAY BE SUBSTITUTED IN LIEU OF INCARCERATION OR
A FINE IN MUNICIPAL COURT.
   (a)   Notwithstanding any provision of this code to the contrary, the
Municipal Judge may substitute in lieu of the imposition of a sentence of
incarceration or imposition of a fine, community service work for such
incarceration or fine. Where community service work is ordered as a substitute
for a sentence of incarceration, an eight-hour work day shall extinguish one
day of any sentence of incarceration. Where community service work is ordered
as a substitute for a fine, the prevailing federal minimum wage in effect at
the time of sentencing shall be used to compute the hours of community service
work necessary to extinguish the fine. In the discretion of the Court, the
sentence credits may run concurrently or consecutively.
   (b)   If approved by the Court, any community service ordered pursuant to
the provisions of this section shall be performed for the city.
   (c)   Persons sentenced under the provisions of this section remain under
the jurisdiction of the Municipal Court. The Court may withdraw the community
service sentence at any time, with or without notice, and order a person
previously sentenced to community service to serve the term of incarceration or
to pay the fine available to the Court upon the person’s conviction; provided,
that any community service work performed before the community service sentence
is withdrawn shall be credited against any term of incarceration or fine
imposed.
(Ord. passed 12-15-2015; Ord. passed 10-16-2018)
§ 173.15 HOME INCARCERATION FOR MUNICIPAL COURT OFFENDERS.
   (a)   Notwithstanding any provision of this article to the contrary, when a
person is convicted under a municipal ordinance for which a period of
incarceration may be imposed, the Municipal Court may enter an order for home
incarceration as an alternative sentence to incarceration in a county or
regional jail; provided that home incarceration shall be available at the
expense of the person convicted, and only if accepted by the County Sheriff’s
Department Home Confinement Office.
   (b)   Any home incarceration sentence entered by a Municipal Court shall
comply with the requirements and conditions set forth in W.Va. Code §§ 62-11B-
1 et seq. Any person accepted by the County Sheriff’s Department Home
Confinement Office, the home is required to enter into an agreement for payment
of any related fees to the Municipal Clerk, who shall monthly remit fees to the
County Sheriff’s Department Home Confinement Office.
(Ord. passed 12-15-2015; Ord. passed 10-16-2018)
§ 173.16 DEFERRED ADJUDICATION.
   (a)   Upon the entry of a guilty plea to a misdemeanor before the Municipal
Court, the Municipal Judge may, upon motion, defer acceptance of the guilty
plea and defer further adjudication thereon and release the defendant upon such
terms and conditions as the court deems just and necessary.
   (b)   The Municipal Judge, in his or her sole discretion, may defer
adjudication for a period not to exceed two years.
   (c)   If the defendant complies with the terms and conditions imposes by the
Municipal Judge, he or she shall be permitted to withdraw his or her plea of
guilty and the matter dismissed or, as may be agreed upon by the Municipal
Court and the parties, enter a plea of guilty or no contest to a lesser
offense.
   (d)   In the event the defendant violates the terms and conditions imposed
upon him or her by the Municipal Court during the period of deferral the Court
may, after notice and a hearing on the matter, accept the defendant’s plea of
guilty.
   (e)   In the event the Municipal Judge determines that there is reasonable
cause to believe that the defendant violated the terms and conditions imposed
at the time the plea was entered, the Municipal Judge may accept the
defendant’s plea to the original offense and impose a sentence in the court’s
discretion in accordance with the penalty of the offense to which the plea of
guilty was entered or impose such other terms and conditions as the court deems
appropriate.
   (f)   Notwithstanding any provision of this code to the contrary, any person
granted deferred adjudication pursuant to this section shall be liable for any
court costs assessable against a person. Payment of such costs may be made a
condition of deferred adjudication.
   (g)   The costs assessed pursuant to this section, whether as a term of
probation or not, shall be distributed as other court costs in accordance with
the codified ordinances of the city and the laws of the state.
(Ord. passed 12-15-2015; Ord. passed 10-16-2018)
§ 173.17 SEVERABILITY.
   In the event that any provision(s) of this article is determined to be
unconstitutional or invalid by a court exercising competent jurisdiction, such
a determination shall not affect the validity of this article as a whole or the
provisions thereof which are not specifically held unconstitutional or invalid
other than that provision(s) which is specifically determined to be
unconstitutional or invalid.
(Ord. passed 12-15-2015; Ord. passed 10-16-2018)
PART THREE: TRAFFIC CODE
CHAPTER ONE - Administration
      
Art. 301.   Definitions
      
Art. 303.   Enforcement, Impounding and Penalty
      
Art. 305.   Traffic Control
ARTICLE 301: DEFINITIONS
Section
   
301.01   Meaning of words and phrases
   
301.02   Authorized emergency vehicle
   
301.03   Bicycle
   
301.04   Bus
   
301.05   Business district
   
301.06   Controlled-access highway
   
301.07   Crosswalk
   
301.08   Driver
   
301.081   Electric personal assistive mobility device
   
301.085   Electric bicycles
   
301.09   Explosives
   
301.10   Flammable liquid
   
301.11   Gross weight
   
301.12   Intersection
   
301.13   Laned roadway
   
301.14   Moped
   
301.15   Motorcycle
   
301.16   Motor-driven cycle
   
301.17   Motor vehicle
   
301.18   Owner
   
301.19   Park
   
301.20   Parking area
   
301.201   Passenger van
   
301.21   Pedestrian
   
301.22   Person
   
301.23   Pole trailer
   
301.24   Police officer
   
301.25   Private road or driveway; private property
   
301.26   Railroad
   
301.27   Railroad sign or signal
   
301.28   Railroad train
   
301.29   Residence district
   
301.30   Residential street
   
301.31   Right-of-way
   
301.32   Roadway
   
301.33   Safety zone
   
301.34   School bus
   
301.35   School grounds
   
301.36   Semitrailer
   
301.37   Sidewalk
   
301.38   Stop
   
301.39   Stop, stopping or standing
   
301.40   Street or highway; alley
   
301.41   Through street or through highway
   
301.42   Traffic
   
301.43   Traffic control devices
   
301.44   Traffic control signal
   
301.45   Trailer
   
301.46   Truck
   
301.47   Vehicle
   
301.48   Wheelchair
Cross-reference:
   Speed race defined, see §
335.04
§ 301.01 MEANING OF WORDS AND PHRASES.
   The following words and phrases when used in this Traffic Code shall, for
the purpose of this Traffic Code, have the meanings respectively ascribed to
them in this article.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-1)
§ 301.02 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE.
   “Authorized emergency vehicle” means vehicles of the Fire Department, duly
chartered rescue squad, Police Department, ambulance service, hospital police
department, state, county or municipal agency and such privately owned
ambulances, tow trucks, wreckers, flag car services, vehicles providing road
service to disabled vehicles, service vehicles of a public service corporation,
postal service vehicles, snow removal equipment, Class A vehicles of
firefighters, Class A vehicles of members of ambulance services, and Class A
vehicles of members of duly chartered rescue squads, and all other emergency
vehicles as are designated by the agency responsible for the operation and
control of these persons or organizations. Class A vehicles are as defined by
W.Va. Code § 17A-10-1. Agency authorization and emergency equipment are defined
in W.Va Code § 17C-15-26. Agencies responsible for issuing authorization for
emergency vehicle permits may promulgate such regulations that are necessary
for the issuance of permits for emergency vehicles.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-6)
§ 301.03 BICYCLE.
   “Bicycle” means every device which does not have a motor attached and which
is propelled by human power upon which any person may ride, having two tandem
wheels either of which is more than 20 inches in diameter.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-8)
§ 301.04 BUS.
   “Bus” means every motor vehicle designed for carrying more than seven
passengers and used for the transportation of persons; and every motor vehicle,
other than a taxicab, designed and used for the transportation of persons for
compensation.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-13)
§ 301.05 BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   “Business district” means the territory contiguous to and including a street
or highway when within any 600 feet along such highway there are buildings in
use for business or industrial purposes, including but not limited to hotels,
banks or office buildings, railroad stations, and public buildings which occupy
at least 300 feet of frontage on one side or 300 feet collectively on both
sides of the street or highway.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-45)
§ 301.06 CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY.
   “Controlled-access highway” means every highway, street or roadway in
respect to which owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have
no legal right of access to or from the same except at such points only and in
such manner as may be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction
over such highway, street or roadway.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-41)
§ 301.07 CROSSWALK.
   “Crosswalk” includes:
   (a)   That part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
street or highway measured from the curbs or, in the absence of curbs, from the
edges of the traversable roadway; and
   (b)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly
indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-43)
§ 301.08 DRIVER.
   “Driver” means every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-31)
§ 301.081 ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE.
   “Electric personal assistive mobility device” or “EPAMD” means a self-
balancing, two nontandem-wheeled device, designed to transport only one person,
with an electric propulsion system with average power of 750 watts (one horse
power), whose maximum speed on a paved level surface, when powered solely by
such a propulsion system while ridden by an operator who weighs 170 pounds, is
less than 20 miles per hour.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-66)
§ 301.085 ELECTRIC BICYCLES.
   (a)   “Class 1 electric bicycle” means every electric bicycle equipped with
a motor that provides assistance only when the rider is pedaling, and that
ceases to provide assistance when the bicycle reaches the speed of 20 miles per
hour.
   (b)   “Class 3 electric bicycle” means every bicycle equipped with a motor
that provides assistance only when the rider is pedaling, and that ceases to
provide assistance when the bicycle reaches the speed of 28 miles per hour.
   (c)   “Electric bicycle” means every two-wheel or three-wheel bicycle
equipped with fully operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750
watts that is a Class 1 electric bicycle or a Class 3 electric bicycle.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-70)
§ 301.09 EXPLOSIVES.
   “Explosives” means any chemical compound or mechanical mixture that is
commonly used or intended for the purpose of producing an explosive and which
contains any oxidizing and combustive units or other ingredients in such
proportions, quantities or packing that an ignition by fire, by friction, by
concussion, by percussion or by detonator of any part of the compound or
mixture may cause such a sudden generation of highly heated gases that the
resultant gaseous pressures are capable of producing destructive effects on
contiguous objects or of destroying life or limb.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-24)
§ 301.10 FLAMMABLE LIQUID.
   “Flammable liquid” means any liquid which has a flash point of 70°F, or
less, as determined by a tagliabue or equivalent closed cup test device.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-25)
§ 301.11 GROSS WEIGHT.
   “Gross weight” means the weight of a vehicle without load plus the weight of
any load thereon.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-26)
§ 301.12 INTERSECTION.
   “Intersection” includes:
   (a)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the lateral
curb lines or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadways of two
streets or highways which join one another at, or approximately at, right
angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different streets or
highways joining at any other angle may come in conflict; and
   (b)   Where a street or highway includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart,
then every crossing of each roadway of such divided street or highway by an
intersecting highway shall be regarded as a separate intersection. In the event
such intersecting street or highway also includes two roadways 30 feet or more
apart, then every crossing of two roadways of such streets or highways shall be
regarded as a separate intersection.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-42)
§ 301.13 LANED ROADWAY.
   “Laned roadway” means a roadway which is divided into two or more clearly
marked lanes for vehicular traffic.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-39)
§ 301.14 MOPED.
   “Moped” means every motorcycle or motor-driven cycle unless otherwise
specified in this Traffic Code, which is equipped with two or three wheels,
foot pedals to permit muscular propulsion and an independent power source
providing a maximum of two brake horsepower, but excludes electric bicycles as
defined in §
301.085. If a combustion engine is used, the maximum piston or rotor
displacement shall be 50 cubic centimeters regardless of the number of chambers
in such power source. The power source shall be capable of propelling the
vehicle, unassisted, at a speed not to exceed 30 miles per hour on a level road
surface and shall be equipped with a power drive system that functions directly
or automatically only, not requiring clutching or shifting by the operator
after the drive system is engaged. (W.Va. Code § 17C-1-5a)
§ 301.15 MOTORCYCLE.
   “Motorcycle” means every motor vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use
of the rider and designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact
with the ground, but excluding a tractor.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-4)
§ 301.16 MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLE.
   “Motor-driven cycle” means every motorcycle having a piston displacement of
more than 50 cubic centimeters but not more than 150 cubic centimeters, or with
not more than five brake horsepower.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-5)
§ 301.17 MOTOR VEHICLE.
   “Motor vehicle” means every vehicle which is self-propelled and every
vehicle which is propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley
wires, but not operated upon rails, except motorized wheelchairs.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-3)
§ 301.18 OWNER.
   “Owner” means a person who holds the legal title of a vehicle or in the
event a vehicle is the subject of an agreement for the conditional sale or
lease thereof with the right of purchase upon performance of the conditions
stated in the agreement and with an immediate right of possession vested in the
conditional vendee or lessee, or in the event a mortgagor of a vehicle is
entitled to possession, then such conditional vendee or lessee or mortgagor
shall be deemed the owner for the purpose of this Traffic Code.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-32)
§ 301.19 PARK.
   “Park” when prohibited, means the standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or
not, otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged
in loading or unloading.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-54)
§ 301.20 PARKING AREA.
   “Parking area” means lots, areas or other accommodations for the parking of
vehicles off the street or highway and open to public use with or without
charge.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-60)
§ 301.201 PASSENGER VAN.
   “Passenger van” means any van or other motor vehicle owned by any agency,
business or other legal entity and operated for the purpose of transportation
of children under the age of 18 years, other than a van utilized for private
use, taxicab, bus or school bus. Passenger vans include, but are not limited
to, vehicles used by daycare centers, after-school centers and nursery schools;
provided, that the term “passenger van” does not include any van or other motor
vehicle which is utilized for the specific purpose of transporting children to
medical facilities for the purpose of medical or dental treatment and which
loads and unloads the children on private property, making no stops for loading
or unloading along public roads or highways.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-64)
§ 301.21 PEDESTRIAN.
   “Pedestrian” means any person afoot or any person using a wheelchair.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-30)
§ 301.22 PERSON.
   “Person” means every natural person, firm, copartnership, association or
corporation.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-29)
§ 301.23 POLE TRAILER.
   “Pole trailer” means every vehicle without motive power designed to be drawn
by another vehicle and attached to the towing vehicle by means of a reach, or
pole, or by being boomed or otherwise secured to the towing vehicle and
ordinarily used for transporting long or irregularly shaped loads such as
poles, pipes, trusses or structural members capable, generally, of sustaining
themselves as beams between the supporting connections.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-17)
§ 301.24 POLICE OFFICER.
   “Police officer” means every officer authorized to direct or regulate
traffic or to make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-33)
§ 301.25 PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY; PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (a)   “Private road” or “driveway” means every way or place in private
ownership and used for vehicular travel by the owner and those having express
or implied permission from the owner, but not by other persons.
   (b)   “Private property” means real estate in private ownership without
regard to the manner in which it is used.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-36)
§ 301.26 RAILROAD.
   “Railroad” means a carrier of persons or property, upon cars, other than
streetcars, operated upon stationary rails.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-21)
§ 301.27 RAILROAD SIGN OR SIGNAL.
   “Railroad sign” or “signal” means any sign, signal or device erected by
authority of a public body or official or by a railroad and intended to give
notice of the presence of railroad tracks or the approach of a railroad train.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-49)
§ 301.28 RAILROAD TRAIN.
   “Railroad train” means a steam engine, electric or other motor, with or
without cars coupled thereto, operated upon rails, except streetcars.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-22)
§ 301.29 RESIDENCE DISTRICT.
   “Residence district” means the territory contiguous to and including a
street or highway not comprising a business district when the property on such
street or highway for a distance of 300 feet or more is in the main improved
with residences or residences and buildings in use for business.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-46)
§ 301.30 RESIDENTIAL STREET.
   “Residential street” means the entire width between the boundary lines of
every way, whether publicly or privately maintained, located within any
subdivision, development or other similar area used primarily for residential
purposes when any part thereof is open to the common use of those living in
such area for the purpose of vehicular travel.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-62)
§ 301.31 RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   “Right-of-way” means the privilege of the immediate use of the street or
highway.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-51)
§ 301.32 ROADWAY.
   “Roadway” means that portion of a street or highway improved, designed or
ordinarily used for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the
event a street or highway includes two or more separate roadways, the term
“roadway” as used herein shall refer to any such roadway separately but not to
all such roadways collectively.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-37)
§ 301.33 SAFETY ZONE.
   “Safety zone” means the area or space officially set apart within a roadway
for the exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set
apart as a safety zone.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-44)
§ 301.34 SCHOOL BUS.
   “School bus” means every motor vehicle owned by a public or governmental
agency and operated for the transportation of children to or from school, or
privately owned and operated for compensation for the transportation of
children to or from school.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-7)
§ 301.35 SCHOOL GROUNDS.
   “School grounds” includes the land on which a school is built together with
such other land used by students for play, recreation or athletic events while
attending school.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-55)
§ 301.36 SEMITRAILER.
   “Semitrailer” means every vehicle with or without motive power, other than a
pole trailer, designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by
a motor vehicle and so constructed that some part of its weight and that of its
load rests upon or is carried by another vehicle.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-16)
§ 301.37 SIDEWALK.
   “Sidewalk” means that portion of a street or highway between the curb lines,
or the lateral lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines intended for
the use of pedestrians.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-38)
§ 301.38 STOP.
   “Stop” when required, means complete cessation from movement.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-52)
§ 301.39 STOP, STOPPING OR STANDING.
   “Stop”, “stopping” or “standing”, when prohibited, means any stopping or
standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police
officer or traffic control sign or signal.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-53)
§ 301.40 STREET OR HIGHWAY; ALLEY.
   (a)   “Street” or “highway” means the entire width between the boundary
lines of every way publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use
of the public for purposes of vehicular travel. (W.Va. Code § 17C-1-35)
   (b)   “Alley” means a street or highway intended to provide access to the
rear or side of lots or buildings in urban districts and not intended for the
purpose of through vehicular traffic.
§ 301.41 THROUGH STREET OR THROUGH HIGHWAY.
   “Through street” or “through highway” means every street or highway or
portion thereof at the entrances to which vehicular traffic from intersecting
streets or highways is required by law to stop before entering or crossing the
same and when stop signs are erected as provided in this Traffic Code.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-40)
§ 301.42 TRAFFIC.
   “Traffic” means pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars
and other conveyances either singly or together while using any street or
highway for purposes of travel.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-50)
§ 301.43 TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   “Traffic control device” means any sign, signal, marking and device not
inconsistent with this Traffic Code placed or erected by authority of a public
body or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating, warning or
guiding traffic.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-47)
§ 301.44 TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL.
   “Traffic control signal” means any device, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and to
proceed.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-48)
§ 301.45 TRAILER.
   “Trailer” means every vehicle with or without motive power, other than a
pole trailer, designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by
a motor vehicle and so constructed that no part of its weight rests upon the
towing vehicle.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-15)
§ 301.46 TRUCK.
   “Truck” means every motor vehicle designed, used or maintained primarily for
the transportation of property.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-12)
§ 301.47 VEHICLE.
   “Vehicle” means every device in, upon or by which any person or property is
or may be transported or drawn upon a street or highway, except devices moved
by human power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks or
wheelchairs.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-2)
§ 301.48 WHEELCHAIR.
   “Wheelchair” means a motorized or nonmotorized wheeled device designed for,
and used by, a person with disabilities that is incapable of a speed in excess
of eight miles per hour.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-65)
ARTICLE 303: ENFORCEMENT, IMPOUNDING AND PENALTY
Section
   
303.01   Authority of Police and Fire Department officials
   
303.02   Application to vehicles upon streets and highways; exceptions
   
303.03   Obedience to police officers; fleeing
   
303.04   Application to government vehicles; exception
   
303.05   Authorized emergency vehicles
   
303.06   Application to persons riding animals or driving animal-drawn vehicles
   
303.07   Impounding of vehicles; redemption
   
303.08   Rights of owners of real property
 
   
303.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Disposition of abandoned vehicles, see W.Va. Code §§ 17-24A-5 et seq.
   Power of local authorities, see W.Va. Code § 17C-2-8
   Uniform application of West Virginia traffic law, see W.Va. Code § 17C-2-7
§ 303.01 AUTHORITY OF POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS.
   (a)   It shall be the duty of the officers of the Police Department to
enforce all street traffic laws of this municipality and all of the state
vehicle laws applicable to street traffic in this municipality.
   (b)   Officers of the Police Department are hereby authorized to direct all
traffic by voice, hand or signal in conformance with traffic laws; provided
that in the event of a fire or other emergency or to expedite traffic or to
safeguard pedestrians, officers of the Police Department may direct traffic as
conditions may require notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws.
   (c)   Officers of the Fire Department, when at the scene of a fire, may
direct or assist the police in directing traffic thereat or in the immediate
vicinity.
§ 303.02 APPLICATION TO VEHICLES UPON STREETS AND HIGHWAYS; EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this Traffic Code relating to the operation of vehicles
refer exclusively to the operation of vehicles upon streets and highways
except:
   (a)   Where a different place is specifically referred to in a given
section; or
   (b)   The provisions of this Traffic Code except Article 347 shall apply
upon streets and highways as defined in §
351.06.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-2-1)
§ 303.03 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE OFFICERS; FLEEING.
   (a)   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with a lawful order
or direction of any police officer or designated special officer invested by
law with authority to direct, control or regulate traffic.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-2-3(c))
   (b)   No person shall operate a vehicle so as to willfully elude or flee a
police officer or designated special officer after receiving a visible or
audible signal from such an officer to bring his or her vehicle to a stop.
§ 303.04 APPLICATION TO GOVERNMENT VEHICLES; EXCEPTION.
   (a)   The provisions of this Traffic Code applicable to the drivers of
vehicles upon the streets or highways shall apply to the drivers of all
vehicles owned or operated by the United States, this state, or any county,
municipality, town, district or any other political subdivision of the state,
except as provided in this section and subject to such specific exceptions as
are set forth in this Traffic Code with reference to authorized emergency
vehicles.
   (b)   Unless specifically made applicable, the provisions of this Traffic
Code shall not apply to persons, teams, motor vehicles and other equipment
while actually engaged in work upon the surface of a street or highway but
shall apply to such persons and vehicles when traveling to or from such work.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-2-4)
§ 303.05 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (a)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call or when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the
law or when responding to but not upon returning from a fire alarm, may
exercise the privileges set forth in this section, but subject to the
conditions herein stated.
   (b)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
      (1)   Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this Traffic Code;
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
      (3)   Exceed the speed limits so long as he or she does not endanger life
or property; and
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in
specified directions.
   (c)   The exemptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle shall
apply only when the driver of any such vehicle while in motion sounds audible
signal by bell, siren or exhaust whistle as may be reasonably necessary, and
when the vehicle is equipped with at least one lighted flashing lamp as
authorized by §
345.18 which is visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of
500 feet to the front of such vehicle, except that an authorized emergency
vehicle operated as a police vehicle need not be equipped with or display a
warning light visible from in front of the vehicle.
   (d)   The foregoing provisions shall not relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons, nor shall such provisions protect the driver from the consequences of
his or her reckless disregard for the safety of others.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-2-5)
§ 303.06 APPLICATION TO PERSONS RIDING ANIMALS OR DRIVING ANIMAL-DRAWN
VEHICLES.
   Every person riding an animal or driving any animal-drawn vehicle upon a
roadway shall be granted all of the rights and shall be subject to all of the
duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle by this Traffic Code, except those
provisions of this Traffic Code which by their very nature can have no
application.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-2-6)
§ 303.07 IMPOUNDING OF VEHICLES; REDEMPTION.
   Police officers are authorized to provide for the removal and impounding of
a vehicle under the following circumstances:
   (a)   When any vehicle is left unattended upon any street, bridge or
causeway and is so illegally parked so as to constitute a hazard or obstruction
to the normal movement of traffic, or so as to unreasonably interfere with
street cleaning or snow removal operations.
   (b)   When any vehicle has been abandoned or junked on private or public
property as provided in W.Va. Code Article 17-24A.
   (c)   When any vehicle has been stolen or operated without the consent of
the owner.
   (d)   When any vehicle displays illegal license plates or fails to display
the current lawfully required license plates.
   (e)   When any vehicle has been used in or connected with the commission of
a felony.
   (f)   When any vehicle has been damaged or wrecked so as to be inoperable or
violates equipment provisions of this Traffic Code or W.Va. Code Article 17C-15
whereby its continued operation would constitute a condition hazardous to life,
limb or property.
   (g)   When any vehicle is left unattended due to the removal of an ill,
injured or arrested operator.
   (h)   When any vehicle has been operated by any person who has failed to
stop in case of a crash or collision.
   (i)   When any vehicle has been operated by any person who is driving
without a lawful license or while his or her license has been suspended or
revoked.
   (j)   When any vehicle is found for which two or more citation tags for
violations of this Traffic Code have been issued and the owner or operator
thereof has failed to respond to such citation tags as lawfully required.
   Any vehicle removed under authority of subsection (b) above shall be
disposed of as provided under W.Va. Code Article 17-24. Any other vehicle
removed under authority of this section shall be ordered into storage and the
Police Department shall forthwith notify the registered vehicle owner of the
fact of such removal and impounding, reasons therefor and the place of storage.
Any person desiring to redeem an impounded vehicle shall appear at the Police
Department to furnish satisfactory evidence of identity and ownership or right
to possession. Prior to issuance of a release form, the claimant, owner or
operator shall either pay the amount due for any fines for violations on
account of which such vehicle was impounded or, as the court may require, post
a bond in an amount set by the court, to appear to answer to such violations.
The pound operator shall release such vehicle upon the receipt of the release
form and payment of all towage and storage charges.
§ 303.08 RIGHTS OF OWNERS OF REAL PROPERTY.
   Nothing in this Traffic Code shall be construed to prevent an owner of real
property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel by permission of
the owner and not as matter of right from prohibiting such use, or from
requiring other or different or additional conditions than those specified in
this Traffic Code, or otherwise regulating such use as may seem best to such
owner.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-2-9)
§ 303.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this Traffic Code for which another
penalty is not provided shall, for a first conviction thereof, be fined not
more than $100; for a second such conviction within one year thereafter such
person shall be fined not more than $200; and upon a third or subsequent
conviction such person shall be fined not more than $500.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-18-1)
ARTICLE 305: TRAFFIC CONTROL
Section
   
305.01   Traffic division
   
305.02   Traffic records
   
305.03   Emergency and experimental regulations
Statutory reference:
   Powers of municipality, see W.Va. Code § 17C-2-8
   Uniformity with state law required, see W.Va. Code § 17C-2-7
§ 305.01 TRAFFIC DIVISION.
   (a)   There is hereby established in the city a traffic division to be under
the control of the Chief of Police, by and with the aid and assistance of the
Mayor and the City Attorney.
   (b)   It shall be the duty of the traffic division, with such aid as may be
rendered by other members of the Police Department to enforce the street
traffic regulations of this city and all the state vehicle laws applicable to
street traffic in this city, to make arrests for traffic violations, to
investigate accidents and to cooperate with county officers and state officers
in the administration of traffic laws and in developing ways and means to
improve traffic conditions and to carry out those duties specifically imposed
upon such division by the traffic code and the laws of the state.
§ 305.02 TRAFFIC RECORDS.
   (a)   The Police Department shall keep a record of all violations of traffic
ordinances of this city or of state vehicular laws of which any person has been
charged, together with a record of the final disposition of all such alleged
offenses. All such records shall be kept available for public inspection and
which shall be considered as public records.
   (b)   The Police Department of this city shall maintain a suitable record of
all traffic accidents, warnings, arrests, convictions and complaints recorded
for each driver which shall be filed under the name of the driver concerned.
   (c)   The Police Department shall study cases of all drivers charged with
frequent or serious violations of the traffic laws or involved in frequent
traffic accidents or any serious accident, shall attempt to discover the
reasons therefor, and shall take whatever steps are lawful and reasonable to
prevent a recurrence of same or to have the licenses of such persons suspended
or revoked.
§ 305.03 EMERGENCY AND EXPERIMENTAL REGULATIONS.
   The City Manager, by and with the approval of the Mayor and the City
Attorney, is hereby empowered to make regulations necessary to make effective
the traffic ordinance of this city, and to make and enforce temporary or
experimental regulations to cover emergencies or such conditions which are not
directly covered by the Traffic Code and such emergency regulations which have
the full force and effect of an ordinance experimental regulation to cover any
such conditions; however, no such temporary or experimental regulation shall
remain in effect for more than 90 days from the date it becomes effective.
CHAPTER THREE - Streets and Traffic Control Devices
      
Art. 311.   Street Obstructions and Special Uses
      
Art. 313.   Traffic Control Devices
ARTICLE 311: STREET OBSTRUCTIONS AND SPECIAL USES
Section
   
311.01   Placing injurious material in street
   
311.02   Play streets
   
311.03   Toy vehicles on streets
   
311.04   Parades and assemblages
 
   
311.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Dropping, leaking loads, see §
347.04
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prohibit littering in streets, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-5(3)
   Authority to regulate processions or assemblages, see W.Va. Code § 17C-2-8
(a)(3)
§ 311.01 PLACING INJURIOUS MATERIAL IN STREET.
   (a)   No person shall throw or deposit upon any street or highway any glass
bottle, glass, nails, tacks, wire, cans or any other substance likely to injure
any person, animal or vehicle upon such street or highway.
   (b)   Any person who drops, or permits to be dropped or thrown, upon any
street or highway any destructive or injurious material shall immediately
remove the same or cause it to be removed.
   (c)   Any person removing a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a street or
highway shall remove any glass or other injurious substance dropped upon the
street or highway from such vehicle.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-14-11)
   (d)   No person shall throw, place or deposit upon any street or highway any
material, article or substance which injures or damages, or is likely to injure
or damage, the street or highway.
§ 311.02 PLAY STREETS.
   (a)   No person shall use the public streets, highways, alleys,
thoroughfares, roads or avenues of the municipality for the purpose of engaging
in or playing any games or athletic activities, except public ways specifically
set aside for such purposes.
   (b)   When authorized signs are erected indicating any street or part
thereof as a play street, no person shall drive a vehicle upon any such street
or highway or portion thereof except drivers of vehicles having business or
whose residence is within such closed area, and then any such driver shall
exercise the greatest care in driving upon any such street or highway or
portion thereof.
§ 311.03 TOY VEHICLES ON STREETS.
   No person on roller skates or riding in or by means of any sled, toy
vehicle, skateboard or similar device shall go upon any roadway except while
crossing a street on a crosswalk and except on streets set aside as play
streets.
§ 311.04 PARADES AND ASSEMBLAGES.
   No person, group of persons or organization shall conduct or participate in
any parade, assemblage or procession other than a funeral procession upon any
street or highway, or block off any street or highway area, without first
obtaining a permit from the Police Chief.
   Applications for such permit shall be made on such forms as may be
prescribed and shall contain such information as is reasonably necessary to a
fair determination of whether a permit should be issued. Applications shall be
filed not less than five days before the time intended for such parade,
procession or assemblage.
   The permit may be refused or canceled if:
   (a)   The time, place, size or conduct of the parade including the assembly
areas and route of march would unreasonably interfere with the public
convenience and safe use of the streets and highways.
   (b)   The parade would require the diversion of so great a number of police
officers to properly police the line of movement, assembly area and areas
contiguous thereto so as to deny normal police protection to the municipality.
   (c)   The parade route of march or assembly areas would unreasonably
interfere with the movement of police vehicles, firefighting equipment or
ambulance service to other areas of the municipality.
   (d)   The parade would unreasonably interfere with another parade for which
a permit has been issued.
   (e)   The information contained in the application is found to be false,
misleading or incomplete in any material detail.
   (f)   An emergency such as a fire or storm would prevent the proper conduct
of the parade.
   The permit or any order accompanying it may limit or prescribe reasonable
conditions, including the hours, the places of assembly and of dispersal, the
route of march or travel and the streets, highways or portions thereof which
may be used or occupied.
§ 311.99 PENALTY.
   See §
303.99 for general Traffic Code penalty.
ARTICLE 313: TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
Section
   
313.01   Obedience to traffic control devices
   
313.02   Obedience to traffic control instructions at street construction
   
313.03   Traffic control signal terms and lights
   
313.04   Pedestrian control signals
   
313.05   Flashing traffic signals
   
313.06   Unauthorized signs and signals, hiding from view, advertising
   
313.07   Alteration, injury, removal of traffic control devices
   
313.08   Traffic violations in construction zones
 
   
313.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Traffic control devices defined, see §
301.43
   Traffic control signal defined, see §
301.44
Statutory reference:
   Authority to place traffic control devices, see W.Va. Code §§ 17C-2-8(a)(2),
17C-3-3
   Local regulations requiring traffic control devices, see W.Va. Code § 17C-2-
8(c)
   Placing traffic control devices on state highways, see W.Va. Code §§ 17C-2-8
(b), 17C-3-2
§ 313.01 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   (a)   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with the
provisions of this Traffic Code, unless otherwise directed by a traffic or
police officer, subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle in this Traffic Code.
   (b)   (1)   No provision of this Traffic Code for which signs are required
shall be enforced against an alleged violator if at the time and place of the
alleged violation an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently
legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person.
      (2)   Whenever a particular section does not state that signs are
required, such section shall be effective even though no signs are erected or
in place.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-3-4)
§ 313.02 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL INSTRUCTIONS AT STREET CONSTRUCTION.
   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the traffic-control instructions of any
law enforcement officer or persons authorized by the Commissioner of Highways
or by proper local authorities to operate traffic control devices, act as
flagmen or operate authorized vehicles engaged in work at or near the site of
street or highway construction maintenance work, for the purpose of regulating,
warning or guiding traffic, subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an
authorized emergency vehicle in this Traffic Code.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-3-4a)
§ 313.03 TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL TERMS AND LIGHTS.
   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic control signals exhibiting the
words “go”, “caution” or “stop”, or exhibiting different colored lights
successively one at a time, or with arrows, the following colors only shall be
used and such terms and lights shall indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles
and pedestrians as follows:
   (a)   Green alone or “go”.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal, except when prohibited under §
343.02, may proceed straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at
such place prohibits either such turn. But vehicular traffic, including
vehicles turning right or left, shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles
and to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at
the time such signal is exhibited.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway within
any marked or unmarked crosswalk.
   (b)   Yellow alone or “caution” when showing following the green or “go”
signal.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal is thereby warned that the red
or “stop” signal will be exhibited immediately thereafter and such vehicular
traffic shall not enter or be crossing the intersection when the red or “stop”
signal is exhibited.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing such signal are thereby advised that there is
insufficient time to cross the roadway, and any pedestrian then starting to
cross shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles.
   (c)   Red alone or “stop”.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if none, then before
entering the intersection and shall remain standing until green or “go” is
shown alone except as provided in subsection (c)(2) and (c)(3) below.
      (2)   A vehicle which is stopped in obedience to a red or “stop” signal
as close as practicable at the entrance to the crosswalk on the near side of
the intersection or, if none, then at the entrance to the intersection, may
cautiously make a right turn but such vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to
pedestrians lawfully within a crosswalk and to other vehicular traffic
proceeding as directed by the signal at such intersection, except that Council
may by ordinance prohibit any such right turn against a red or “stop” signal at
any intersection which ordinance shall be effective when a sign is erected at
such intersection giving notice thereof.
      (3)   A vehicle which is stopped in obedience to a red or “stop” signal
as close as practicable at the entrance to the crosswalk on the near side of
the intersection or, if none, then at the entrance to the intersection on a
one-way street which intersects another one-way street on which traffic moves
to the left, may cautiously make a left turn into the one-way street but such
vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within a crosswalk
and to other vehicular traffic proceeding as directed by the signal at such
intersection, except that Council may by ordinance prohibit any such left turn
against a red or “stop” signal at any intersection, which ordinance shall be
effective when a sign is erected at such intersection giving notice thereof.
      (4)   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway unless he
or she can do so safely and without interfering with any vehicular traffic.
   (d)   Red with green arrow.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing such signal may cautiously enter the
intersection only to make the movement indicated by such arrow but shall yield
the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within a crosswalk and to other
traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      (2)   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway unless he
or she can do so safely and without interfering with any vehicular traffic.
   (e)   Applicability. In the event an official traffic control signal is
erected and maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of
this section shall be applicable except as to those provisions which by their
nature can have no application. Any stop required shall be made at a sign or
marking on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made, but in the
absence of any such sign or marking the stop shall be made at the signal.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-3-5)
§ 313.04 PEDESTRIAN CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever special pedestrian control signals exhibiting the words “walk” or
“wait” are in place such signals shall indicate as follows:
   (a)   Walk. Pedestrians facing such signal may proceed across the roadway in
the direction of the signal and shall be given the right-of-way by the drivers
of all vehicles.
   (b)   Wait. No pedestrian shall start to cross the roadway in the direction
of such signal, but any pedestrian who has partially completed his or her
crossing on the walk signal shall proceed to a sidewalk or safety island while
the wait signal is showing.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-3-6)
§ 313.05 FLASHING TRAFFIC SIGNALS.
   Whenever an illuminated flashing red or yellow signal is used in a traffic
sign or signal it shall require obedience by vehicular traffic as follows:
   (a)   Flashing red (stop signal). When a red lens is illuminated with rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at a limit line when marked, or, if
none, then before entering the intersection and the right to proceed shall be
subject to the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
   (b)   Flashing yellow (caution signal). When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past such signal only with caution.
   Local authorities, in areas that experience low traffic times, may permit
flashing signals between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-3-7)
§ 313.06 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS AND SIGNALS, HIDING FROM VIEW, ADVERTISING.
   (a)   (1)   No local authority or person shall place, maintain or display
upon or in view of any street or highway any unauthorized traffic control
device or traffic control signal, or any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or
device which purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official
traffic control device or railroad sign or signal, or which attempts to direct
the movement of traffic or which hides from view or interferes with the
effectiveness of any official traffic control device or any railroad sign or
signal, and no person shall place or maintain nor shall any public authority
permit upon any street or highway any traffic control device bearing thereon
any commercial advertising.
      (2)   This shall not be deemed to prohibit the erection upon private
property adjacent to a street or highway of signs giving useful directional
information and of a type that cannot be mistaken for official signs.
   (b)   Every such prohibited device, signal, sign or marking is hereby
declared to be a public nuisance and the Commissioner of Highways or other
authority having jurisdiction over the street or highway is hereby empowered to
remove the same or cause it to be removed without notice.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-3-8)
§ 313.07 ALTERATION, INJURY, REMOVAL OF TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   No person shall without lawful authority attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down or remove any official traffic control device or any
railroad sign or signal or any inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or any
other part thereof.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-3-9)
§ 313.08 TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS IN CONSTRUCTION ZONES.
   (a)   Where street or highway construction work is being conducted, signs
and other traffic control devices, as adopted in W.Va. Code § 17C-3-1, shall be
posted giving the location of the work and notifying all motorists as to the
speed limit and any other traffic restrictions.
   (b)   No person shall violate any posted speed restriction or traffic
restriction at such construction site referred to in subsection (a) above.
   (c)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to preclude prosecution of
any operator of a motor vehicle who commits a violation of any other provision
of this Traffic Code for such violation.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-3-4b)
§ 313.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   General penalty. Whoever violates §§
313.01,
313.02 or
313.04, upon conviction shall be fined not more than $100; upon a second
conviction within one year thereafter shall be fined not more than $200; and
upon a third or subsequent conviction, shall be fined not more than $500.
   (b)   Construction zones. Any person who exceeds any posted speed
restriction or traffic restriction at a construction site referred to in §
313.08 upon conviction shall be fined not more than $200.
(Ord. passed 8-8-2017)
CHAPTER FIVE - Vehicular Operation
      
331.   Accidents
      
333.   Driving Under the Influence; Reckless Driving
      
334.   Open Container Law
      
335.   Speed Restrictions
      
337.   Driving on Right; Passing
      
339.   Turning and Starting; Signals
      
341.   Right-of-Way
      
343.   Special Stops Required
      
345.   Safety and Equipment
      
347.   Commercial and Heavy Vehicles
      
349.   Miscellaneous Rules
      
351.   Licensing
      
353.   Commercial Drivers
      
355.   Cell Phones
ARTICLE 331: ACCIDENTS
Section
   
331.01   Accidents involving death or personal injuries
   
331.02   Accidents involving damage to vehicle
   
331.03   Duty to give information and render aid
   
331.04   Collision with unattended vehicle
   
331.05   Collision with fixtures upon a street or highway
   
331.06   Immediate reports of accidents
   
331.07   When driver unable to report
   
331.08   Garages to report bullet damage
 
   
331.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Impounding wrecked vehicles, see §
303.07
   Removal of glass and the like from highway, see §
311.01
Statutory reference:
   Authority to require local crash report, see W.Va. Code § 17C-4-15
§ 331.01 ACCIDENTS INVOLVING DEATH OR PERSONAL INJURIES.
   (a)   The driver of any vehicle involved in a crash resulting in the injury
to or death of any person shall immediately stop the vehicle at the scene of
the crash or as close to the scene as possible and return to and remain at the
scene of the crash until he or she has complied with the requirements of §
331.03; provided, that the driver may leave the scene of the crash as may
reasonably be necessary for the purpose of rendering assistance to any person
injured in the crash, as required by §
331.03.
   (b)   Any driver who is involved in a crash in which another person suffers
bodily injury and who intentionally violates subsection (a) above when he or
she knows or has reason to believe that another person has suffered physical
injury in said crash shall be fined not more than $1,000.
   (c)   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (b) above, any driver who
is involved in a crash in which another person suffers serious bodily injury
and who intentionally violates subsection (a) above when he or she knows or has
reason to believe that another person has suffered physical injury in said
crash is guilty of a felony and shall be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
   (d)   Notwithstanding subsection (b) or (c) above, any driver who is
involved in a crash that proximately causes the death of another person who
intentionally violates subsection (a) above when he or she knows or has reason
to believe that another person has suffered physical injury in said crash is
guilty of a felony and shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (e)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   “Bodily injury” means injury that causes substantial physical pain,
illness or any impairment of physical condition.
      (2)   “Physical injury” means bodily injury, serious bodily injury or
death.
      (3)   “Serious bodily injury” means bodily injury that creates a
substantial risk of death, that causes serious or prolonged disfigurement,
prolonged impairment of health, prolonged loss or impairment of the function of
any bodily organ, loss of pregnancy, or the morbidity or mortality occurring
because of a pre-term delivery.
   (f)   The Commissioner shall revoke the license or permit or operating
privilege to drive of any resident or nonresident person convicted pursuant to
the provisions of this section for a period of one year from the date of
conviction or the date of release from incarceration, whichever is later.
   (g)   This section may be known and cited as Erin’s Law.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-4-1)
§ 331.02 ACCIDENTS INVOLVING DAMAGE TO VEHICLE.
   The driver of any vehicle involved in a crash resulting only in damage to a
vehicle which is driven or attended by any person shall immediately stop such
vehicle at the scene of such crash or as close thereto as possible but shall
forthwith return to and in every event shall remain at the scene of such crash
until he or she has fulfilled the requirements of §
331.03. Every such stop shall be made without obstructing traffic more than is
necessary. Any person failing to stop or comply with such requirements under
such circumstances shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(W.Va. Code 17C-4-2)
§ 331.03 DUTY TO GIVE INFORMATION AND RENDER AID.
   (a)   (1)   The driver of any vehicle involved in a crash resulting in
injury to or death of any person or damage to any vehicle which is driven or
attended by any person shall, if physically able to do so, provide to the
person struck or the driver or occupant of or person attending any vehicle
collided with, the following:
         A.   His or her name, a valid telephone number where he or she may be
contacted and the year, make, model and last four digits of the vehicle
identification number of the vehicle he or she is driving; and
         B.   Proof of security and financial responsibility required by W.Va.
Code §§ 17D-2A-3 and 17D-4-2, and if provided by insurance, the information
provided upon the certificate of insurance, including the name of the insured,
the name and contact information of the insurer and insurance policy number.
      (2)   A driver may meet the requirements of this subsection by providing
the information required herein to a law enforcement officer who is
investigating or providing assistance at the scene of the collision, who shall,
if practical under the circumstances, provide the information to any person
entitled thereto pursuant to this subsection (a).
   (b)   The driver of any vehicle involved in a crash resulting in injury to
or death of any person, if physically able to do so, shall render to any person
injured in such crash reasonable assistance, including the carrying, or the
making arrangements for the carrying, of such person to a physician, surgeon or
hospital for medical or surgical treatment if it is apparent that such
treatment is necessary or if such carrying is requested by the injured person.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-4-3)
§ 331.04 COLLISION WITH UNATTENDED VEHICLE.
   The driver of any vehicle which collides with any vehicle which is
unattended shall immediately stop and shall then and there either locate and
notify the operator or owner of such vehicle of the name and address of the
driver and owner of the vehicle striking the unattended vehicle or shall leave
in a conspicuous place in the vehicle struck a written notice giving the name
and address of the driver and of the owner of the vehicle doing the striking
and a statement of the circumstances thereof.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-4-4)
§ 331.05 COLLISION WITH FIXTURES UPON A STREET OR HIGHWAY.
   The driver of any vehicle involved in a crash resulting only in damage to
fixtures or other property legally upon or adjacent to a highway shall take
reasonable steps to locate and notify the owner or person in charge of such
property of such fact and of his or her name and address and of the
registration number of the vehicle he or she is driving and shall upon request
and if available exhibit his or her driver’s license and shall make report of
such crash when and as required.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-4-5)
§ 331.06 IMMEDIATE REPORTS OF ACCIDENTS.
   The driver of a vehicle involved in a crash resulting in injury to or death
of any person or total property damage to an apparent extent of $1,000 or more
shall immediately by the quickest means of communication, give notice of such
crash to the Police Department.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-4-6)
§ 331.07 WHEN DRIVER UNABLE TO REPORT.
   Whenever the driver of a vehicle is physically incapable of making an
immediate notification of a crash as required in §
331.06 and there was another occupant in the vehicle at the time of the crash
capable of making a notification, such occupant shall make or cause to be made
such notification not made by the driver.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-4-8)
§ 331.08 GARAGES TO REPORT BULLET DAMAGE.
   The person in charge of any garage or repair shop to which is brought any
motor vehicle which shows evidence of having been struck by any bullet, shall
report to the Police Department within 24 hours after such motor vehicle is
received, giving the engine number, registration number, and the name and
address of the owner or operator of such vehicle.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-4-12)
§ 331.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   See §
303.99 for general Traffic Code penalty.
   (b)   Any person violating the provisions of §
331.01 after being involved in a crash resulting in physical injury but not
death to any person shall be fined not more than $1,000.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-4-1)
ARTICLE 333: DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE; RECKLESS DRIVING
Section
   
333.01   Driving under the influence
   
333.011   Participation in Motor Vehicle Alcohol Test and Lock Program
   
333.02   Reckless driving
   
333.03   Hazardous driving
 
   
333.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prohibit driving under the influence, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-5
(21)
   Compliance with state law, see W.Va. Code § 17C-5-11(a)
   Implied consent, see W.Va. Code § 17C-5A
§ 333.01 DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE.
   (a)   Definitions.
      (1)   “Impaired state” means a person:
         A.   Is under the influence of alcohol;
         B.   Is under the influence of any controlled substance;
         C.   Is under the influence of any other drug or inhalant substance;
         D.   Is under the combined influence of alcohol and any controlled
substance or any other drug; or
         E.   Has an alcohol concentration in his or her blood of eight
hundredths of one percent or more, by weight.
      (2)   “Bodily injury” means injury that causes substantial physical pain,
illness or any impairment of physical condition.
      (3)   “Controlled substance” has the meaning provided in W.VA. Code §
60A-1-101.
      (4)   “Serious bodily injury” means bodily injury that creates a
substantial risk of death, that causes serious or prolonged disfigurement,
prolonged impairment of health, or prolonged loss or impairment of the function
of any bodily organ.
      (5)   “Test and lock program” means the Motor Vehicle Test and Lock
Program, established in W.Va. Code § 17C-5A-3a and administered by the Division
of Motor Vehicles.
   (b)   Any person who drives a vehicle in this state while he or she is in an
impaired state, and such impaired state proximately causes a bodily injury to
any person other than himself or herself, is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than $200 nor more than $1,000, and
shall have his or her license to operate a motor vehicle revoked by the
Commissioner of the Division of Motor Vehicles for a period of two years or for
a period of time conditioned on participation in the test and lock program in
accordance with W.Va. Code § 17C-5A-3a; provided, that if the person has
previously been convicted under this section, the person shall have his or her
license to operate a motor vehicle revoked by the Commissioner of the Division
of Motor Vehicles for life or for a period of time conditioned on participation
in the test and lock program in accordance with W.Va. Code § 17C-5A-3a.
   (c)   Any person who drives a vehicle on any public highway or private road
in this municipality: while he or she is in an impaired state; or while he or
she is in an impaired state but has an alcohol concentration in his or her
blood of less than fifteen hundredths of one percent, by weight, is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than $100 nor
more than $500, and shall have his or her license to operate a motor vehicle
revoked by the Commissioner of the Division of Motor Vehicles for a period of
six months or for a period of time conditioned on participation in the test and
lock program in accordance with W.Va. Code § 17C-5A-3a; provided, that a person
sentenced pursuant to this subsection (c) shall receive credit for any period
of actual confinement he or she served upon arrest for the subject offense.
   (d)   Any person who drives a vehicle on any public highway or private road
in this state while he or she has an alcohol concentration in his or her blood
of fifteen hundredths of one percent or more, by weight, is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than $200 nor
more than $1,000, and shall have his or her license to operate a motor vehicle
revoked by the Commissioner of the Division of Motor Vehicles for a period of
one year or for a period of time conditioned on participation in the test and
lock program in accordance with W.Va. Code § 17C-5A-3a.
   (e)   Any person who, being a habitual user of narcotic drugs or
amphetamines, or any derivative thereof, drives a vehicle on any public highway
or private road in this state is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500, and shall have
his or her license to operate a motor vehicle revoked by the Commissioner of
the Division of Motor Vehicles for a period of six months.
   (f)   Any person who knowingly permits his or her vehicle to be driven on
any public highway or private road in this state by any other person who is in
an impaired state is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall have his or her license to operate a motor vehicle revoked by the
Commissioner of the Division of Motor Vehicles for a period of six months or
for a period of time conditioned on participation in the test and lock program
in accordance with W.Va. Code § 17C-5A-3a.
   (g)   Any person who knowingly permits his or her vehicle to be driven on
any public highway or private road in this state by any other person who is a
habitual user of narcotic drugs or amphetamines, or any derivative thereof, is
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less
than $100 nor more than $500 and shall have his or her license to operate a
motor vehicle revoked by the Commissioner of the Division of Motor Vehicles for
a period of six months.
   (h)   (1)   Any person under the age of 21 years who drives a vehicle on any
public highway or private road in this state while he or she has an alcohol
concentration in his or her blood of two hundredths of one percent or more, by
weight, but less than eight hundredths of one percent, by weight, for a first
offense under this subsection (h) is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $100, and
have his or her license to operate a motor vehicle suspended by the
Commissioner of the Division of Motor Vehicles for a period of 60 days or for a
period of time conditioned on participation in the test and lock program in
accordance with W.Va. Code § 17C-5A-3a. For a second or subsequent offense
under this subsection (h), the person is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500, and
shall have his or her license to operate a motor vehicle revoked by the
Commissioner of the Division of Motor Vehicles for a period of one year or
until the person’s twenty-first birthday, whichever period is longer, or for a
period of time conditioned on participation in the test and lock program in
accordance with W.Va. Code § 17C-5A-3a. A person who is charged with a first
offense under the provisions of this subsection (h) may move for a continuance
of the proceedings, from time to time, to allow the person to participate in
the test and lock program as provided in W.Va. Code § 17C-5A-3a. Upon
successful completion of the program, the court shall dismiss the charge
against the person and expunge the person’s record as it relates to the alleged
offense. In the event the person fails to successfully complete the program,
the court shall proceed to an adjudication of the alleged offense. A motion for
a continuance under this subsection (h) may not be construed as an admission or
be used as evidence.
      (2)   A.   Notwithstanding subsection (h)(1) above, a person shall have
his or her license to operate a motor vehicle suspended or revoked for a
minimum period of one year or for a period of time conditioned on participation
in the test and lock program in accordance with W.Va. Code § 17C-5A-3a, if the
person:
            1.   Has previously been convicted under this subsection and is
subsequently convicted of an offense under another subsection of this section;
or
            2.   Is convicted under this subsection and has previously been
convicted of an offense under another subsection of this section.
         B.   Nothing in this subdivision permits a shorter period of license
revocation, license suspension, or participation in the test and lock program
than is mandatory for the specific offense for which the person is convicted.
      (3)   A person arrested and charged with an offense under the provisions
of this subsection (h) or subsections (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), or (g) above may
not also be charged with an offense under this subsection (h) arising out of
the same transaction or occurrence.
   (i)   Any person who drives a vehicle on any public highway or private road
in this state while he or she is in an impaired state and has within the
vehicle one or more persons who are unemancipated minors who have not yet
reached their sixteenth birthday is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than $200 nor more than $1,000, and
shall have his or her license to operate a motor vehicle revoked by the
Commissioner of the Division of Motor Vehicles for a period of one year or for
a period of time conditioned on participation in the test and lock program in
accordance with W.Va. Code 17C-5A-3a.
   (j)   A person convicted of an offense under this section who has previously
been convicted of any offense under this section on one occasion, is guilty of
a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, may be fined not less than $1,000
nor more than $3,000 and shall have his or her license to operate a motor
vehicle revoked by the Commissioner of the Division of Motor Vehicles for ten
years or for a period of time conditioned on participation in the test and lock
program in accordance with W.Va. Code § 17C-5A-3a; provided, that if the second
conviction is for an offense as described in subsection (b) above and the
subsection creating the offense requires a period license revocation or fine
that is greater than what is required for a conviction under this subsection
(j), the greater period of revocation or fine shall be imposed; provided,
however, that this section does not apply to a second conviction that is
subject to a period of license revocation under subsection (h) above.
   (k)   For purposes of subsection (j) above relating to second offenses, the
following events shall be regarded as offenses and convictions under this
section:
      (1)   Any conviction under the provisions of subsection (b), (c), (d),
(e), (f) or (g) above, or under a prior enactment of this section, for an
offense which occurred within the ten-year period immediately preceding the
date of arrest in the current proceeding;
      (2)   Any conviction under a municipal ordinance of this state or any
other state or a statute of the United States or of any other state of an
offense which has the same elements as an offense described in subsection (b),
(c), (d), (e), (f) or (g) above, which offense occurred within the ten-year
period immediately preceding the date of arrest in the current proceeding; and
      (3)   Any period of conditional probation imposed pursuant to W.Va. Code
§ 17C-5-2b for violation of subsection (c) above, which violation occurred
within the ten-year period immediately preceding the date of arrest in the
current proceeding.
   (l)   A person may be charged in a warrant, indictment, or information for a
second or subsequent offense, as described in subsection (h) or (j) above, if
the person has been previously arrested for, or charged with, a violation of
this section which is alleged to have occurred within the applicable time
period for prior offenses, notwithstanding the fact that there has not been a
final adjudication of the charges for the alleged previous offense. In that
case, the warrant or indictment or information must set forth the date,
location and particulars of the previous offense or offenses. No person may be
convicted of a second or subsequent offense under this section unless the
conviction for the previous offense has become final, or the person has
previously had a period of conditional probation imposed pursuant to W.Va. Code
§ 17C-5-2b.
   (m)   The fact that any person charged with a violation of subsection (b),
(c), (d) or (e) above, or any person permitted to drive as described under
subsection (f) or (g) above, is or has been legally entitled to use alcohol, a
controlled substance, or a drug does not constitute a defense against any
charge of violating subsection (b), (c), (d), (e), (f) or (g) above.
   (n)   A person whose license to operate a motor vehicle has been revoked or
suspended by the Commissioner of the Division of Motor Vehicles pursuant to
this section must complete a comprehensive safety and treatment program as set
forth in W.Va. Code § 17C-5A-3 before his or her license to operate a motor
vehicle can be reinstated and his or her driving privileges restored.
   (o)   For any offense for which an alternative revocation period is
permitted conditioned upon participation in the test and lock program, an
alternative sentence may not be imposed without the consent of the driver.
   (p)   Upon entering the order of conviction for an offense under this
section, the clerk of the court shall immediately transmit the order to the
Commissioner of the Division of Motor Vehicles.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-5-2)
§ 333.011 PARTICIPATION IN MOTOR VEHICLE ALCOHOL TEST AND LOCK PROGRAM.
   (a)   (1)   Except as provided in subsection (f) below, the court, without
entering a judgment of guilt and with the consent of the accused, shall defer
further proceedings and impose probation, when:
         A.   The person pleads to or is found guilty of the offense defined in
§
333.01(c);
         B.   The person has not previously been convicted of any offense under
this article or under any statute of the United States or of any state relating
to driving under the influence of alcohol, any controlled substance, or any
other drug; and
         C.   The person notifies the court within 30 days of his or her arrest
of his or her intention to participate in a deferral pursuant to this section.
      (2)   If all the requirements in subsection (a)(1) above are met, the
court, without entering a judgment of guilt, shall defer further proceedings
and place the person on probation, the conditions of which shall include that
he or she successfully completes the Motor Vehicle Alcohol Test and Lock
Program as provided in W.Va. Code § 17C-5A-3a. Participation therein shall be
for a period of at least 165 days after a 15-day suspension of his or her
license to operate a motor vehicle and shall be completed within one year
thereafter.
   (b)   (1)   If the prosecuting attorney files a motion alleging that the
defendant during the period of the Motor Vehicle Alcohol Test and Lock Program
has been removed therefrom by the Division of Motor Vehicles, or has failed to
successfully complete the program before making a motion for dismissal pursuant
to subsection (c) below, the court may issue such process as is necessary to
bring the defendant before the court.
      (2)   A motion alleging a violation filed pursuant to subsection (c)(1)
below must be filed during the period of the Motor Vehicle Alcohol Test and
Lock Program or, if filed thereafter, must be filed within a reasonable time
after the alleged violation was committed.
      (3)   When the defendant is brought before the court, the court shall
afford the defendant an opportunity to be heard. If the court finds that the
defendant has been rightfully removed from the Motor Vehicle Alcohol Test and
Lock Program by the Division of Motor Vehicles, the court may order, when
appropriate, that the deferral be terminated, and thereupon enter an
adjudication of guilt and proceed as otherwise provided.
      (4)   Should the defendant fail to complete or be removed from the Motor
Vehicle Alcohol Test and Lock Program, the defendant waives the appropriate
statute of limitations and the defendant’s right to a speedy trial under any
applicable federal or state constitutional provisions, statutes, or rules of
court during the period of enrollment in the program.
   (c)   When the defendant shall have completed satisfactorily the Motor
Vehicle Alcohol Test and Lock Program and complied with its conditions, the
defendant may move the court for an order dismissing the charges. This motion
shall be supported by affidavit of the defendant and by certification of the
Division of Motor Vehicles that the defendant has successfully completed the
Motor Vehicle Alcohol Test and Lock Program. A copy of the motion shall be
served on the prosecuting attorney who shall within 30 days after service
advise the judge of any objections to the motion, serving a copy of such
objections on the defendant or the defendant’s attorney. If there are no
objections filed within the 30-day period, the court shall thereafter dismiss
the charges against the defendant. If there are objections filed with regard to
the dismissal of charges, the court shall proceed as set forth in subsection
(b) above.
   (d)   Except as provided herein, unless a defendant adjudicated pursuant to
this subsection is convicted of a subsequent violation of §
333.01 or W.Va. Code § 17C-5, discharge and dismissal under this section shall
be without adjudication of guilt and is not a conviction for purposes of
disqualifications or disabilities imposed by law upon conviction of a crime,
except for those provided in W.Va. Code §§ 17C-5A-1 et seq. Except as provided
in §
333.01 regarding subsequent offenses, the effect of the dismissal and discharge
shall be to restore the person in contemplation of law to the status he or she
occupied prior to arrest and trial. No person as to whom a dismissal and
discharge have been effected shall be thereafter held to be guilty of perjury,
false swearing, or otherwise giving a false statement by reason of his or her
failure to disclose or acknowledge his or her arrest or trial in response to
any inquiry made of him or her for any purpose other than any inquiry made in
connection with any subsequent offense as provided in §
333.01.
   (e)   There may be only one discharge and dismissal under this section with
respect to any person.
   (f)   No person shall be eligible for dismissal and discharge under this
section:
      (1)   In any prosecution in which any violation of any other provision of
§
333.01 or W.Va. Code § 17C-5 has been charged;
      (2)   If the person holders a commercial driver’s license or operates
commercial motor vehicles;
      (3)   If the person has previously had his or her license to operate a
motor vehicle revoked for any offense under a municipal ordinance of this state
or any other state or a statute of the United States or of any other state
which has the same elements as an offense described in this article; or
      (4)   If a court entered an order finding that the person refused the
secondary chemical test pursuant to W.Va. Code § 17C-5-7a.
   (g)   (1)   After a period of not less than one year, which shall begin to
run immediately upon the expiration of a term of probation imposed upon any
person under this section, the person may apply to the court for an order to
expunge all official records of his or her arrest, trial, and conviction,
pursuant to this section except for those maintained by the Division of Motor
Vehicles; provided, that any person who has previously been convicted of a
felony may not make a motion for expungement pursuant to this section.
      (2)   If the prosecuting attorney objects to the expungement, the
objections shall be filed with the court within 30 days after service of a
motion for expungement, and copies of the objections shall be served on the
defendant or the defendant’s attorney.
      (3)   If the objections are filed, the court shall hold a hearing on the
objections, affording all parties an opportunity to be heard. If the court
determines after a hearing that the person during the period of his or her
probation and during the period of time prior to his or her application to the
court under this subsection has not been guilty of any serious or repeated
violation of the conditions of his or her probation, it shall order the
expungement.
   (h)   A person prosecuted for an offense under §
333.01(c), whose case is disposed of pursuant to the provisions of this
section, shall be required to pay the amount of court costs that could be
assessed against a person convicted of the offense. Payment of such costs may
be made a condition of probation. The costs assessed pursuant to this
subsection, whether as a term of probation or not, shall be distributed as
other court costs in accordance with W.Va. Code §§ 50-3-2; 14-2A-4; 30-29-4;
and W.Va. Code §§ 62-5-2, 62-5-7 and 62-5-10.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-5-2b)
§ 333.02 RECKLESS DRIVING.
   (a)   No person shall drive any vehicle upon any street or highway, or upon
any residential street, or in any parking area, or upon the ways of any
institution of higher education, whether public or private or upon the property
of the Board of Education, or upon any property within the municipal park and
public recreation system, in willful or wanton disregard for the safety of
persons or property.
   (b)   The provisions of subsection (a) above shall not apply to those areas
which have been temporarily closed for racing sport events or which may be set
aside by the municipality within the park and recreation system for exclusive
use by motorcycles or other recreational vehicles.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-5-3)
§ 333.03 HAZARDOUS DRIVING.
   (a)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle or motorcycle without
exercising reasonable and ordinary control over such vehicle.
   (b)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle or motorcycle in a weaving or
zigzag course unless such irregular course is necessary for safe operation or
in compliance with law.
   (c)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle or motorcycle without giving
his or her full time and attention to the operation of such vehicle.
§ 333.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   Whoever violates §
333.02 shall for a first offense be fined not less than $25 nor more than $500;
for a second or subsequent offense shall be fined not less than $50 or more
than $1,000.
   (b)   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a) above, any person
convicted of a violation of §
333.02 who in doing so proximately causes another to suffer serious bodily
injury shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $1,000.
   (c)   For purposes of subsection (b) above, “serious bodily injury” means
bodily injury which creates a substantial risk of death, which causes serious
or prolonged disfigurement, prolonged impairment of health or prolonged loss or
impairment of the function of any bodily organ.
Editor’s note:
   See §
303.99 for general Traffic Code penalty.
ARTICLE 334: OPEN CONTAINER LAW
Section
   
334.01   Definitions
   
334.02   Possession of an open alcoholic beverage container in the passenger
area of a motor vehicle
   
334.03   Procedure on arrest
 
   
334.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Intoxication or drinking in a public place, see §
521.06
§ 334.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this article, the words or terms defined in this article
have the meanings ascribed to them:
   (a)   “Alcoholic beverage” means:
      (1)   Alcoholic liquor as defined in W.Va. Code § 60-1-5; and
      (2)   Nonintoxicating beer as defined in W.Va. Code § 11-16-3.
   (b)   “Motor vehicle” means a vehicle driven or drawn by mechanical power
and manufactured primarily for use on public highways, but does not include a
vehicle operated solely on a rail or rails.
   (c)   “Open alcoholic beverage container” means any bottle, can or other
receptacle that:
      (1)   Contains any amount of alcoholic beverage; and
      (2)   A.   Is open or has a broken seal; or
         B.   Has had its contents partially removed.
   (d)   “Passenger area of a motor vehicle” means the area designed to seat
the driver and passengers while the motor vehicle is in operation and any area
that is readily accessible to the driver or a passenger while in their seating
positions. For purposes of this article, the passenger area of a motor vehicle
does not include:
      (1)   A.   A locked glove compartment; or
         B.   A fixed center console or other similar fixed compartment that is
locked;
      (2)   In a motor vehicle that is not equipped with a trunk;
         A.   The area behind the last upright seat; or
         B.   An area not normally occupied by the driver or a passenger; or
      (3)   In a pickup truck that has no trunk, camper top or separate
enclosed area other than the cab of the truck, in the area behind the front
seat of the truck in a locked case or container located so as to not be readily
accessible to the driver or passengers while in their seating positions.
   (e)   “Public highway or right-of-way of a public highway” means the entire
width between the immediately adjacent to the boundary lines of every way that
is publicly maintained, when any part thereof is open to the use of the public
for purposes of vehicular travel.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-5D-2)
§ 334.02 POSSESSION OF AN OPEN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTAINER IN THE PASSENGER
AREA OF A MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (a)   It is unlawful for the operator or a passenger of a motor vehicle to
consume any alcoholic beverage in the passenger area of a motor vehicle located
on a public highway or right-of-way of a public highway in this municipality,
whether the vehicle is in motion or at rest.
   (b)   It is unlawful for the operator or a passenger of a motor vehicle to
knowingly possess any open alcoholic beverage container in the passenger area
of any motor vehicle that is located on a public highway or right-of-way of a
public highway in this municipality, whether the vehicle is in motion or at
rest. Possession by a person of one or more open containers in a single
criminal occurrence is a single offense.
   (c)   The provisions of this section are not applicable to a passenger:
      (1)   In the passenger area of a motor vehicle designed, maintained or
used primarily for the transportation of persons for compensation including,
but not limited to, a bus, taxicab or limousine; or
      (2)   In the living quarters of a motorized or nonmotorized house coach,
house trailer, motor home or self-contained camper.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-5D-3)
§ 334.03 PROCEDURE ON ARREST.
   If a person is arrested for an offense under the provisions of this article,
unless the provisions of W.Va. Code § 17C-19-3 require that the person arrested
be taken immediately before a magistrate for an offense described in that
section, the provisions of W.Va. Code Article 17C-19 regarding the issuance of
a traffic citation containing a notice to appear applies.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-5D-4)
§ 334.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this article shall be fined not less than
$50 nor more than $100.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-5D-3)
ARTICLE 335: SPEED RESTRICTIONS
Section
   
335.01   Maximum speed limits
   
335.02   Slow speed
   
335.03   Special speed limitations
   
335.04   Racing on streets and highways prohibited
   
335.05   Prima facie evidence of speed by radar
   
335.06   Special speed limitations when meeting or overtaking waste service
vehicles
 
   
335.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate speed, see W.Va. Code §§ 17C-2-8, 17C-6-3
   Minimum speed regulations, see W.Va. Code § 17C-6-3a
   Special speed limitations, see W.Va. Code §§ 17C-6-4 et seq.
   Use of radar, see W.Va. Code § 17C-6-7
§ 335.01 MAXIMUM SPEED LIMITS.
   (a)   No person may drive a vehicle on a street or highway at a speed
greater than is reasonable and prudent under the existing conditions and the
actual and potential hazards. In every event speed shall be so controlled as
may be necessary to avoid colliding with any person, vehicle or other
conveyance on or entering the streets and highways in compliance with legal
requirements and the duty of all persons to use due care.
   (b)   Where no special hazard exists that requires lower speed for
compliance with subsection (a) above the speed of any vehicle not in excess of
the limits specified in this section or established as hereinafter authorized
is lawful, but any speed in excess of the limits specified below in this
subsection (b) or established as hereinafter authorized is unlawful. The
following speed limits apply:
      (1)   Fifteen miles per hour in a school zone during school recess or
while children are going to or leaving school during opening or closing hours.
A school zone is all school property including school grounds and any street or
highway abutting such school grounds and extending 125 feet along such street
or highway from the school grounds and, in the case of school property not
abutting a street or highway but accessed through a right-of-way granted for
entrance to school property, a school zone established by an engineering study
conducted by the Division of Highways is all school property, including school
grounds and any property within the access right-of-way, and extending 125 feet
along the street or highway from the entrance to the access right-of-way. The
speed restriction does not apply to vehicles traveling on a controlled-access
highway which is separated from the school or school grounds by a fence or
barrier approved by the Division of Highways;
      (2)   Twenty-five miles per hour in any business or residence district;
      (3)   Fifty-five miles per hour on open country highways; except as
otherwise provided by this article.
   The speeds set forth in this section may be altered as authorized in W.Va.
Code Article 17C-6.
   (c)   The driver of every vehicle shall, consistent with the requirements of
subsection (a) above, drive at an appropriate reduced speed when approaching
and crossing an intersection or railway grade crossing, when approaching and
going around a curve, when approaching a hill crest, when traveling upon any
narrow or winding roadway and when special hazard exists with respect to
pedestrians or other traffic or by reason of weather or highway conditions.
   (d)   The speed limit on controlled-access highways and interstate highways,
where no special hazard exists that requires a lower speed, shall be not less
than 55 miles per hour and the speed limits specified in subsection (b) above
do not apply.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-6-1)
§ 335.02 SLOW SPEED.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle at such a slow speed as to impede the
normal and reasonable movement of traffic except when reduced speed is
necessary for safe operation or in compliance with law.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-6-3a(a))
§ 335.03 SPECIAL SPEED LIMITATIONS.
   (a)   Subject to all other speed restrictions of this Traffic Code no person
shall drive a vehicle not designed for carrying passengers and equipped with
pneumatic tires at a speed in excess of:
      (1)   Twenty miles per hour in any business district;
      (2)   Twenty-five miles per hour in any residence district;
      (3)   Forty miles per hour on open country highway;
      (4)   Trucks licensed at 8,000 pounds gross vehicle weight or less shall
be permitted the same speed as passenger cars.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-6-4)
   (b)   No person shall drive any vehicle equipped with other than pneumatic
tires at a speed greater than a maximum of ten miles per hour.
   No person shall drive a vehicle over any bridge or other elevated structure
constituting a part of a street or highway at a speed which is greater than the
maximum speed which can be maintained with safety to such bridge or structure,
when such structure is so signposted.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-6-5)
§ 335.04 RACING ON STREETS AND HIGHWAYS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall engage in, or aid or abet by serving as lookout or timer or
in any other capacity whatever, any speed race, as defined herein, on any
public street or highway in this municipality. For the purposes of this
section, “speed race” means:
   (a)   The operation of a motor vehicle in speed acceleration competition
with another motor vehicle or motor vehicles;
   (b)   The operation of a motor vehicle in speed acceleration competition
against time; or
   (c)   The operation of a motor vehicle in speed competition with another
motor vehicle or motor vehicles where the speed exceeds the lawful speed limit.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-6-8(a))
§ 335.05 PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE OF SPEED BY RADAR.
   The speed of a motor vehicle may be proved by evidence obtained by use of
any device designed to measure and indicate or record the speed of a moving
object by means of microwaves or reflected light, when such evidence is
obtained by members of the Police Department. The evidence so obtained shall be
accepted as prima facie evidence of the speed of such vehicle.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-6-7)
§ 335.06 SPECIAL SPEED LIMITATIONS WHEN MEETING OR OVERTAKING WASTE SERVICE
VEHICLES.
   (a)   No person shall drive a motor vehicle and meet or overtake from either
direction a stopped waste service vehicle at a speed in excess of 15 miles per
hour.
   (b)   For purposes of this section, “waste service vehicle” means any
garbage collection vehicle, including a vehicle collecting recyclables or yard
waste, which is used for curbside collection, makes frequent stops and is not
fully automated.
   (c)   The speed limitation set forth in subsection (a) above applies only
under the following circumstances:
      (1)   The waste service vehicle is identifiable as a waste service
vehicle based on the vehicle configuration or markings on the vehicle;
      (2)   The waste service vehicle operator is giving a visual signal by
means of a stationary sign to warn of the presence of workers or must use
flashing lights as permitted in this code to caution other drivers; and
      (3)   The waste service vehicle is not located on a private driveway,
controlled access highway, interstate highway, turnpike or road or highway with
a center line and more than two lanes.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-6-11)
§ 335.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   General article penalty. Whoever violates any provision of this
article for which no other penalty is provided, upon a first conviction shall
be fined not more than $100; upon a second conviction within one year
thereafter shall be fined not more than $200; and upon a third or subsequent
conviction shall be fined not more than $500.
   (b)   Speeding.
      (1)   Unless otherwise provided in this subsection (b), any person who
violates the provisions of §
335.01, upon a first conviction shall be fined not more than $100; upon a
second conviction within one year thereafter, shall be fined not more than
$200; and, upon a third or subsequent conviction within two years thereafter,
shall be fined not more than $500.
      (2)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
335.01(b)(1), upon conviction shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than
$500.
   (c)   Street racing. Whoever violates §
335.04, upon conviction, for a first offense shall be fined not less than $50
nor more than $100; for a second offense shall be fined not less than $50 nor
more than $500; and for a third and each subsequent offense fined not less than
$100 nor more than $1,000. For the purposes of this section, a forfeiture of
bail or collateral deposited to secure such person’s appearance in court, which
forfeiture has not been vacated, shall be equivalent to a final conviction. If
at the time of any violation of the provisions of §
335.04 by any person as an operator of a motor vehicle, such person was not
entitled to operate a motor vehicle in this state because his or her operator’s
or chauffeur’s license, or privilege to drive in this state if such person be a
nonresident, had earlier been suspended or removed, then in addition to the
penalties provided for in this section, the provisions of §
351.10 shall be applicable.
(Ord. passed 8-8-2017)
ARTICLE 337: DRIVING ON RIGHT; PASSING
Section
   
337.01   Driving upon right side of roadway; exceptions
   
337.02   Passing to right when proceeding in opposite directions
   
337.03   Overtaking, passing to left; driver’s duties
   
337.04   Overtaking and passing upon right
   
337.05   Overtaking, passing to left of center
   
337.06   Additional restrictions on driving upon left side of roadway
   
337.07   Hazardous or no passing zones
   
337.08   One-way roadways and rotary traffic islands
   
337.09   Driving in marked lanes or continuous lines of traffic
   
337.10   Following too closely
   
337.11   Driving upon divided roadways
   
337.12   Entering and exiting controlled-access highway
 
   
337.99   Penalty
Statutory reference;
   Authority to establish one-way streets, see W.Va. Code § 17C-2-8(a)(4)
§ 337.01 DRIVING UPON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY; EXCEPTIONS.
   (a)   Upon all roadways of sufficient width a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway, except as follows:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing such movement;
      (2)   When the right half of a roadway is closed to traffic while under
construction or repair;
      (3)   Upon a roadway divided into three marked lanes for traffic under
the rules applicable thereon; or
      (4)   Upon a roadway designated and signposted for one-way traffic.
   (b)   Upon all roadways any vehicle proceeding at less than the normal speed
of traffic at the time and place and under the conditions then existing shall
be driven in the right-hand lane then available for traffic, or as close as
practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway, except when
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction or when
preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private road or
driveway.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-7-1)
§ 337.02 PASSING TO RIGHT WHEN PROCEEDING IN OPPOSITE DIRECTIONS.
   Drivers of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass each other
to the right, and upon roadways having width for not more than one line of
traffic in each direction each driver shall give to the other at least one-half
of the main-traveled portion of the roadway as nearly as possible.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-7-2)
§ 337.03 OVERTAKING, PASSING TO LEFT; DRIVER’S DUTIES.
   The following rules govern the overtaking and passing of vehicles proceeding
in the same direction subject to these limitations, exceptions, and special
rules hereinafter stated:
   (a)   The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction shall give an audible signal and pass to the left of the
overtaken vehicle at a safe distance and may not again drive to the right side
of the roadway until safely clear of the overtaken vehicle.
   (b)   The driver of a vehicle overtaking a bicycle traveling in the same
direction shall pass to the left of the bicycle at a distance of not less than
three feet at a careful and reduced speed, and may not again drive to the right
side of the roadway until safely clear of the overtaken bicycle.
   (c)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle on audible signal and may not increase the speed of his or
her vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-7-3)
§ 337.04 OVERTAKING AND PASSING UPON RIGHT.
   (a)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass upon the right of
another vehicle only under the following conditions:
      (1)   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left turn;
      (2)   Upon a street or highway with unobstructed pavement not occupied by
parked vehicles of sufficient width for two or more lines of moving vehicles in
each direction;
      (3)   Upon a one-way street, or upon any roadway on which traffic is
restricted to one direction of movement, where the roadway is free from
obstructions and of sufficient width for two or more lines of moving vehicles.
   (b)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle upon the
right only under conditions permitting such movement in safety. In no event
shall such movement be made by driving off the pavement or main-traveled
portion of the roadway.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-7-4)
§ 337.05 OVERTAKING, PASSING TO LEFT OF CENTER.
   (a)   No vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the center of the
roadway in overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction unless such left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming
traffic for a sufficient distance ahead to permit such overtaking and passing
to be completely made without interfering with the safe operation of any
vehicle approaching from the opposite direction or any vehicle overtaken.
   (b)   In every event the overtaking vehicle must return to the right-hand
side of the roadway before coming within 100 feet of any vehicle approaching
from the opposite direction.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-7-5)
§ 337.06 ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS ON DRIVING UPON LEFT SIDE OF ROADWAY.
   (a)   No vehicle shall at any time be driven to the left side of the roadway
under the following conditions:
      (1)   When approaching the crest of a grade or upon a curve in the street
or highway where the driver’s view is obstructed within such distance as to
create a hazard in the event another vehicle might approach from the opposite
direction;
      (2)   When approaching within 100 feet of or traversing any intersection
or railroad grade crossing;
      (3)   When the view is obstructed upon approaching within 100 feet of any
bridge, viaduct or tunnel.
   (b)   The foregoing limitations shall not apply upon a one-way roadway.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-7-6)
§ 337.07 HAZARDOUS OR NO PASSING ZONES.
   When signs or markings are in place and clearly visible to an ordinarily
observant person indicating that overtaking and passing or driving to the left
of the roadway would be especially hazardous, every driver of a vehicle shall
obey the directions thereof.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-7-7)
§ 337.08 ONE-WAY ROADWAYS AND ROTARY TRAFFIC ISLANDS.
   (a)   Upon a roadway designated and signposted for one-way traffic a vehicle
shall be driven only in the direction designated.
   (b)   A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island shall be driven only
to the right of such island.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-7-8(b), (c))
§ 337.09 DRIVING IN MARKED LANES OR CONTINUOUS LINES OF TRAFFIC.
   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two or more clearly marked lanes
for traffic the following rules in addition to all others consistent herewith
shall apply:
   (a)   A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practicable entirely within a
single lane and shall not be moved from such lane until the driver has first
ascertained that such movement can be made with safety.
   (b)   Upon a roadway which is divided into three lanes a vehicle shall not
be driven in the center lane which is clearly marked as a left turn lane except
in preparation for a left turn or where such center lane is at the time
allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the direction the vehicle is
proceeding and is signposted to give notice of such allocation.
   (c)   Official signs may be erected directing slow-moving traffic to use a
designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by traffic moving in a
particular direction regardless of the center of the roadway and drivers of
vehicles shall obey the directions of every such sign.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-7-9)
§ 337.10 FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY.
   (a)   The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more
closely than is reasonable and prudent having due regard for the speed of such
vehicles and the traffic upon and the condition of the street or highway.
   (b)   No operator of any motor truck, registered for a gross weight of more
than 8,000 pounds, bus, special mobile equipment or any motor vehicle drawing
another vehicle operating upon any roadway outside of a business or residence
district, shall follow within 200 feet of another motor truck, bus, special
mobile equipment or any motor vehicle drawing another vehicle; provided that
this provision shall not be construed to:
      (1)   Prevent overtaking and passing;
      (2)   Apply upon any lane specially designated for the use of motor
trucks or combinations of vehicles, or within any section of a roadway posted
or marked as a “no-passing zone”;
      (3)   Apply to any convoy of vehicles of the military service of the
United States or of this state; and
      (4)   Apply to funeral processions.
   (c)   Motor vehicles being driven upon any roadway outside of a business or
residence district in a caravan or motorcade whether or not towing other
vehicles shall be so operated as to allow sufficient space between each such
vehicle or combination of vehicles so as to enable any other vehicle to enter
and occupy such space without danger. This provision shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions; or
      (2)   Any convoy of vehicles of the military service of the United States
or of this state.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-7-10)
§ 337.11 DRIVING UPON DIVIDED ROADWAYS.
   Whenever any street or highway has been divided into two roadways by leaving
an intervening space or by a physical barrier or clearly indicated dividing
section so constructed as to impede vehicular traffic, every vehicle shall be
driven only upon the right-hand roadway and no vehicle shall be driven over,
across or within any such dividing space, barrier or section, except through an
opening in such physical barrier or dividing section or space or at a crossover
or intersection established by public authority.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-7-11)
§ 337.12 ENTERING AND EXITING CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY.
   No person shall drive a vehicle onto or from any controlled-access roadway
except at such entrances and exits as are established by public authority.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-7-12)
§ 337.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this article shall upon a first conviction
be fined not more than $100; upon a second conviction within one year
thereafter shall be fined not more than $200; and upon a third or subsequent
conviction, shall be fined not more than $500.
(Ord. passed 8-8-2017)
ARTICLE 339: TURNING AND STARTING; SIGNALS
Section
   
339.01   Conformity with provisions required
   
339.02   Right turns
   
339.03   Left turns on two-way roadways
   
339.04   Left turns on other than two-way roadways
   
339.05   Specified turns at intersections
   
339.06   “U” turns restricted
   
339.07   Starting vehicle
   
339.08   Signals before changing course, turning or stopping
   
339.09   Signals to be given by hand and arm or signal device
   
339.10   Hand and arm signals
 
   
339.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate the turning of vehicles, see W.Va. Code § 17C-2-8(a)
(9)
   Authority to specify different courses for turns, see W.Va. Code § 17C-8-5
§ 339.01 CONFORMITY WITH PROVISIONS REQUIRED.
   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as
provided in this article.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-8-1)
§ 339.02 RIGHT TURNS.
   Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as close
as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-8-2)
§ 339.03 LEFT TURNS ON TWO-WAY ROADWAYS.
   At any intersection where traffic is permitted to move in both directions on
each roadway entering the intersection, an approach for a left turn shall be
made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the centerline
thereof and by passing to the right of such centerline where it enters the
intersection and after entering the intersection the left turn shall be made so
as to leave the intersection to the right of the centerline of the roadway
being entered. Whenever practicable the left turn shall be made in that portion
of the intersection to the left of the center of the intersection.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-8-3)
§ 339.04 LEFT TURNS ON OTHER THAN TWO-WAY ROADWAYS.
   At any intersection where traffic is restricted to one direction on one or
more of the roadways, the driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at any
such intersection shall approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand lane
lawfully available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of such vehicle
and after entering the intersection the left turn shall be made so as to leave
the intersection, as nearly as practicable, in the left-hand lane lawfully
available to traffic moving in such direction upon the roadway being entered.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-8-4)
§ 339.05 SPECIFIED TURNS AT INTERSECTIONS.
   Council or other designated traffic authority may cause markers, buttons or
signs to be placed within or adjacent to intersections and thereby require and
direct that a different course from that specified in this article be traveled
by vehicles turning at an intersection, and when markers, buttons or signs are
so placed no driver of a vehicle shall turn a vehicle at an intersection other
than as directed and required by such markers, buttons or signs.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-8-5)
§ 339.06 “U” TURNS RESTRICTED.
   (a)   No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction
upon any curve, or upon the approach to, or near the crest of a grade, where
such vehicle cannot be seen by the driver of any other vehicle approaching from
either direction within 500 feet.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-8-6)
   (b)   No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction
within an intersection, or upon any street in a business district, or upon a
freeway, expressway or controlled-access highway, or where authorized signs are
erected to prohibit such movement, or at any other location unless such
movement can be made with reasonable safety to other users of the street and
without interfering with the safe operation of any traffic that may be affected
by such movement.
§ 339.07 STARTING VEHICLE.
   No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing or parked unless
and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-8-7)
§ 339.08 SIGNALS BEFORE CHANGING COURSE, TURNING OR STOPPING.
   (a)   No person shall turn a vehicle at an intersection unless the vehicle
is in proper position upon the roadway as required in §§
339.02 to
339.05, or turn a vehicle to enter a private road or driveway or otherwise turn
a vehicle from a direct course or move right or left upon a roadway unless and
until such movement can be made with reasonable safety.
   (b)   No person shall so turn any vehicle without giving an appropriate
signal in the manner hereinafter provided in the event any other traffic may be
affected by such movement.
   (c)   A signal of intention to turn right or left when required shall be
given continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by the
vehicle before turning.
   (d)   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle
without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided herein to the
driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear when there is opportunity to give
such signal.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-8-8)
§ 339.09 SIGNALS TO BE GIVEN BY HAND AND ARM OR SIGNAL DEVICE.
   Any stop or turn signal when required herein shall be given either by means
of the hand and arm or by a signal lamp or lamps or mechanical signal device,
but when a vehicle is so constructed or loaded that hand-and-arm signal would
not be visible both to the front and rear of such vehicle then such signals
must be given by such a lamp or lamps or signal device.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-8-9)
§ 339.10 HAND AND ARM SIGNALS.
   All signals herein required given by hand and arm shall be given from the
left side of the vehicle in the following manner and such signals shall
indicate as follows:
   (a)   Left turn. Hand and arm extended horizontally.
   (b)   Right turn. Hand and arm extended upward.
   (c)   Stop or decrease speed. Hand and arm extended downward.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-8-10)
§ 339.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this article shall upon a first conviction
be fined not more than $100; upon a second conviction within one year
thereafter shall be fined not more than $200; and upon a third or subsequent
conviction, shall be fined not more than $500.
(Ord. passed 8-8-2017)
ARTICLE 341: RIGHT-OF-WAY
Section
   
341.01   Right-of-way at intersections
   
341.02   Right-of-way when turning left
   
341.03   Right-of-way at through street or highway or stop intersections
   
341.04   Driving onto roadway from private road or driveway; duty to yield
   
341.05   Right-of-way of emergency vehicle
   
341.06   Turning into private driveway, alley or building
 
   
341.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority to designate through streets and stop intersections, see W.Va.
Code §§ 17C-2-8(a)(6), 17C-12-5
§ 341.01 RIGHT-OF-WAY AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (a)   The driver of a vehicle approaching an intersection shall yield the
right-of-way to a vehicle which has entered the intersection from a different
street or highway.
   (b)   When two vehicles enter an intersection from a different street or
highway at approximately the same time the driver of the vehicle on the left
shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle on the right.
   (c)   The right-of-way rules declared in subsections (a) and (b) above are
modified at through streets or highways and otherwise as hereinafter stated in
this article.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-9-1)
§ 341.02 RIGHT-OF-WAY WHEN TURNING LEFT.
   The driver of a vehicle within an intersection intending to turn to the left
shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite
direction which is within the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute
an immediate hazard, but such driver, having so yielded and having given a
signal when and as required by this Traffic Code may make such left turn and
the drivers of all other vehicles approaching the intersection from the
opposite direction shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicles making the left
turn.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-9-2)
§ 341.03 RIGHT-OF-WAY AT THROUGH STREET OR HIGHWAY OR STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (a)   The driver of a vehicle shall stop as required by §
343.05 at the entrance to a through street or highway and shall yield the
right-of-way to other vehicles which have entered the intersection from such
through streets or highways or which are approaching so closely on such through
street or highway as to constitute an immediate hazard but the driver having so
yielded may proceed.
   (b)   The driver of a vehicle shall likewise stop in obedience to a stop
sign as required herein at an intersection where a stop sign is erected at one
or more entrances thereto although not a part of a through street or highway
and shall proceed cautiously, yielding to vehicles not so obliged to stop which
are within the intersection or approaching so closely as to constitute an
immediate hazard, but may then proceed.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-9-3)
§ 341.04 DRIVING ONTO ROADWAY FROM PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY; DUTY TO YIELD.
   The driver of a vehicle about to enter or cross a street or highway from a
private road or driveway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles
approaching on the street or highway.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-9-4)
§ 341.05 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF EMERGENCY VEHICLE.
   (a)   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle
equipped with at least one flashing lighted lamp of a color authorized by §
345.18, which is visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of
500 feet to the front of such vehicle other than a police vehicle when operated
as an authorized emergency vehicle, and when the driver is giving audible
signal by siren, exhaust whistle or bell, the driver of every other vehicle
shall yield the right-of-way and shall immediately drive to a position parallel
to, and as close as possible to, the right-hand edge or curb of the roadway
clear of any intersection and shall stop and remain in such position until the
authorized emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a
police officer.
   (b)   This section shall not operate to relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons using the street or highway.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-9-5)
§ 341.06 TURNING INTO PRIVATE DRIVEWAY, ALLEY OR BUILDING.
   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn into a private road or driveway,
alley or building from a public street or highway shall be governed by the
following rules:
   (a)   Approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as close as
practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
   (b)   Upon a roadway where traffic is proceeding in opposite directions,
approach for a left turn and a left turn shall be made from that portion of the
right half of the roadway nearest the centerline thereof.
   (c)   Upon a roadway where traffic is restricted to one direction, approach
for a left turn and a left turn shall be made as close as practicable to the
left-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
   It shall be the duty of the driver of any vehicle entering a private road or
driveway, alley or building to yield the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully
using the sidewalk or sidewalk area extending across any alleyway, private
road, driveway or building.
§ 341.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this article upon a first conviction shall
be fined not more than $200; upon a second conviction within one year
thereafter shall be fined not more than $300; and upon a third or subsequent
conviction, shall be fined not more than $1,000.
(Ord. passed 8-8-2017)
ARTICLE 343: SPECIAL STOPS REQUIRED
Section
   
343.01   Driving across grade crossing
   
343.02   Stops at dangerous grade crossings
   
343.03   Stopping at grade crossing
   
343.04   Moving heavy equipment across grade crossings
   
343.05   Through streets and stop intersections
   
343.06   Driving onto roadway from place other than roadway; stopping at
sidewalk
   
343.07   Stopping for school bus; signs and warning lights; sale of school bus
   
343.08   Stopping for passenger van; signs and warning lights
   
343.09   Obstructing intersection or crosswalk
 
   
343.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority to establish through streets and stop intersections, see W.Va.
Code § 17C-2-8(a)(6)
§ 343.01 DRIVING ACROSS GRADE CROSSING.
   (a)   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad grade
crossing under any of the circumstances stated in this section, the driver of
such vehicle shall stop within 50 feet but not less than 15 feet from the
nearest rail of such railroad, and shall not proceed until he or she can do so
safely. The foregoing requirements shall apply when:
      (1)   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a railroad train;
      (2)   A crossing gate is lowered or when a human flagman gives or
continues to give a signal of the approach or passage of a railroad train;
      (3)   A railroad train approaching within approximately 1,500 feet of the
street or highway crossing emits a signal audible from such distance and such
railroad train, by reason of its speed or nearness to such crossing, is an
immediate hazard;
      (4)   Any approaching railroad train is plainly visible and is in
hazardous proximity to such crossing.
   (b)   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around or under any
crossing gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while such gate or barrier is
closed or is being opened or closed.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-12-1)
§ 343.02 STOPS AT DANGEROUS GRADE CROSSINGS.
   Council or other designated traffic authority with the approval of the State
Commissioner of Highways is hereby authorized to designate particularly
dangerous highway grade crossings of railroads and to erect stop signs thereat.
When such stop signs are erected the driver of any vehicle shall stop within 50
feet but not less than 15 feet from the nearest rail of such railroad and shall
proceed only upon exercising due care.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-12-2)
§ 343.03 STOPPING AT GRADE CROSSING.
   (a)   Except as provided in subsection (f) below, the driver of a commercial
motor vehicle specified in subsection (b) below shall not cross a railroad
track or tracks at grade unless he or she first:
      (1)   Stops the commercial motor vehicle within 50 feet of, and not
closer than 15 feet to, the tracks;
      (2)   Thereafter, listens and looks in each direction along the tracks
for an approaching train; and
      (3)   Ascertains that no train is approaching.
   When it is safe to do so, the driver may drive the commercial motor vehicle
across the tracks in a gear that permits the commercial motor vehicle to
complete the crossing without change of gears. The driver shall not shift gears
while crossing the tracks.
   (b)   The following commercial vehicles are required to stop at railroad
tracks or tracks at grade:
      (1)   Every bus transporting passengers;
      (2)   Every commercial motor vehicle transporting any quantity of a
United States Department of Transportation defined division 2.3 chlorine;
      (3)   Every commercial motor vehicle which, in accordance with United
States Department of Transportation regulations, is marked or placarded and is
required to stop in accordance with 49 C.F.R. part § 392.10(a)(3)(2001);
      (4)   Every cargo tank motor vehicle, loaded or empty, used for the
transportation of any hazardous material, as defined in Federal Department of
Transportation hazardous materials rules, 49 C.F.R. parts §§ 107 through 180
(2001);
      (5)   Every cargo tank motor vehicle transporting a commodity which, at
the time of loading, has a temperature above its flashpoint as determined by 49
C.F.R. § 173.120 (2001); and
      (6)   Every cargo tank motor vehicle, whether loaded or empty,
transporting any commodity exemption in accordance with 49 C.F.R. part § 107
subpart B (2001).
   (c)   Any vehicle owned by an employer which, in carrying on the employer’s
business or in carrying employees to and from work, carries more than six
employees of the employer is required to stop at all railroad tracks or tracks
at grade, in accordance with subsection (a) above.
   (d)   All drivers of commercial motor vehicles not required to stop at
railroad tracks or tracks at grade as provided in subsection (a) above may not
cross a railroad track or tracks at grade unless he or she first slows the
commercial motor vehicle to a speed which will permit the commercial motor
vehicle to be stopped before reaching the nearest rail of the railroad crossing
and permit exercise of due caution to ascertain that the tracks are clear of an
approaching train.
   (e)   All drivers of commercial motor vehicles may not proceed to cross a
railroad crossing unless there is sufficient space to drive completely through
the crossing without stopping and the vehicle has sufficient undercarriage
clearance to drive completely through the crossing without stopping.
   (f)   No stop need be made at:
      (1)   Any crossing where a police officer, crossing flagger or a traffic-
control signal directs traffic to proceed;
      (2)   A streetcar crossing, or railroad tracks used exclusively for
industrial switching purposes within a business district, as defined in 49
C.F.R. § 390.5 (2000);
      (3)   A railroad grade crossing controlled by a functioning highway
traffic signal transmitting a green indication which, under local law permits
the commercial motor vehicle to proceed across the track without slowing or
stopping; or
      (4)   A railroad grade crossing which is marked with a sign indicating
that the rail line is out of service.
   (g)   Any person driving a vehicle specified in this section or a vehicle
that requires a commercial driver’s license who fails to comply with the
requirements of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor; provided, that if the
electric or mechanical signal device is malfunctioning, this subsection (g)
shall not apply.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-12-3)
§ 343.04 MOVING HEAVY EQUIPMENT ACROSS GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (a)   No person shall operate or move any crawler-type tractor, steam
shovel, derrick, roller or any equipment or structure having a normal operating
speed of ten or less miles per hour or a vertical body or load clearance of
less than one-half inch per foot of the distance between any two adjacent axles
or in any event, of less than nine inches, measured above the level surface of
a roadway, upon or across any tracks at a railroad grade crossing without first
complying with this section.
   (b)   Notice of any such intended crossing shall be given to a station agent
of such railroad and a reasonable time be given to such railroad to provide
proper protection at such crossing.
   (c)   Before making any such crossing the person operating or moving any
such vehicle or equipment shall first stop the same not less than 15 feet nor
more than 50 feet from the nearest rail of such railroad and while so stopped
shall listen and look in both directions along such track for any approaching
train, and for signals indicating the approach of a train, and shall not
proceed until the crossing can be made safely.
   (d)   (1)   No such crossing shall be made when warning is given by
automatic signal or crossing gates or a flagman or otherwise of the immediate
approach of a railroad train or car.
      (2)   If a flagman is provided by the railroad, movement over the
crossing shall be under his or her direction.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-12-4)
§ 343.05 THROUGH STREETS AND STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (a)   Council or other designated traffic authority may designate through
streets or highways and erect stop signs at specified entrances thereto or may
designate any intersection as a stop intersection and erect like signs at one
or more entrances to such intersection.
   (b)   Every such sign shall bear the word “Stop” in letters not less than
six inches in height and such sign shall at nighttime be rendered luminous by
steady or flashing internal illumination, or by a fixed floodlight projected on
the face of the sign, or by efficient reflecting elements on the face of the
sign.
   (c)   Every stop sign shall be erected as near as practicable to the nearest
line of the crosswalk on the near side of the roadway.
   (d)   Every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop sign shall stop before
entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or in the event
there is no crosswalk shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none,
then at the point nearest the intersecting street or highway where the driver
has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting street or highway before
entering the intersection except when directed to proceed by a police officer
or traffic control signal.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-12-5)
§ 343.06 DRIVING ONTO ROADWAY FROM PLACE OTHER THAN ROADWAY; STOPPING AT
SIDEWALK.
   The driver of a vehicle within a business or residence district emerging
from any alley, driveway or building shall stop such vehicle immediately prior
to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area extending across any
alleyway or private driveway, and shall yield the right-of-way to any
pedestrian as may be necessary to avoid collision, and upon entering the
roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on such
roadway.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-12-6)
§ 343.07 STOPPING FOR SCHOOL BUS; SIGNS AND WARNING LIGHTS; SALE OF SCHOOL BUS.
   (a)   Definition: for the purposes of this article the term “school bus”
means every motor vehicle owned by a public or governmental agency and operated
for the transportation of children to or from school or privately owned and
operated for compensation for the transportation of children to or from school.
   (b)   The driver of a vehicle upon meeting or overtaking from either
direction any school bus which has stopped for the purpose of receiving or
discharging any school children shall stop the vehicle before reaching such
school bus when there is in operation on such school bus flashing warning
signal lights, as referred to in W.Va. Code § 17C-12-8 and the driver may not
proceed until the school bus resumes motion, or is signaled by the school bus
driver to proceed or the visual signals are no longer actuated. This section
applies wherever the school bus is receiving or discharging children including,
but not limited to, any street, highway, parking lot, private road or driveway;
provided, that the driver of a vehicle upon a controlled access highway need
not stop upon meeting or passing a school bus which is on a different roadway
or adjacent to the highway and where pedestrians are not permitted to cross the
roadway.
   (c)   Any driver acting in violation of subsection (b) above is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction for a first offense, shall be fined not less
than $250 or more than $500. Upon conviction of a second violation of
subsection (b) above, the driver shall be fined not less than $500 nor more
than $1,000, Upon conviction of a third or subsequent violation of subsection
(b) above, the driver shall be fined $1,000.
   (d)   Where the actual identity of the operator of a motor vehicle operated
in violation of subsection (b) above is unknown but the license plate number of
the motor vehicle is known, it may be inferred that the operator was an owner
or lessee of the motor vehicle for purposes of the probable cause
determination. Where there is more than one registered owner or lessee, the
inference created by this subsection (d) shall apply to the first listed owner
or lessee as found on the motor vehicle registration.
   (e)   Service of process of a complaint issued pursuant to subsection (d)
above shall be effected consistent with West Virginia Rule of Criminal
Procedure 4.
   (f)   Every bus used for the transportation of school children shall bear
upon the front and rear of the bus a plainly visible sign containing the words
“school bus” in letters not less than eight inches in height. When a contract
school bus is being operated upon a highway for purposes other than the actual
transportation of children either to or from school, all markings on the
contract school bus indicating “school bus” shall be covered or concealed. Any
school bus sold or transferred to another owner by a county board of education,
agency or individual shall have all flashing warning lights disconnected and
all lettering removed or permanently obscured, except when sold or transferred
for the transportation of school children.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-12-7) (Ord. passed 11-7-2017)
§ 343.08 STOPPING FOR PASSENGER VAN; SIGNS AND WARNING LIGHTS.
   (a)   Definition: for the purposes of this article the term “passenger van”
means any van or other motor vehicle owned by any agency, business or other
legal entity and operated for the purpose of transportation of children under
the age of 18 years, other than a van utilized for private use, taxicab, bus or
school bus. Passenger vans include, but are not limited to, vehicles used by
day-care centers, after-school centers and nursery schools; provided, that the
term “passenger van” does not include any van or other motor vehicle which is
utilized for the specific purpose of transporting children to medical
facilities for the purpose of medical or dental treatment and which loads and
unloads the children on private property, making no stops for loading or
unloading along public roads or highways.
   (b)   Every passenger van used for the transportation of children shall bear
upon the front and rear thereof a plainly visible sign containing the warning
“Caution: Loading and Unloading Passengers” in letters not less than six inches
in height. Every such passenger van shall be equipped with either flashing
warning signal lights as are contemplated and referred to in W.Va. Code § 17C-
12-8, or a red caution flag which the driver or some other adult must use by
exiting the passenger van and displaying while assisting in the loading or
unloading of passengers. Such vehicles may also be equipped with a white
flashing strobotron warning light that meets the requirements set forth in
W.Va. Code § 17C-15-26(e).
   (c)   The driver of a vehicle upon meeting or overtaking from any direction
any passenger van which has stopped for the purpose of loading or unloading
passengers shall stop his or her vehicle before reaching the passenger van when
there is in operation on the passenger van flashing warning signal lights or
when an adult is outside the passenger van with a red caution flag and
assisting with the loading or unloading of passengers. The driver of a vehicle
may not proceed until he or she is signaled by the passenger van driver to
proceed, the passenger van flashing signal lights are no longer actuated or the
passenger van resumes motion. This section applies wherever the passenger van
is loading or unloading children on any street, highway, parking lot, private
road or driveway; provided, that the driver of a vehicle upon a controlled
access highway need not stop upon meeting or passing a passenger van which is
on a different roadway or adjacent to the highway and where pedestrians are not
permitted to cross the roadway. Any driver acting in violation of this
subsection (c) is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall
be fined not less than $50 nor more than $200. If the identity of the driver
cannot be ascertained, then any owner or lessee of the vehicle in violation of
this subsection (c) is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $100.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-12-17a) (Ord. passed 11-7-2017)
§ 343.09 OBSTRUCTING INTERSECTION OR CROSSWALK.
   No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicle he or she is operating without obstructing the passage
of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic control signal
indication to proceed.
§ 343.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   Driving onto roadway from place other than roadway. Whoever violates §
343.06 shall, upon a first conviction, be fined not more than $100; upon a
second conviction within one year thereafter shall be fined not more than $200;
and upon a third or subsequent conviction, shall be fined not more than $500.
   (b)   Stopping for school bus. Any driver acting in violation of §
343.07(a) for a first offense, shall be fined not less than $500 or more than
$1,000. Upon conviction of a second violation of §
343.07(a), the driver shall be fined not less than $1,000 nor more than $1,500.
Upon conviction of a third or subsequent violation of §
343.07(a), the driver shall be fined $2,000.
   (c)   Stopping for passenger van. Any driver acting in violation of §
343.08(b) shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $200. If the identity
of the driver cannot be ascertained, then any such owner or lessee of the
vehicle in violation of §
343.08(b) shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $100; provided,
however, that such conviction shall not subject such owner or lessee to further
administrative or other penalties for such offense, notwithstanding other
provisions of this Traffic Code to the contrary.
(Ord. passed 11-7-2017)
Editor’s note:
   See §
303.99 for general Traffic Code penalty if no specific penalty is provided.
ARTICLE 345: SAFETY AND EQUIPMENT
Section
   
345.01   Driving unsafe vehicles; application; farm and road equipment;
exceptions
   
345.02   When lighted lights required
   
345.03   Measurement of distances and heights
   
345.04   Headlights on motor vehicles and motorcycles
   
345.05   Tail light; illumination of rear license plate
   
345.06   Red light or red flag on extended loads
   
345.07   Lights on parked or stopped vehicles
   
345.08   Lights on slow-moving vehicles
   
345.09   Spotlights and auxiliary lights
   
345.10   Signal lamps and signal devices
   
345.11   Cowl, fender and back-up lights; flashing hazard lights
   
345.12   Multiple-beam road-lighting equipment requirements
   
345.13   Use of headlight beams
   
345.14   Single-beam road-lighting equipment
   
345.15   Lights on motorcycles, motor-driven cycles and mopeds
   
345.16   Alternate road-lighting equipment
   
345.17   Number of driving lights required or permitted
   
345.18   Special restrictions on lights
   
345.19   Motor vehicle or motorcycle brakes
   
345.20   Inspection of brakes on motorcycles, motor-driven cycles and mopeds
   
345.21   Horn, siren and theft alarm signal
   
345.22   Muffler; muffler cutout; excessive smoke, gas or noise
   
345.23   Rear-view mirror
   
345.24   Windshield to be unobstructed; windshield wiper
   
345.25   Tire equipment restrictions
   
345.26   Safety glass in motor vehicles (Repealed)
   
345.27   Vehicles transporting explosives
   
345.28   Television receiver in driver’s view prohibited
   
345.29   Safety equipment for motorcyclists, motorcycles, motor-driven cycles
and mopeds
   
345.30   Certification labels on mopeds
   
345.31   Child passenger safety devices required; child safety seats and
booster seats
   
345.32   Certificate of inspection and approval
   
345.33   Alteration of suspension system
   
345.34   Sun screening devices
   
345.35   Operation of vehicles with safety belts
 
   
345.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Bicycle equipment, see
Art. 373
Statutory reference:
   Obscured light on vehicles in combination, see W.Va. Code § 17C-15-13
   Warning devices for commercial vehicles, see W.Va. Code § 17C-15-39
§ 345.01 DRIVING UNSAFE VEHICLES; APPLICATION; FARM AND ROAD EQUIPMENT;
EXCEPTIONS.
   (a)   No person shall drive or move and no owner shall cause or knowingly
permit to be driven or moved on any street or highway any vehicle or
combination of vehicles which is in such unsafe condition as to endanger any
person, or which does not contain those parts or is not at all times equipped
with such lamps and other equipment in proper condition and adjustment as
required in this article, or which is equipped in any manner in violation of
this article, or for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to perform any
act required under this article.
   (b)   Nothing contained in this article shall be construed to prohibit the
use of additional parts and accessories on any vehicle not inconsistent with
the provisions of this article.
   (c)   The provisions of this article with respect to equipment on vehicles
shall not apply to implements of husbandry, road machinery, road rollers or
farm tractors except as herein made applicable. Every farm tractor equipped
with an electric lighting system shall at all times mentioned in §
345.02 display a red tail lamp and either multiple-beam or single-beam head
lamps meeting the requirements of §
345.02.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-15-1)
§ 345.02 WHEN LIGHTED LIGHTS REQUIRED.
   Every vehicle other than a school bus, motorcycle, motor-driven cycle or
moped operated upon a street or highway within this municipality at any time
from sunset to sunrise or during fog, smoke, rain or other unfavorable
atmospheric conditions, or at any other time when there is not sufficient light
to render clearly discernible persons and vehicles on the street or highway at
a distance of 500 feet ahead shall display lighted head lamps and illuminating
devices as hereinafter respectively required for different classes of vehicles,
subject to exceptions with respect to parked vehicles as provided for in §
345.07(c). Every school bus, motorcycle, motor-driven cycle and moped shall
display lighted head lamps at all times when upon the street or highway.
Lighted lamps and other lighting devices that consist of multiple light-
emitting diodes (LEDs) or other illuminating components that function as a
single lighting unit are deemed to be functional so long as at least 66% of the
LEDs or other illuminating components are functional; provided, that the
lighted lamps or lighting devices must still project sufficient illumination to
satisfy all other requirements contained in this article.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-15-2)
§ 345.03 MEASUREMENT OF DISTANCES AND HEIGHTS.
   (a)   Whenever requirement is hereinafter declared as to the distance from
which certain lamps and devices shall render objects visible or within which
such lamps or devices shall be visible such provisions shall apply during the
times stated in §
345.02 in respect to a vehicle without load when upon a straight, level,
unlighted street or highway under normal atmospheric conditions unless a
different time or condition is expressly stated.
   (b)   Whenever requirement is hereinafter declared as to the mounted height
of lamps or devices it shall mean from the center of such lamp or device to the
level ground upon which the vehicle stands when such vehicle is without a load.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-15-3)
§ 345.04 HEADLIGHTS ON MOTOR VEHICLES AND MOTORCYCLES.
   (a)   Every motor vehicle other than a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle or
moped shall be equipped with at least two head lamps with at least one on each
side of the front of the motor vehicle, which head lamps shall comply with the
requirements and limitations set forth in this article.
   (b)   Every motorcycle, motor-driven cycle and moped shall be equipped with
at least one and not more than two head lamps which shall comply with the
requirements and limitations of this article.
   (c)   Every head lamp upon every motor vehicle, including every motorcycle,
motor-driven cycle and moped, shall be located at a height measured from the
center of the head lamp of not more than 54 inches nor less than 24 inches to
be measured as set forth in §
345.03.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-15-4)
§ 345.05 TAIL LIGHT; ILLUMINATION OF REAR LICENSE PLATE.
   (a)   Every motor vehicle, trailer or semitrailer, and any other vehicle
which is being drawn at the end of a train of vehicles, shall be equipped with
at least one tail lamp mounted on the rear, which, when lighted as hereinbefore
required, shall emit a red light plainly visible from a distance of 500 feet to
the rear, provided that in the case of a train of vehicles only the tail lamp
on the rearmost vehicle need actually be seen from the distance specified.
   (b)   Every tail lamp upon every vehicle shall be located at a height of not
more than 60 inches nor less than 20 inches to be measured as set forth in §
345.03(b). Either a tail lamp or a separate lamp shall be so constructed and
placed as to illuminate with a white light the rear registration plate and
render it clearly legible from a distance of 50 feet to the rear. Any tail lamp
or tail lamps, together with any separate lamp for illuminating the rear
registration plate, shall be so wired as to be lighted whenever the head lamps
or auxiliary driving lamps are lighted.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-15-5)
§ 345.06 RED LIGHT OR RED FLAG ON EXTENDED LOADS.
   (a)   Whenever the load upon any vehicle extends to the rear four feet or
more beyond the bed or body of such vehicle there shall be displayed at the
extreme rear end of the load, at the times specified in §
345.02, a red light or lantern plainly visible from a distance of at least 500
feet to the sides and rear.
   (b)   The red light or lantern required under this section shall be in
addition to the red rear light required upon every vehicle.
   (c)   At any time there shall be displayed at the extreme rear end of such
load a red flag or cloth not less than 12 inches square and so hung that the
entire area is visible to the driver of a vehicle approaching from the rear.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-15-14)
§ 345.07 LIGHTS ON PARKED OR STOPPED VEHICLES.
   (a)   Whenever a vehicle is lawfully parked upon a street or highway during
the hours between sunset and sunrise and in the event there is sufficient light
to reveal any person or object within a distance of 500 feet upon such street
or highway no lights need be displayed upon such parked vehicle.
   (b)   Whenever a vehicle is parked or stopped upon a roadway or shoulder
adjacent thereto, whether attended or unattended, during the hours between
sunset and sunrise and there is not sufficient light to reveal any person or
object within a distance of 500 feet upon such street or highway, such vehicle
so parked or stopped shall be equipped with one or more lamps meeting the
following requirements: at least one lamp shall display a white or amber light
visible from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the vehicle, and the same
lamp or at least one other lamp shall display a red light visible from a
distance of 500 feet to the rear of the vehicle, and the location of such lamp
or lamps shall always be such that at least one lamp or combination of lamps
meeting the requirements of this section is installed as near as practicable to
the side of the vehicle which is closest to passing traffic. The foregoing
provisions shall not apply to a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle or moped.
   (c)   Any lighted head lamps upon a parked vehicle shall be depressed or
dimmed.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-15-15)
§ 345.08 LIGHTS ON SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES.
   All vehicles including animal-drawn vehicles and including those referred to
in §
345.01(c) not hereinbefore specifically required to be equipped with lamps,
shall at the times specified in §
345.02 be equipped with at least one lighted lamp or lantern exhibiting a white
light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the front of such vehicle and with
a lamp or lantern exhibiting a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to
the rear.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-15-16)
§ 345.09 SPOTLIGHTS AND AUXILIARY LIGHTS.
   For the purposes of this section, a lamp or lighting device meets the
requirements specified below so long as any portion of the illuminating surface
of the lamp or lighting device is within the specified range.
   All lamps and lighting devices covered in this section may be installed so
that the entire lamp or lighting device exceeds 42 inches above the level
surface upon which the vehicle stands so long as such lamps or lighting devices
are either covered or dimmable.
   (a)   Spot lamps. Any motor vehicle except a public utility company
maintenance vehicle may be equipped with not more than one spot lamp and every
lighted spot lamp shall be so aimed and used upon approaching another vehicle
that no part of the high-intensity portion of the beam will be directed to the
left of the prolongation of the extreme left side of the vehicle nor more than
100 feet ahead of the vehicle. A public utility company maintenance vehicle may
be equipped with more than one spot lamp but all lighted spot lamps shall be
aimed and used in conformity to the requirements of this subsection.
   (b)   Fog lamps. Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than two
fog lamps mounted on the front at a height not less than 12 inches nor more
than 30 inches above the level surface upon which the vehicle stands and so
aimed that when the vehicle is not loaded none of the high-intensity portion of
the light to the left of the center of the vehicle shall at a distance of 25
feet ahead project higher than a level of four inches below the level of the
center of the lamp from which it comes.
   (c)   Auxiliary passing lamp. Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not
more than two auxiliary passing lamps mounted on the front at a height not less
than 24 inches nor more than 42 inches above the level surface upon which the
vehicle stands and every auxiliary passing lamp shall meet the requirements and
limitations set forth in this article.
   (d)   Auxiliary driving lamp. Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not
more than two auxiliary driving lamps mounted on the front at a height not less
than 16 inches nor more than 42 inches above the level surface upon which the
vehicle stands and every such auxiliary driving lamp shall meet the
requirements and limitations set forth in this article.
   (e)   Roof-mounted off-road light bar lighting device. Any motor vehicle may
be equipped with a roof-mounted off-road light bar lighting device comprised of
multiple lamps; provided, that whenever the vehicle is operated or driven upon
any road or highway, the roof-mounted off-road light bar lighting device shall
be turned off while the vehicle is being operated on any road or highway.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-15-17)
§ 345.10 SIGNAL LAMPS AND SIGNAL DEVICES.
   (a)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped and when required under this Traffic
Code shall be equipped with the following signal lamps or devices:
      (1)   A stop lamp on the rear which shall emit a red or yellow light and
which shall be actuated upon application of the service (foot) brake and which
may but need not be incorporated with a tail lamp.
      (2)   A lamp or lamps or mechanical signal device capable of clearly
indicating any intention to turn either to the right or to the left and which
shall be visible both from the front and rear.
   (b)   A stop lamp shall be plainly visible and understandable from a
distance of 100 feet to the rear both during normal sunlight and at nighttime
and signal lamp or lamps indicating intention to turn shall be visible and
understandable during daytime and nighttime from a distance of 100 feet both to
the front and rear. When a vehicle is equipped with a stop lamp or other signal
lamps, such lamp or lamps shall at all times be maintained in good working
condition. No stop lamp or signal lamp shall project a glaring or dazzling
light.
   (c)   All mechanical signal devices shall be self-illuminated when in use at
the times mentioned in §
345.02.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-15-18)
§ 345.11 COWL, FENDER AND BACK-UP LIGHTS; FLASHING HAZARD LIGHTS.
   (a)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than two side cowl or
fender lamps which shall emit an amber or white light without glare.
   (b)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than one running-board
courtesy lamp on each side thereof which shall emit a white or amber light
without glare.
   (c)   All motor vehicles shall be equipped with a minimum of at least two
functioning back-up lamps either separately or in combination with other lamps,
unless the vehicle was originally equipped with one lamp. Any such back-up lamp
shall not be lighted when the motor vehicle is in forward motion. School buses
used for the transportation of school children in this municipality, whether
owned and operated by a county board of education or privately owned and
operated under contract with a county board of education, shall be equipped
with at least two back-up lamps, one on each side of the rear door, with white
lens or reflectors, capable of lighting the roadway and objects to the rear of
the bus for safe backing during darkness, and which, at the option of the
county board of education, may each provide 50 candlepower in illumination
intensity instead of 32 candlepower.
   (d)   Any vehicle may be equipped with lamps which may be used for the
purpose of warning the operators of other vehicles of the presence of a
vehicular traffic hazard requiring the exercise of unusual care in approaching,
overtaking or passing, and when so equipped may display such warning in
addition to any other warning signals required by this article. The lamps used
to display such warning to the front shall be mounted at the same level and as
widely spaced laterally as practicable and shall display simultaneously
flashing white or amber lights, or any shade of color between white and amber.
The lamps used to display such warning to the rear shall be mounted at the same
level and as widely spaced laterally as practicable, and shall show
simultaneously flashing amber or red lights or any shade of color between amber
and red.
   (e)   Vehicles used by “rural mail carriers” in carrying or delivering mail
in rural areas may be equipped with amber flashing lights. Such lights shall be
on the front and rear of the vehicle and may be activated when the vehicle is
stopped or decreasing speed in order to stop in the course of carrying,
delivering or picking up mail along the route.
   (f)   (1)   Vehicles used as the lead car in a funeral procession are hereby
authorized to be equipped with, but are not required to use, purple lamps or
purple flashing lights. Such lamps may be used for the purpose of warning the
operators of other vehicles of the presence of a vehicular traffic hazard
requiring the exercise of unusual care in approaching, overtaking or passing a
funeral procession, and when so equipped may display such warning in addition
to any other warning signals required by this article.
      (2)   The lamps or flashing lights used to display such warning to the
front shall be mounted at the same level and as widely spaced laterally as
practicable and shall display simultaneously either illuminating or flashing
purple lights.
      (3)   The lamps used to display such warning to the rear shall be mounted
at the same level and as widely spaced laterally as practicable, and shall show
simultaneously flashing or illuminated purple lights.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-15-19)
§ 345.12 MULTIPLE-BEAM ROAD-LIGHTING EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   Except as hereinafter provided, the head lamps or the auxiliary driving lamp
or the auxiliary passing lamp or combinations thereof on motor vehicles other
than a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle or moped shall be so arranged that the
driver may select at will between distributions of light projected to different
elevations and such lamps may, in addition, be so arranged that such selection
can be made automatically, subject to the following limitations:
   (a)   There shall be an uppermost distribution of light, or composite beam,
so aimed and of such intensity as to reveal persons and vehicles at a distance
of at least 350 feet ahead for all conditions of loading.
   (b)   There shall be a lowermost distribution of light, or composite beam,
so aimed and of sufficient intensity to reveal persons and vehicles at a
distance of at least 100 feet ahead; and on a straight level road under any
condition of loading none of the high-intensity portion of the beam shall be
directed to strike the eyes of an approaching driver.
   (c)   Every new motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle
or moped, registered in the state after January 1, 1952, which has multiple-
beam road-lighting equipment shall be equipped with a beam indicator, which
shall be lighted whenever the uppermost distribution of light from the head
lamps is in use, and shall not otherwise be lighted. Such indicator shall be so
designed and located that when lighted it will be readily visible without glare
to the driver of the vehicle so equipped.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-15-20)
§ 345.13 USE OF HEADLIGHT BEAMS.
   Whenever a motor vehicle is being operated on a roadway or shoulder adjacent
thereto during the times specified in §
345.02, the driver shall use a distribution of light, or composite beam,
directed high enough and of sufficient intensity to reveal persons and vehicles
at a safe distance in advance of the vehicle, subject to the following
requirements and limitations:
   (a)   Whenever a driver of a vehicle approaches an oncoming vehicle within
500 feet, such driver shall use a distribution of light, or composite beam, so
aimed that the glaring rays are not projected into the eyes of the oncoming
driver. The lowermost distribution of light, or composite beam specified in §
345.12(b) shall be deemed to avoid glare at all times regardless of road
contour and loading.
   (b)   Whenever the driver of a vehicle follows another vehicle within 200
feet to the rear, except when engaged in the act of overtaking and passing,
such driver shall use a distribution of light permissible under this Traffic
Code other than the uppermost distribution of light specified in §
345.12(a).
(W.Va. Code § 17C-15-21)
§ 345.14 SINGLE-BEAM ROAD-LIGHTING EQUIPMENT.
   Head lamps arranged to provide a single distribution of light shall be
permitted on motor vehicles manufactured and sold prior to July 1, 1952 in lieu
of multiple-beam road-lighting equipment herein specified if the single
distribution of light complies with the following requirements and limitations:
   (a)   The head lamps shall be so aimed that when the vehicle is not loaded
none of the high-intensity portion of the light shall at a distance of 25 feet
ahead project higher than a level of five inches below the level of the center
of the lamp from which it comes, and in no case higher than 42 inches above the
level on which the vehicle stands at a distance of 75 feet ahead.
   (b)   The intensity shall be sufficient to reveal persons and vehicles at a
distance of at least 200 feet.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-15-22)
§ 345.15 LIGHTS ON MOTORCYCLES, MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLES AND MOPEDS.
   The head lamp or head lamps upon every motorcycle, motor-driven cycle and
moped may be of the single-beam or multiple-beam type but in either event shall
comply with the requirements and limitations as follows:
   (a)   Every head lamp or head lamps shall be of sufficient intensity to
reveal a person or a vehicle at a distance of not less than 100 feet when the
motorcycle, motor-driven cycle or moped is operated at any speed less than 25
miles per hour and at a distance of not less than 200 feet when it is operated
at a speed of 25 or more miles per hour.
   (b)   If the motorcycle, motor-driven cycle or moped is equipped with a
multiple-beam type head lamp or head lamps the upper beam shall meet the
minimum requirements set forth above and shall not exceed the limitations set
forth in §
345.12(a) and the lowermost beam shall meet the requirements applicable to a
lowermost distribution of light as set forth in §
345.12(b).
   (c)   If the motorcycle, motor-driven cycle or moped is equipped with a
single-beam lamp or lamps such lamp or lamps shall be so aimed that when the
vehicle is loaded none of the high-intensity portion of light, at a distance of
25 feet ahead, shall project higher than the level of the center of the lamp
from which it comes.
   (d)   (1)   Subject to subsection (d)(2) below, a motorcycle may be equipped
with, and an operator of a motorcycle may use, the following auxiliary
lighting:
         A.   Amber and white illumination;
         B.   Standard bulb running lights; or
         C.   Light-emitting diode pods and strips.
      (2)   Lighting under this subsection (d) shall be:
         A.   Nonblinking;
         B.   Nonflashing;
         C.   Nonoscillating; and
         D.   Directed toward the engine and the drive train of the motorcycle
to prevent interference with the driver’s operation of the vehicle.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-15-23)
§ 345.16 ALTERNATE ROAD-LIGHTING EQUIPMENT.
   Any motor vehicle may be operated under the conditions specified in §
345.02 when equipped with two lighted lamps upon the front thereof capable of
revealing persons and objects 75 feet ahead in lieu of lamps required in §
345.12, or §
345.14, provided that at no time shall it be operated at a speed in excess of
20 miles per hour.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-15-24)
§ 345.17 NUMBER OF DRIVING LIGHTS REQUIRED OR PERMITTED.
   At all times specified in §
345.02 at least two lighted lamps shall be displayed, one on each side at the
front of every motor vehicle other than a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle or
moped, except when such vehicle is parked subject to the regulations governing
lights on parked vehicles. Whenever a motor vehicle equipped with head lamps as
herein required is also equipped with any auxiliary lamps or a spot lamp or any
other lamp on the front thereof projecting a beam of intensity greater than 300
candlepower, not more than a total of four of any such lamps on the front of a
vehicle shall be lighted at any one time when upon a street or highway.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-15-25)
§ 345.18 SPECIAL RESTRICTIONS ON LIGHTS.
   (a)   Any lighted lamp or illuminating device upon a motor vehicle other
than head lamps, spot lamps, auxiliary lamps or flashing front-direction
signals which projects a beam of light of an intensity greater than 300
candlepower shall be so directed that no part of the beam will strike the level
of the roadway on which the vehicle stands at a distance of more than 75 feet
from the vehicle.
   (b)   No person may drive or move any vehicle or equipment upon any highway
with any lamp or device thereon displaying other than a white or amber light
visible from directly in front of the center of the vehicle except as
authorized by subsection (d) below.
   (c)   Except as authorized in subsections (d) and (g) below and §
345.11, flashing lights are prohibited on motor vehicles; provided, that any
vehicle as a means for indicating right or left turn, or any vehicle as a means
of indicating the same is disabled or otherwise stopped for an emergency may
have blinking or flashing lights.
   (d)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Traffic Code, the
following colors of flashing warning lights are restricted for the use of the
type of vehicle designated:
      (1)   Blue flashing warning lights are restricted to police vehicles.
Authorization for police vehicles shall be designated by the chief
administrative official of each police department.
      (2)   Except for standard vehicle equipment authorized by §
345.11, red flashing warning lights are restricted to the following:
         A.   Ambulances;
         B.   Fire-fighting vehicles;
         C.   Hazardous material response vehicles;
         D.   Industrial fire brigade vehicles;
         E.   Rescue squad vehicles not operating out of a fire department;
         F.   School buses;
         G.   Class A vehicles, as defined by W.Va. Code § 17A-10-1 of those
firefighters who are authorized by their fire chiefs to have the lights;
         H.   Class A vehicles of members of duly chartered rescue squads not
operating out of a fire department;
         I.   Class A vehicles of members of ambulance services or duly
chartered rescue squads who are authorized by their respective chiefs to have
the lights;
         J.   Class A vehicles of out-of-state residents who are active members
of West Virginia fire departments, ambulance services or duly chartered rescue
squads who are authorized by their respective chiefs to have the lights;
         K.   West Virginia Department of Agriculture emergency response
vehicles.
         L.   Vehicles designated by the Secretary of the Department of
Military Affairs and Public Safety for emergency response or emergency
management by the Division of Corrections, Regional Jail and Correctional
Facility Authority, Division of Juvenile Services and Division of Homeland
Security and Emergency Management; and
         M.   Class A vehicles of emergency response or emergency management
personnel as designated by the Secretary of the Department of Military Affairs
and Public Safety and the county commission of the county of residence.
         Red flashing warning lights attached to a Class A vehicle shall be
operated only when responding to or engaged in handling an emergency requiring
the attention of the firefighters, members of the ambulance services or
chartered rescue squads.
      (3)   The use of red flashing warning lights is authorized as follows:
         A.   Authorization for all ambulances shall be designated by the
Department of Health and Human Resources and the sheriff of the county of
residence.
         B.   Authorization for all fire department vehicles shall be
designated by the Fire Chief and the State Fire Marshal’s office.
         C.   Authorization for all hazardous material response vehicles and
industrial fire brigades shall be designated by the Chief of the Fire
Department and the State Fire Marshal’s office.
         D.   Authorization for all rescue squad vehicles not operating out of
a fire department shall be designated by the squad chief, the sheriff of the
county of residence and the Department of Health and Human Resources.
         E.   Authorization for school buses shall be designated as set out in
W.Va. Code § 17C-14-12.
         F.   Authorization for firefighters to operate Class A vehicles shall
be designated by their fire chiefs and the State Fire Marshal’s Office.
         G.   Authorization for members of ambulance services or any other
emergency medical service personnel to operate Class A vehicles shall be
designated by their chief official, the Department of Health and Human
Resources and the sheriff of the county of residence.
         H.   Authorization for members of duly chartered rescue squads not
operating out of a fire department to operate Class A vehicles shall be
designated by their squad chiefs, the sheriff of the county of residence and
the Department of Health and Human Resources.
         I.   Authorization for out-of-state residents operating Class A
vehicles who are active members of a West Virginia fire department, ambulance
services or duly chartered rescue squads shall be designated by their
respective chiefs.
         J.   Authorization for West Virginia Department of Agriculture
emergency response vehicles shall be designated by the Commissioner of the
Department of Agriculture.
         K.   Authorization for vehicles for emergency response or emergency
management by the Division of Corrections, Regional Jail and Correctional
Facility Authority, Division of Juvenile Services and Division of Homeland
Security and Emergency Management shall be designated by the Secretary of the
Department of Military Affairs and Public Safety.
         L.   Authorization for Class A vehicles of emergency response or
emergency management personnel as designated by the Secretary of the Department
of Military Affairs and Public Safety and the county commission of the county
of residence.
      (4)   Yellow or amber flashing warning lights are restricted to the
following:
         A.   All other emergency vehicles, including tow trucks and wreckers,
authorized by the W.Va. Code Chapter 17C and § 17C-15-27;
         B.   Postal service vehicles and rural mail carriers, as authorized in
§
345.11;
         C.   Rural newspaper delivery vehicles;
         D.   Flag car services;
         E.   Vehicles providing road service to disabled vehicles;
         F.   Service vehicles of a public service corporation;
         G.   Snow removal equipment;
         H.   School buses; and
         I.   Automotive fire apparatus owned by a municipality or other
political subdivision, by a volunteer or part-volunteer fire company or
department or by an industrial fire brigade.
      (5)   The use of yellow or amber flashing warning lights shall be
authorized as follows:
         A.   Authorization for tow trucks, wreckers, rural newspaper delivery
vehicles, flag car services, vehicles providing road service to disabled
vehicles, service vehicles of a public service corporation and postal service
vehicles shall be designated by the sheriff of the county of residence.
         B.   Authorization for snow removal equipment shall be designated by
the Commissioner of the Division of Highways.
         C.   Authorization for school buses shall be designated as set out in
W.Va. Code §
         D.   Authorization for automotive fire apparatus shall be designated
by the Fire Chief in conformity with the NFPA 1901 standard for automotive fire
apparatus as published by the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) on
July 18, 2003, and adopted by the State Fire Commission by legislative rule (87
CSR 1 et seq.), except as follows:
            1.   With the approval of the State Fire Marshal, used automotive
fire apparatus may be conformed to the NFPA standard in effect on the date of
its manufacture or conformed to a later NFPA standard; and
            2.   Automotive fire apparatus may be equipped with blinking or
flashing headlamps.
   (e)   (1)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section, any
vehicle belonging to a county board of education, an organization receiving
funding from the state or federal transit administration for the purpose of
providing general public transportation, or hauling solid waste may be equipped
with a white flashing strobotron warning light. This strobe light may be
installed on the roof of a school bus, a public transportation vehicle, or a
vehicle hauling solid waste not to exceed one-third the body length forward
from the rear of the roof edge.
      (2)   The light shall have a single clear lens emitting light 360 degrees
around its vertical axis and may not extend above the roof more than six and
one-half inches. A manual switch and a pilot light must be included to indicate
the light is in operation.
   (f)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section, any waste
service vehicle as defined in W.Va. Code Chapter 17C-6-11 may be equipped with
yellow or amber flashing warning lights.
   (g)   No person shall install or use flashing warning lights of an
unauthorized color on a vehicle other than as specified in this section, except
that a police vehicle may be equipped with either or both blue or red warning
lights.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-15-26)
§ 345.19 MOTOR VEHICLE OR MOTORCYCLE BRAKES.
   (a)   Brake equipment required.
      (1)   Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle or
moped, when operated upon a street or highway shall be equipped with brakes
adequate to control the movement of and to stop and hold such vehicle,
including two separate means of applying the brakes, each of which means shall
be effective to apply the brakes to at least two wheels. If these two separate
means of applying the brakes are connected in any way, they shall be so
constructed that failure of any one part of the operating mechanism shall not
leave the motor vehicle without brakes on at least two wheels.
      (2)   Every motorcycle, motor-driven cycle and moped, when operated upon
a street or highway, shall be equipped with at least one brake which may be
operated by hand or foot.
      (3)   Every trailer or semitrailer of a gross weight of 3,000 pounds or
more when operated upon a street or highway shall be equipped with brakes
adequate to control the movement of and to stop and to hold such vehicle and so
designed as to be applied by the driver of the towing motor vehicle from its
cab, and such brakes shall be so designed and connected that in case of an
accidental breakaway of the towed vehicle the brakes shall be automatically
applied.
      (4)   Every new motor vehicle, trailer or semitrailer hereinafter sold in
this state and operated upon the streets or highways shall be equipped with
service brakes upon all wheels, with the following exceptions:
         A.   Trucks and truck-tractors having three or more axles need not
have brakes on the front wheels, except when such vehicles are equipped with at
least two steerable axles, the wheels of one such axle need not be equipped
with brakes, and
         B.   Any motorcycle, motor-driven cycle or moped and any semitrailer
of less than 1,500 pounds gross weight need not be equipped with brakes.
      (5)   In any combination of motor-driven vehicles, means shall be
provided for applying the rearmost trailer brakes, of any trailer equipped with
brakes, in approximate synchronism with the brakes on the towing vehicle and
developing the required braking effort on the rearmost wheels at the fastest
rate; or means shall be provided for applying braking effort first on the
rearmost trailer equipped with brakes; or both of the above means capable of
being used alternatively may be employed.
      (6)   Every such vehicle and combination of vehicles, except motorcycles,
motor-driven cycles and mopeds, shall be equipped with parking brakes adequate
to hold the vehicle on any grade on which it is operated, under all conditions
of loading on a surface free from snow, ice or loose material. The parking
brakes shall be capable of being applied in conformance with the foregoing
requirements by the driver’s muscular effort or by spring action or by
equivalent means. Their operation may be assisted by the service brakes or
other source of power provided that failure of the service brake actuation
system or other power assisting mechanism will not prevent the parking brakes
from being applied in conformance with the foregoing requirements. The parking
brakes shall be so designed that when once applied they shall remain applied
with the required effectiveness despite exhaustion of any source of energy or
leakage of any kind.
         The same brake drums, brake shoes and lining assemblies, brake shoe
anchors and mechanical brake shoe actuation mechanism normally associated with
the wheel brake assemblies may be used for both the service brakes and the
parking brakes. If the means of applying the parking brakes and the service
brakes are connected in any way, they shall be so constructed that a failure of
any one part shall not leave the vehicle without operative brakes.
      (7)   The brake shoes operating within or upon the drums on the vehicle
wheels of any motor vehicle may be used for both service and hand operation.
   (b)   Performance ability of brakes. Every motor vehicle or combination of
motor-drawn vehicles shall be capable, at all times and under all conditions of
loading, of being stopped on a dry, smooth, level road free from loose
material, upon application of the service (foot) brake, within the distances
specified below, or shall be capable of being decelerated at a sustained rate
corresponding to these distances:
 
                            Feet to stop from 20 miles Deceleration in feet per
                            per hour                   second
Vehicle or combinations of
vehicles having brakes on   30                         14
all wheels
Vehicles or combinations of
vehicles not having brakes  40                         10.7
on all wheels
 
   (c)   Maintenance of brakes. All brakes shall be maintained in good working
order and shall be so adjusted as to operate as equally as practicable with
respect to the wheels on opposite sides of the vehicle.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-15-31)
§ 345.20 INSPECTION OF BRAKES ON MOTORCYCLES, MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLES AND MOPEDS.
   No person shall operate on any street or highway any motorcycle, motor-
driven cycle or moped in the event the Commissioner of Highways has disapproved
the brake equipment upon such vehicle or type of vehicle.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-15-32)
§ 345.21 HORN, SIREN AND THEFT ALARM SIGNAL.
   (a)   Every motor vehicle when operated upon a street or highway shall be
equipped with a horn in good working order and capable of emitting sound
audible under normal conditions from a distance of not less than 200 feet, but
no horn or other warning device shall emit an unreasonably loud or harsh sound
or a whistle. The driver of a motor vehicle shall when reasonably necessary to
ensure safe operation give audible warning with his or her horn but shall not
otherwise use such horn when upon a street or highway.
   (b)   No vehicle shall be equipped with nor shall any person use upon a
vehicle any siren, whistle or bell, except as otherwise permitted in this
section.
   (c)   It is permissible but not required that any commercial vehicle be
equipped with a theft alarm signal device which is so arranged that it cannot
be used by the driver as an ordinary warning signal.
   (d)   Any authorized emergency vehicle may be equipped with a siren, whistle
or bell, capable of emitting sound audible under normal conditions from a
distance of not less than 500 feet and of a type approved by the Department of
Motor Vehicles, but such siren shall not be used except when such vehicle is
operated in response to an emergency or in the immediate pursuit of an actual
or suspected violator of the law, in which such latter events the driver of
such vehicle shall sound such siren when reasonably necessary to warn
pedestrians and other drivers of the approach thereof.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-15-33)
§ 345.22 MUFFLER; MUFFLER CUTOUT; EXCESSIVE SMOKE, GAS OR NOISE.
   (a)   Every motor vehicle shall at all times be equipped with a muffler in
good working order and in constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual
noise. Such muffler shall be the muffler originally installed by the
manufacturer of the vehicle or, if a replacement, the equivalent thereof. No
person shall use a muffler cutout, bypass or similar device upon a motor
vehicle on a street or highway.
   (b)   The engine and power mechanism of every motor vehicle shall be so
equipped and adjusted as to prevent the escape of excessive fumes or smoke.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-15-34)
§ 345.23 REAR-VIEW MIRROR.
   Every motor vehicle which is so constructed or loaded as to obstruct the
driver’s view to the rear thereof from the driver’s position shall be equipped
with a mirror so located as to reflect to the driver a view of the street or
highway for a distance of at least 200 feet to the rear of such vehicle.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-15-35)
§ 345.24 WINDSHIELD TO BE UNOBSTRUCTED; WINDSHIELD WIPER.
   (a)   No person shall drive any motor vehicle with any sign, poster or other
nontransparent material upon the front windshield, side wings or side or rear
windows of such vehicle which obstructs the driver’s clear view of the street
or highway or any intersecting street or highway.
   (b)   The windshield on every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a device
for cleaning rain, snow or other moisture from the windshield, which device
shall be so constructed as to be controlled or operated by the driver of the
vehicle.
   (c)   Every windshield wiper upon a motor vehicle shall be maintained in
good working order.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-15-36)
§ 345.25 TIRE EQUIPMENT RESTRICTIONS.
   (a)   Every solid rubber tire on a vehicle shall have rubber on its entire
traction surface at least one inch thick above the edge of the flange of the
entire periphery.
   (b)   No person shall operate or move on any highway any motor vehicle,
trailer or semitrailer having any metal tire in contact with the roadway. No
tire on a vehicle moved on a highway shall have on its periphery any block,
stud, flange, cleat or spike or any other protuberance of any material other
than rubber which projects beyond the tread of the traction surface of the
tire, except that:
      (1)   It shall be permissible to use farm machinery with tires having
protuberances which will not injure the street or highway;
      (2)   It shall be permissible to use tire chains of reasonable
proportions upon any vehicle when required for safety because of snow, ice or
other conditions tending to cause a vehicle to skid; and
      (3)   It shall be permissible to use studded tires during the period from
November 1, of each year until April 15 of the following year; provided that in
the interest of highway maintenance, no vehicle moved on a street or highway,
other than school buses, shall be equipped with studded tires which are
operational with a recommended air pressure greater than 40 pounds per square
inch.
   (c)   No studded tires or chains shall be sold or used within the
municipality which do not meet the specifications established by the rules and
regulations which the Commissioner of Highways shall promulgate.
   (d)   Council may in its discretion issue special permits authorizing the
operation upon the street or highway of traction engines or tractors having
movable tracks with transverse corrugations upon the periphery of such movable
tracks or farm tractors or other farm machinery, the operation of which upon a
highway would otherwise be prohibited under this Traffic Code.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-15-37)
§ 345.26 SAFETY GLASS IN MOTOR VEHICLES (REPEALED).
Editor’s note:
   Former W.Va. Code § 17C-15-38 from which §
345.26 was derived was repealed by Senate Bill 444, effective May 31, 2018.
§ 345.27 VEHICLES TRANSPORTING EXPLOSIVES.
   Any person operating any vehicle transporting any explosive as a cargo or
part of a cargo upon a street or highway shall at all times comply with the
provisions of this section.
   (a)   Such vehicle shall be marked or placarded on each side and the rear
with the word “Explosives” in letters not less than eight inches high, or there
shall be displayed on the rear of such vehicle a red flag not less than 24
inches square marked with the word “Danger” in white letters six inches high.
   (b)   Every such vehicle shall be equipped with not less than two fire
extinguishers, filled and ready for immediate use and placed at a convenient
point on the vehicle so used.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-15-41)
§ 345.28 TELEVISION RECEIVER IN DRIVER’S VIEW PROHIBITED.
   (a)   No motor vehicle may be operated on a street or highway when equipped
with a television receiver, video monitor, television or video screen unless
the receiver, screen or monitor is configured so that the moving images are not
in view of the operator while the vehicle is in motion, or if falls within one
or more of the categories set forth in subsection (b) or (c) below.
   (b)   This prohibition does not apply to the following equipment installed
in a vehicle:
      (1)   A visual display if it does not show video or television broadcast
images in view of the operator while the motor vehicle is in motion;
      (2)   A global positioning device;
      (3)   A mapping display;
      (4)   A visual display used to enhance or supplement the driver’s view
forward, behind or to the sides of a motor vehicle for the purpose of
maneuvering the vehicle;
      (5)   A visual display used to enhance or supplement a driver’s view of
vehicle occupants; or
      (6)   Television-type receiving equipment used exclusively for safety or
traffic engineering information.
   (c)   A television receiver, video monitor, television or video screen or
other similar means of visually displaying a television broadcast or video
signal is not prohibited if the equipment has an interlock device that, when
the motor vehicle is driven, disables the equipment for all uses except as a
visual display described in subsection (b)(1) to (b)(6) above.
(W.Va. Code § 17-C-15-42)
§ 345.29 SAFETY EQUIPMENT FOR MOTORCYCLISTS, MOTORCYCLES, MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLES
AND MOPEDS.
   (a)   No person shall operate or be a passenger on any motorcycle or motor-
driven cycle unless he or she is wearing securely fastened on his or her head
by either a neck or chin strap a protective helmet designed to deflect blows,
resist penetration and spread impact forces. Any helmet worn by an operator or
passenger shall meet the current performance specifications established by the
American National Standards Institute Standard, Z 90.1, the United States
Department of Transportation Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 218 or
Snell Safety Standards for Protective Headgear for Vehicle Users.
   (b)   No person shall operate or be a passenger on any motorcycle or motor-
driven cycle unless he or she is wearing safety, shatter-resistant eyeglasses
(excluding contact lenses), or eyegoggles or face shield that complies with the
performance specifications established by the American National Standards
Institute for Head, Eye and Respiratory Protection, Z 2.1. In addition, if any
motorcycle, motor-driven cycle or moped is equipped with a windshield or
windscreen, the windshield or windscreen shall be constructed of safety,
shatter-resistant material that complies with the performance specifications
established by Department of Transportation Federal Motor Vehicle Safety
Standard No. 205 and American National Standards Institute, Safety Glazing
Materials for Glazing Motor Vehicles Operated on Land Highways, Standard Z
26.1.
   (c)   No person shall operate a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle or moped on
which the handlebars or grips are more than 15 inches higher than the uppermost
part of the operator’s seat when the seat is not depressed in any manner.
   (d)   A person operating a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle or moped shall
ride in a seated position facing forward and only upon a permanent operator’s
seat attached to the vehicle. No operator shall carry any other person nor
shall any other person ride on such a vehicle unless the vehicle is designed to
carry more than one person, in which event a passenger may ride behind the
operator upon the permanent operator’s seat if it is designed for two persons,
or upon another seat firmly attached to the vehicle to the rear of the
operator’s seat and equipped with footrests designed and located for use by the
passenger or in a sidecar firmly attached to the vehicle. No person shall ride
sidesaddle on a seat. An operator may carry as many passengers as there are
seats and footrests to accommodate those passengers. Additional passengers may
be carried in a factory produced side car provided that there is one passenger
per seat. Passengers riding in a sidecar shall be restrained by safety belts.
   (e)   Every motorcycle, motor-driven cycle and moped shall be equipped with
a rearview mirror affixed to the handlebars or fairings and adjusted so that
the operator shall have a clear view of the road and condition of traffic
behind him or her for a distance of at least 200 feet.
   (f)   (1)   “Autocycle” means a fully or partially enclosed motorcycle that
is equipped with safety belts, rollover protection, a rearview mirror,
automotive seating, a steering wheel and equipment otherwise required on a
motorcycle and which has no more than three wheels in contact with the roadway
at any one time.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-69)
      (2)   Notwithstanding any provision of this code to the contrary, a
person with a valid driver’s license who is operating a fully enclosed
autocycle, as defined in subsection (f)(1) above, is exempt from the provisions
of this section.
(W.Va. Code § 17-C-15-44)
§ 345.30 CERTIFICATION LABELS ON MOPEDS.
   Every moped sold in this municipality shall have permanently affixed to it a
certification label which shall contain the following information:
   (a)   Name of manufacturer;
   (b)   Month and year of manufacture;
   (c)   Gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR);
   (d)   Gross axle weight rating for front and rear axles (GAWR);
   (e)   Vehicle identification number;
   (f)   Classification type; and
   (g)   Statement of conformance to federal standards as required by federal
law.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-15-45)
§ 345.31 CHILD PASSENGER SAFETY DEVICES REQUIRED; CHILD SAFETY SEATS AND
BOOSTER SEATS.
   (a)   Every driver who transports a child under the age of eight years in a
passenger automobile, van or pickup truck other than one operated for hire
shall, while the motor vehicle is in motion and operated on a street or
highway, provide for the protection of the child by properly placing,
maintaining and securing the child in a child passenger safety device system
meeting applicable federal motor vehicle safety standards; provided, that if a
child is under the age of eight years and at least four feet nine inches tall,
a safety belt shall be sufficient to meet the requirements of this section.
   (b)   Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be fined
not less than $10 nor more than $20. A violation of this section does not by
virtue of the violation constitute evidence of negligence or contributory
negligence or comparative negligence in any civil action or proceeding for
damages.
   (c)   If any provision of this section or the application thereof to any
person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity may not affect other
provisions or applications of this section and to this end the subsections of
this section are declared to be severable.
   (d)   If all seat belts in a vehicle are being used at the time of
examination by a law officer and the vehicle contains more passengers than the
total number of seat belts or other safety devices as installed in compliance
with federal motor vehicle safety standards, the driver may not be considered
in violation of this section.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-15-46)
§ 345.32 CERTIFICATE OF INSPECTION AND APPROVAL.
   No owner or operator of any vehicle required to be inspected under W.Va.
Code Article 17C-16 shall operate or permit to be operated such vehicle without
having displayed thereon a current and valid certificate of inspection and
approval or fail to produce same upon demand of any authorized person as
therein designated.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-16-9)
§ 345.33 ALTERATION OF SUSPENSION SYSTEM.
   (a)   No person shall operate upon a public street or highway any motor
vehicle registered or required to be registered in this state if it has been
modified by alteration of its height from the ground to the extent that its
bumpers, measured to any point on the lower edge of the main horizontal bumper
bar, exclusive of any bumper guards, do not fall within the limits specified
herein for its gross vehicle weight rating category. The front and rear bumper
height of motor vehicles whose gross vehicle weight rating is 10,000 pounds or
less shall be no less than six inches and no more than 31 inches. In the
absence of bumpers, and in cases where bumper heights have been altered or
modified, height measurements shall be made to the bottom of the frame rail. If
a motor vehicle has a bumper, the bumper must be at least three inches in
vertical width, centered on the center line of the motor vehicle and not less
than the width of the wheel track distance. The provisions of this subsection
do not apply to motor vehicles with a gross vehicle weight rating in excess of
10,000 pounds. For the purpose of this subsection, the term “gross vehicle
weight ratings” means the manufacturer’s gross vehicle weight ratings
established for that vehicle.
   (b)   The maximum distance between the vehicle body to the vehicle frame
shall not exceed three inches. The distance from the vehicle body to the
vehicle frame shall be measured from the vehicle body mount seat to the vehicle
frame mount seat; provided, that the maximum distance limitation shall not
prohibit a body lift kit up to three inches to be added to the manufacturer’s
original spacer between the body and the frame. No vehicle shall be modified to
cause the vehicle body or chassis to come in contact with the ground, expose
the fuel tank to damage from collision, or cause the wheels to come in contact
with the body under normal operation. No part of the original suspension system
may be disconnected to defeat the safe operation of the suspension system.
Modification of the front end suspension by the use of lift blocks is expressly
prohibited.
   (c)   Nothing contained in this section prevents the installation of heavy
duty equipment, including shock absorbers and overload springs.
   (d)   Nothing contained in this section prohibits the operation on a public
street or highway of a motor vehicle with normal wear to the suspension system
if such normal wear does not adversely affect the control of the vehicle.
   (e)   This section does not apply to specially designed or modified motor
vehicles when operated off the public streets and highways in races and similar
events. Such motor vehicles may be lawfully towed on the streets and highways
of this municipality.
   (f)   Modifications to motor vehicles, not prohibited herein, shall be made
subject to inspection as provided in subsection (h) below.
   (g)   Nothing contained in this section shall subject a vehicle modified
solely by the installation of tires not larger than two sizes beyond the
maximum specified by the manufacturer to inspection as provided in subsection
(h) below.
   (h)   Any motor vehicle which has been altered from the manufacturer’s
specification with respect to bumper height for that vehicle make and model but
within the allowable limits of subsection (a) above or any motor vehicle which
has been altered from the manufacturer’s specification for that vehicle make
and model with respect to the distance from the vehicle body to vehicle frame
but within the allowable limits of subsection (b) above may be operated upon a
public street or highway in this municipality, subject to inspection under
W.Va. Code § 17C-15-48; provided, that any motor vehicle which has been altered
from the manufacturer’s specification by lowering the bumper height for that
vehicle make and model within the allowable limits of subsection (a) above
shall be exempt from the inspection requirements hereunder and may be operated
upon a public street or highway in this municipality subject to provisions of
W.Va. Code Chapter 17C-16. Each municipal law enforcement agency must record on
crash report forms whether a modified vehicle was involved in the crash.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-15-48)
§ 345.34 SUN SCREENING DEVICES.
   (a)   No person may operate a motor vehicle that is registered or required
to be registered in the state on any public highway, road or street that has a
sun screening device on the windshield, the front side wings and side windows
adjacent to the right and left of the driver and windows adjacent to the rear
of the driver that do not meet the requirements of this section; provided, that
law enforcement K-9 and other emergency vehicles that are designed to haul
animals are exempt from this requirement.
   (b)   A sun screening device when used in conjunction with the windshield
must be nonreflective and may not be red, yellow or amber in color. A sun
screening device may be used only along the top of the windshield and may not
extend downward beyond the ASI line or more than five inches from the top of
the windshield whichever is closer to the top of the windshield.
   (c)   A sun screening device when used in conjunction with the automotive
safety glazing materials of the side wings or side windows located at the
immediate right and left of the driver shall be a nonreflective type with
reflectivity of not more than 20% and have a light transmission of not less
than 35%. The side windows behind the driver and the rear most windows may have
a sun screening device that is designed to be used on automotive safety glazing
materials that has a light transmission of not less than 35% and a reflectivity
of not more than 20%. If a sun screening device is used on glazing behind the
driver, one right and one left outside rear view mirror is required.
   (d)   Each manufacturer shall:
      (1)   Certify to the State Police and Division of Motor Vehicles that a
sun screening device used by it is in compliance with the reflectivity and
transmittance requirements of this section;
      (2)   Provide a label not to exceed one and one-half square inches in
size, with a means for the permanent and legible installations between the sun
screening material and each glazing surface to which it is applied that
contains the manufacturer’s name and its percentage of light transmission; and
      (3)   Include instructions with the product or material for proper
installation, including the affixing of the label specified in this section.
The labeling or marking must be placed in the left lower corner of each glazing
surface when facing the vehicle from the outside.
   (e)   No person shall:
      (1)   Offer for sale or for use any sun screening product or material for
motor vehicle use not in compliance with this section; or
      (2)   Install any sun screening product or material on vehicles intended
for use on public roads without permanently affixing the label specified in
this section.
   (f)   The provisions of this section do not apply to a motor vehicle
registered in this state in the name of a person, or the person’s legal
guardian, who has an affidavit signed by a physician or an optometrist licensed
to practice in this state that states that the person has a physical condition
that makes it necessary to equip the motor vehicle with sun screening material
which would be of a light transmittance or luminous reflectance in violation of
this section. The affidavit must be in the possession of the person so
afflicted, or the person’s legal guardian, at all times while being transported
in the motor vehicle.
   (g)   The light transmittance requirement of this section does not apply to
windows behind the driver on trucks, buses, trailers, mobile homes and
multipurpose passenger vehicles.
   (h)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Bus” means a motor vehicle with motive power, except a trailer,
designed for carrying more than ten persons.
      (2)   “Light transmission” means the ratio of the amount of total light
to pass through a product or material to the amount of the total light falling
on the product or material.
      (3)   “Luminous reflectants” means the ratio of the amount of total light
that is reflected outward by the product or material to the amount of the total
light falling on the product or materials.
      (4)   “Manufacturer” means any person engaged in the manufacturing or
assembling of sun screening products or materials designed to be used in
conjunction with vehicle glazing materials for the purpose of reducing the
effects of the sun.
      (5)   “Motor homes” means vehicular units designed to provide temporary
living quarters built into and an integral part of or permanently attached to a
self-propelled motor vehicle chassis.
      (6)   “Multipurpose passenger vehicle” means a motor vehicle with motive
power, except a trailer, designed to carry ten persons or less which is
constructed either on a truck chassis or with special features for occasional
off-road operation.
      (7)   “Nonreflective” means a product or material designed to absorb
light rather than to reflect it.
      (8)   “Passenger car” means a motor vehicle with motive power, except a
multipurpose passenger vehicle, motorcycle or trailer, designed for carrying
ten persons or less.
      (9)   “Sun screening device” means film material or device that is
designed to be used in conjunction with motor vehicle safety glazing materials
for reducing the effects of the sun.
      (10)   “Truck” means a motor vehicle with motive power, except a trailer,
designed primarily for the transportation of property or special purpose
equipment.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-15-36a)
§ 345.35 OPERATION OF VEHICLES WITH SAFETY BELTS.
   (a)   A person shall not operate a passenger vehicle on a public street or
highway unless the person, any passenger in the back seat under 18 years of
age, and any passenger in the front seat of such passenger vehicle is
restrained by a safety belt meeting applicable federal motor vehicle safety
standards. For the purposes of this section, “passenger vehicle” means a motor
vehicle which is designed for transporting ten passengers or less, including
the driver, except that such term does not include a motorcycle, a trailer or
any motor vehicle which is not required on the date of the enactment of this
section under a federal motor vehicle safety standard to be equipped with a
belt system. The provisions of this section shall apply to all passenger
vehicles manufactured after the first day of January, 1967, and being 1968
models and newer.
   (b)   The required use of safety belts as provided herein does not apply to
a duly appointed or contracted rural mail carrier of the United States Postal
Service who is actually making mail deliveries or to a passenger or operator
with a physically disabling condition whose physical disability would prevent
appropriate restraint in such safety belt if the condition is duly certified by
a physician who shall state the nature of the disability as well as the reason
such restraint is inappropriate.
   (c)   A violation of this section is not admissible as evidence of
negligence or contributory negligence or comparative negligence in any civil
action or proceeding for damages, and shall not be admissible in mitigation of
damages; provided, that the court may, upon motion of the defendant, conduct an
in camera hearing to determine whether an injured party’s failure to wear a
safety belt was a proximate cause of the injuries complained of. Upon such a
finding by the court, the court may then, in a jury trial, by special
interrogatory to the jury, determine that the injured party failed to wear a
safety belt, and that the failure to wear the safety belt constituted a failure
to mitigate damages. The trier of fact may reduce the injured party’s recovery
for medical damages by an amount not to exceed 5% thereof. In the event the
plaintiff stipulates to the reduction of 5% of medical damages, the court shall
make the calculations and the issue of mitigation of damages for failure to
wear a safety belt shall not be presented to the jury. In all cases, the actual
computation of the dollar amount reduction shall be determined by the court.
   (d)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this code to the contrary, no
points may be entered on any driver’s record maintained by the Division of
Motor Vehicles as a result of a violation of this section.
   (e)   Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to abrogate or
alter the provisions of §
345.31 relating to the mandatory use of child passenger safety devices.
   (f)   Any person who violates the provisions of this section, upon
conviction, shall be fined not more than $25. Court costs or other fees may not
be assessed for a violation of this section. Section
345.35 shall be enforced as a primary offense as of the date of passage of this
article.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-15-49) (Ord. passed 8-8-2017)
§ 345.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   General article penalty. Unless otherwise provided for in this
article, any person violating any provision of this article upon a first
conviction shall be fined not more than $100; upon a second conviction within
one year thereafter, shall be fined not more than $200; and upon a third or
subsequent conviction, shall be fined not more than $500.
   (b)   Sunscreening devices. Whoever violates §
345.34 shall be fined not more than $200.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-15-36a) (Ord. passed 8-8-2017)
ARTICLE 347: COMMERCIAL AND HEAVY VEHICLES
Section
   
347.01   Oversize or overweight vehicles
   
347.02   Projecting loads on passenger vehicles
   
347.03   Maximum height, width and length
   
347.04   Loads dropping or leaking
   
347.05   Towing requirements
   
347.06   Movement of mobile homes in excess of legal dimensions
   
347.07   Parking commercial vehicles
 
   
347.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Red light or flag on extended load, see §
345.07
   Transporting explosives, see §
345.27
Statutory reference:
   Authority to designate weight limits on local streets, see W.Va. Code § 17C-
2-8(a)(7)
   Authority to permit oversized buses, see W.Va. Code § 17C-17-2(b)
§ 347.01 OVERSIZE OR OVERWEIGHT VEHICLES.
   (a)   Use of state route.
      (1)   No person shall operate or move a vehicle or combination of
vehicles of a size or weight of vehicle or load exceeding the maximum specified
in W.Va. Code Article 17C-17 upon any state route within the municipality,
except pursuant to special written permit issued by the Commissioner of
Highways, or upon any local truck route. Every such permit shall be carried in
the vehicle or combination of vehicles to which it refers and shall be open to
inspection by any police officer.
      (2)   No holder of a permit issued by the Commissioner of Highways shall
be required to obtain any local permit or license or pay any local fee or
charge for movement on any state route within the municipality; however, it
shall be unlawful to operate any such vehicle or combination of vehicles upon
any roadway within the municipality which is not a state route, except as
provided in subsection (c) below.
   (b)   Use of local streets. No person shall operate a vehicle exceeding a
size as specified in §
347.03 or exceeding a gross weight of five tons, upon any street in the
municipality other than a state route, except those local streets designated as
a truck route and marked as such by appropriate traffic signs, and except when
such operation is necessary to load or unload property, to go to or from the
usual place of storage of such vehicle or to perform any other legitimate
business or act other than passage through the municipality. Operators of
vehicles so deviating from either a state route or a designated truck route
within the municipality shall confine such deviation to that required in order
to accomplish the purpose of the departure.
   (c)   Local permit and conditions.
      (1)   Upon application and for good cause, the Police Chief may issue a
local permit authorizing an applicant to move an oversize or overweight vehicle
or combination of vehicles upon local streets.
      (2)   No permittee shall be required to obtain a special permit from the
Commissioner of Highways for the movement of the vehicle or combination of
vehicles on streets or highways under local jurisdiction; however, the approval
of the Commissioner of Highways shall be required for movement upon state
routes as provided in subsection (a) above.
      (3)   The Police Chief may grant a permit for a single or round trip, or
for such period of time, not to exceed one year, as the Police Chief in his or
her discretion deems advisable, or for the duration of any construction
project. The Police Chief may limit or prescribe terms or conditions of
operation for such vehicle or combination of vehicles by designating the route,
hours, speed or such other restrictions as may be necessary for the
preservation of the public peace, property, health and safety. The Police Chief
may require the posting of bond or other security necessary to compensate for
any damage to a roadway or road structure.
      (4)   For each such permit, the Police Chief shall charge $5, and for
each hour of time or any part thereof spent by each police officer in
supervising the movement of such vehicle, the applicant shall pay the sum of
$10.
      (5)   Signs shall be posted indicating “no thru trucks - gross weight 5
tons” or words of similar import to apprise drivers of the limitations imposed
by this section. No driver shall disobey the instructions indicated on any such
sign.
      (6)   Violation of any of the limitations, terms or conditions of the
permit granted by the Police Chief shall be cause for immediate revocation or
suspension of such permit, and denial of request for any future permit. Such
violation shall also subject the violator to the penalty prescribed by §
303.99.
§ 347.02 PROJECTING LOADS ON PASSENGER VEHICLES.
   No passenger-type vehicle shall be operated on any street or highway with
any load carried thereon extending beyond the line of the fenders of the left
side of such vehicle nor extending more than six inches beyond the line of the
fenders on the right side thereof. A motor home, travel trailer or truck camper
may exceed the maximum width prescribed in §
347.03, if the excess width is attributable to an appurtenance that does not
exceed more than six inches beyond the body of the vehicle.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-17-3)
§ 347.03 MAXIMUM HEIGHT, WIDTH AND LENGTH.
   (a)   A vehicle, including any load thereon, may not exceed a height of 13
feet six inches, but the owner or owners of such vehicles shall be responsible
for damage to any bridge or highway structure and to municipalities for any
damage to traffic control devices or other highway structures where such
bridges, devices or structures have a vehicle clearance of less than 13 feet
six inches.
   (b)   A motor vehicle, including any load thereon, may not exceed a length
of 40 feet extreme overall dimension, inclusive of front and rear bumpers,
except that a motor home and school bus may not exceed a length of 45 feet,
exclusive of front and rear bumpers.
   (c)   Except as hereinafter provided in this subsection (c) or in subsection
(d) below, a combination of vehicles coupled together may not consist of more
than two units and no combination of vehicles including any load thereon shall
have an overall length, inclusive of front and rear bumpers, in excess of 55
feet except as provided in W.Va. Code § 17C-17-11b, and except as otherwise
provided in respect to the use of a pole trailer as authorized in W.Va. Code §
17C-17-5. The limitation that a combination of vehicles coupled together may
not consist of more than two units may not apply to:
      (1)   A combination of vehicles coupled together by a saddle-mount device
used to transport motor vehicles in a drive-away service when no more than
three saddle mounts are used, if equipment used in the combination meets the
requirements of the safety regulations of the United States Department of
Transportation and may not exceed an overall length of more than 75 feet; or
      (2)   A combination of vehicles coupled together, one of which is a
travel trailer or folding camping trailer having an overall length, exclusive
of front and rear bumpers, not exceeding 65 feet.
   (d)   A combination of two vehicles coupled together, one of which is a
motor home, or a combination of vehicles coupled together, one of which is a
travel trailer or folding camping trailer, may not exceed an overall length,
exclusive of front and rear bumpers of 65 feet.
   (e)   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (a), (b), (c) and (d)
above, the Commissioner of Highways may designate, upon his or her own motion
or upon the petition of an interested party, a combination vehicle length not
to exceed 70 feet.
   (f)   The length limitations for truck tractor-semitrailer combinations and
truck tractor- semitrailer-trailer combinations operating on the national
system of interstate and defense highways and those classes of qualifying
federal-aid primary system highways so designated by the United States
Secretary of Transportation and those highways providing reasonable access to
and from terminals, facilities for food, fuel, repairs and rest and points of
loading and unloading for household goods carriers from such highways and
further, as to other highways so designated by the West Virginia Commissioner
of Highways, shall be as follows: the maximum length of a semitrailer unit
operating in a truck tractor-semitrailer combination shall not exceed 48 feet
in length except where semitrailers have an axle spacing of not more than 37
feet between the rear axle of the truck tractor and the front axle of the
semitrailer, such semitrailer shall be allowed to be not more than 53 feet in
length and the maximum length of any semitrailer or trailer operating in a
truck tractor-semitrailer-trailer combination may not exceed 28 feet in length
and in no event shall any combinations exceed three units, including the truck
tractor; provided, that nothing herein contained shall impose an overall length
limitation as to commercial motor vehicles operating in truck tractor-
semitrailer or truck tractor-semitrailer-trailer combinations.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-17-4)
   (g)   The total outside width, exclusive of safety equipment authorized by
the United States Department of Transportation, of any vehicle or the load
thereon may not exceed 96 inches, except as otherwise provided in W.Va. Code
Article 17C-17; provided, that any vehicle with a total outside width of 102
inches, exclusive of safety equipment authorized by the United States
Department of Transportation, may be operated on any street or highway
designated by the United States Department of Transportation or the
Commissioner of the Department of Highways or on any street or highway having a
minimum lane width of ten feet.
   (h)   Motor homes, travel trailers, truck campers, and motor buses with a
total outside width of 102 inches, excluding safety equipment authorized by the
United States Department of Transportation may operate on any street or
highway.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-17-2)
§ 347.04 LOADS DROPPING OR LEAKING.
   (a)   No vehicle or combination of vehicles shall be operated on any street
or highway unless such vehicle or combination of vehicles is so constructed or
loaded as to prevent any of its load from dropping, sifting, leaking, or
otherwise escaping therefrom, except that sand may be dropped for the purpose
of securing traction, or water or other substance may be sprinkled on a roadway
in cleaning or maintaining such roadway.
   (b)   No person shall operate on any street or highway any vehicle or
combination of vehicles with any load unless such load and any covering thereon
is securely fastened so as to prevent such covering or load from becoming
loose, detached or in any manner a hazard to other users of the street or
highway.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-17-6)
§ 347.05 TOWING REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   When one vehicle is towing another the drawbar or other connection
shall be of sufficient strength to pull all weight towed thereby and such
drawbar or other connection shall not exceed 15 feet from one vehicle to the
other except the connection between any two vehicles transporting poles, pipe,
machinery or other objects of structural nature which cannot readily be
dismembered.
   (b)   When one vehicle is towing another and the connection consists of a
chain, rope or cable, there shall be displayed upon such connection a white
flag or cloth not less than 12 inches square.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-17-7)
§ 347.06 MOVEMENT OF MOBILE HOMES IN EXCESS OF LEGAL DIMENSIONS.
   (a)   Authority. Pursuant to W.Va. Code § 17C-17-11, Council may, in the
exercise of its discretion and upon application duly made, issue a special
permit authorizing the applicant to move or operate a licensed mobile home or
house trailer which is overlength, overwidth or overheight, along, upon, over
and across the streets of this city.
   (b)   Legal dimensions. A mobile home or house trailer, including its towing
vehicle, whose overall dimensions do not exceed the statutory limits given
below may be operated over city streets without a special permit.
 
Combination length 50 feet
Mobile home length No regulation
Width              8 feet
Height             12 feet 6 inches
 
   (c)   Permit information.
      (1)   A permit to move a mobile home over legal dimensions may be
obtained at the office of the City Manager, 108 North Main Street, Philippi,
West Virginia, 26416.
      (2)   Maximum over dimension permit limitations.
 
Combination length 85 feet
Mobile home length 70 feet
Width              14 feet
Height             12 feet 6 inches
 
      (3)   A.   A permit may be obtained either by letter, in person, by
telephone or telegraph.
         B.   The following information must be furnished with permit
application: name, address and telephone number of applicant; driver’s name and
address; description of mobile home, including make, year, model, serial
number, license number, overall length and width; description of towing
vehicle, including capacity, make, year, model and license number; name and
address of insurance company and expiration date of insurance; description of
routes to be traveled.
      (4)   The cost of all oversize mobile home permits shall be $5 for each
trip.
   (d)   Travel regulations.
      (1)   Travel shall be only over routes designated in the permit.
      (2)   All movements must be made between the hours from dawn to dusk,
week days only. No travel will be permitted for weekends, holidays or night
time; except there should be no movement through the city during the hours of
7:00 a.m. until 9:00 a.m. and from the hours of 4:00 p.m. until 6:00 p.m.
      (3)   The movement of 14-foot wide mobile homes is restricted to streets
designated by Council.
      (4)   Manufacturers, distribution and sales organizations, of 14-foot
wide mobile homes shall make application to the City Manager to determine a
possible route for delivery of mobile homes to the point of destination.
      (5)   Permits in advance are legal for five days and must be carried in
the towing vehicle.
      (6)   Notwithstanding the issuance of a permit, mobile homes of greater
than legal dimension shall not be moved at any time when driving conditions are
hazardous due to disturbance of road surfaces and/or visibility by natural
phenomena such as snow, ice, fog, excessive rain and the like.
   (e)   Manufacturing regulations.
      (1)   Fourteen-foot wide mobile homes will not be permitted except those
which are manufactured with a 33-foot minimum overhang which extends from the
outside of the wheels to the extreme outer limits of the mobile home. This will
reduce the use of pavement width by extending the overhanging portion of the
mobile home over the shoulder area.
      (2)   Fourteen-foot wide mobile homes must be constructed with a three
axle undercarriage equipped with three complete sets of brakes and ten-ply
tires 8-14.5 minimum size is required. A spare wheel and tire must be carried.
      (3)   All mobile homes shall be equipped with brakes adequate to control
the movement of and to stop and hold the vehicle, and shall be so designed that
they can be capable of application by the driver of the towing vehicle; also
connected so that in case of brake loss in the towing vehicle, the brakes will
be automatically applied.
   (f)   Safety regulations. The permit applicant shall maintain and operate
all equipment covered by the permit in accordance with all applicable laws of
the city. On all two lane highways, mobile homes up to and including 12-foot
wide shall have an escort vehicle at the front of the towing vehicle. On
expressways of four or more lanes, with the exception of interstate highways,
units in excess of 12 feet wide shall have escort vehicle at rear. All other
highways will require a pilot and escort vehicle at front and rear of mobile
homes over 12 feet wide.
      (3)   A.   The towing vehicle and the escort vehicles must be marked at
the appropriate location with a sign containing the message, “OVERSIZE LOAD
AHEAD”. Each sign shall not be less than six feet in length and 12 feet in
height, with letters which shall be at least 12 inches high, black in color, on
a yellow background.
         B.   These signs shall also be placed to the rear of the mobile home
and shall be so mounted that the bottom of the sign shall not be less than six
feet above the roadway. The signs may be removable devices made of durable
material.
      (4)   The towing vehicle and mobile home shall be flagged both front and
rear with six red flags, not less than 16 inches square and made of plastic or
cloth, which shall be placed as follows: one at each end of the front bumper of
the towing vehicle, and one on each of the top corners of the mobile home.
      (5)   Towing and escort vehicles shall be equipped with four-way amber
flashing lights spaced not less than six feet above the roadway. All running
lights must be burning while on the highway.
      (6)   Towing and escort vehicles shall have two-way radio communications.
      (7)   When one-way streets or narrow bridges or restrictive structures
are encountered, the driver of the escort vehicles shall, if oncoming traffic
is present, act as a flagman at the end of the structure to ensure the safe
passage of mobile homes and traffic over or through the constricted area.
      (8)   The tow bar must be located in such a position that the center of
the socket of the coupler shall not be less than 20 inches from the ground.
      (9)   The towing vehicle of all mobile homes must be of a capacity of at
least one ton for mobile homes up to 12-foot wide and of two ton capacity for
14-foot wide mobile homes with four speed transmission and dual drive wheels.
      (10)   The driver of a towing vehicle shall not permit a buildup of
traffic to the rear exceeding five vehicles if the roadway will permit pull-off
of towing vehicle or passing.
      (11)   Driver of towing vehicles on 14-foot wide mobile homes must have a
minimum of two years experience in towing oversize mobile homes.
      (12)   Movers of all mobile homes which will require parking
restrictions, or impede the normal flow of traffic in any way through the
municipality will notify the local authorities prior to movement. The
municipality may require police escort.
      (13)   The towing vehicle or mobile homes shall be equipped with safety
chains and brake load devices of sufficient strength to hold all weights being
towed.
      (14)   All towing vehicles moving mobile homes of greater than legal
dimensions shall stop at all truck weighing stations, either platform or
portable, and submit the combination of vehicles to any inspection deemed to be
necessary to determine if they are in compliance with these regulations and
applicable highway laws.
      (15)   The maximum speed of vehicles towing mobile homes shall be 40
miles per hour, with the exception of multiple-lane highways it shall be 45
miles per hour.
      (16)   A multiple trip permit may be issued in the discretion of the
Council for the operation of mobile homes with widths not exceeding 14 feet and
not exceeding the gross weight limit as set forth in W.Va. Code § 17C-17-11, as
amended. Such permits shall be issued subject to the following conditions: a
book of coupons containing no less than five or more than 20 shall be attached
to each permit. Each coupon shall be issued in the following form and manner:
 
Date __________________________ Coupon No.______________________________
______________________________________, Applicant, Is Hereby Granted Permit No.
__________ Validation No. ______________ To Move __________ Wide Mobile Home
Overall Length ______________ Ser. ________________ Lic. ____________________
Tow Truck _________________ Ton_________________ Lic. ____________________
From ______________________ To _________________ Rts. ____________________
Dates to Travel ___________________________________________________________
 
   (g)   Additional restrictions. The City Manager reserves the right to place
such additional restrictions and exceptions on the movement of mobile homes of
greater than legal dimensions as may be deemed necessary. Any such restrictions
imposed by the issuing agency will be recorded on the face of the permit. The
City Manager reserves the right to deny and permit within the exercise of this
discretion and in the event of violation of state laws or any provisions of
these regulations, the permit may be cancelled.
§ 347.07 PARKING COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   (a)   Commercial vehicles. No vehicle having a load capacity in excess of
five tons empty and having more than a single rear drive axle shall be parked
or stopped upon any municipal street, avenues, alleys or public grounds except
for the purpose of loading and unloading.
   (b)   Penalty. Whoever violates any provision of this section shall be fined
not more than $100; upon a second conviction within one year thereafter shall
be fined not more than $200; and upon a third or subsequent conviction, shall
be fined not more than $500.
(Ord. passed 5-2-2017)
§ 347.99 PENALTY.
   See §
303.99 for general Traffic Code penalty.
ARTICLE 349: MISCELLANEOUS RULES
Section
   
349.01   Unattended motor vehicle (Repealed)
   
349.02   Backing a vehicle
   
349.03   Drivers’ view and control to be unobstructed by load or persons
   
349.04   Passengers in seat with operator
   
349.05   Passengers on running board
   
349.06   Following authorized emergency vehicles
   
349.061   Approaching authorized emergency vehicles
   
349.07   Driving over fire hose
   
349.08   Funeral processions
   
349.09   Opening door of vehicle on traffic side
   
349.10   Boarding or alighting from vehicle
   
349.11   Unauthorized riding or jumping onto vehicles
   
349.12   Squealing tires, cracking exhaust noises
   
349.13   Taking, injuring or tampering with vehicle
   
349.14   Driving upon sidewalk, street lawn or curb
   
349.15   Shortcutting; avoiding traffic control devices
   
349.16   Coasting prohibited
   
349.17   Driving through safety zone
   
349.18   Driving upon street posted as closed for repair
   
349.19   Obstruction of traffic
   
349.20   Vehicle security
   
349.21   Littering from a motor vehicle
   
349.22   Prohibited use of an electronic communication device
 
   
349.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Obedience to traffic control devices, see §
313.01
§ 349.01 UNATTENDED MOTOR VEHICLE (REPEALED).
Editor’s note:
   Former W.Va. Code § 17C-14-1 from which §
349.01 was derived was repealed by House Bill 2612, effective May 14, 2018.
§ 349.02 BACKING A VEHICLE.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless such movement can be
made with reasonable safety and without interfering with other traffic.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-14-2)
§ 349.03 DRIVERS’ VIEW AND CONTROL TO BE UNOBSTRUCTED BY LOAD OR PERSONS.
   (a)   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded as to obstruct
the view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle or as to interfere
with the driver’s control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (b)   No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in such position as to interfere
with the driver’s view ahead or to the sides, or to interfere with his or her
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-14-4)
§ 349.04 PASSENGERS IN SEAT WITH OPERATOR.
   No more than three persons including the operator shall ride or be permitted
by such operator to ride in the seat with the operator of any motor vehicle
while such motor vehicle is being operated on the streets or highways of this
municipality; provided, however, that the limitation of this section shall not
apply to a truck cab or truck crew compartment properly designed for the
occupancy of four persons including the operator, and so designated on the
registration card by the Division of Motor Vehicles.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-14-5)
§ 349.05 PASSENGERS ON RUNNING BOARD.
   No passenger shall ride nor shall the operator permit any passenger to ride
on the running boards of any motor vehicle while such vehicle is being operated
on the streets or highways of this municipality.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-14-6)
§ 349.06 FOLLOWING AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   The driver of any vehicle other than one on official business may not follow
any authorized emergency vehicle traveling in response to a fire alarm or other
emergency closer than 500 feet or drive into or park such vehicle within the
block where such authorized emergency vehicle has stopped in answer to a fire
alarm or other emergency.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-14-9)
§ 349.061 APPROACHING AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   The driver of any vehicle approaching a stationary authorized emergency
vehicle, when the authorized emergency vehicle is giving a signal by displaying
alternately flashing red, red and white, blue, or red and blue lights or amber
or yellow warning lights, shall:
   (a)   Proceed with due caution, yield the right-of-way by making a lane
change not adjacent to that of the authorized emergency vehicle, if possible
with regard to safety and traffic conditions, if on a highway having at least
four lanes with not less than two lanes proceeding in the same direction as the
approaching vehicle and reduce speed to a safe level for road conditions; or
   (b)   Proceed with due caution, reduce the speed of the vehicle, maintaining
a safe speed not to exceed 15 miles per hour on any nondivided highway or
street and 25 miles per hour on any divided highway depending on road
conditions, if changing lanes would be impossible or unsafe.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-14-9a)
§ 349.07 DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of the Fire Department
when laid down on any street or private driveway to be used at any fire or
alarm of fire, without the consent of the Fire Department official in command.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-14-10)
§ 349.08 FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   (a)   Definitions.
      (1)   “Funeral director” and “funeral establishment” have the same
meaning as set forth in W.Va. Code § 30-6-3.
      (2)   “Funeral procession” means two or more vehicles accompanying the
body of a deceased person, or traveling to the church, chapel, cemetery, or
other location at which the funeral service or final disposition is to be held,
including a funeral lead vehicle or a funeral escort vehicle.
      (3)   “Funeral lead vehicle” means any authorized law enforcement or
nonlaw enforcement motor vehicle or a funeral escort vehicle being used to lead
and facilitate the movement of a funeral procession. A funeral hearse may serve
as a funeral lead vehicle.
      (4)   “Funeral escort” means a person or entity that provides escort
services for funeral processions, including law enforcement personnel and
agencies.
      (5)   “Funeral escort vehicle” means any motor vehicle that escorts a
funeral procession.
   (b)   Funeral procession right-of-way.
      (1)   Regardless of any traffic control device or right-of-way provisions
prescribed by state or local ordinance, pedestrians and operators of all
vehicles, except as stated in subsection (b)(3) below, shall yield the right-
of-way to any vehicle which is part of a funeral procession being led by a
funeral escort vehicle or a funeral lead vehicle.
      (2)   When the funeral lead vehicle lawfully enters an intersection,
either by reason of a traffic control device or at the direction of law
enforcement personnel, the remaining vehicles in the funeral procession may
follow through the intersection regardless of any traffic control devices or
right-of-way provisions prescribed by state or local law.
      (3)   Funeral processions have the right-of-way at intersections
regardless of traffic control devices subject to the following conditions and
exceptions:
         A.   Operators of vehicles in a funeral procession shall yield the
right-of-way to an approaching emergency vehicle giving an audible or visible
signal;
         B.   Operators of vehicles in a funeral procession shall yield the
right-of-way when directed to do so by a police officer; and
         C.   Operators of vehicles in a funeral procession must exercise due
care when participating in a funeral procession.
   (c)   Driving in procession.
      (1)   All vehicles comprising a funeral procession shall follow the
preceding vehicle in the funeral procession as closely as is practical and
safe.
      (2)   Any ordinance, law or rule stating that motor vehicles shall be
operated to allow sufficient space enabling any other vehicle to enter and
occupy such space without danger is not applicable to vehicles in a funeral
procession.
   (d)   Liability. Liability for any death, personal injury or property damage
suffered on or after July 1, 1999, by any person in a funeral procession may
not be imposed upon a funeral director or funeral establishment or their
employees or agents unless the death, personal injury or property damage is
proximately caused by the negligent or intentional act of a funeral director or
funeral establishment or their employees or agents.
   (e)   Equipment. All nonlaw enforcement funeral escort vehicles and funeral
lead vehicles may be equipped with at least one lighted circulation flashing
lamp exhibiting an amber or purple light or lens. Flashing amber or purple
lights may be used when such vehicles are used in a funeral procession. (W.Va.
Code Art. 17C-23)
§ 349.09 OPENING DOOR OF VEHICLE ON TRAFFIC SIDE.
   No person shall open the door of a motor vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, nor shall any
person leave a door open on the side of a motor vehicle available to moving
traffic for a period of time longer than is necessary to load or unload
passengers.
§ 349.10 BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM VEHICLE.
   No person shall board or alight from any vehicle while such vehicle is in
motion.
§ 349.11 UNAUTHORIZED RIDING OR JUMPING ONTO VEHICLES.
   No person shall ride on any vehicle upon any portion thereof not designated
or intended for the use of passengers when the vehicle is in motion. This
provision shall not apply to an employee engaged in the necessary discharge of
a duty or to persons riding within truck bodies in space intended for
merchandise.
§ 349.12 SQUEALING TIRES, CRACKING EXHAUST NOISES.
   No person shall unnecessarily race the motor of any vehicle and no person
shall operate any motor vehicle, except in an emergency, in such a manner that
the vehicle is so rapidly accelerated or started from a stopped position that
the exhaust system emits a loud, cracking or chattering noise unusual to its
normal operation, or whereby the tires of such vehicle squeal or leave tire
marks on the roadway, commonly called “peeling”.
§ 349.13 TAKING, INJURING OR TAMPERING WITH VEHICLE.
   (a)   No person shall drive a vehicle, not his or her own, without consent
of the owner thereof, and with intent temporarily to deprive such owner of his
or her possession of such vehicle, but without intent to steal the vehicle. The
consent of the owner of a vehicle to its taking or driving shall not in any
case be presumed or implied because of such owner’s consent on a previous
occasion to the taking or driving of such vehicle by the same or a different
person. Any person who assists in, or is a party or accessory to or an
accomplice in any such unauthorized taking or driving, shall also be guilty of
a violation of this section.
(W.Va. Code § 17A-8-4)
   (b)   (1)   No person either individually or in association with one or more
persons shall willfully injure or tamper with any vehicle or break or remove
any part or parts of or from a vehicle without the consent of the owner.
      (2)   No person with intent to commit any malicious mischief, injury or
other crime shall climb into or upon a vehicle whether it is in motion or at
rest or with like intent attempt to manipulate any of the levers, starting
mechanism, brakes or other mechanism or device of a vehicle while the same is
at rest and unattended or with like intent set in motion any vehicle while the
same is at rest and unattended.
(W.Va. Code § 17A-8-6)
§ 349.14 DRIVING UPON SIDEWALK, STREET LAWN OR CURB.
   (a)   No person shall drive any vehicle, other than a bicycle, upon a
sidewalk or sidewalk area except upon a permanent or duly authorized temporary
driveway.
   (b)   No person shall drive a vehicle on a street lawn area or the curb of a
street, except upon a permanent or duly authorized temporary driveway or when
otherwise lawfully authorized.
§ 349.15 SHORTCUTTING; AVOIDING TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   (a)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle across public or private
property marked with signs “No Through Traffic” or words of similar import for
the purpose of passing from one roadway to another.
   (b)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle across public or private
property for the purpose of avoiding compliance with a traffic control device.
It shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this section for the
operator of a motor vehicle to cross public or private property as provided
herein without using the service of such property, stopping the engine or both.
§ 349.16 COASTING PROHIBITED.
   The operator of any motor vehicle when traveling on a down grade on any
street, alley or highway shall not coast with the gears of such vehicle in
neutral.
§ 349.17 DRIVING THROUGH SAFETY ZONE.
   No operator of a vehicle shall drive the same over or through a safety zone.
§ 349.18 DRIVING UPON STREET POSTED AS CLOSED FOR REPAIR.
   No person shall drive upon, along or across a street or highway, or any part
thereof, which has been closed in the process of its construction,
reconstruction or repair, and posted with appropriate signs by the authority
having jurisdiction to close such street or highway.
§ 349.19 OBSTRUCTION OF TRAFFIC.
   No person shall operate, stop, stand or park any motor vehicle on any street
or alley within the municipality so as to obstruct or hinder the free flow of
motor vehicle traffic except in compliance with a lawful order of a police
officer or in compliance with a traffic control sign, signal or marking.
§ 349.20 VEHICLE SECURITY.
   Every owner or registrant of a motor vehicle shall maintain security upon
such vehicle as required by W.Va. Code Article 17D-2A, and no person shall
knowingly drive or operate on any street within the municipality any motor
vehicle upon which security is required by such Article unless the security is
provided, and violation of any of the provisions of W.Va. Code Article 17D-2A
including failure to have a certificate of insurance, if required, shall
constitute a violation under this section.
§ 349.21 LITTERING FROM A MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (a)   It is unlawful for any driver or passenger of a motor vehicle or other
conveyance to place, deposit, dump, throw or cause to be placed, deposited,
dumped or thrown, any litter from a motor vehicle or other conveyance in or
upon any public or private highway, road, street or alley; any private
property; any public property; or the waters of the state or within 100 feet of
the waters of this state, except in a proper litter or other solid waste
receptacle.
   (b)   For purposes of this section, “litter” means all waste material
including, but not limited to, any garbage, refuse, trash, disposable package,
container, can, bottle, paper, ashes, cigarette or cigar butt, carcass of any
dead animal or any part thereof, or any other offensive or unsightly matter,
but not including the wastes of primary processes of mining, logging,
sawmilling, farming or manufacturing.
   (c)   When there is more than one occupant in a motor vehicle or other
conveyance and it can not be determined which occupant is responsible for
violating this section, the driver shall be presumed to be responsible for the
violation.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-14-14)
§ 349.22 PROHIBITED USE OF AN ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION DEVICE.
   (a)   Except as provided in subsection (c) below, a person may not drive or
operate a motor vehicle on a public street or highway while:
      (1)   Texting; or
      (2)   Using a cell phone or other electronic communications device,
unless the use is accomplished by hands-free equipment.
   (b)   For purposes of this section, the following terms shall mean:
      (1)   “Cell phone” means a cellular, analog, wireless or digital
telephone.
      (2)   “Driving” or “operating a motor vehicle” means operating a motor
vehicle, with the motor running, including while temporarily stationary because
of traffic, a traffic control device, or other momentary delays, but does not
include operating a motor vehicle after the driver has moved the vehicle to the
side of, or off, a highway and halted in a location where the vehicle can
safely remain stationary.
      (3)   “Electronic communication device” means a cell telephone, personal
digital assistant, electronic device with mobile data access, laptop computer,
pager, broadband personal communication device, two-way messaging device,
electronic game, or portable computing device. For the purposes of this
section, an “electronic communication device” does not include:
         A.   Voice radios, mobile radios, land mobile radios, commercial
mobile radios or two way radios with the capability to transmit and receive
voice transmissions utilizing a push-to-talk or press-to-transmit function; or
         B.   Other voice radios used by a law enforcement officer, an
emergency services provider, an employee or agent of public safety
organizations, first responders, Amateur Radio Operators (HAM) licensed by the
Federal Communications Commission and school bus operators.
      (4)   “Engaging in a call” means when a person talks into or listens on
an electronic communication device, but shall not include when a person dials
or enters a phone number on a pushpad or screen to initiate the call.
      (5)   “Hands-free electronic communication device” means an electronic
communication device that has an internal feature or function, or that is
equipped with an attachment or addition, whether or not permanently part of
such electronic communication device, by which a user engages in a call without
the use of either hand or both hands.
      (6)   “Hands-free equipment” means the internal feature or function of a
hands-free electronic communication device or the attachment or addition to a
hands-free electronic communication device by which a user may engage in a call
or text without the use of either hand or both hands.
      (7)   “Texting” means manually entering alphanumeric text into, or
reading text from, an electronic communication device, and includes, but is not
limited to, short message service, e-mailing, instant messaging, a command or
request to access a World Wide Web page or engaging in any other form of
electronic text retrieval or entry, for present or future communication. For
purposes of this section, “texting” does not include the following actions:
         A.   Reading, selecting or entering a telephone number, an extension
number, or voicemail retrieval codes and commands into an electronic device by
pressing the device in order to initiate or receive a phone call or using voice
commands to initiate or receive a telephone call;
         B.   Inputting, selecting or reading information on a global
positioning system or navigation system; or
         C.   Using a device capable of performing multiple functions,
including fleet management systems, dispatching devices, smart phones, citizens
band radios or music players, for a purpose that is not otherwise prohibited in
this section.
      (8)   “Using a cell phone or other electronic communication device” means
holding in a person’s hand or hands an electronic communication device while:
         A.   Viewing or transmitting images or data;
         B.   Playing games;
         C.   Composing, sending, reading, viewing, accessing, browsing,
transmitting, saving or retrieving e-mail, text messages or other electronic
data; or
         D.   Engaging in a call.
   (c)   Subsection (a) above shall not apply to:
      (1)   A law enforcement officer, a firefighter, an emergency medical
technician, a paramedic or the operator of an authorized emergency vehicle in
the performance of their official duties;
      (2)   A person using an electronic communication device to report to
appropriate authorities a fire, a traffic accident, a serious road hazard, or a
medical or hazardous materials emergencies; or
      (3)   The activation or deactivation of hands-free equipment or a
function of hands-free equipment.
   (d)   This section does not supersede the provisions of W.Va. Code § 17B-2-
3a, or any more restrictive provisions for drivers of commercial motor vehicles
prescribed by the provisions of W.Va. Code §§ 17E-1-1 et seq. or federal law or
rule.
   (e)   No policy providing liability coverage for personal lines insurance
shall contain a provision which may be used to deny coverage or exclude payment
of any legal damages recoverable by law for injuries proximately caused by a
violation of this section, as long as such amounts are within the coverage
limits of the insured.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-14-15)
§ 349.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   General article penalty. Whoever violates any provision of this
article for which no other penalty is provided shall be fined not more than
$100; upon a second conviction within one year thereafter shall be fined not
more than $200; and upon a third or subsequent conviction, shall be fined not
more than $500.
   (b)   Approaching authorized emergency vehicles.
      (1)   Any person who violates §
349.061 shall be fined not more than $500.
      (2)   If violation of §
349.061 results in property damage in addition to any other penalty imposed,
driving privileges of the persons causing the property damage shall be
suspended for 90 days.
      (3)   If violation of §
349.061 results in injury to another person in addition to any other penalty
imposed, the driving privileges of the person causing the injury shall be
suspended for six months.
      (4)   If violation of §
349.061 results in the death of another person in addition to any other penalty
imposed, the driving privileges of the person causing the death shall be
suspended for two years.
      (5)   Any person who violates §
349.061 and while doing so also violates §
333.01 shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-14-9a)
   (c)   Taking, injuring or tampering with vehicle. Whoever violates §
349.13 shall, for a first offense, be fined not more than $500.
(W.Va. Code § 17A-11-1)
   (d)   Vehicle security. Whoever violates §
349.20 shall be fined not less than $200 or more than $5,000.
(W.Va. Code § 17D-2A-9)
   (e)   Electronic communication devices.
      (1)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
349.22 is guilty of a traffic offense and, shall for a first offense be fined
$100; for a second offense be fined $200: and for a third or subsequent offense
be fined $300. No court costs or other fees shall be assessed for a violation
of §
349.22.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this code to the contrary,
points may not be entered on any driver’s record maintained by the Division of
Motor Vehicles as a result of a violation of §
349.22, except for the third and subsequent convictions of the offense, for
which three points shall be entered on any driver’s record maintained by the
Division of Motor Vehicles.
      (3)   Driving or operating a motor vehicle on a public street or highway
while texting shall be enforced as a primary offense. Driving or operating a
motor vehicle on a public street or highway while using a cell phone or other
electronic communication device without hands-free equipment shall be enforced
as a secondary offense until July 1, 2013 when it shall be enforced as a
primary offense for purposes of citation.
      (4)   Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to authorize
seizure of a cell phone or electronic device by any law enforcement agency.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-14-15)
ARTICLE 351: LICENSING
Section
   
351.01   Registration, certificate of title required
   
351.02   Registration card
   
351.03   Display of registration plates
   
351.04   Operation of vehicle without evidence of registration; use of
temporary facsimile
   
351.05   Improper use of registration card, plate or permit   
   
351.06   Driver or motorcycle license required
   
351.07   Persons exempt from license
   
351.08   Display of license
   
351.09   Certain acts prohibited
   
351.10   Driving under suspension or revocation
   
351.11   Owner or operator allowing another to drive
 
   
351.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Illumination of license plate, see §
345.05(c)
   Impounding unlicensed vehicle, see §
303.07
§ 351.01 REGISTRATION, CERTIFICATE OF TITLE REQUIRED.
   No person shall drive or move and no owner shall knowingly permit to be
driven or moved upon any street or highway any vehicle of a type required to be
registered under W.Va. Code Chapter 17A which is not registered or for which a
certificate of title has not been issued or applied for or for which the
appropriate fee has not been paid when and as required, except as otherwise
permitted by the provisions therein; provided, that in the event of the sale of
a vehicle by a person other than a registered dealer, the person purchasing the
same may, for a period of not more than ten days, operate such vehicle under
the registration of its previous owner and display the registration thereof;
provided further that he or she shall have and display on the demand of any
proper officer the consent in writing of such previous owner so to use such
registration.
(W.Va. Code § 17A-3-1)
§ 351.02 REGISTRATION CARD.
   Every owner upon receipt of a registration card shall write his or her
signature thereon with pen and ink in the space provided. Every such
registration card shall at all times be carried in the vehicle to which it
refers or shall be carried by the person driving or in control of such vehicle
who shall display the same upon demand of a police officer or any officer or
employee of the Department of Motor Vehicles.
(W.Va. Code § 17A-3-13)
§ 351.03 DISPLAY OF REGISTRATION PLATES.
   (a)   Registration plates issued for vehicles required to be registered
shall be attached to the rear thereof except that on truck tractors and road
tractors designed and constructed to pull trailers or semi-trailers, the
registration plate shall be mounted to the front.
   (b)   Every registration plate shall at all times be securely fastened in a
horizontal position to the vehicle for which it is issued so as to prevent the
plate from swinging and at a height of not less than 12 inches from the ground,
measuring from the bottom of such plate, in a place and position to be clearly
visible and shall be maintained free from foreign materials and in a condition
to be clearly legible.
   (c)   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (b) above, an owner of a
motor vehicle with a Class G registration as defined in W.Va. Code § 17A-10-
1 may choose to:
      (1)   Display a standard, Class G registration plate in a horizontal
position; or
      (2)   Display a specially designed Class G registration plate in a
vertical position.
(W.Va. Code § 17A-3-15)
§ 351.04 OPERATION OF VEHICLE WITHOUT EVIDENCE OF REGISTRATION; USE OF
TEMPORARY FACSIMILE.
   (a)   No person shall operate or park, nor shall an owner knowingly permit
to be operated or parked upon any street or highway any vehicle required to be
registered unless there is attached thereto and displayed thereon or is in the
possession of the operator when and as required by this Traffic Code, a valid
registration card and registration plate or plates issued therefor by the
Department of Motor Vehicles for the current registration year except as
otherwise expressly permitted in W.Va. Code Chapter 17A.
   (b)   In the event that the registration plate or plates originally issued
are lost, destroyed or stolen, a temporary facsimile of the plate or plates,
showing the number of the same, may be attached to the vehicle by the owner for
a period of not more than 15 days, or until a new plate or plates are issued by
the Department whichever is earlier; provided, that no such facsimile shall be
used and no such vehicle shall be driven upon the streets or highways of this
municipality until the owner has notified in writing the state police of the
loss of such registration plate or plates.
(W.Va. Code § 17A-9-2)
§ 351.05 IMPROPER USE OF REGISTRATION CARD, PLATE OR PERMIT.
   No person shall lend to another any certificate of title, registration card,
registration plate, special plate or permit issued to him or her if the person
desiring to borrow the same would not be entitled to the use thereof, nor shall
any person knowingly permit the use of any of the same by one not entitled
thereto, nor shall any person display upon a vehicle any registration card,
registration plates or permit not issued for such vehicle or not otherwise
lawfully used thereon under this Traffic Code.
(W.Va. Code § 17A-9-3)
§ 351.06 DRIVER OR MOTORCYCLE LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (a)   (1)   No person, except those hereinafter expressly exempted, shall
drive any motor vehicle upon a street or highway in this municipality or upon
any subdivision street, used by the public generally unless the person has a
valid driver’s license issued under the provisions of the West Virginia Code
for the type or class of vehicle being driven.
      (2)   Any person licensed to operate a motor vehicle as provided in the
West Virginia Code may exercise the privilege thereby granted as provided in
the West Virginia Code and, except as otherwise provided by law, shall not be
required to obtain any other license to exercise such privilege by any county,
municipality or local board or body having authority to adopt local police
regulations.
   (b)   No person, except those hereinafter expressly exempted, shall drive
any motorcycle upon a street or highway in this municipality or upon any
subdivision street, used by the public generally unless the person has a valid
motorcycle license, a valid license which has been endorsed under W.Va. Code §
17B-2-7b for motorcycle operation or has a valid motorcycle instruction permit.
(W.Va. Code § 17B-2-1)
§ 351.07 PERSONS EXEMPT FROM LICENSE.
   The following persons are exempt from the license required under §
351.06:
   (a)   Any person while operating a motor vehicle in the armed services of
the United States while in the performance of his or her official duties;
   (b)   A nonresident who is at least 16 years of age and who has in his or
her immediate possession a valid driver’s license issued to the person in the
person’s home state or country unless the Commissioner determines the person’s
home state or country does not extend the same privileges to a resident of this
state, may operate a motor vehicle in this state only as a noncommercial driver
for a period not to exceed 90 days in any one calendar year;
   (c)   A nonresident who is at least 16 years of age, who has in the person’s
immediate possession a valid driver’s license issued to the person in the
person’s home state or country and who is employed in this state, or owns,
maintains or operates a place or places of business in this state, or engages
in any trade, profession or occupation in this state, in addition to the
driving privileges extended under subsection (b) above, unless the Commissioner
determines the person’s home state or country does not extend the same
privileges to a resident of this state, may operate a motor vehicle in this
state only as a noncommercial driver in traveling to and from the person’s
place or places of employment, place or places of business or place or places
at which the person engages in the trade, profession or occupation and in the
discharge of the duties of the person’s employment, business, trade, profession
or occupation if the duties are such that, if performed by a resident of the
State of West Virginia over the age of 18 years of age, the resident would not
be required under the provisions of W.Va. Code Chapter 17 to obtain a Class A,
B, C or D driver’s license. However, this subsection shall not exempt any
person who is required to obtain a West Virginia driver’s license in accordance
with the provisions of W.Va. Code § 17B-2-1a;
   (d)   A nonresident who is at least 18 years of age and who has in his or
her immediate possession a valid commercial driver’s license issued to the
person in his or her home state or country and which meets the requirements of
the federal commercial motor vehicle act of 1986, Title XI of Public Law 99-570
and unless the Commissioner determines the person’s home state or country does
not extend the same privilege to a resident of this state may operate a motor
vehicle in this state either as a commercial driver subject to the age limits
applicable to commercial driver in this state, or as a noncommercial driver
subject to the limitations imposed on nonresident drivers in subsections (b)
and (c) above;
   (e)   (1)   Any person who is a student, properly enrolled and registered in
an accredited school, college or university in this state, who is at least 16
years of age and who has in his or her immediate possession a valid driver’s
license issued to the person in the person’s home state, notwithstanding the
limitations of subsections (b) and (c) above may operate motor vehicle in this
state only as noncommercial driver; provided, that the state of which the
person is a resident shall extend the same privileges to residents of this
state.
      (2)   This exemption shall be canceled immediately when the student is
graduated from school, college or university or is expelled or ceases to be a
student.
(W.Va. Code § 17B-2-2)
§ 351.08 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   (a)   Every licensee shall have his or her driver’s license in such person’s
immediate possession at all times when operating a motor vehicle and shall
display the same, upon demand of a magistrate, municipal judge, circuit court
judge, peace officer or an employee of the Division of Motor Vehicles.
   (b)   However, no person charged with violating this section shall be
convicted if such person produces in court or the office of the arresting
officer a driver’s license theretofore issued to such person and valid at the
time of such person’s arrest.
(W.Va. Code § 17B-2-9)
§ 351.09 CERTAIN ACTS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall commit any one of the following acts:
   (a)   Display or cause or permit to be displayed or have in his or her
possession any fictitious or fraudulently altered driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or nonoperator’s identification;
   (b)   Lend his or her driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
nonoperator’s identification to any other person or knowingly permit the use
thereof by another;
   (c)   Display or represent as one’s own any driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or nonoperator’s identification not issued to him or her;
   (d)   Use a false or fictitious name in any application for a driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or nonoperator’s identification or knowingly make a
false statement or knowingly conceal a material fact or otherwise commit a
fraud in any such application;
   (e)   Permit any unlawful use of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or nonoperator’s identification issued to him or her; or
   (f)   Do any act forbidden or fail to perform any act required by this
Traffic Code or W.Va. Code Chapter 17.
(W.Va. Code § 17B-4-1)
§ 351.10 DRIVING UNDER SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle on any public street or highway of
this municipality at a time when his or her privilege so to do has been
lawfully suspended or revoked.
(W.Va. Code § 17B-4-3)
§ 351.11 OWNER OR OPERATOR ALLOWING ANOTHER TO DRIVE.
   No person shall authorize or knowingly permit a motor vehicle owned by him
or her or under his or her control to be driven upon any street or highway by
any person who is not authorized hereunder or in violation of any of the
provisions of this Traffic Code.
(W.Va. Code § 17B-4-4)
§ 351.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   General article penalty. Whoever violates any provision of this
article for which no other penalty is provided shall be fined not more than
$500; for a second or subsequent violation of the same provision such person
shall be fined not more than $500.
   (b)   Driving under suspension or revocation.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in W.Va. Code § 17B-4-3(b) or (d), or
subsection (b)(2) or (b)(3) below, whoever drives a motor vehicle on any street
or highway of this municipality at a time when his or her privilege so to do
has been lawfully suspended or revoked shall, for the first offense, be fined
not less than $100 nor more than $500; for the second offense, such person,
shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500; for the third or any
subsequent offense, such person may be imprisoned for a period of not more than
30 days and, in addition to such jail sentence, shall be fined not less than
$150 nor more than $500. A record of the conviction of any person under this
section upon a charge of driving a vehicle while the license of such person was
suspended lawfully shall be sent to the State Department of Motor Vehicles.
      (2)   Any person who drives a motor vehicle on any public highway at a
time when his or her privilege to do so has been lawfully revoked for driving
under influence of alcohol, controlled substances or other drugs, or eight
hundredths of one percent or more, by weight, or for refusing to take a
secondary chemical test of blood alcohol content, for the first offense shall
be imprisoned 30 days and in addition to the mandatory jail sentence, shall be
fined not less than $100 nor more than $500; for the second offense, shall be
imprisoned 30 days and in addition to the mandatory jail sentence, shall be
fined not less than $1,000 nor more than $3,000; for the third or any
subsequent offense, the person is guilty of a felony and shall be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Any persons who drives a motor vehicle on any public highway at a
time when his or her privilege to do so has been lawfully suspended for driving
while under the age of 21 years with an alcohol concentration in his or her
blood of two hundredths of one percent or more, by weight, but less than eight
hundredths of one percent, by weight, shall be imprisoned for 24 hours or shall
be fined not less than $50 nor more than $500, or both.
      (4)   An order for home detention by the court pursuant to the provisions
of W.Va. Code Article 62-11B may be used as an alternative sentence to any
period of incarceration required by this section.
   (c)   Additional penalties. Whoever violates §§
351.02, 351.03, 351.05, 351.09 or 351.11 shall be fined not more than $500 or
imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both.
(Ord. passed 12-15-2015)
ARTICLE 353: COMMERCIAL DRIVERS
Section
   
353.01   Definitions
   
353.02   Limitation on number of driver’s licenses
   
353.03   Employer responsibilities
   
353.04   Commercial driver’s license required
   
353.05   Exemptions
   
353.06   Drivers prohibited from operating with any alcohol in system
   
353.07   Commercial drivers prohibited from texting
 
   
353.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Commercial vehicles, see
Art. 347
   Driver’s licensing, see
Art. 351
Statutory reference:
   Uniform Commercial Driver’s License Act, see W.Va. Code Art. 17E-1
§ 353.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Traffic Code, the following
definitions apply to this article:
   (a)   “Alcohol” means:
      (1)   Any substance containing any form of alcohol, including, but not
limited to, ethanol, methanol, propanol and isopropanol;
      (2)   Beer, ale, port or stout and other similar fermented beverages
(including sake or similar products) of any name or description containing 0.5%
or more of alcohol by volume, brewed or produced from malt, wholly or in part,
or from any substitute for malt;
      (3)   Distilled spirits or that substance known as ethyl alcohol, ethanol
or spirits of wine in any form (including all dilutions and mixtures thereof
from whatever source or by whatever process produced); or
      (4)   Wine of not less than 0.5% of alcohol by volume.
   (b)   “Alcohol concentration” means:
      (1)   The number of grams of alcohol per 100 milliliters of blood;
      (2)   The number of grams of alcohol per 210 liters of breath;
      (3)   The number of grams of alcohol per 67 milliliters of urine; or
      (4)   The number of grams of alcohol per 86 milliliters of serum.
   (c)   “Commercial driver license” means a license issued in accordance with
the requirements of W.Va. Code Article 17E-1 to an individual which authorizes
the individual to drive a class of commercial motor vehicle.
   (d)   “Commercial driver instruction permit” means a permit issued pursuant
to W.Va. Code § 17E-1-9(d).
   (e)   “Commercial motor vehicle” means a motor vehicle designed or used to
transport passengers or property:
      (1)   If the vehicle has a gross combination vehicle weight rating of
26,001 pounds or more inclusive of a towed unit(s) with a gross vehicle weight
rating of more than 10,000 pounds;
      (2)   If the vehicle has a gross vehicle weight rating of more than
26,001 pounds or more;
      (3)   If the vehicle is designed to transport 16 or more passengers,
including the driver; or
      (4)   If the vehicle is of any size transporting hazardous materials as
defined in this section.
   (f)   “Conviction” means an unvacated adjudication of guilt; a determination
that a person has violated or failed to comply with the law in a court of
original jurisdiction or by an authorized administrative tribunal or
proceeding; an unvacated forfeiture of bail or collateral deposited to secure
the person’s appearance in court; a plea of guilty or nolo contendere accepted
by the court or the payment of a fine or court cost, or violation of a
condition of release without bail regardless of whether or not the penalty is
rebated, suspended, or probated.
   (g)   “Disqualification” means any of the following three actions:
      (1)   The suspension, revocation or cancellation of a driver’s license by
the state or jurisdiction of issuance;
      (2)   Any withdrawal of a person’s privilege to drive a commercial motor
vehicle by a state or other jurisdiction as the result of a violation of state
or local law relating to motor vehicle traffic control other than parking or
vehicle weight except as to violations committed by a special permittee on the
coal resource transportation system or vehicle defect violations; or
      (3)   A determination by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
that a person is not qualified to operate a commercial motor vehicle under 49
C.F.R. Part § 391 (2004).
   (h)   “Drive” means to drive, operate or be in physical control of a motor
vehicle in any place open to the general public for purposes of vehicular
traffic. For purposes of §
353.06 “drive” includes operation or physical control of a motor vehicle
anywhere in this municipality.
   (i)   “Driver” means any person who drives, operates or is in physical
control of a commercial motor vehicle, in any place open to the general public
for purposes of vehicular traffic, or who is required to hold a commercial
driver license.
   (j)   “Driver license” means a license issued by a state to an individual
which authorizes the individual to drive a motor vehicle of a specific class.
   (k)   “Employee” means any operator of a commercial motor vehicle, including
full time, regularly employed drivers; casual, intermittent or occasional
drivers; leased drivers and independent, owner-operator contractors (while in
the course of operating a commercial motor vehicle) who are either directly
employed by or under lease to drive a commercial motor vehicle for an employer.
   (l)   “Employer” means any person, including the United States, a state or a
political subdivision of a state, who owns or leases a commercial motor
vehicle, or assigns a person to drive a commercial motor vehicle.
   (m)   “Farm vehicle” includes a motor vehicle or combination vehicle
registered to the farm owner or entity operating the farm and used exclusively
in the transportation of agricultural or horticultural products, livestock,
poultry and dairy products from the farm or orchard on which they are raised or
produced to markets, processing plants, packing houses, canneries, railway
shipping points and cold storage plants and in the transportation of
agricultural or horticultural supplies and machinery to such farms or orchards
to be used thereon.
   (n)   “Farmer” includes owner, tenant, lessee, occupant or person in control
of the premises used substantially for agricultural or horticultural pursuits,
who is at least 18 years of age with two years licensed driving experience.
   (o)   “Farmer vehicle driver” means the person employed and designated by
the farmer to drive a farm vehicle as long as driving is not his or her sole or
principal function on the farm, who is at least 18 years of age with two years
licensed driving experience.
   (p)   “Motor vehicle” means every vehicle which is self-propelled, and every
vehicle which is propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley
wires but not operated upon rails.
   (q)   “Out-of-service order” means a temporary prohibition against driving a
commercial motor vehicle as a result of a determination by a law enforcement
officer, an authorized enforcement officer of a federal, state, Canadian,
Mexican, county or local jurisdiction including any special agent of the
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration pursuant to 49 C.F.R. §§ 386.72,
392.5, 395.13, 396.9 or compatible laws or the North American uniform out-of-
service criteria that an imminent hazard exists.
   (r)   “Violation of an out-of-service order” means:
      (1)   The operation of a commercial motor vehicle during the period the
driver was placed out of service;
      (2)   The operation of a commercial motor vehicle by a driver after the
vehicle was placed out of service and before the required repairs are made; or
      (3)   The operation of any commercial vehicle by a motor carrier
operation after the carrier has been placed out of service.
   (s)   (1)   “Texting” means manually entering alphanumeric text into or
reading text from an electronic device. This action includes, but is not
limited to, short messaging service, e-mailing, instant messaging and a command
or request to access a World Wide Web page or engaging in any other form of
electronic text retrieval or entry for present or future communication.
      (2)   Texting does not include:
         A.   Reading, selecting or entering a telephone number, an extension
number or voicemail retrieval codes and commands into an electronic device for
the purpose of initiating or receiving a phone call or using voice commands to
initiate or receive a telephone call;
         B.   Inputting, selecting or reading information on a global
positioning system or navigation system; or
         C.   Using a device capable of performing multiple functions
including, but not limited to, fleet management systems, dispatching devices,
smart phones, citizen band radios or music players for a purpose that is not
otherwise prohibited by this section.
(W.Va. Code § 17E-1-3)
§ 353.02 LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF DRIVER’S LICENSES.
   No person who drives a commercial motor vehicle shall have more than one
driver license at one time.
(W.Va. Code § 17E-1-4)
§ 353.03 EMPLOYER RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (a)   Each employer shall require the applicant to provide the information
specified in W.Va. Code § 17E-1-5.
   (b)   No employer may knowingly allow, permit, require or authorize a driver
to drive a commercial motor vehicle during any period in which the driver:
      (1)   Has a driver’s license suspended, revoked or canceled by a state;
has lost the privilege to drive a commercial motor vehicle in a state, or has
been disqualified from driving a commercial motor vehicle;
      (2)   Has more than one driver’s license at one time;
      (3)   Or the commercial motor vehicle he or she is driving or the motor
carrier operation, is subject to an out-of-service order;
      (4)   Is in violation of federal, state or local law or regulation
pertaining to railroad highway grade crossings; or
      (5)   Is in violation of any provision of 49 C.F.R. part § 382 related to
controlled substances and alcohol use and testing.
   (c)   No employer may require or allow a driver to operate a commercial
motor vehicle while texting. (W.Va. Code § 17E-1-6)
§ 353.04 COMMERCIAL DRIVER’S LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (a)   Except when driving under a commercial driver’s instruction permit
accompanied by the holder of a commercial driver’s license valid for the
vehicle being driven, no person shall drive a commercial motor vehicle unless
the person holds a commercial driver’s license and applicable endorsements
valid for the vehicle they are driving.
   (b)   No person shall drive a commercial motor vehicle while their driving
privilege is suspended, revoked, canceled, expired, subject to a
disqualification, or in violation of an out-of-service order.
   (c)   Drivers of a commercial motor vehicle shall have a commercial driver’s
license in their possession at all times while driving.
(W.Va. Code § 17E-1-7)
§ 353.05 EXEMPTIONS.
   (a)   Farmers. Bona fide farmers or farm vehicle drivers, as defined,
operating a vehicle otherwise covered by the commercial driver’s license
requirements may be exempted from the provisions of this article only if the
vehicle used is:
      (1)   Driven by a farmer or farm vehicle driver;
      (2)   Used only to transport either agricultural products, farm
machinery, farm supplies, to or from a farm;
      (3)   Not used in the operation of a common or contract motor carrier;
and
      (4)   Used within 150 miles of the qualifying farm. Farmers who wish to
be exempted from the commercial driver’s license requirements must apply to the
Division of Motor Vehicles for a certificate of exemption.
   (b)   Military personnel. Active duty military personnel operating vehicles
being used for military purposes are exempted from the provisions of this
article in accordance with the provisions of 49 C.F.R. § 383.3 (c)(2006).
   (c)   Firefighting and rescue equipment.
      (1)   Operators of vehicles authorized to hold an authorized emergency
vehicle permit for use of red signal lights only are exempt from the provisions
of this article while the authorized emergency vehicle permit is in force.
      (2)   Vehicles in this class include, but are not limited to,
firefighters and rescue equipment:
         A.   Owned and operated by state, county and municipal fire
departments;
         B.   Owned and operated by state, county and municipal civil defense
organizations;
         C.   Owned and operated by a manufacturer engaged in a type of
business that requires fire fighter equipment to protect the safety of their
plants and its employees; and
         D.   Owned and operated by volunteer fire departments.
   (d)   Operators of off-road construction and mining equipment. Operators of
equipment which, by its design, appearance and function, is not intended for
use on a public road, including, without limitation, motorscrapers, backhoes,
motorgraders, compactors, excavators, tractors, trenches and bulldozers, are
exempt from the provisions of this article; provided, that the exemption
recognized by this subsection shall not be construed to permit the operation of
such equipment on any public road except such operation as may be required for
a crossing of such road; provided, however, that no such equipment may be
operated on a public road for a distance exceeding 500 feet from the place
where such equipment entered upon the public road.
   (e)   Exempt vehicles. The Federal Motor Carrier Safety Improvement Act of
1999 exempts vehicles used exclusively for personal use such as recreation
vehicles and rental trucks used only to transport the driver’s personal or
household property.
(W.Va. Code § 17E-1-8)
§ 353.06 DRIVERS PROHIBITED FROM OPERATING WITH ANY ALCOHOL IN SYSTEM.
   (a)   In addition to any other penalties provided by the West Virginia Code
or these codified ordinances, any person who drives, operates or is in physical
control of a commercial motor vehicle while having an alcohol concentration in
his or her blood, breath or urine of four hundredths of one percent or more, by
weight, shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500. A person
convicted of a second or any subsequent offense under the provisions of this
subsection (a), the court may, in its discretion, impose a fine of not less
than $1,000 nor more than $3,000.
   (b)   A person who violates the provisions of subsection (a) above shall be
treated in the same manner set forth in W.Va. Code § 17C-19-3, as if he or she
had been arrested for driving under the influence of alcohol or of any
controlled substance.
   (c)   In addition to any other penalties provided by the West Virginia Code
or these codified ordinances, a person who drives, operates or is in physical
control of a commercial motor vehicle having any measurable alcohol in such
person’s system or who refuses to take a preliminary breath test to determine
such person’s blood alcohol content as provided by W.Va. Code § 17E-1-15 shall
be placed out of service for 24 hours by the arresting law enforcement officer.
(W.Va. Code § 17E-1-14)
§ 353.07 COMMERCIAL DRIVERS PROHIBITED FROM TEXTING.
   (a)   No commercial driver may engage in texting while driving a commercial
motor vehicle.
   (b)   No motor carrier may allow or require its drivers to engage in texting
while driving a commercial motor vehicle.
   (c)   For the purposes of this section only, and unless a more restrictive
prohibition is prescribed in the West Virginia Code, driving means operating a
commercial motor vehicle with the motor running, including while temporarily
stationed because of traffic, a traffic control device or other momentary
delays. Driving does not include operating a commercial motor vehicle with or
without the motor running when the driver moved the vehicle to the side of or
off a highway, as defined in 49 C.F.R. part 390.5, and halted in a location
where the vehicle can safely remain stationary.
(W.Va. Code § 17E-1-14(a))
§ 353.99 PENALTY.
   Unless another penalty is provided in this article, whoever violates any
provision of this article upon a first conviction shall be fined not less than
$100 nor more than $1,000, except that upon a conviction for a second violation
of §
353.04, the offender shall be fined not less than $500 nor more than $2,000.
For the third or any subsequent conviction for violation of §
353.04, the offender shall be fined not less than $1,000 nor more than $2,500.
(Ord. passed 8-8-2017)
ARTICLE 355: CELL PHONES
Section
   
355.01   Prohibition
   
355.02   Definitions
   
355.03   Exceptions
   
355.04   Effective date
   
355.05   No seizure
 
   
355.99   Penalty
§ 355.01 PROHIBITION.
   Except as provided in §
355.03 of this article, a person may not drive or operate a motor vehicle on a
public street or highway while:
   (a)   Texting; or
   (b)   Using a cell phone or other electronic communications device, unless
the use is accomplished by hands-free equipment.
(Ord. passed 9-3-2013; Ord. 2-2-2016)
§ 355.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this article, the following terms shall mean:
   (a)   “Cell phone” shall mean a cellular, analog, wireless or digital
telephone.
   (b)   “Driving” or “operating a motor vehicle” means operating a motor
vehicle, with the motor running, including while temporarily stationary because
of traffic, a traffic control device or other momentary delays, but does not
include operating a motor vehicle after the driver has moved the vehicle to the
side of, or off, a highway and halted in a location where the vehicle can
safely remain stationary.
   (c)   “Electronic communication device” means a cell telephone, personal
digital assistant, electronic device with mobile data access, laptop computer,
pager, broadband personal communication device, two-way messaging device,
electronic game or portable computing device. For the purposes of this section,
an “electronic communication device” does not include:
      (1)   Voice radios, mobile radios, land mobile radios, commercial mobile
radios or two- way radios with the capability to transmit and receive voice
transmissions utilizing a push-to-talk or press-to-transmit function; or
      (2)   Other voice radios used by a law enforcement officer, an emergency
services provider, an employee or agent of public safety organizations, first
responders, amateur radio operators (HAM) licensed by the Federal
Communications Commission and school bus operators.
   (d)   “Engaging in a call” means when a person talks into or listens on an
electronic communication device, but shall not include when a person dials or
enters a phone number on a push-pad or screen to initiate the call.
   (e)   “Hands-free electronic communication device” means an electronic
communication device that has an internal feature or function, or that is
equipped with an attachment or addition, whether or not permanently part of
such electronic communication device, by which a user engages in a call without
the use of either hand or both hands.
   (f)   “Hands-free equipment” means the internal feature or function of a
hands-free electronic communication device or the attachment or addition to a
hands-free electronic communication device by which a user may engage in a call
or text without the use of either hand or both hands.
   (g)   “Texting” means manually entering alphanumeric text into, or reading
text from, an electronic communication device, and includes, but is not limited
to, short message service, e-mailing, instant messaging, a command or request
to access a world wide web page or engaging in any other form of electronic
text retrieval or entry, for present or future communication. For purposes of
this section, “texting” does not include the following actions:
      (1)   Reading, selecting or entering a telephone number, an extension
number, or voicemail retrieval codes and commands into an electronic device by
the pressing the device in order to initiate or receive a phone call or using
voice commands to initiate or receive a telephone call;
      (2)   Inputting, selecting or reading information on a global positioning
system or navigation system; or
      (3)   Using a device capable of performing multiple functions, including
fleet management systems, dispatching devices, smart phones, citizens band
radios or music players, for a purpose that is not otherwise prohibited in this
section.
   (h)   “Using a cell phone or other electronic communication device” means
holding in a person’s hand or hands an electronic communication device while:
      (1)   Viewing or transmitting images or data;
      (2)   Playing games;
      (3)   Composing, sending, reading, viewing, accessing, browsing,
transmitting, saving or retrieving e-mail, text messages or other electronic
data; or
      (4)   Engaging in a call.
(Ord. passed 9-3-2013; Ord. 2-2-2016)
§ 355.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   Section
355.01 of this article shall not apply to:
   (a)   A law enforcement officer, a firefighter, an emergency medical
technician, a paramedic or the operator of an authorized emergency vehicle in
the performance of their official duties;
   (b)   A person using an electronic communication device to report to
appropriate authorities a fire, a traffic accident, a serious road hazard, or a
medical or hazardous materials emergencies; or
   (c)   The activation or deactivation of hands-free equipment or a function
of hands-free equipment.
(Ord. passed 9-3-2013; Ord. 2-2-2016)
§ 355.04 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   Driving or operating a motor vehicle on a public street or highway while
texting or while using a cell phone or other electronic communication device
without hands-free equipment shall be enforced as a primary offense as of the
date of passage.
(Ord. passed 9-3-2013; Ord. 2-2-2016)
§ 355.05 NO SEIZURE.
   Nothing contained in this article shall be construed to authorize seizure of
a cell phone or electronic device by any law enforcement agency.
(Ord. passed 9-3-2013; Ord. 2-2-2016)
§ 355.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates the provisions of §
355.01 is guilty of a traffic offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall for a
first offense be fined $100; for a second offense be fined $200; and for a
third or subsequent offense be fined $300. No court costs or other fees shall
be assessed for a violation of §
355.01.
(Ord. passed 9-3-2013; Ord. 2-2-2016)
CHAPTER SEVEN - Parking
      
361.   Parking Generally
      
363.   Parking Meters
      
365.   Regulation of Parking at Blue and Gray Park
ARTICLE 361: PARKING GENERALLY
Section
   
361.01   Prohibition against parking on streets or highways
   
361.02   Police may remove illegally stopped vehicles
   
361.03   Prohibited stopping, standing or parking places
   
361.04   Vehicles parked on private property
   
361.05   Manner of angle and parallel parking
   
361.06   Accessible parking
   
361.07   Abandoned motor vehicles
   
361.08   Parking for certain purposes prohibited
   
361.09   Truck loading zones
   
361.10   Bus stops and taxicab stands
   
361.11   Parking in alleys and narrow streets; exceptions
   
361.12   Registered owner prima facie liable for unlawful parking
   
361.13   Parking in Business District
   
361.14   Hazardous parking areas
   
361.15   Stopping, standing or parking restricted or prohibited on certain
streets
   
361.16   Trailer parking
   
361.17   Parking fines
 
   
361.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Impounding of abandoned vehicles, see §
303.07
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate parallel and angle parking, see W.Va. Code § 17C-13-4
   Authority to regulate the standing or parking of vehicles, see W.Va. Code §
17C-2-8(a)(1)
§ 361.01 PROHIBITION AGAINST PARKING ON STREETS OR HIGHWAYS.
   (a)   Upon any street or highway outside of a business or residence district
no person shall stop, park or leave standing any vehicle, whether attended or
unattended, upon the paved or main-traveled part of the street or highway when
it is practicable to stop, park or so leave such vehicle off such part of the
street or highway, but in every event an unobstructed width of the street or
highway opposite a standing vehicle shall be left for the free passage of other
vehicles and a clear view of such stopped vehicles shall be available from a
distance of 200 feet in each direction upon such highway or street.
   (b)   This section shall not apply to the driver of any vehicle which is
disabled while on the paved or main-traveled portion of a street or highway in
such a manner and to such extent that it is impossible to avoid stopping and
temporarily leaving such disabled vehicle in such position.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-13-1)
§ 361.02 POLICE MAY REMOVE ILLEGALLY STOPPED VEHICLES.
   (a)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle standing upon a street or
highway in violation of §
361.01, such officer is hereby authorized to move such vehicle or require the
driver or other person in charge of the vehicle to move the same, to a position
off the paved or main-traveled part of such street or highway.
   (b)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle unattended upon any bridge
or causeway or in any tunnel where such vehicle constitutes an obstruction to
traffic, such officer is hereby authorized to provide for the removal of such
vehicle to the nearest garage or other place of safety.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-13-2)
§ 361.03 PROHIBITED STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING PLACES.
   (a)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law or the directions
of a police officer or traffic control device, in any of the following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
      (5)   In a properly designated fire lane;
      (6)   On a crosswalk;
      (7)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      (8)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign
or traffic control signal located at the side of a roadway;
      (9)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless a
different length is indicated by signs or markings;
      (10)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      (11)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and on
the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75 feet
of such entrance (when properly signposted);
      (12)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (13)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
      (14)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a street or
highway or within a street or highway tunnel;
      (15)   At any place where signs prohibit stopping, standing or parking,
or where the curbing or street is painted yellow or red, or at any place in
excess of the maximum time limited by signs;
      (16)   Within 20 feet of any mail receptacle served regularly by a
carrier using a motor vehicle for daily deliveries, if such parking interferes
with or causes delay in the carrier’s schedule;
      (17)   Upon any controlled-access highway;
      (18)   At any place on any street or highway where the safety and
convenience of the traveling public is thereby endangered;
      (19)   Over or across any lines or marks established by the municipality
to indicate parking spaces; and
      (20)   In front of a wheelchair accessible ramp or curb cut which is part
of a sidewalk designed for use by the general public when the ramp or curb cut
is properly marked with blue paint.
   (b)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any such prohibited area or away from a curb such distance as is unlawful.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-13-3)
§ 361.04 VEHICLES PARKED ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No driver of a vehicle shall stop, park or leave standing unattended any
vehicle on a private road or driveway or on private property without having
express or implied permission from the owner, tenant or lessee of such land.
The owner, tenant or lessee of such private road or driveway or private
property may move, or have moved, any vehicle stopped, parked or left standing
unattended on his or her private road, driveway or private property as above
prohibited without any liability for the cost of moving any vehicle, nor shall
he or she be liable to the owner of the vehicle for any damage done to such
vehicle in moving it, unless the owner, tenant or lessee of such private road
or driveway or private property was negligent in removing or authorizing the
removal of the vehicle. The owner of such vehicle shall be responsible to the
persons removing such vehicle for paying all removal costs. Any person who
removes any vehicle under the provisions of this section shall notify the state
police of such action, and, in addition notify the Police Department.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-14-13)
§ 361.05 MANNER OF ANGLE AND PARALLEL PARKING.
   (a)   Every vehicle stopped or parked upon a roadway where there is an
adjacent curb shall be stopped or parked with the curb-side wheels of such
vehicle parallel with and not more than 18 inches from the curb, unless it is
impossible to approach so close to the curb; in such case the stop shall be as
close to the curb as possible and only for the time necessary to discharge and
receive passengers or to load or unload merchandise.
   (b)   This subsection does not apply to streets or parts thereof where angle
parking is lawfully permitted. However, no angle parking shall be permitted on
a state or federal-aid route unless approved by the State Commissioner of
Highways.
   (c)   Upon streets where angle parking is permitted, no person shall stop,
stand or park a vehicle other than at the angle to the curb or edge of the
roadway as is indicated by appropriate signs or marks.
   (d)   No vehicle shall be stopped or parked on a road or street with the
vehicle facing in a direction other than the direction of travel on that side
of the road or street.
§ 361.06 ACCESSIBLE PARKING.
   (a)   As used in this section, the following terms have the meanings
ascribed to them in this subsection:
      (1)   A person or applicant with a “mobility impairment” means a person
who is a citizen of West Virginia and as determined by a physician, allopath or
osteopath chiropractor, advanced nurse practitioner or physician’s assistant
licensed to practice in West Virginia:
         A.   Cannot walk 200 feet without stopping to rest;
         B.   Cannot walk without the use of or assistance from a brace, cane,
crutch, prosthetic device, wheelchair, other assistive device or another
person;
         C.   Is restricted by lung disease to such an extent that the person’s
force (respiratory) expiratory volume for one second, when measured by
spirometry, is less than one liter or the arterial oxygen tension is less than
60 mm/hg on room air at rest;
         D.   Uses portable oxygen;
         E.   Has a cardiac condition to such an extent that the person’s
functional limitations are classified in severity as Class III or Class IV
according to standards established by the American heart association; or
         F.   Is severely limited in his or her ability to walk because of an
arthritic, neurological, or other orthopedic physical condition.
      (2)   “Special registration plate” means a registration plate that
displays the international symbol of access, as adopted by the Rehabilitation
International Organization in 1969 at its Eleventh World Congress on
Rehabilitation of the Disabled, in a color that contrasts with the background,
in letters and numbers the same size as those on the plate, and which may be
used in lieu of a regular registration plate;
      (3)   “Removable windshield placard” (permanent or temporary) means a
two-sided, hanger style placard measuring three inches by nine and one half
inches, with all of the following on each side:
         A.   The international symbol of access, measuring at least three
inches in height, centered on the placard, in white on a blue background for
permanent designations and in white on a red background for temporary
designations;
         B.   An identification number measuring one inch in height;
         C.   An expiration date in numbers measuring one inch in height; and
         D.   The seal or other identifying symbol of the issuing authority.
      (4)   “Public entity” means state or local government or any department,
agency, special purpose district or other instrumentality of a state or local
government.
      (5)   “Public facility” means all or any part of any buildings,
structures, sites, complexes, roads, parking lots or other real or personal
property, including the site where the facility is located.
      (6)   “Place(s) of public accommodation” means a facility or facilities
operated by a private entity whose operations affect commerce and fall within
at least one of the following categories:
         A.   Inns, hotels, motels and other places of lodging;
         B.   Restaurants, bars or other establishments serving food or drink;
         C.   Motion picture houses, theaters, concert halls, stadiums or other
places of exhibition or entertainment;
         D.   Auditoriums, convention centers, lecture halls or other places of
public gatherings;
         E.   Bakeries, grocery stores, clothing stores, hardware stores,
shopping centers or other sales or rental establishments;
         F.   Laundromats, dry cleaners, banks, barber and beauty shops, travel
agencies, shoe repair shops, funeral parlors, gas or service stations, offices
of accountants and attorneys, pharmacies, insurance offices, offices of
professional health care providers, hospitals or other service establishments;
         G.   Terminals, depots or other stations used for public
transportation;
         H.   Museums, libraries, galleries or other places of public display
or collection;
         I.   Parks, zoos, amusement parks or other places of recreation;
         J.   Public or private nursery, elementary, secondary, undergraduate
or post-graduate schools or other places of learning and day care centers,
senior citizen centers, homeless shelters, food banks, adoption agencies or
other social service establishments; and
         K.   Gymnasiums, health spas, bowling alleys, golf courses or other
places of exercise or recreation.
      (7)   “Commercial facility” means a facility whose operations affect
commerce and which are intended for nonresidential use by a private entity.
      (8)   “Accessible parking” formerly known as “handicapped parking” is the
present phrase consistent with language within the American with Disabilities
Act (ADA).
      (9)   “Parking enforcement personnel” includes any law enforcement
officer as defined by W.Va. Code § 30-29-1, and private security guards,
parking personnel and other personnel authorized by a city, county or the state
to issue parking citations.
   (b)   An accessible parking space should comply with the provisions of the
Americans with Disabilities Act accessibility guidelines, contained in 28
C.F.R. part 36, Appendix A, § 4.6. In particular, the parking space should be a
minimum of eight feet wide with an adjacent eight-foot access aisle for vans
having side mounted hydraulic lifts or ramps or a five-foot access aisle for
standard vehicles. Access aisles should be marked using diagonal two- to four-
inch-wide stripes spaced every 12 or 24 inches apart along with the words “no
parking” in painted letters which are at least 12 inches in height. All
accessible parking spaces should have a signpost in front or adjacent to the
accessible parking space displaying the international symbol of access sign
mounted at a minimum of eight feet above the pavement or sidewalk and the top
of the sign. Lines or markings on the pavement or curbs for parking spaces and
access aisles may be in any color, although blue is the generally accepted
color for accessible parking.
   (c)   A vehicle displaying a disabled veterans special registration plate
issued pursuant to W.Va. Code § 17A-3-14(c)(6) shall be recognized and accepted
as meeting the requirements of this section.
   (d)   A vehicle from any other state, United States territory or foreign
country displaying an officially issued special registration plate, placard or
decal bearing the international symbol of access shall be recognized and
accepted as meeting the requirements of this section, regardless of where the
plate, placard or decal is mounted or displayed on the vehicle.
   (e)   Stopping, standing or parking places marked with the international
symbol of access shall be designated in close proximity to all public entities
including state, county and municipal buildings and facilities, places of
public accommodation and commercial facilities. These parking places shall be
reserved solely for persons with a mobility impairment and disabled veterans at
all times.
   (f)   (1)   Any person whose vehicle properly displays a valid, unexpired
special registration plate or removable windshield placard may park the vehicle
for unlimited periods of time in parking zones unrestricted as to length of
parking time permitted; provided, that this privilege does not mean that the
vehicle may park in any zone where stopping, standing or parking is prohibited
or which creates parking zones for special types of vehicles or which prohibits
parking during heavy traffic periods during specified rush hours or where
parking would clearly present a traffic hazard. To the extent any provision of
any ordinance of any political subdivision of this state is contrary to the
provisions of this section, the provisions of this section take precedence and
apply.
      (2)   The parking privileges provided for in this subsection apply only
during those times when the vehicle is being used for the loading or unloading
of a person with a mobility impairment. Any person who knowingly exercises, or
attempts to exercise these privileges at a time when the vehicle is not being
used for the loading or unloading of a person with a mobility impairment, upon
first conviction thereof, in addition to any other penalty he or she may
otherwise incur, shall be fined $200; upon second conviction thereof, in
addition to any other penalty, he or she may otherwise incur, shall be fined
$300; and upon third and subsequent convictions thereof, in addition to any
other penalty he or she may otherwise incur, shall be fined $500.
   (g)   (1)   Any person whose vehicle does not display a valid, special
registration plate or removable windshield placard may not stop, stand or park
a motor vehicle in an area designated, zoned or marked for accessible parking
with signs or instructions displaying the international symbol of access,
either by itself or with explanatory text. The signs may be mounted on a post
or a wall in front of the accessible parking space and instructions may appear
on the ground or pavement, but use of both methods is preferred. Accessible
parking spaces for vans having an eight-foot adjacent access aisle should be
designated as “van accessible” but may be used by any vehicle displaying a
valid special registration plate or removable windshield placard.
      (2)   Any person who violates the provisions of this subsection (g) shall
be fined $200; upon second conviction thereof, in addition to any other penalty
he or she may otherwise incur, shall be fined $300; and upon third and
subsequent convictions thereof, in addition to any other penalty he or she may
otherwise incur, shall be fined $500.
   (h)   All signs that designate areas as “accessible parking” or that display
the international symbol of access shall also include the words “Up to $500
fine”.
   (i)   No person may stop, stand or park a motor vehicle in an area
designated or marked off as an accessible aisle to a van-accessible parking
space or regular accessible parking space. Any person, including a driver of a
vehicle displaying a valid removable windshield placard or special registration
plate, who violates the provisions of this subsection shall be fined $200; upon
second conviction thereof, in addition to any other penalty he or she may
otherwise incur, shall be fined $300; and upon third and subsequent convictions
thereof, in addition to any other penalty he or she may otherwise incur, shall
be fined $500.
   (j)   Parking enforcement personnel who otherwise enforce parking violations
may issue citations for violations of this section and shall reference the
number on the vehicle’s license plate, since the driver normally will not be
present.
   (k)   (1)   Law enforcement agencies may establish a program to use trained
volunteers to collect information necessary to issue citations to persons who
illegally park in designated accessible parking spaces.
      (2)   Any law enforcement agency choosing to establish a program shall
provide for workers’ compensation and liability coverage. The volunteers shall
photograph the illegally parked vehicle and complete a form, to be developed by
supervising law enforcement agencies, that includes the vehicle’s license plate
number, date, time and location of the illegally parked vehicle. The
photographs must show the vehicle in the accessible space and a readable view
of the license plate.
      (3)   Within the discretion of the supervising law enforcement agency,
the volunteers may issue citations or the volunteers may submit the photographs
of the illegally parked vehicle and the form to the supervising law enforcement
agency, who may issue a citation, which includes the photographs and the form,
to the owner of the illegally parked vehicle.
      (4)   Volunteers shall be trained on the requirements for citations for
vehicles parked in marked, zoned or designated accessible parking areas by the
supervising law enforcement agency.
   (l)   The municipality in enforcing this section shall retain all fines and
associated late fees. These revenues shall be used first to fund the provisions
of subsection (k) above, if adopted by the municipality or otherwise shall go
into the municipality’s General Revenue Fund.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-13-6)
§ 361.07 ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (a)   Definitions.
      (1)   “Abandoned motor vehicle”means any motor vehicle, or major part
thereof, which is inoperative and which has been abandoned on public property
for any period of time over five days, other than in an enclosed building or in
a licensed salvage yard or at the business establishment of a demolisher; or
any motor vehicle, or major part thereof, which has remained on private
property without consent of the owner or person in control of the property for
any period of time over five days; or any motor vehicle, or major part thereof,
which is unattended, discarded, deserted and unlicensed and is not in an
enclosed building, a licensed salvage yard or the actual possession of a
demolisher; provided, that a motor vehicle, or major part thereof, shall not be
considered an abandoned motor vehicle if:
         A.   The owner of the motor vehicle is storing the motor vehicle on
the owner’s property;
         B.   The motor vehicle is being stored for the purpose of using its
parts on other motor vehicles owned by the owner;
         C.   The owner owns other motor vehicles similar to the motor vehicle
being stored; and
         D.   The owner is a business licensed to do business in the State of
West Virginia and not in the primary business of offering motor vehicles or
parts thereof for sale.
      (2)   “Enclosed building” means a structure surrounded by walls or one
continuous wall and having a roof enclosing the entire structure and includes a
permanent appendage thereto.
      (3)   “Motor vehicle” means a vehicle which is or was self-propelled,
including, but not limited to, automobiles, trucks, buses and motorcycles.
      (4)   “Person” means a natural person, corporation, firm, partnership,
association or society and the plural as well as the singular.
(W.Va. Code § 17-24A-1)
   (b)   Abandonment of motor vehicle prohibited. No person shall, within this
municipality, abandon a motor vehicle or major part thereof upon the right-of-
way of any public highway, upon any other public property or upon any private
property without the consent of the owner or person in control of the property,
or upon property owned or controlled by that person, unless it be at a licensed
salvage yard or at the business establishment of a demolisher, or a business
licensed to do business in the State of West Virginia and not in the primary
business of offering motor vehicles or parts thereof for sale.
(W.Va. Code § 17-24A-2)
§ 361.08 PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park any vehicle upon any street within the municipality for
the principal purpose of:
   (a)   Displaying such vehicle for sale;
   (b)   Displaying advertising;
   (c)   Washing, greasing or repairing such vehicle, except repairs made
necessary by an emergency; and
   (d)   Relieving the crowded condition of any parking lot, used car lot,
automobile sales lot, repair garage, automobile sales agency or used car sales
agency.
§ 361.09 TRUCK LOADING ZONES.
   (a)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or
length of time other than for the expeditious unloading and delivering or
pickup and loading of materials in any place marked as a truck loading zone
during hours when the provisions applicable to such zones are in effect.
   (b)   In no case shall the stop for loading and unloading of materials
exceed 30 minutes.
§ 361.10 BUS STOPS AND TAXICAB STANDS.
   (a)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle other than a bus in a
bus stop, or other than a taxicab in a taxicab stand when any such stop or
stand has been officially designated and appropriately posted, except that the
driver of a passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the purpose of
and while actually engaged in loading or unloading passengers when such
stopping does not interfere with any bus or taxicab waiting to enter or about
to enter such zone, and then only for a period not to exceed three minutes, if
such stopping is not prohibited therein by posted signs.
   (b)   The operator of a bus shall not stop, stand or park such vehicle upon
any street at any place for the purpose of loading or unloading passengers or
their baggage other than at a bus stop so designated and posted as such, except
in case of an emergency.
   (c)   The operator of a bus shall enter a bus stop on a public street in
such a manner that the bus when stopped to load or unload passengers or baggage
shall be in a position with the right front wheel of such vehicle not further
than 18 inches from the curb and the bus approximately parallel to the curb so
as not to unduly impede the movement of other vehicular traffic.
   (d)   The operator of a taxicab shall not stand or park such vehicle upon
any street at any place other than in a taxicab stand so designated and posted
as such. This provision shall not prevent the operator of a taxicab from
temporarily stopping in accordance with other stopping or parking provisions at
any place for the purpose of and while actually engaged in the expeditious
loading or unloading of passengers.
§ 361.11 PARKING IN ALLEYS AND NARROW STREETS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (a)   No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle upon a street, other
than an alley, in such a manner or under such conditions as to leave available
less than ten feet of the width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular
traffic, except that a driver may stop temporarily during the actual loading or
unloading of passengers or when directed to by a police officer or traffic
control signal.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided by law, no person shall stop, stand or
park a vehicle within an alley except while actually loading and unloading, and
then only for a period not to exceed 30 minutes.
§ 361.12 REGISTERED OWNER PRIMA FACIE LIABLE FOR UNLAWFUL PARKING.
   In any hearing on a charge of illegally parking a motor vehicle, testimony
that a vehicle bearing a certain license plate was found unlawfully parked as
prohibited by the provisions of this Traffic Code, and further testimony that
the records of the Department of Motor Vehicles shows that the license plate
was issued to the defendant, shall be prima facie evidence that the vehicle
which was unlawfully parked was so parked by the defendant. A certified copy of
registration from the Department of Motor Vehicles shall be proof of such
ownership.
§ 361.13 PARKING IN BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   No person shall park a vehicle within the Business District for longer than
30 minutes between 1:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. except physicians on emergency
calls.
§ 361.14 HAZARDOUS PARKING AREAS.
   No person shall stop, stand or park near hazardous or congested places. The
City Traffic Division is hereby authorized to determine and designate by proper
signs, places not exceeding 100 feet in length in which the stopping, standing
or parking of vehicles would create an especially hazardous condition or would
cause unusual delay to traffic. When official signs are erected at hazardous or
congested places as authorized herein, no person shall stop, stand or park a
vehicle in any such designated place.
§ 361.15 STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING RESTRICTED OR PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN
STREETS.
   (a)   The provisions of this article prohibiting the standing or parking of
a vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified or as
indicated on official signs except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or official traffic-control device.
   (b)   The provisions of this article imposing a time limit on parking shall
not relieve any person from the duty to observe other and more restrictive
provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping, standing or parking of
vehicles in specified places or at specified times.
   (c)   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall park a
vehicle at any time upon any of the streets so posted. When signs are erected
or painted on a curb or sidewalk in each block giving notice thereof no person
shall park a vehicle for longer than three consecutive days in any space where
unrestricted parking is permitted, and in event any vehicle is parked for more
than three consecutive days the Police Department is hereby given permission
and authority, at the discretion of the Chief of Police, or the acting Chief,
to order the removal of such vehicle to a parking lot or private parking stall
or garage without notice to the owner, and the owner thereof shall thereupon be
responsible for any tow bill and storage bill which shall accumulate upon the
vehicle by reason of such towing and storage.
§ 361.16 TRAILER PARKING.
   (a)   Storage prohibited. No person shall store on any street, alley or
public ground, any trailer, utility trailer, travel trailer, stock trailer,
mobile home or any boat. Any trailer, utility trailer, travel trailer, stock
trailer, mobile home or any boat parked or remaining at the same location upon
any street, alley or public ground for more than three consecutive days shall
be considered as being stored. In order to avoid penalty under this section,
any trailer, utility trailer, travel trailer, stock trailer, mobile home or any
boat must be moved each three-day time period. Further, any trailer, utility
trailer, travel trailer, stock trailer, mobile home or any boat must be moved
at least 20 feet in distance from the previous parking space and such movement
cannot be made for the sole and only purpose of avoiding or defeating this
provision. A violator of this policy shall bear the burden of proof that his,
her or its trailer, utility trailer, travel trailer, stock trailer, mobile home
or boat is not being stored.
   (b)   Licensed contractor exception. Exempt from the operative effect of
subsection (a) above are trailers being utilized by licensed contractors in
performing their trade where that contractor is engaged in providing services
to an individual, business or other entity inside the municipal city limits. A
trailer being utilized by a licensed contractor, parked or remaining at the
same location upon any street, alley or public ground for more than 30
consecutive days shall be considered as being unlawfully stored. In order to
avoid penalty under this section, a trailer must be moved each 30-day time
period. Further, a trailer must be moved at least 20 feet in distance from the
previous parking space and such movement cannot be made for the sole and only
purpose of avoiding or defeating this provision. A violator of this policy
shall bear the burden of proof that his, her or its trailer is not being
stored; provided however, the Code Enforcement Official shall, upon proper
application, have the power to grant special exceptions to the foregoing
prohibition.
   (c)   Penalty. Whoever violates any provision of this section shall be fined
not more than $100; upon a second conviction within one year thereafter shall
be fined not more than $200; and upon a third or subsequent conviction, shall
be fined not more than $500.
(Ord. passed 12-2-2014)
§ 361.17 PARKING FINES.
   Parking fines for the following violations shall be set by Council from time
to time: double parking; excessive overtimed (if paid within 24 hours); meter
violations (if paid within 24 hours); parking at a fire hydrant; parking at a
handicapped zone; and parking in a prohibited zone.
(Ord. passed 4-1-2014)
§ 361.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   General article penalty. Whoever violates any provision of this
article for which no other penalty is provided upon a first conviction shall be
fined not more than $100; upon a second conviction within one year thereafter
shall be fined not more than $200; and upon a third or subsequent conviction,
shall be fined not more than $500, or another such amounts as set by Council
from time to time.
   (b)   Abandoned and junk vehicles. Whoever violates §
361.07, upon conviction shall be fined not more than $500.
(Ord. passed 8-8-2017)
ARTICLE 363: PARKING METERS
Section
   
363.01   Installation
   
363.02   Regulation of parking on certain streets
   
363.03   Authorization for use of parking meters
 
   
363.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Parking generally, see
Art. 361
§ 363.01 INSTALLATION.
   The proper officers of the city are hereby authorized to enter into a
contract for the leasing and installation of parking meters, such contract to
be made subject to the condition and in the manner provided by law, the payment
of such meter and the installation thereof to be provided for solely from the
operation of the parking meters, without in any manner obligating the city to
pay for same from any other source. The city has the authority to repair and
install meters with its work force in lieu of the above described contract.
(Ord. passed 10-4-2003)
§ 363.02 REGULATION OF PARKING ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   After the installation of such parking meters, no owner or operator of any
motor vehicle shall park such vehicle between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00
p.m. Monday through Saturday, with the exception of city holidays, except by
the proper use of parking meters upon position of the streets herein described.
Meters on streets shall have a one hour time limit; whereas lots will have a
minimum of two hours but a maximum of nine hours in the designated long-term
lots. All meters are subject to an excessive overtime penalty.
   (a)   Streets.
      (1)   Main Street from Pike Street to Mason Street;
      (2)   North side of Court Street from Main Street to Walnut Street;
      (3)   Main Street South from Covered Bridge;
      (4)   Mason Street from Main Street to Walnut Street; and
      (5)   South side of Church Street from Main Street to Walnut Street.
   (b)   Lots.
      (1)   Lot 1 - Municipal Lot (Long-term - nine hours);
      (2)   Lot 2 - Medallion Lot (Short-term);
      (3)   Lot 3 - Ken’s True Value/Heart and Hand Lot (Long-term - nine
hours);
      (4)   Professional Building Lot (Long-term - nine hours); and
      (5)   Library Lot (Short-term).
   (c)   Meters. Fifteen minute parking meters may be installed at the option
of the Council as the need arises for short term parking at any parking zone.
(Ord. passed 10-4-2003)
§ 363.03 AUTHORIZATION FOR USE OF PARKING METERS.
   (a)   In order that the police officers may properly compute the time during
which a vehicle is parked, the owner or operator of such vehicle shall, upon
entering such parking space during the time of limited parking, immediately
deposit required payment in the parking meter and operate same according to
instructions thereon. Failure to do so shall constitute a violation of this
section. Upon deposit of payment, thereby placing the meter in operation, the
parking space may be lawfully occupied by such vehicle during the period of
parking time which has been prescribed for the particular amount deposited.
   (b)   If such vehicle shall remain parked in any such parking space for a
length of time that the meter shall indicate by proper signal that the lawful
parking time has expired, such vehicle shall be considered as parking overtime,
and the parking of a vehicle overtime shall be a violation of this section.
   (c)   No person shall park any vehicle across any line or marking
designating a parking space, or park such vehicle in any way that the same
shall not be wholly within a parking space as designated by such lines or
markings.
   (d)   No person shall deposit or cause to be deposited in any parking meter
a slug, device or metallic substance for a coin of the United States.
   (e)   No person shall deface, tamper with, damage, open or willfully break,
destroy or impair the usefulness of any parking meter installed under the terms
of this article.
(Ord. passed 10-4-2003)
§ 363.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of this article, or
aiding, abetting, or assisting in the violation of such provisions, shall, upon
conviction before the proper officials of the city be sentenced to pay a fine
of not more than $50, or another such amount as set by Council from time to
time and costs of prosecution for each offense.
(Ord. passed 10-4-2003; Ord. passed 8-8-2017)
ARTICLE 365: REGULATION OF PARKING AT BLUE AND GRAY PARK
Section
   
365.01   Regulation of parking
§ 365.01 REGULATION OF PARKING.
   (a)   Regulation. The parking of any vehicle at Blue and Gray Park shall be
limited to a maximum length of time of two hours, between the hours of 8:00
a.m. and 5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday, with the exception of holidays
observed by the city.
   (b)   Penalty. Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of
this article shall, upon conviction before the proper officials of the city, be
assessed a fine of not more than $50, and any costs associated with
prosecution.
(Ord. passed 12-16-2014)
CHAPTER NINE - Pedestrians; Bicycles; Snowmobiles
      
371.   Pedestrians
      
373.   Bicycles
      
375.   Snowmobiles
      
379.   All-Terrain Vehicles
ARTICLE 371: PEDESTRIANS
Section
   
371.01   Compliance with traffic regulations
   
371.02   Right-of-way in crosswalk
   
371.03   Crossing roadway outside crosswalk
   
371.04   Drivers to exercise due care
   
371.05   Moving upon right half of crosswalk
   
371.06   Walking along streets and highways; soliciting rides
   
371.07   Persons working on streets and highways
   
371.08   Protection of blind pedestrians
   
371.09   Electric personal assistive mobility device
 
   
371.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Pedestrians at traffic signal, see §
313.03
   Pedestrian control signal, see §
313.04
   Pedestrian defined, see §
301.21
§ 371.01 COMPLIANCE WITH TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic control signals at intersections as
provided in §
313.03, but at all other places pedestrians shall be accorded the privileges
and shall be subject to the restrictions stated in this article.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-10-1(a))
§ 371.02 RIGHT-OF-WAY IN CROSSWALK.
   (a)   When traffic control signals are not in place or not in operation the
driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping if
need be to so yield, to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk
when the pedestrian is upon the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is
traveling, or when the pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite
half of the roadway as to be in danger, but no pedestrian shall suddenly leave
a curb or other place of safety and walk or run into the path of a vehicle
which is so close that it is impossible for the driver to yield. This provision
shall not apply under the conditions stated in §
371.03(b).
   (b)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass such stopped vehicle.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-10-2)
§ 371.03 CROSSING ROADWAY OUTSIDE CROSSWALK.
   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a marked
crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway. Any pedestrian crossing a
roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel or overhead pedestrian crossing
has been provided shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the
roadway. Between adjacent intersections at which traffic control signals are in
operation pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a marked
crosswalk.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-10-3)
§ 371.04 DRIVERS TO EXERCISE DUE CARE.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this article every driver of a
vehicle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any
roadway and shall give warning by sounding the horn when necessary and shall
exercise proper precaution upon observing any child or any confused or
incapacitated person upon a roadway.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-10-4)
§ 371.05 MOVING UPON RIGHT HALF OF CROSSWALK.
   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-10-5)
§ 371.06 WALKING ALONG STREETS AND HIGHWAYS; SOLICITING RIDES.
   (a)   Where sidewalks are provided, no pedestrian shall walk along and upon
an adjacent roadway.
   (b)   Where sidewalks are not provided any pedestrian walking along and upon
a street or highway shall when practicable walk only on the left side of the
roadway or its shoulder facing traffic which may approach from the opposite
direction.
   (c)   No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a
ride from the driver of any vehicle.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-10-6)
§ 371.07 PERSONS WORKING ON STREETS AND HIGHWAYS.
   The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to persons engaged in
maintenance or construction work on a street or highway whenever he or she is
notified of their presence by an official traffic control device or flagman.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-10-8)
§ 371.08 PROTECTION OF BLIND PEDESTRIANS.
   The driver of a vehicle approaching a blind pedestrian who knows, or in the
exercise of reasonable care should know, that such pedestrian is blind because
such pedestrian is carrying a cane predominantly white or metallic in color
with or without a red tip, or is using a guide dog or otherwise, shall exercise
care commensurate with the situation to avoid injuring such pedestrian.
(W.Va. Code § 5-15-5)
§ 371.09 ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE.
   (a)   For purposes of this section, the definition of an “electric personal
assistive mobility device” is the same definition as previously set forth in §
301.081 and “operator” shall refer to the operator of an electric personal
assistive mobility device.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-10A-1)
   (b)   An electric personal assistive mobility device shall be equipped with:
      (1)   Front, rear and side reflectors;
      (2)   A braking system that enables the operator to bring the device to a
controlled stop; and
      (3)   If operated at any time from one-half hour after sunset to one-half
hour before sunrise, a lamp that emits a white light that sufficiently
illuminates the area in front of the device.
   (c)   An operator of an electric personal assistive mobility device
traveling on a sidewalk, roadway or bicycle path shall have the rights and
duties of a pedestrian and shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with
pedestrians. An operator shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians.
   (d)   Except as provided in this section, no other provisions of the motor
vehicle code shall apply to electric personal assistive mobility devices.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-10A-2)
§ 371.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   Whoever violates any provision of this article, for which no other
penalty is provided, upon a first conviction shall be fined not more than $100;
upon a second conviction within one year thereafter shall be fined not more
than $200; and upon a third or subsequent conviction, shall be fined not more
than $500.
   (b)   An operator who violates a provision of §
371.09 upon conviction shall receive a warning for the first offense. Upon a
conviction for a second or subsequent offense, the operator shall be punished
by a fine of not less than $10 and not greater than $100.
(Ord. passed 8-8-2017)
ARTICLE 373: BICYCLES
Section
   
373.01   Compliance; code application to bicycles
   
373.02   Obedience to traffic rules; exceptions
   
373.03   Riding upon seats; number of persons
   
373.04   Attaching bicycle or sled to vehicle
   
373.05   Riding on roadways; bicycle paths; Business District
   
373.06   Carrying articles
   
373.07   Lights and reflector on bicycle; signal device; brakes
   
373.08   Reckless operation; control, course and speed
   
373.09   Parking
   
373.10   Bicycle helmets for children required
   
373.11   Electric bicycles
 
   
373.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Bicycle defined, see §
301.03
   Moped equipment and operation, see §
345.29   
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate bicycle operation, see W.Va. Code § 17C-2-8(a)(8)
§ 373.01 COMPLIANCE; CODE APPLICATION TO BICYCLES.
   (a)   No person shall do any act forbidden or fail to perform any act
required in this article.
   (b)   The parent of any child and the guardian of any ward shall not
authorize or knowingly permit any such child or ward to violate any of the
provisions of this Traffic Code.
   (c)   These regulations applicable to bicycles shall apply whenever a
bicycle is operated upon any street or highway or upon any path set aside for
the exclusive use of bicycles subject to those exceptions stated herein.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-11-1)
§ 373.02 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC RULES; EXCEPTIONS.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the
rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle by this Traffic Code, except as to special regulations in this article
and except as to those provisions of this Traffic Code which by their nature
can have no application.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-11-2)
§ 373.03 RIDING UPON SEATS; NUMBER OF PERSONS.
   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than upon or astride a
permanent and regular seat attached thereto. No bicycle shall be used to carry
more persons at one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-11-3)
§ 373.04 ATTACHING BICYCLE OR SLED TO VEHICLE.
   No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, skateboard, roller skates, sled
or toy vehicle shall attach the same or himself or herself to any vehicle upon
a roadway.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-11-4)
§ 373.05 RIDING ON ROADWAYS; BICYCLE PATHS; BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (a)   Any person operating a bicycle upon a roadway at less than the normal
speed of traffic at the time and place and under the conditions then existing
shall ride in the lane marked for bicycle use or, if no lane is marked for
bicycle use, as close as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the
roadway except under any of the following situations:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another bicycle or vehicle proceeding
in the same direction;
      (2)   When preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private
road or driveway; or
      (3)   When reasonably necessary to avoid any condition or potential
conflict including, but not limited to, a fixed or moving object, parked or
moving vehicle, bicycle, pedestrian, animal, surface hazard, turn lane, or
substandard-width lane, which makes it unsafe to continue along the right-hand
curb or edge or within a bicycle lane. For the purposes of this subsection, a
“substandard-width lane” is a lane that is too narrow for a bicycle and another
vehicle to travel safely side by side within the lane.
   (b)   Any person operating a bicycle upon a one-way roadway with two or more
marked traffic lanes may ride as near the left-hand curb or edge of such
roadway as practicable.
   (c)   Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway may not ride more than two
abreast except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-11-5)
   (d)   No person shall ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk within a Business
District.
§ 373.06 CARRYING ARTICLES.
   No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle or article
which prevents the driver from keeping at least one hand upon the handlebars.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-11-6)
§ 373.07 LIGHTS AND REFLECTOR ON BICYCLE; SIGNAL DEVICE; BRAKES.
   Every bicycle when in use at nighttime shall be equipped with a lamp on the
front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least 500
feet to the front and with a red reflector on the rear of a type approved by
the Department of Motor Vehicles which shall be visible from all distances from
50 feet to 300 feet to the rear when directly in front of lawful upper beams of
head lamps on a motor vehicle. A lamp emitting a red light visible from a
distance of 500 feet to the rear may be used in addition to the red reflector.
Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will enable the operator to
make the braked wheels skid on dry, level, clean pavement.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-11-7)
§ 373.08 RECKLESS OPERATION; CONTROL, COURSE AND SPEED.
   No person shall operate a bicycle:
   (a)   Without due regard for the safety and rights of pedestrians and
drivers and occupants of all other vehicles, and so as to endanger the life,
limb or property of any person while in the lawful use of the streets or
sidewalks or any other public or private property;
   (b)   Without exercising reasonable and ordinary control over such bicycle;
   (c)   In a weaving or zigzag course unless such irregular course is
necessary for safe operation in compliance with law;
   (d)   Without both hands upon the handle grips except when necessary to give
the required hand and arm signals, or as provided in §
373.06;
   (e)   At a speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions
then existing.
§ 373.09 PARKING.
   No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other than upon the roadway
against the curb or upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the bicycle or
against a building or at the curb, in such a manner as to afford the least
obstruction to pedestrian traffic.
§ 373.10 BICYCLE HELMETS FOR CHILDREN REQUIRED.
   (a)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      (1)   “Bicycle” means a human-powered vehicle with wheels designed to
transport, by the action of pedaling, one or more persons seated on one or more
saddle seats on its frame. Such term also includes a human-powered vehicle, and
any attachment to such vehicle designed to transport by pedaling when the
vehicle is used on a public roadway, public bicycle path or other public right-
of-way, but does not include a tricycle.
      (2)   “Tricycle” means a three-wheeled human-powered vehicle designed for
use as a toy by a single child under the age of six years, the seat of which is
no more than two feet from ground level.
      (3)   “Public roadway” means a right-of-way under the jurisdiction and
control of this state or the municipality for use primarily by motor vehicles.
      (4)   “Public bicycle path” means a right-of-way under the jurisdiction
and control of this state or the municipality for use primarily by bicycles and
pedestrians.
      (5)   “Other public right-of-way” means any right-of-way other than a
public roadway or public bicycle path that is under the jurisdiction and
control of this state or the municipality and is designed for use and used by
vehicular or pedestrian traffic.
      (6)   “Protective bicycle helmet” means a piece of headgear which meets
or exceeds the impact standards for protective bicycle helmets set by the
American National Standards Institute (ANSI) or the Snell Memorial Foundation’s
standards for protective headgear or American Society for Testing and Materials
(ASTM) for use in bicycling.
      (7)   “Passenger” means any person who travels on a bicycle in any manner
except as an operator.
      (8)   “Operator” means a person who travels on a bicycle seated on a
saddle seat from which that person is intended to and can pedal the bicycle.
(W.Va. Code § 17-11A-3)
   (b)   Requirements for helmet use.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person under 15 years of age to operate or
be a passenger on a bicycle or any attachment to a bicycle used on a public
roadway, public bicycle path or other public right- of-way unless at all times
when the person is so engaged he or she wears a protective bicycle helmet of
good fit, fastened securely upon the head with the straps of the helmet.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any parent or legal guardian of a person under
15 years of age to knowingly permit such person to operate or be a passenger on
a bicycle or on any attachment to a bicycle used on a public roadway, public
bicycle path or other public right-of-way unless at all times when the person
is so engaged he or she wears a protective bicycle helmet of good fit, fastened
securely upon the head with the straps of the helmet.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-11A-4)
   (c)   Sale of bicycle helmets. Any helmet sold or offered for sale for use
by operators and passengers of bicycles shall be conspicuously labeled in
accordance with the standard described in subsection (a)(6) above, which shall
constitute the manufacturer’s certification that the helmet conforms to the
applicable safety standards.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-11A-5)
   (d)   Civil actions. A violation of subsection (b) above is not admissible
as evidence of negligence or contributory negligence or comparative negligence
in any civil action or proceeding for damages, and shall not be admissible in
mitigation of damages.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-11A-6)
   (e)   Penalties.
      (1)   Any parent or legal guardian violating any requirements set forth
in this article shall be fined $10 or be required to perform two hours in
community service related to a child injury prevention program which includes
injury prevention education or both fined and required to perform such
community service. No court costs may be assessed to any person violating this
requirement.
      (2)   In case of a first violation, the court may waive the fine upon
receipt of satisfactory proof that the person has a helmet or within a
reasonable time from the date of violation, purchased or otherwise obtained, a
protective bicycle helmet.
      (3)   It is absolute defense to a charge for a violation of this article
that a parent or legal guardian is unable to pay for the protective bicycle
helmet. Inability to pay may be demonstrated by the filing of a financial
affidavit. Any person who demonstrates inability to pay shall be referred to
the Governor’s Highway Safety Program for assistance in obtaining the
appropriate helmet or helmets.
(Ord. 96-05, passed 7-30-1996)
§ 373.11 ELECTRIC BICYCLES.
   (a)   The operator of an electric bicycle has all of the rights and
privileges and is subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle subject to this chapter, except as otherwise provided by this section
and except as to those provisions of this chapter which by their nature can
have no application.
   (b)   A person owning or operating an electric bicycle is not subject to the
provisions of W.Va. Code §§ 17A-1-1 et seq., 17B-1-1 et seq. or 17D-1-1 et
seq., relating to registration, title, driver’s license, and financial
responsibility requirements.
   (c)   A person may not tamper with or modify an electric bicycle so as to
change the motor-powered speed capability or motor engagement between pedal-
assist and throttle-assist types of engagement. If a motor on an electric
bicycle is modified so that a limit established in W. Va. Code § 17C-1-70 is
exceeded, that vehicle is no longer an electric bicycle. The provisions of this
subsection (c) are not applicable to a modified electric bicycle operated
solely and exclusively on a person’s own property.
   (d)   An electric bicycle must comply with the equipment and manufacturing
requirements for bicycles adopted by the United States Consumer Product Safety
Commission (16 C.F.R. part 1512).
   (e)   The motor on an electric bicycle must disengage or cease to propel the
electric bicycle when the operator stops pedaling, or when the operator applies
the brakes and stops pedaling.
   (f)   A Class 3 electric bicycle must be equipped with a speedometer that
displays the speed the electric bicycle is traveling in miles per hour.
   (g)   Electric bicycles operated on public roadways, public bicycle paths,
public multi-use paths, and other public rights-of-way where bicycles are
permitted to travel are subject to the following restrictions:
      (1)   A Class 1 electric bicycle may be used in places where bicycles are
permitted to travel, including, but not limited to, public roadways, public
bicycle paths, public multi-use trails, and public single-use trails.
      (2)   A Class 3 electric bicycle may not be operated on a bicycle path,
multi-use trail, or single-use trail unless it is within a highway or roadway;
provided, that the provisions of this subdivision are not applicable to a
bicycle path, multi-use trail, or single-use trail if the municipality, local
authority, or governing body of a state agency that has jurisdiction over the
bicycle path, multi-use trail, or single-use trail expressly permits that
operation.
      (3)   This subsection may not be construed to limit the authority of the
owner of a private way or the owner of private property to restrict or allow
the operation of electric bicycles on the way or property.
   (h)   Age restrictions related to the operation of electric bicycles are as
follows:
      (1)   A person under 16 years of age may not operate a Class 3 electric
bicycle;
      (2)   A person under 15 years of age may only be a passenger on a Class 3
electric bicycle, including as a passenger within any attachment to the vehicle
designed to transport an additional person, including a child, provided the
operator of the electric bicycle is 18 years of age or older; and
      (3)   A person under 15 years of age who is an operator or passenger on
an electric bicycle shall wear a properly fitted and fastened bicycle helmet,
pursuant to §
373.09.
   (i)   A person under the influence of alcohol or controlled substances shall
not operator a Class 1 or Class 3 electric bicycle.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-11-8)
§ 373.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
303.99, any parent or legal guardian violating any requirement set forth in §
373.09(b) shall be fined $10 or be required to perform two hours in community
service related to a child injury prevention program which includes injury
prevention education or both fined and required to perform such community
service. Notwithstanding the provisions of W.Va. Code § 8-11-1, no court costs
may be assessed to any person violating the requirements of §
373.09(b).
   (b)   In the case of a first violation of §
373.09(b), the court may waive the fine upon receipt of satisfactory proof that
the person has a helmet or within a reasonable time from the date of the
violation, purchased or otherwise obtained, a protective bicycle helmet.
   (c)   It is an absolute defense to a charge for a violation of §
373.09 that a parent or legal guardian is unable to pay for the protective
bicycle helmet. Inability to pay may be demonstrated by the filing of a
financial affidavit in accordance with the provisions of W.Va. Code § 59-2-1
(c). Any person who demonstrates inability to pay shall be referred to the
Governor’s highway safety program for assistance in obtaining the appropriate
helmet or helmets.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-11A-7)
Editor’s note:
   See §
303.99 for general Traffic Code penalty.
ARTICLE 375: SNOWMOBILES
Section
   
375.01   Definitions
   
375.02   Operation
   
375.03   Exceptions
   
375.04   Equipment
   
375.05   Unattended vehicles
   
375.06   Traffic regulations
 
   
375.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Toy vehicles on streets, see §
311.03
§ 375.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (a)   “Snowmobiles” means a self-propelled vehicle designed for travel on
snow or ice in a natural terrain steered by wheels, skis or runners.
   (b)   “Operate” means to control the operation of a snowmobile.
   (c)   “Operator” means a person who operates or is in actual control of a
snowmobile.
§ 375.02 OPERATION.
   No person shall operate a snowmobile under the following circumstances:
   (a)   On the private property of another without the express permission to
do so by the owner or occupant of such property.
   (b)   On public school grounds, park property, playgrounds, recreation areas
without the express provision or permission to do so by the proper public
authority.
   (c)   In a manner so as to create loud, unnecessary or unusual noise so as
to disturb or interfere with the peace and quiet of other persons.
   (d)   In a careless, reckless or negligent manner so as to endanger the
safety of any person or the property of any other person.
   (e)   Without having such snowmobile registered as provided by statute
except that this provision shall not apply to the operation by a member of his
or her immediate family.
   (f)   Within the right-of-way of any public street within the city.
§ 375.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   Council shall have authority to regulate events or programs in connection
with events conducted by the city in which snowmobiles are used. Council shall
have the authority to designate city park areas that they deem available for
the use of snowmobiles.
§ 375.04 EQUIPMENT.
   All snowmobiles operated within the city shall have the following equipment:
   (a)   Mufflers which are properly attached and which reduce the noise of
operation of the vehicle to the minimum noise necessary for operating the
vehicle and no person shall use a muffler cut-out, by-pass or similar device on
such vehicle.
   (b)   Adequate brakes in good working condition and at least one headlight
and one taillight.
   (c)   A safety or so called “dead man” throttle in operating condition. A
safety or “dead man” throttle is defined as a device which when pressure is
removed from the accelerator or throttle causes the motor to be disengaged from
the driving track.
§ 375.05 UNATTENDED VEHICLES.
   No owner or operator shall leave or allow a snowmobile to be or remain
unattended on public property while the motor is running or with the keys for
starting the vehicle left in the ignition.
§ 375.06 TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   Each person operating a snowmobile shall strictly observe all traffic signs
and signals and all other traffic rules and regulations applicable thereto, and
shall obey the orders and directions of any police officer of the city
authorized to direct or regulate traffic.
§ 375.99 PENALTY.
   See §
303.99 for general Traffic Code penalty.
ARTICLE 379: ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES
Section
   
379.01   Title
   
379.02   Purpose
   
379.03   Definition of all-terrain and utility terrain vehicle
   
379.04   Prohibition
   
379.05   Permitting
   
379.06   Acts prohibited by operator
   
379.07   Rental dealers required to provide safety equipment
   
379.08   Private property exemption
   
379.09   Exemption for farm, commercial use; current regulations
   
379.10   Applicability of rules of operation
 
   
379.99   Violation and penalties
§ 379.01 TITLE.
   This article shall be known and may be cited as the “Prohibiting the Use of
All-Terrain Vehicles (ATVs) in the City of Philippi, West Virginia Without a
Special Permit; Providing Penalties for Violation Thereof”, and shall be
referred to herein as “this article”.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2017)
§ 379.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this article is to protect the health, safety and well-being
of the citizens of the city by prohibiting the use of ATVs on the public roads
in the city without a special permit to do so, to ensure those receiving a
special permit carry liability insurance, have a valid driver’s license and
have demonstrated good cause to justify the use of an ATV within the municipal
city limits, thereby ensuring the safety and well-being of the citizens of the
city.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2017)
§ 379.03 DEFINITION OF ALL-TERRAIN AND UTILITY TERRAIN VEHICLE.
   (a)   As used in this article:
      (1)   “All-terrain vehicle” or “ATV” means any motor vehicle, designed
for off-highway use and designed to travel on not less than three low-pressure
tires, having a seat or saddle designed to be straddled by the operator and
handlebars for steering control and intended by the manufacturer to be used by
a single operator or by an operator and no more than one passenger.
      (2)   “Utility terrain vehicle” means any motor vehicle with four or more
low-pressure tires designed for off-highway use having bench or bucket seating
for each occupant and a steering wheel for control.
   (b)   As used in this article, “all-terrain vehicles” and “vehicle”, or the
plural, mean all- terrain vehicles and utility-terrain vehicles.
   (c)   The term all-terrain vehicles does not however include a vehicle,
regardless of nature, used for and by governmental, military, fire, emergency
or law enforcement purposes, a vehicle owned and operated by a utility company,
or an oil or gas company when performing maintenance on its facilities or on
property over which it has an easement, a construction or logging vehicle used
in the performance of its common function, and the same are not prohibited by
this article.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2017)
§ 379.04 PROHIBITION.
   (a)   Unless a special permit has been obtained pursuant to §
379.05, no person shall:
      (1)   Operate, ride upon or use any all-terrain vehicle, within or upon
the public streets, roads, alleys, ways, sidewalks and crosswalks or upon any
other property which is publicly owned, leased or controlled, within the
corporate limits of the city; or
      (2)   Knowingly permit another person to operate ride upon or use any
all-terrain vehicle, within or upon the public streets, roads, alleys, ways,
sidewalks and crosswalks or upon any other property which is publicly owned,
leased or controlled, within the corporate limits of the city.
   (b)   (1)   A parent, custodian or guardian of a minor commits an offense
hereunder if said parent, custodian or guardian knowingly permits or by
insufficient control allows said minor to operate, ride upon or use any all-
terrain vehicle for transportation or recreational purposes, within or upon the
public streets, road, alleys, ways, sidewalks or crosswalks or upon any other
real property, which is publicly owned, leased or controlled, within the
corporate limits of the city. The term “knowingly” includes knowledge that the
parent, custodian or guardian should reasonably be expected to have concerning
the whereabouts of said minor in his or her custody.
      (2)   This requirement is intended to hold a neglectful or careless
parent, custodian or guardian up to a reasonable community standard of parental
responsibility through an objective test. It shall, therefore, be no defense
that the parent or guardian was completely indifferent to the activities or
conduct of such minor.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2017)
§ 379.05 PERMITTING.
   (a)   An individual or entity may apply to the City Clerk for a special
permit to operate an all-terrain vehicle within the municipal corporate limits
of the city by applying to the city and providing the following:
      (1)   A showing of good cause for the issuance of a special permit. The
term “good cause” as used herein shall include, but not be limited to, snow
removal, work related necessity or other justifiable use. The term “good cause”
shall not include recreational use and/or general transportation;
      (2)   Complete an all-terrain vehicle special permit application as
promulgated by the City Manager with advice from the Chief of Police and
approval by City Council;
      (3)   Submission of proof that the all-terrain vehicle is covered by
liability insurance with limits which may not be less than the minimum
requirements for automobiles in this state, as prescribed by W.Va. Code § 17D-
4-2. Any applicant shall keep the all-terrain vehicle insured for the duration
of the special permit and shall not operate the all-terrain vehicle pursuant to
such special permit unless it is so insured at the time of operation thereof;
      (4)   Proof of ownership;
      (5)   Payment of an application fee in the amount not to exceed $50 to
cover administrative costs; and
      (6)   Execution of a waiver of liability and indemnification agreement.
   (b)   The Chief of Police, in his or her sole discretion, shall approve or
disapprove special permit applications, as well as determine the length of the
special permit and any geographical limitations imposed on operation of the
all-terrain vehicle within the municipal corporate limits.
   (c)   Upon approval of a special permit application, the applicant shall be
issued an identification tag which the applicant shall display prominently on
the rear of the all-terrain vehicle at all times the all-terrain vehicle is
being operated within or upon the public streets, road, alleys, ways or upon
any other real property, which is publicly owned, leased or controlled, within
the corporate limits.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2017)
§ 379.06 ACTS PROHIBITED BY OPERATOR.
   (a)   No all-terrain vehicle having been issued a special permit pursuant to
§
379.05 may be operated in this municipality:
      (1)   On any interstate highway except by public safety personnel
responding to emergencies;
      (2)   On any road or highway with a centerline or more than two lanes
except for the purpose of crossing the road, street or highway, if:
         A.   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to
the direction of the highway and at a place where no obstruction prevents a
quick and safe crossing;
         B.   The vehicle is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder or main traveled way of the highway;
         C.   The operator yields his or her right-of-way to all oncoming
traffic that constitutes an immediate potential hazard; and
         D.   Both the headlight and taillight are illuminated when the
crossing is made if the vehicle is so equipped.
      (3)   With more than one passenger unless more passengers are allowed
under manufacturers’ recommendations;
      (4)   With a passenger under the age of 18, unless the operator has at a
minimum a level two intermediate driver’s license or its equivalent or is 18
years of age or older;
      (5)   Unless riders under the age of 18 are wearing size appropriate
protective helmets that meet the current performance specifications established
by the American National Standards Institute Standard z 90.1, the United States
Department of Transportation Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 218 or
Snell safety standards for protective headgear for vehicle users;
      (6)   Anytime from sunset to sunrise without an illuminated headlight or
lights and taillights;
      (7)   Without a manufacturer-installed or equivalent spark arrester and a
manufacturer installed or equivalent muffler in proper working order and
properly connected to the vehicle’s exhaust system;
      (8)   Without the operator being at least 18 years of age and having a
valid driver’s license;
      (9)   Without prominently displaying an identification tag issued
pursuant to §
379.05 on the rear of the all-terrain vehicle; or
      (10)   Unless operating in compliance with the provisions of §
379.07.
   (b)   An all-terrain vehicle being issued a special permit pursuant to §
379.05, may be operated upon the shoulder, or as far to the right on the
pavement as possible when there is not enough shoulder to safely operate, on
any road, street or highway referred to in subsection (a)(2) above other than
an interstate highway for a distance not to exceed ten miles to travel between
a residence or lodging and off-road trails, fields and areas of operation,
including stops for food, fuel, supplies and restrooms, if:
      (1)   The vehicle is operated at speeds of 25 miles per hour or less; and
      (2)   The vehicle is operated at any time from sunset to sunrise the all-
terrain vehicle must be equipped with headlights and taillights which must be
illuminated.
   (c)   Operation of an all-terrain vehicle in accordance with subsection (b)
above shall not constitute operation of a motor vehicle on a road or highway of
this municipality as contemplated by the provisions of §
379.10.
   (d)   Notwithstanding any provision of this article to the contrary, the
municipality may authorize the operation of all-terrain vehicles on certain
specified roads, streets or highways which are marked with centerline pavement
markings, other than interstate highways, to allow participation in parades,
exhibitions and other special events, in emergencies or for specified purposes.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2017)
§ 379.07 RENTAL DEALERS REQUIRED TO PROVIDE SAFETY EQUIPMENT.
   Any person or entity renting or leasing all-terrain vehicles for
recreational purposes must provide protective helmets as defined by the
provisions of §
379.06(a)(5), to all persons using such vehicles who are under the age of 18
and offer protective helmets to all persons 18 and older using the rented or
leased vehicles; provided, that for the provisions of this section to be
applicable, the age and identity of the users of the all-terrain vehicle must
be disclosed to the person or entity providing the rented or leased vehicle.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2017)
§ 379.08 PRIVATE PROPERTY EXEMPTION.
   (a)   The provisions of this article do not apply if the all-terrain vehicle
is operated exclusively on lands owned or leased by the vehicle owner or on
private lands of others with the owner’s permission.
   (b)   However, notwithstanding the foregoing no person shall operate an all-
terrain vehicle on private lands or the lands of others with the owner’s
permission, in the municipality:
      (1)   With more than one passenger unless more passengers are allowed
under manufacturers’ recommendations;
      (2)   With a passenger under the age of 18, unless the operator has at a
minimum a level two intermediate driver’s license or its equivalent or is 18
years of age or older; or
      (3)   Unless riders under the age of 18 are wearing size appropriate
protective helmets that meet the current performance specifications established
by the American National Standards Institute Standard z 90.1, the United States
Department of Transportation Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 218 or
Snell safety standards for protective headgear for vehicle users.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2017)
§ 379.09 EXEMPTION FOR FARM, COMMERCIAL USE; CURRENT REGULATIONS.
   (a)   Nothing in this article may be construed to preclude or limit the use
or operation of all-terrain vehicles for lawful non-recreational commercial
purposes, including, but not limited to, farm use, oil and gas operations,
timbering, surveying and public utilities access.
   (b)   However, notwithstanding the foregoing no person shall operate an all-
terrain vehicle for lawful non-recreational purposes in the municipality:
      (1)   With a passenger under the age of 18, unless the operator has at a
minimum a level two intermediate driver’s license or its equivalent or is 18
years of age or older; or
      (2)   Unless riders under the age of 18 are wearing size appropriate
protective helmets that meet the current performance specifications established
by the American National Standards Institute Standard z 90.1, the United States
Department of Transportation Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 218 or
Snell safety standards for protective headgear for vehicle users.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2017)
§ 379.10 APPLICABILITY OF RULES OF OPERATION.
   Every person operating an all-terrain vehicle upon a public road or highway
of this municipality by virtue of a special permit issued pursuant to §
379.05 shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle by the provisions of W.Va. Code Chapter 17C and this Traffic Code
except where inconsistent with the provisions of this article and except as to
those provisions of W.Va. Code Chapter 17C and this Traffic Code which by their
nature can have no application.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2017)
§ 379.99 VIOLATION AND PENALTIES.
   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this article shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall, in addition to any other
penalties which may be imposed by law, be fined not less than $50 and not more
than $500, with each incident being considered a separate violation. A warning
may be issued for a first offense.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2017)
PART FIVE: GENERAL OFFENSES CODE
ARTICLE 501: ADMINISTRATION AND LAW ENFORCEMENT
Section
   
501.01   Refusal to aid officer
   
501.02   Obstructing or giving false information to an officer; fleeing
   
501.03   False fire alarm (Repealed)
   
501.04   False reports concerning bombs or other explosive devices
   
501.05   Impersonating an official or law enforcement officer
   
501.06   Attempts
   
501.07   Citation in lieu of arrest; failure to appear
   
501.08   Falsely reporting an emergency incident
   
501.09   False report
 
   
501.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Failure to comply with lawful order of police officer, see §
303.02
Statutory reference:
   Bribery and corrupt practices generally, see W.Va. Code Art. 61-5A
   Crimes against public justice, see W.Va. Code Art. 61-5
   Penalty not to exceed that provided in W.Va. Code Ch. 61, see W.Va. Code §
8-12-5(58)
   Specific types of bribery, see W.Va. Code §§ 15-2-19, 18-2A-9, 61-10-15 and
61-10-22
§ 501.01 REFUSAL TO AID OFFICER.
   No person shall, when required by the Police Chief or any other officer,
refuse or neglect to assist him or her in the execution of his or her office in
a criminal case, in the preservation of the peace or in the apprehension or
securing of any person for a breach of the peace or in any case of escape or
rescue.
(W.Va. Code § 61-5-14)
§ 501.02 OBSTRUCTING OR GIVING FALSE INFORMATION TO AN OFFICER; FLEEING.
   (a)   A person who by threats, menaces, acts or otherwise forcibly or
illegally hinders or obstructs or attempts to hinder or obstruct a law
enforcement officer, probation officer, parole officer, courthouse security
officer, correctional officer, the State Fire Marshal, or a full-time Deputy or
Assistant Fire Marshal acting in his or her official capacity is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than $50 nor
more than $500.
   (b)   A person who, with intent to impede or obstruct a law enforcement
officer, the State Fire Marshal or a full-time Deputy or Assistant Fire Marshal
in the conduct of an investigation of a misdemeanor or felony offense,
knowingly and willfully makes a materially false statement is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than $25 nor
more than $200. The provisions of this section do not apply to statements made
by a spouse, parent, stepparent, grandparent, sibling, half-sibling, child,
stepchild or grandchild, whether related by blood or marriage, of the person
under investigation. Statements made by the person under investigation may not
be used as the basis for prosecution under this subsection (b). For purposes of
this subsection (b), “law enforcement officer” does not include a watchman, a
member of the West Virginia State Police or college security personnel who is
not a certified law enforcement officer. A criminal charge under this
subsection (b) relating to the investigation of a misdemeanor offense may not
be used to seek or support a secured bond or pre-trial incarceration.
   (c)   A person who intentionally flees or attempts to flee by any means
other than the use of a vehicle from a law enforcement officer, probation
officer, parole officer, courthouse security officer, correctional officer, the
State Fire Marshal, or a full-time Deputy or Assistant Fire Marshal acting in
his or her official capacity who is attempting to make a lawful arrest of or to
lawfully detain the person, and who knows or reasonably believes that the
officer is attempting to arrest or lawfully detain him or her, is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than $50 nor
more than $500.
   (d)   A person who intentionally flees or attempts to flee in a vehicle from
a law enforcement officer, probation officer or parole officer acting in his or
her official capacity after the officer has given a clear visual or audible
signal directing the person to stop is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than $500 nor more than $1,000.
   (e)   A person who intentionally flees or attempts to flee in a vehicle from
a law enforcement officer, probation officer or parole officer acting in his or
her official capacity after the officer has given a clear visual or audible
signal directing the person to stop, and who causes damage to the real or
personal property of a person during or resulting from his or her flight, is
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less
than $1,000 nor more than $3,000.
   (f)   For purposes of this section, the term “vehicle” includes any motor
vehicle, motorcycle, motorboat, all-terrain vehicle, or snowmobile as those
terms are defined in W.Va. Code § 17A-1-1, whether or not it is being operated
on a public highway at the time and whether or not it is licensed by the state.
   (g)   For purposes of this section, the terms “flee”, “fleeing” and “flight”
do not include a person’s reasonable attempt to travel to a safe place,
allowing the pursuing law enforcement officer to maintain appropriate
surveillance, for the purpose of complying with the officer’s direction to
stop.
   (h)   (1)   No person, with the intent to purposefully deprive another
person of emergency services, may interfere with or prevent another person from
making an emergency communication, which a reasonable person would consider
necessary under the circumstances, to law enforcement, fire or emergency
medical services personnel.
      (2)   For the purpose of this subsection (h), the term “interfere with or
prevent” includes, but is not limited to, seizing, concealing, obstructing
access to or disabling or disconnecting a telephone, telephone line or
equipment or other communication device.
      (3)   For the purpose of this subsection, the term “emergency
communication” means communication to transmit warnings or other information
pertaining to a crime, fire, accident, power outage, disaster, or risk of
injury or damage to a person or property.
      (4)   A person who violates this subsection (h) is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than $250 nor
more than $2,000 or both fined and confined.
      (5)   A person who is convicted of a second offense under this subsection
(h) is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not
less than $500 nor more than $3,000, or both fined and confined.
      (6)   A person who is convicted of a third or subsequent offense under
this subsection (h) is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined not less than $500 nor more than $4,000.
      (7)   In determining the number of prior convictions for purposes of
imposing punishment under this subsection (h), the court shall disregard all
such prior convictions occurring more than ten years prior to the offense in
question.
   (i)   (1)   A person is guilty of filing a false complaint against a law
enforcement officer when, knowing the information reported is false or
baseless, he or she:
         A.   Initiates a false complaint of improper action of a law
enforcement officer relating to an incident or other circumstance; or
         B.   Reports, by word or action, to any official or quasi-official
agency or organization having the function of dealing with conduct of law
enforcement officers which did not occur, does not in fact exist; or
         C.   Reports to a law enforcement officer or agency the alleged
occurrence of any offense or incident which did not in fact occur.
      (2)   Any person who violates this subsection (i) is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $1,000.
(W.Va. Code § 61-5-17)
§ 501.03 FALSE FIRE ALARM (REPEALED).
   No person shall make, report or disclose, by any means of written/verbal
communication, aid or abet in such, an alarm of fire which he or she knows is
false at the time of making/turning in the alarm.
§ 501.04 FALSE REPORTS CONCERNING BOMBS OR OTHER EXPLOSIVE DEVICES.
   (a)   No person shall impart or convey or cause to be imparted or conveyed
any false information, knowing or having reasonable cause to believe such
information to be false, concerning the presence of any bomb or other explosive
device in, at, on, near, under or against any dwelling house, structure,
improvement, building, bridge, motor vehicle, vessel, boat, railroad car,
airplane or other place, or concerning an attempt or alleged attempt being made
or to be made to so place or explode any such bomb or other explosive device.
   (b)   Notwithstanding any provision of this section to the contrary, any
person violating the provisions of subsection (a) above for a second offense or
whose violation of the subsection results in another suffering serious bodily
injury shall be guilty of a felony and prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(W.Va. Code § 61-6-17)
§ 501.05 IMPERSONATING AN OFFICIAL OR LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (a)   (1)   No person shall falsely represent himself or herself to be a law
enforcement officer or law enforcement official or be under the order or
direction of any such person. No person not a law enforcement officer or law
enforcement official shall wear the uniform prescribed for such persons, or the
badge or other insignia adopted for use by such persons with the intent to
deceive another person.
      (2)   For purposes of this section, “law enforcement officer” and “law
enforcement official” shall have the meanings set forth in W.Va. Code § 30-29-
1 except that such terms shall not include members of the State Division of
Public Safety and shall not include individuals hired by non-public entities
for the provision of security services.
(W.Va. Code § 61-1-9)
   (b)   No person shall falsely represent himself or herself to be an officer
or employee of the municipality, or exercise or attempt to exercise any of the
duties, functions or powers of a municipal officer.
   (c)   No person not a member of the Fire Department, for the purpose of such
false representation, shall wear a uniform or part thereof similar to the
uniform worn by a member of the Fire Department.
§ 501.06 ATTEMPTS.
   Every person who attempts to commit an offense, but fails to commit or is
prevented from committing it, shall be subject to the penalty provided in §
501.99 if the offense is punishable by confinement in jail.
(W.Va. Code § 61-11-8)
§ 501.07 CITATION IN LIEU OF ARREST; FAILURE TO APPEAR.
   (a)   A police officer may issue a citation instead of making an arrest for
the following offenses, if there are reasonable grounds to believe that the
person being cited will appear to answer the charge:
      (1)   Any misdemeanor, not involving injury to the person, committed in a
police officer’s presence; provided, that the officer may arrest the person if
he or she has reasonable grounds to believe that the person is likely to cause
serious harm to himself, herself or others; and
      (2)   When any person is being detained for the purpose of investigating
whether such person has committed or attempted to commit shoplifting, pursuant
to §
533.01 of this code.
   (b)   The citation shall provide that the defendant shall appear within a
designated time.
   (c)   If the defendant fails to appear in response to the citation or if
there are reasonable grounds to believe that he or she will not appear, a
complaint may be made and a warrant shall issue.
   (d)   When a physical arrest is made and a citation is issued in relation to
the same offense, the officer shall mark on the citation, in the place
specified for court appearance date, the word “arrested” in lieu of the date of
court appearance.
(W.Va. Code § 62-1-5(a))
§ 501.08 FALSELY REPORTING AN EMERGENCY INCIDENT.
   A person is guilty of reporting a false emergency incident when knowing the
information reported, conveyed or circulated is false or baseless, he or she:
   (a)   Initiates or circulates a false report or warning of or impending
occurrence of a fire, explosion, crime, catastrophe, accident, illness or other
emergency under circumstances in which it is likely that public alarm or
inconvenience will result or that firefighting apparatus, ambulance apparatus,
one or more rescue vehicles or other emergency apparatus might be summoned;
   (b)   Reports, by word or action, to any official or quasi-official agency
or organization having the function of dealing with emergencies involving
danger to life or property, an alleged occurrence or impending occurrence of a
fire, explosion, crime, catastrophe, accident, illness or other emergency in
which it is likely that public alarm or inconvenience will result or that
firefighting apparatus, ambulance apparatus, one or more rescue vehicles or
other emergency apparatus might be summoned, which did not occur, does not in
fact exist;
   (c)   Reports to a law enforcement officer or agency the alleged occurrence
of any offense or incident which did not in fact occur or an allegedly
impending occurrence of an offense or incident which is not in fact about to
occur or false information relating to an actual offense or incident or to the
alleged implication of some person therein; or
   (d)   Without just cause, calls or summons by telephone, fire alarm system
or otherwise, any firefighting apparatus, ambulance apparatus, rescue vehicles
or other emergency vehicles.
(W.Va. Code § 61-6-20)
§ 501.09 FALSE REPORT.
   No person shall make or give a false report or false information to any
police or fire officer of the city.
§ 501.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   Whoever violates any provision of this Part Five - General Offenses
Code for which no other penalty is provided shall be fined not more than $500.
Each day such violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
   (b)   Whoever violates §
501.01 shall be fined not more than $100.
(W.Va. Code § 61-5-14)
   (c)   Whoever violates §
501.02(b) shall be fined not more than $200.
   (d)   Whoever violates §
501.02(d) shall be fined not more than $1,000.
   (e)   Whoever violates §
501.02(e) shall be fined not less than $1,000 nor more than $3,000.
   (f)   Whoever violates §
501.02(h) shall be fined not less than $250 nor more than $2,000.
(W.Va. Code § 61-5-17)
   (g)   (1)   Except as provided by the provisions of subsection (g)(2) below,
any person who violates the provisions of §
501.03 shall be fined for a first offense not more than $100; and for a second
and each subsequent offense fined not less than $100 nor more than $500.
      (2)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
501.03 with the intent to cause injury to the person of another, to cause
destruction of the property of another or to divert the attention of law
enforcement or fire personnel to help effectuate the commission of another
crime shall be guilty of a felony and shall be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (h)   Whoever violates §
501.04 shall be fined not more than $1,000.
(W.Va. Code § 61-6-17)
   (i)   Whoever violates §
501.05(a) shall be fined not less than $100 and not more than $1,000.
(W.Va. Code § 61-1-9)
ARTICLE 505: ANIMALS AND FOWL
Section
   
505.01   Cruelty to animals
   
505.011   Cruelty to dogs and cats
   
505.02   Keeping animal within city limits
   
505.03   Cat bites
   
505.04   Hunting prohibited
   
505.05   Vaccination
   
505.06   Annual head tax imposed on dogs
   
505.07   Head tax exemptions
   
505.08   License tags
   
505.09   Dogs and cats prohibited from running at large
   
505.10   Vicious dogs
   
505.11   Confinement; report of bite cases
   
505.12   Muzzling dogs upon proclamation of Mayor
   
505.13   Inducing dogs to fight
   
505.14   Keeping noisy dogs or cats prohibited
   
505.15   Seizing or enticing dogs
 
   
505.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prevent ill-treatment of animals, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-5(27)
   Authority to regulate the keeping of animals, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-5(26)
   Diseases among domestic animals, see W.Va. Code Art. 19-9
   Disposing of dead animals, see W.Va. Code § 16-9-3
   Dogs generally, see W.Va. Code Art. 19-20
   Domestic animal tax, see W.Va. Code § 8-13-10
   Hunting, see W.Va. Code Art. 20-2
   Vaccination of dogs, see W.Va. Code Art. 19-20A
§ 505.01 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   (a)   No person shall intentionally, knowingly or recklessly:
      (1)   Mistreat an animal in a cruel manner;
      (2)   Abandon an animal;
      (3)   Withhold:
         A.   Proper sustenance, including food or water;
         B.   Shelter that protects from the elements of weather; or
         C.   Medical treatment, necessary to sustain normal health and fitness
or to end the suffering of any animal.
      (4)   Abandon an animal to die;
      (5)   Leave an animal unattended and confined in a motor vehicle when
physical injury to or death of the animal is likely to result;
      (6)   Ride an animal when it is physically unfit;
      (7)   Bait or harass an animal for the purpose of making it perform for a
person’s amusement;
      (8)   Cruelly chain or tether an animal; or
      (9)   Use, train or possess a domesticated animal for the purpose of
seizing, detaining or maltreating any other domesticated animal.
   (b)   No person, other than a licensed veterinarian or a person acting under
the direction or with the approval of a licensed veterinarian, shall knowingly
and willfully administer or cause to be administered to any animal
participating in any contest any controlled substance or any other drug for the
purpose of altering or otherwise affecting such animal’s performance.
   (c)   Any person convicted of a violation of this section shall forfeit his
or her interest in any such animal and all interest in such animal shall vest
in the humane society or county pound of the county in which the conviction was
rendered, and such person shall, in addition to any fine imposed, be liable for
any costs incurred or to be incurred by the humane society or county pound as a
result.
   (d)   For the purpose of this section, “controlled substance” has the same
meaning ascribed to it by W.Va. Code § 60A-1-101(d).
   (e)   The provisions of this section do not apply to lawful acts of hunting,
fishing, trapping or animal training or farm livestock, poultry, gaming fowl or
wildlife kept in private or licensed game farms if kept and maintained
according to usual and accepted standards of livestock, poultry, gaming fowl or
wildlife or game farm production and management, nor to humane use of animals
or activities regulated under and in conformity with the provisions of 7 U.S.C.
§§ 2131 et seq. and the regulations promulgated thereunder, as both such
statutes and regulations are in effect on the effective date of this section.
(W.Va. Code § 61-8-19)
§ 505.011 CRUELTY TO DOGS AND CATS.
   (a)   No person shall cruelly, or needlessly beat, torture, torment,
mutilate, kill or willfully deprive necessary sustenance, to any dog or cat,
irrespective of whether any such dog or cat is his or her own or that of
another person.
   (b)   No person shall impound or confine any dog or cat in any place
unprotected from the elements or fail to supply the same with a sufficient
quantity of food and water, or abandon to die any maimed, sick or diseased dog
or cat or be engaged in or employed at dogfighting, or pitting one dog or cat
to fight against another dog or cat or any similar cruelty to any dog or cat,
or receive money for the admission of any person, or use, train or possess a
dog or cat for the purpose of seizing, detaining or maltreating any other dog
or cat.
§ 505.02 KEEPING ANIMAL WITHIN CITY LIMITS.
   No person shall keep any cow, swine, sheep, horse, goat, chickens, ducks,
geese, turkeys or other domestic fowl, cattle or livestock within the city
limits.
(Ord. passed 10-5-1982)
§ 505.03 CAT BITES.
   Any cat who bites any person shall be taken by its owner or custodian
forthwith to a veterinarian for confinement and observation, or shall be
securely confined on the premises of its owner or custodian and in either case,
the owner or custodian shall forthwith notify the Health Officer of the county
wherein his or her premises are located.
(Ord. passed 10-5-1982)
§ 505.04 HUNTING PROHIBITED.
   (a)   No person shall pursue, lure, hunt, chase, catch, take, destroy, gig,
spear, trap, ensnare, wound or injure any wild birds or wild animals, or
attempt to do so, within the corporate boundaries of the city.
   (b)   Wild birds shall include all birds other than domestic poultry,
Psittschidae, commonly called parrots and parakeets, and other foreign cage
birds such as the common canary, exotic finches and ring dove. All wild birds,
either those occurring in a natural state in West Virginia or those imported
foreign game birds, such as waterfowl, pheasants, partridges, quail and grouse,
regardless of how long raised or held in captivity, shall remain wild birds
under the meaning of this section.
   (c)   Wild animals means all mammals native to the state occurring either in
a natural state or in captivity, except house mice or rats.
§ 505.05 VACCINATION.
   No owner of any dog shall keep or maintain such dog, unless it is vaccinated
as provided in W.Va. Code Article 19-20A.
§ 505.06 ANNUAL HEAD TAX IMPOSED ON DOGS.
   (a)   There is hereby imposed upon each person keeping within the city a dog
above the age of six months an annual head tax on each dog so kept by him or
her in the amount of $3 for each male or spayed female dog and $3 for each
unspayed female dog.
   (b)   Each person who keeps within the city a dog above the age of six
months shall report such dog to the Assessor of the county wherein such dog is
kept by him or her within the city at the time of the annual assessment of
personal property is made; provided, that when any person within the city
acquires a dog above the age of six months, or when a dog kept by him or her
within the city attains the age of six months, such person shall then report
such dog to the Assessor of the county wherein such dog is kept by him or her
within the city.
   (c)   Each person reporting a dog to the County Assessor pursuant to
subsection (b) above shall pay to the Assessor the amount of the head tax
prescribed in subsection (a) above, for each dog he or she is required to
report, and he or she shall then attach to the collar of each such dog the
proper registration tag furnished to him or her by the Assessor, and retain
within his or her possession the certificate of registration furnished to him
or her by the Assessor for each such dog.
   (d)   The annual head tax on dogs imposed by subsection (a) above is for a
fiscal year rather than a calendar year.
   (e)   In the event that the owner, keeper or person having in his or her
possession, or allowing to remain on any premises under his or her control, any
dog above the age of six months, fails or refuses to pay such tax when the same
is assessed, or within 15 days thereafter, to the Assessor or Deputy Assessor,
then the Assessor or Deputy Assessor must certify such tax to the County Dog
Warden or if there be no County Dog Warden to the County Sheriff, who shall
take charge of the dog for which the tax is delinquent and impound the same for
a period of 15 days. For this service he or she shall be allowed a fee of $1.50
to be charged against the delinquent taxpayer in addition to the taxes herein
provided for.
   (f)   In case the tax and impounding charge are not paid within the period
of 15 days, the Sheriff may sell or kill such dog.
   (g)   In addition to the head tax on dogs, the owner of any dog, regardless
of age must place a value on the dog and have it assessed as other personal
property.
(Ord. passed 8-12-1981)
§ 505.07 HEAD TAX EXEMPTIONS.
   (a)   The head tax imposed by §
505.06 shall not apply to dogs in a licensed kennel or veterinary hospital.
   (b)   All seeing-eye dogs are exempted from the head tax imposed by §
505.06, but their owners or custodians shall annually apply for and be issued
dog license tags upon display of proper rabies vaccination or inoculation or
vaccination certificate.
§ 505.08 LICENSE TAGS.
   No person shall attach a license tag to any dog to which it was not issued
or remove a license tag from the collar of any dog without the consent of the
owners.
§ 505.09 DOGS AND CATS PROHIBITED FROM RUNNING AT LARGE.
   No dog or cat, whether wearing a license tag or not, shall be permitted, to
run at large within the city at any time. Any dog or cat found running at large
in violation of this section shall be subject to impoundment.
§ 505.10 VICIOUS DOGS.
   No person shall own, keep or harbor any dog known by him or her to be
vicious, dangerous or in the habit of biting or attacking persons, whether or
not such dog wears a tag or muzzle, and, upon satisfactory proof that such dog
is vicious, dangerous or in the habit of biting or attacking persons, the
Animal Warden or any police officer may cause such dog to be impounded and
disposed of in a humane manner.
§ 505.11 CONFINEMENT; REPORT OF BITE CASES.
   Any dog, whether licensed or not, who bites any person shall be taken by its
owner or custodian forthwith to a veterinarian for confinement and observation,
or shall be securely confined on the premises of its owner or custodian and in
either case, the owner or custodian shall forthwith notify the Health Officer
of the county wherein his or her premises is located.
§ 505.12 MUZZLING DOGS UPON PROCLAMATION OF MAYOR.
   Whenever it shall be made to appear to the Mayor and/or Council that there
are good reasons for believing that any dog within the city is mad, he or she
may issue a proclamation requiring that all dogs shall, for a period to be
defined in the proclamation, wear good, substantial muzzles, securely put on,
so as to prevent them from biting or snapping, and any dog at large, during the
period defined by the Mayor, without such muzzle, shall be taken by the Animal
Warden and impounded.
§ 505.13 INDUCING DOGS TO FIGHT.
   No person shall entice, induce, urge or cause any dog to engage in or
prolong a fight in the city, and no person shall induce or cause any dog to run
after, bark at, frighten or bite any person or animal lawfully passing along or
standing in or on any street or highway in the city.
§ 505.14 KEEPING NOISY DOGS OR CATS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall keep or harbor upon or about his or her premises any animal
of the dog or cat species, which shall, by barking, howling, squalling, crying
or in any other manner whatsoever, disturb the comfort or quiet of any
neighborhood within the limits of the city.
(Ord. passed 10-5-1982)
§ 505.15 SEIZING OR ENTICING DOGS.
   Except for persons duly authorized herein, no person shall entice any
properly licensed dog into any enclosure for the purpose of taking off its
collar, harness or tag, or, for such purpose, decoy or entice any dog out of
the enclosure or house of its owner or possessor, or seize or molest any dog
which is held or led by any person, or bring any dog into the city for the
purpose of impounding or killing.
§ 505.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   (1)   Whoever violates §
505.01(a) shall be fined not less than $300 nor more than $2,000 for a first
offense. Any person convicted of a second or subsequent violation of §
505.01(a) shall be fined not less than $500 nor more than $3,000.
      (2)   For any person convicted of a violation of subsection (a)(1) above,
the court may, in addition to the penalties provided in this section, impose a
requirement that he or she complete a program of anger management intervention
for perpetrators of animal cruelty. Unless the defendant is determined by the
court to be indigent, he or she shall be responsible for the cost of the
program.
      (3)   In addition to any other penalty which can be imposed for a
violation of §
505.01, a court shall prohibit any person so convicted from possessing, owning
or residing with any animal or type of animal for a period of five years
following entry of a conviction. A violation under this subsection (a)(3) is
punishable by a fine not exceeding $2,000 and forfeiture of the animal.
   (b)   Whoever violates §
505.01(b) shall be fined not less than $500 nor more than $2,000.
(W.Va. Code § 61-8-19)
   (c)   Whoever violates §
505.13 shall be fined not more than $1,000. In addition the Humane Officer may
remove the dog or cat involved and place it in the pound and such dog or cat
shall not be returned to the owner or perpetrator of the act of cruelty, but
shall be put up for adoption to a desirable home or given into the care of a
humane society or upon the recommendation of a licensed veterinarian shall be
humanely destroyed.
(W.Va. Code § 61-8-19a)
Editor’s note:
   See §
501.99 for general code penalty if no specific penalty is provided.
ARTICLE 507: DANGEROUS ANIMALS
Section
   
507.01   Definitions
   
507.02   Prohibition
   
507.03   Exceptions; permit and registration requirements
   
507.04   Notice of keeping dangerous animals
   
507.05   Seizure and impounding of dangerous animals
   
507.06   Permit required
   
507.07   Issuance of permit
   
507.08   Application for permit
   
507.09   Permit fee
   
507.10   Temporary permits; powers of Animal Control Officer
   
507.11   Term and renewal of permits
   
507.12   Inspections for renewal
   
507.13   Revocation of permits
   
507.14   Commercial establishments
   
507.15   Appeals; fees
   
507.16   Appeals, administrative hearing
   
507.17   Subpoena power
   
507.18   Appeal; district court
   
507.19   Severability
   
507.20   Violations and penalties
   
507.21   Costs to be paid by responsible persons
§ 507.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (a)   For the purposes of this article “dangerous animal” means and
includes:
      (1)   Any mammal, amphibian, reptile or fowl which is of a species which,
due to size, vicious nature or other characteristics would constitute a danger
to human life, physical well-being or property, including, but not limited to,
lions, tigers, leopards, panthers, bears, wolves, apes, gorillas, monkeys of a
species whose average adult weight is 20 pounds or more, foxes, elephants,
alligators, crocodiles and snakes which are poisonous or otherwise present a
risk of serious physical harm or death to human beings as a result of their
nature or physical makeup, including all constrictors.
      (2)   Any dog or cat having a disposition or propensity to attack or bite
any person or animal without provocation is hereby defined as a “dangerous
animal”. For the purpose of this article, where the official records of the
Chief Animal Control Officer or City Clerk indicate a dog or cat has bitten any
person or persons or animal on two or more separate occasions, it shall be
prima facie evidence that such dog or cat is a dangerous animal.
      (3)   A.   Any pit bull dog. “Pit bull dog” is defined to mean any and
all of the following dogs:
            1.   The Staffordshire bull terrier breed of dogs;
            2.   The American Staffordshire terrier breed of dogs;
            3.   The American pit bull terrier breed of dogs;
            4.   Dogs which have the appearance and characteristics of being
predominately of the breeds of dogs known as Staffordshire bull terrier,
American pit bull terrier or American Staffordshire terrier.
         B.   The registration of a dog at any time as a pit bull or any of the
dogs listed above shall constitute prima facie evidence the animal is
prohibited by this section.
   (b)   “Persons” includes any natural person, association, partnership,
organization or corporation. (Ord. passed 11-7-1989)
§ 507.02 PROHIBITION.
   Except as provided in §§
507.03 and
507.04, no person shall own, keep or harbor any dangerous animal in the city.
(Ord. passed 11-7-1989)
§ 507.03 EXCEPTIONS; PERMIT AND REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS.
   Any person or organization which falls into one of the following subsections
shall be permitted to own, harbor or have charge, custody, control or
possession of any animal described in §
507.01 hereof, provided he or she has first secured permit under §
507.07; provided further that owners, keepers or harborers of “pit bull dogs”
shall also be required to register their animals in accordance with the
provisions of this article and Article 505 of this code of ordinances:
   (a)   The keeping of such animals in zoos, bona fide educational or medical
institutions, museums or any other place where they are kept as live specimens
for the public to view, or for the purpose of instruction or study;
   (b)   The keeping of such animals for exhibition to the public of such
animals by a circus, carnival or other exhibit or show;
   (c)   The keeping of such animals in a bona fide, licensed veterinary
hospital for treatment;
   (d)   Commercial establishments possessing such animals for the purpose of
sale or display; and
   (e)   The keeping of a registered pit bull as defined in §
507.01. The keeping of such dogs, however, shall be subject to the following
mandatory requirements.
      (1)   Leash and muzzle. No person shall permit a registered pit bull dog
to go outside its kennel or pen unless such dog is securely leashed with a
leash no longer than four feet in length. No person shall permit a pit bull dog
to be kept on a chain, rope or other type of leash outside its kennel or pen
unless a person is in physical control of the leash. Such dogs may not be
leashed to inanimate objects such as trees, posts, buildings and the like. In
addition, all pit bull dogs on a leash outside the animals kennel must be
muzzled by a muzzling device sufficient to prevent such dog from biting persons
or other animals.
      (2)   Confinement. All registered pit bull dogs shall be securely
confined indoors or in a securely enclosed and locked pen or kennel or
structure must have secure sides and a secure top attached to the sides. All
structures used to confine registered pit bull dogs must be locked with a key
or combination lock when such animals are within the structure. Such structures
must have a secure bottom or floor attached to the sides of the pen or the
sides of the pen must be embedded in the ground no less than two feet. All
structures erected to house pit bull dogs must comply with the zoning and
building regulations of the city. All such structures must be adequately
lighted and ventilated and kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
      (3)   Confinement indoors. No pit bull dog may be kept on a porch, patio
or in any part of a house or structure that would allow the dog to exit such
building on its own volition. In addition, no such animal may be kept in a
house or structure when the windows are open or when screen windows or screen
doors are the only obstacle preventing the dog from exiting the structure.
      (4)   Signs. All owners, keepers or harborers of registered pit bull dogs
within the city shall within ten days of the effective date of this article
display in a prominent place on their premises a sign easily readable by the
public using the words “Beware of Dog”. In addition, a similar sign is required
to be posted on the kennel or pen of such animal.
      (5)   Insurance. All owners, keepers or harborers of the registered pit
bull dogs must within ten days of the effective date of this article provide
proof to the City Clerk of public liability insurance in a single incident
amount of $50,000 for bodily injury to or death of any person or persons or for
damage to property owned by any persons which may result from the ownership,
keeping or maintenance of such animal. At the time of initial registration the
owner, keeper or harborer must present proof to the City Clerk of the required
insurance. At the time of initial registration the owner, keeper or harborer
must show proof of insurance for the present registration periods and proof
that there was insurance coverage throughout the period of the prior
registration year. In the event such liability insurance is cancelled, lapsed
or for any other reason becomes non-enforceable, the owner, keeper or harborer
shall be in violation of the provisions of this article and subject to the
penalties provided herein.
      (6)   Identification photographs. All owners, keepers or harborers of
registered pit bull dogs must within ten days of the effective date of this
article provide to the City Clerk two color photographs of the registered
animal clearly showing the color and approximate size of the animal.
      (7)   Reporting requirements. All owners, keepers or harborers of
registered pit bull dogs must within ten days of the incident, report the
following information in writing to the City Clerk as required hereinafter:
         A.   The removal from the city or death of a registered pit bull dog;
         B.   The birth of offspring of a registered pit bull dog; and
         C.   The new address of the registered pit bull dog owner should the
owner move.
      (8)   Animals born of registered dogs. All offspring born of pit bull
dogs registered with the city must be registered with the city within six weeks
of the birth of such animal.
      (9)   Failure to comply. It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper or
harborer of a pit bull dog registered with the City Clerk to fail to comply
with the requirements and conditions set forth in this article.
      (10)   Any dog found to be the subject of a violation of this article.
Any dog found to be the subject of a violation of this article shall be subject
to immediate seizure and impoundment. In addition, failure to comply will
result in the revocation of the license of such animal and the permit providing
for the keeping of such animal resulting in the immediate removal of the animal
from the city.
(Ord. passed 11-7-1989)
§ 507.04 NOTICE OF KEEPING DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   Upon the written complaint of any person that a person owns or is keeping or
harboring a dangerous animal in violation of this article in the city, the
Chief Animal Control Officer or his or her authorized deputy shall forthwith
cause the matter to be investigated; and if after the investigation the facts
indicate that such person named in the complaint is in fact the owner or is
keeping or harboring any such dangerous animal in the city, he or she shall
forthwith send written notice to such person requiring such person to safely
remove the animal from the city within five days of the date of the notice.
Notice as herein provided shall not be required where such dangerous animal has
previously caused serious physical harm or death to any person or has escaped
and is at large in which case the Chief Animal Control Officer shall cause such
animal to be immediately seized and impounded, according to the provisions of §
507.05, or killed if seizure and impoundment are not possible without risk of
serious physical harm or death to any person.
(Ord. passed 11-7-1989)
§ 507.05 SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDING OF DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   (a)   The Chief Animal Control Officer or his or her authorized deputy shall
forthwith cause to be seized and impounded any dangerous animal, where the
person owning, keeping or harboring such animal has failed to comply with the
notice sent pursuant to §
507.04.
   (b)   Upon a seizure and impoundment, such animal shall be delivered to a
place of confinement which may be with any organization which is authorized by
law to accept, own, keep or harbor such animals.
   (c)   If, during the course of seizing and impounding any such animal, the
animal poses a risk of serious physical harm or death to any person, such
person or persons authorized by the Chief Animal Control Officer may render
such animal immobile by means of tranquilizers or other safe drugs; or if that
is not safely possible, then such animal may be killed.
(Ord. passed 11-7-1989)
§ 507.06 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (a)   No person under §
507.03 owning, harboring, or having charge, custody, control or possession of
any animal described in §
507.01 hereof, shall allow such animal to remain within the city unless and
until he or she has first secured a permit so to do and complies with all terms
and conditions of such permit; and, in addition thereto, such animal to remain
within the city unless and until he or she has first secured a permit so to do
and complies with all terms and conditions of such permit; and, in addition
thereto, such animal shall at all times be so confined, controlled and
restrained in such manner so the life, limb or property of any person lawfully
entering such premises shall not be endangered.
   (b)   Failure to obtain a permit when required by subsection (a) above after
written notification by the Chief Animal Control Officer or his or her
authorized deputy shall be adequate grounds for such officer or deputy to
impound the animal until a permit is obtained. If no permit is obtained within
ten days, the animal will be subject to summary destruction.
(Ord. passed 11-7-1989)
§ 507.07 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   Except as hereinafter provided, no person under §
507.03 shall have, keep, maintain, or have in his or her possession or under
his or her control within the city any animal described in §
507.01 hereof without first applying to and receiving a permit from the City
Clerk; provided, no permit shall be granted except with such conditions
attached as shall, in the opinion of the person or agency approving such
permit, reasonably ensure the public health, safety and general welfare, and in
any event no permit shall be granted for any animal at any particular location
except upon an explicit finding by the Chief Animal Control Officer or his or
her authorized deputy that the issuance thereof will not be contrary to the
public health, safety and general welfare.
(Ord. passed 11-7-1989)
§ 507.08 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   An application for any permit required pursuant to this article shall be
made to the City Clerk in writing and upon a form furnished by the City Clerk.
The application shall be verified by the person who desires to have, keep,
maintain or have in his or her possession or under his or her control, in the
city, the animal for which a permit is required, and shall set forth the
following:
   (a)   Name, address and telephone number of the applicant;
   (b)   The applicant’s interest in such animal;
   (c)   The proposed location, and the name, address and telephone number of
the owner of such location, and of the lessee, if any;
   (d)   The number and general description of all animals for which the permit
is sought;
   (e)   Any information known to the applicant concerning vicious or dangerous
propensities of all such animals;
   (f)   The housing arrangements for all such animals with particular details
as to safety or structure, locks, fencing and the like;
   (g)   Safety precautions proposed to be taken;
   (h)   Noises or odors anticipated in the keeping of such animals;
   (i)   Prior history of incidents involving the public health or safety
involving any of such animals;
   (j)   Proof of insurance to cover those who may be injured or killed by the
animal;
   (k)   A statement, signed by the applicant, indemnifying the city and its
agents and employees for any and all injuries that may result from such animal;
and
   (l)   Any additional information required by the Chief Animal Control
Officer at the time of filing such application or thereafter.
(Ord. passed 11-7-1989)
§ 507.09 PERMIT FEE.
   The fee for a permit application shall be $20, or another amount set by
Council from time to time, for one dangerous animal plus an additional $5, or
another amount set by Council from time to time, for two or more dangerous
animals. The total fee shall not exceed $25 for any one permit application and
is nonrefundable, or another amount set by Council from time to time. Such fee
shall be payable to the City Clerk at the time of filing the permit application
and is nonrefundable. The fee shall be payable to the City Clerk at the time of
filing the permit application. Accretions by natural birth shall not require
additional permits during the period of a valid permit.
(Ord. passed 11-7-1989)
§ 507.10 TEMPORARY PERMITS; POWERS OF ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER.
   The Chief Animal Control Officer may, following application for a permit and
pending final disposition of the same, grant a temporary permit for the
maintenance within the city of any such animal upon such conditions as he or
she shall, in his or her sole discretion, require when, in his or her opinion,
there is no reasonable doubt as to the consistency thereof with the public
health, safety and general welfare, but no such animal shall be otherwise kept
or maintained within this city or permitted to occupy any premises within this
city except while such a regular or temporary permit is in full force and
effect; provided, however, that any law enforcement officer or the Chief Animal
Control Officer, or his or her authorized deputy, shall take possession of any
animal described under §
507.01 for which a permit has not been issued and keep the same until the
proper permit has been secured by the owner or keeper thereof and shall release
the same to the owner or keeper when all fees and costs have been paid and all
laws and permit conditions complied with.
(Ord. passed 11-7-1989)
§ 507.11 TERM AND RENEWAL OF PERMITS.
   No permit required by this article shall be granted for a period in excess
of one year. An application for renewal of any permit shall be made not less
than 45 days prior to the expiration thereof, and shall be accompanied by the
same fee as required upon making the original application.
(Ord. passed 11-7-1989)
§ 507.12 INSPECTIONS FOR RENEWAL.
   Prior to the annual renewal of any permit issued hereunder and at least once
not more than six months after the issuance of any such permit or after its
renewal, the Chief Animal Control Officer or his or her designated
representative shall inspect the premises subject to such permit to determine
whether the person to whom it has been issued is continuing to comply with all
of the conditions specified in this article. If the Chief Animal Control
Officer determines during any such inspection that any of the conditions
therein specified are being violated, he or she shall recommend denial of a
renewal of any such permit, or he or she shall recommend revocation of such
permit in the event that such violation is not corrected within such period of
time as he or she shall direct.
(Ord. passed 11-7-1989)
§ 507.13 REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   The City Clerk, upon recommendation of the Chief Animal Control Officer may,
for good cause, revoke any permit or modify any terms or provisions thereof and
may, in the event it is reasonably necessary to protect against an immediate
threat or danger to the public health or safety, suspend any permit or portion
thereof without hearing, for a period not to exceed 30 days. Failure to comply
with any of the provisions of this article shall be sufficient grounds for
revocation.
(Ord. passed 11-7-1989)
§ 507.14 COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (a)   Commercial establishments possessing such animals for the purpose of
sale or display may replace the same with others of the same kind, but the
number of each shall not be in excess of the number thereof allowed by the
terms of such permit. Such establishments may, in the discretion of the Chief
Animal Control Officer, be granted a permit for these such numbers of each kind
of animal as do not exceed the maximum number such establishment estimates will
be maintained by it in this city at any one time during the period of the
permit. Such permit shall require the immediate notification of the Chief
Animal Control Officer upon the acquisition of any animal having a prior
history of any incident involving the public health or safety, or resulting in
any bodily injury or property damage.
   (b)   Upon the sale of any dangerous animal, the commercial establishment
shall immediately send notification of such sale along with the name and
address of the buyer, the method of transporting the animal, the path of travel
of such transportation, and the destination to the Chief Animal Control
Officer.
(Ord. passed 11-7-1989)
§ 507.15 APPEALS; FEES.
   (a)   Any person aggrieved by or dissatisfied with any of the following
decisions, rulings, actions or findings may, within ten days thereafter, file a
written notice or statement of appeal from said decision, ruling, action or
finding to the city’s Municipal Court for an administrative hearing thereon.
      (1)   The determination that an animal is dangerous under §§
507.01 and
507.02;
      (2)   The denial of a permit under §
507.07;
      (3)   The denial of a renewal of a previously issued permit under §
507.13;
      (4)   The revocation of a previously issued permit under §
507.13; and
      (5)   The temporary suspension of any permit or portion thereof under §
507.14.
   (b)   An administrative fee of $10, or another amount set by Council from
time to time, shall be paid to the Municipal Court Clerk and is required for
each appeal to the Municipal Court, and no appeal shall be set for hearing
until such fee has been paid.
   (c)   The filing of an appeal under this section shall not stay any action
taken pursuant to this article.
(Ord. passed 11-7-1989)
§ 507.16 APPEALS, ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING.
   (a)   The hearing on the appeal provided for in §
507.15 shall be conducted by the city’s Municipal Court judge who will sit as
an administrative judge for purposes of this article. The sole issue for
determination shall be whether decisions, rulings, actions or findings of the
Chief Animal Control Officer and/or the City Clerk were within the scope of
their authority, supported by substantial evidence, and not arbitrary nor
capricious in nature.
   (b)   The Court shall make specific findings of fact and conclusions of law
in each case.
(Ord. passed 11-7-1989)
§ 507.17 SUBPOENA POWER.
   Pursuant to its role as administrative judge, the court is empowered to hold
hearings, subpoena witnesses, take the testimony of any person under oath and
in connection therewith, to require the production of any evidence relating to
any matter being heard. In the case of the refusal of any person to comply with
any subpoena issued hereunder or to testify in any matter regarding which he or
she may be lawfully questioned, the court may order such person to comply with
such subpoena and testify; and failure to obey the court’s order may be
punished by the court as contempt.
(Ord. passed 11-7-1989)
§ 507.18 APPEAL; DISTRICT COURT.
   Any aggrieved party may appeal the decision and findings of the city’s
Municipal Court judge. However, the filing of an appeal under this section
shall not stay any action taken pursuant to this article.
(Ord. passed 11-7-1989)
§ 507.19 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or
phrase in this article or any part thereof, is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not effect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this article or any part thereof.
(Ord. passed 11-7-1989)
§ 507.20 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   Any person violating or permitting the violation of any provision of this
article shall upon conviction in the Municipal Court be fined a sum not less
than $200 and not more than $1,000, or in other such amounts as set by Council
from time to time. In addition, the Court shall order the registration of and
permit for the subject pit bull revoked and the dog removed from the city, the
Municipal Court judge shall find the defendant owner in contempt and order the
immediate confiscation and impoundment of the animal. Each day that a violation
of this article continues shall be deemed a separate offense. In addition to
the foregoing penalties, any person who violates this article shall pay all
expenses, including shelter, food, handling, veterinary care and testimony
necessitated by the enforcement of this article.
(Ord. passed 11-7-1989)
§ 507.21 COSTS TO BE PAID BY RESPONSIBLE PERSONS.
   Any reasonable costs incurred by the Chief Animal Control Officer in
seizing, impounding, confining or disposing of any dangerous or wild animal,
pursuant to the provisions of §§
507.14, 507.05, 507.06 or 507.10 shall be charged against the owner, keeper or
harborer of such animal shall be collected by the City Clerk.
(Ord. passed 11-7-1989)
ARTICLE 509: DISORDERLY CONDUCT AND PEACE DISTURBANCE
Section
   
509.01   Disorderly conduct
   
509.02   Loitering on school property
   
509.03   Disturbing the peace
   
509.04   Public drunkenness
   
509.05   Begging
   
509.06   Disturbance of schools, societies and other assemblies
   
509.07   Loitering
   
509.08   Wearing masks, hoods or face coverings
   
509.09   Playing of radios, boom boxes, tape cassettes, disc players or any
other sound devices
   
509.10   Criminal loitering by persons on supervised release
 
   
509.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Breach of peace with weapon, see §
545.02
   Intoxication or drinking in public places, see §
521.06
Statutory reference:
   Authority to maintain order, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-5(19), (44)
   Crimes against the peace, see W.Va. Code Art. 61-6
§ 509.01 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (a)   No person shall, in a public place, any state or municipal office or
office building or any other property owned, leased, occupied or controlled by
the state or municipality, a mobile home park, a public parking area, a common
area of an apartment building or dormitory, or a common area of a privately
owned commercial shopping center, mall or other group of commercial retail
establishments, disturb the peace of others by violent, profane, indecent or
boisterous conduct or language or by the making of unreasonably loud noise that
is intended to cause annoyance or alarm to another person, and who persists in
such conduct after being requested to desist by a law enforcement officer
acting in his or her lawful capacity; provided, that nothing in this subsection
should be construed as a deterrence to the lawful and orderly public right to
demonstrate in support or protest of public policy issues.
   (b)   For purposes of this section:
      (1)   “Mobile home park” means a privately-owned residential housing area
or subdivision wherein the dwelling units are comprised mainly of mobile homes
and wherein the occupants of such dwelling units share common elements for
purposes of ingress and egress, parking, recreation and other like residential
purposes.
      (2)   “Mobile home” means a moveable or portable unit, designed and
constructed to be towed on its own chassis (comprised of frame and wheels), and
designed to be connected to utilities for year-round occupancy. The term
includes:
         A.   Units containing parts that may be folded, collapsed or
telescoped when being towed and that may be expanded to provide additional
cubic capacity; and
         B.   Units composed of two or more separately towable components
designed to be joined into one integral unit capable of being separated again
into the components for repeated towing.
      (3)   “Public parking area” means an area, whether publicly or privately
owned or maintained, open to the use of the public for parking motor vehicles.
(W.Va. Code § 61-6-1b)
§ 509.02 LOITERING ON SCHOOL PROPERTY.
   No person, not a student in regular attendance, shall loiter in or about any
school, school building or school grounds in violation of any posted rules or
regulations governing the use of any such school without written permission
from the principal.
(W.Va. Code § 61-6-14a)
§ 509.03 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   No person shall:
   (a)   On any street, highway, public building, in or on a public or private
conveyance, or public place, engage in conduct having a direct tendency to
cause acts of violence by the person or persons at whom, individually, such
conduct is directed;
   (b)   Willfully, or being intoxicated, whether willfully or not, disrupt any
meeting of the governing body of any political subdivision of this state or a
division or agency thereof, or of any school, literary society or place of
religious worship, or any other meeting open to the public, if such disruption
prevents or interferes with the orderly conduct of such meeting or has a direct
tendency to cause acts of violence by the person or persons at whom,
individually, such disruption is directed;
   (c)   Engage in fighting, or threaten to harm persons or property
unlawfully;
   (d)   Make offensively coarse utterance, gesture or display, or communicate
unwarranted and grossly abusive language to any person, which by its very
utterance or usage inflicts injury or tends to incite an immediate breach of
the peace;
   (e)   Insult, taunt or challenge another under circumstances in which such
conduct is likely to provoke a violent response;
   (f)   Hinder or prevent the movement of persons or vehicles on a public
street, road, highway right-of-way or to, from, within or upon public or
private property, so as to interfere with the rights of others, by any act
which serves no lawful and reasonable purpose;
   (g)   Create a condition which presents a risk of physical harm to persons
or property; or
   (h)   Urinate or defecate in any public place or upon the property of any
other person, except this section shall not apply to the use of restrooms and/
or bathrooms.
   Nothing described herein shall be interpreted or construed to prevent any
constitutionally protected activity including but not necessarily limited to
exercise of one’s constitutionally guaranteed rights of freedom of speech or
assembly. No person may be convicted under this section when his or her sole
intent for engaging in the activities for which he or she was arrested was to
exercise one or more of the rights guaranteed to him or her under the
Constitution of the United States or the State Constitution or to exercise any
other rights guaranteed to that person by law.
§ 509.04 PUBLIC DRUNKENNESS.
   No person shall be drunk in a public place or in any other place open to
public view.
§ 509.05 BEGGING.
   No person shall beg for money, goods or services within the city.
§ 509.06 DISTURBANCE OF SCHOOLS, SOCIETIES AND OTHER ASSEMBLIES.
   No person shall willfully interrupt, molest or disturb any free school,
Sunday school or other school, a school exhibition or any literary society, or
any other society or meeting formed or convened for intellectual, social or
moral improvement, or for improvement in music, either vocal or instrumental,
or for any moral or social amusement, or any other society organized or carried
on under or in pursuance of the laws of this state, or any Fourth of July
celebration, Christmas tree or church festival, or any other festival, or any
society, lawfully carried on.
(W.Va. Code § 61-6-14)
§ 509.07 LOITERING.
   No person shall loiter, loaf, wander, stand or remain idle either alone and/
or in consort with others in a public place in such manner so as to:
   (a)   Obstruct any public street, public highway, public sidewalk or any
other public place or building by hindering or impeding or tending to hinder or
impede the free and uninterrupted passage of vehicles, traffic or pedestrians;
and
   (b)   Commit in or upon any public street, public highway, public sidewalk
or any other public place or building any act or thing which is an obstruction
or interference to the free and uninterrupted use of property or with any
business lawfully conducted by anyone in or upon or facing or fronting on any
such public street, public highway, public sidewalk or any other public place
or building, all of which prevents the free and uninterrupted ingress, egress
and regress, therein, thereon and thereto.
§ 509.08 WEARING MASKS, HOODS OR FACE COVERINGS.
   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, no person, whether in a
motor vehicle or otherwise, while wearing any mask, hood or device whereby any
portion of the face is so covered as to conceal the identity of the wearer,
shall:
      (1)   Come into or appear upon any walk, alley, street, road, highway or
other thoroughfare dedicated to public use;
      (2)   Come into or appear in any trading area, concourse, waiting room,
lobby or foyer open to, used by or frequented by the general public;
      (3)   Come into or appear upon or within any of the grounds or buildings
owned, leased, maintained or operated by the state or municipality;
      (4)   Ask, request or demand entrance or admission to the premises,
enclosure, dwelling or place of business of any other person within this
municipality; or
      (5)   Attend or participate in any meeting upon private property of
another unless written permission for such meeting has first been obtained from
the owner or occupant thereof.
   (b)   The provisions of this section do not apply to any person:
      (1)   Under 15 years of age;
      (2)   Wearing a traditional holiday costume;
      (3)   Engaged in a trade or employment where a mask, hood or device is
worn for the purpose of ensuring the physical safety of the wearer;
      (4)   Using a mask, hood or device in theatrical productions, including
use in Mardi Gras celebrations or similar masquerade balls;
      (5)   Wearing a mask, hood or device prescribed for civil defense drills,
exercises or emergencies; or
      (6)   Wearing a mask, hood or device for the sole purpose of protection
from the elements or while participating in a winter sport.
(W.Va. Code § 61-6-22)
§ 509.09 PLAYING OF RADIOS, BOOM BOXES, TAPE CASSETTES, DISC PLAYERS OR ANY
OTHER SOUND DEVICES.
   (a)   No person shall play any radio; music player such as a “boom box”, tap
cassette, disc player or television, audio system or musical instrument or any
other type of sound service upon any public road, street, highway or private
property in this municipality in a manner or at a volume as to disturb the
quiet, comfort or repose of other persons. An exception is made for organized
events which have received a valid permit from the city as set forth in §
311.04 and any other applicable section.
   (b)   No person shall play any radio, music player such as a “boom box”,
tape cassette, disc player, television, audio system or musical instrument or
any other type of sound device in a manner or at a volume as to disturb the
quiet, comfort or repose of neighboring inhabitants or at a volume which is
plainly audible to persons other than those who are in the room in which such
device or instrument is played and who are voluntary listeners thereto.
   (c)   In addition to the penalty as set forth in §
509.99, the following additional penalty applies, or other such amounts as set
by Council from time to time:
 
1st offense               A mandatory fine of $25
2nd offense               A mandatory fine of $50
3rd offense               A mandatory fine of $100
4th or subsequent offense A mandatory fine of $250
 
   (d)   Upon conviction for a violation of this section, the sound device used
during the commission of the offense shall be subject to seizure and payment of
a judgment.
(Ord. passed 7-6-1993)
§ 509.10 CRIMINAL LOITERING BY PERSONS ON SUPERVISED RELEASE.
   (a)   No person serving a period of supervised release of ten years or more
pursuant to the provisions of W.Va. Code § 62-12-26, shall loiter within 1,000
feet of the property line of the residence or workplace of a victim of a
sexually violent offense for which the person was convicted.
   (b)   No person serving a period of supervised release of ten years or more
pursuant to the provisions of W.Va. Code § 62-12-26 for an offense where the
victim was a minor shall loiter within 1,000 feet of the property line of a
facility or business the principal purpose of which is the education,
entertainment or care of minor children, playground, athletic facility or
school bus stop.
   (c)   A person does not violate the provisions of subsection (a) or (b)
above unless he or she has previously been asked to leave the proscribed
location by an authorized person and thereafter refuses to leave or leaves and
thereafter returns to the proscribed location.
   (d)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Authorized person” means:
         A.   A law enforcement officer acting in his or her official capacity;
         B.   A security officer employed by a business or facility to protect
persons or property acting in his or her employment capacity;
         C.   An owner, manager or employee of a facility or business having a
principal purpose the caring for, education or entertainment of minors;
         D.   A victim or parent, guardian or lawful temporary or permanent
custodian thereof;
         E.   An employee of a county board of education acting in his or her
employment capacity.
      (2)   “Facility or business, the principal purpose of which is the
education, entertainment or care of minor children” means:
         A.   A pre-school, primary, intermediate, middle or high school,
either public or private;
         B.   A childcare facility;
         C.   A park;
         D.   An athletic facility used by minors;
         E.   A school bus stop.
      (3)   “Loitering” means to enter or remain on property while having no
legitimate purpose or, if a legitimate purpose exists, remaining on that
property beyond the time necessary to fulfill that purpose.
   (e)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit or limit a
person’s presence within 1,000 feet of a location or facility referenced in
this section if the person is there present for the purposes of supervision,
counseling or other activity in which the person is directed to participate as
a condition of supervision or where the person has the express permission of
his or her supervising officer to be present.
(W.Va. Code § 61-8-29)
§ 509.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   General penalty. Whoever violates any provision of this article for
which no other penalty is provided upon conviction shall be fined not more than
$500. Each day such violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
   (b)   Loitering on school property. Whoever violates §
509.02 upon a conviction for a first offense shall be fined not more than $100.
Upon a conviction for a second or subsequent offense such person shall be fined
not more than $500.
(Ord. passed 8-8-2017)
ARTICLE 511: NOISE
Section
   
511.01   Declaration of policy
   
511.02   Definitions
   
511.03   Prohibited activities and exemptions
   
511.04   Measurement, penalties and enforcement
   
511.05   Federal law and severability
§ 511.01 DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   This article is enacted to prevent excessive sound that may jeopardize the
health, welfare or safety of the citizens of the city or degrade the quality of
life. It is neither the purpose nor intent of this article to unduly interfere
with the freedoms of speech or religion. This article shall be known as the
“City of Philippi’s Noise Ordinance”.
(Ord. passed 4-16-2013)
§ 511.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words and terms when used in this article shall have the
following meanings unless the context clearly otherwise requires:
   (a)   “A-weighted sound level” means the sound pressure level in decibels as
measured on a sound level meter using the A-weighting network. The level so
read is designated dB(A) or dBA.
   (b)   “City” means the jurisdictional limits of the City of Philippi, West
Virginia.
   (c)   “Decibel”, the symbol for which is dB, means a unit for measuring the
volume of a sound, equal to 20 times the logarithm to the base 10 of the ratio
of the pressure of the sound measured to the reference pressure, which is 20
micropascals (20 micronewtons per square meter).
   (d)   “Dwelling” means a residence or abode, including, but not limited to,
a house, mobile home, condominium, apartment or other structure used as a home.
   (e)   “Dynamic braking system” means a device used primarily on trucks for
the conversion of the engine from an internal combustion engine to an air
compressor for the purpose of braking without the use of wheel brakes, which
devices are sometimes referred to as “Jacob’s brakes” or “Jake brakes”.
   (f)   “Motorboat” means every description of watercraft, other than a
seaplane on the water, used or capable of being used as a means of
transportation on water, propelled by an electric, steam, gas, diesel or other
fuel propelled or driven by motor, whether or not the motor is the principal
source of propulsion, but does not include a boat which has a valid marine
document issued by the Bureau of the United States government or any federal
agency successor thereto.
   (g)   “Motorcycle” means every motor vehicle having a seat or a saddle for
the use of the rider and designed to travel on not more than three wheels in
contact with the ground, excluding a tractor.
   (h)   “Motor vehicle” means any self-propelled vehicle including passenger
cars, trucks, truck-trailers, semi-trailers, recreational vehicles, campers and
racing vehicles.
   (i)   “Muffler” means a properly functioning sound dissipative device or
system for abating the sound of escaping gasses on equipment where such a
device is part of the normal configuration of the equipment.
   (j)   “Noise” means any sound of such character, level or duration which:
      (1)   May be injurious to human health or welfare;
      (2)   Unreasonably interferes with the enjoyment of life or property
throughout the city or in any portion thereof;
      (3)   Disturbs the good order or quiet of the community; or
      (4)   Annoys or disturbs a reasonable person of normal sensitivity.
   (k)   “Sound level meter” means an instrument which includes a microphone,
amplifier, RMS detector, integrator or time average, output meter and weighting
networks used to measure sound pressure levels. Such instrument shall be used
for measurement of the intensity of sound and calibrated in decibels as
standardized by the American National Standards Institute (ANSI). Readings
shall be made on a dB(A) scale.
(Ord. passed 4-16-2013)
§ 511.03 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (a)   Noise prohibited; generally. Subject to the exceptions contained
herein, no person shall make, continue or cause to be made any noise as
prohibited herein or alternatively make, continue or cause to be made any noise
exceeding the limitations established herein.
   (b)   Noise prohibited; motor vehicles, motorcycles, motorboats.
      (1)   All motor vehicles, motorcycles and motorboats shall be operated as
quietly as possible at all times within the city.
      (2)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle, motorcycle or motorboat
in such a manner so as to cause unnecessary noise within the city.
      (3)   No person operating or occupying a motor vehicle on a street or
highway shall amplify from within the motor vehicle the sound produced by a
radio, tape player or other mechanical sound-making device or instrument used
for entertainment, so that the sound is plainly audible at a distance of 25
feet or more from the motor vehicle.
      (4)   No person shall remove or render inoperative, or cause to be
removed or rendered inoperative, other than for purposes of maintenance, repair
or replacement, any muffler or sound dissipative device on a motor vehicle,
motorcycle or motorboat operated within the city.
      (5)   No person shall operate, or permit the operation within the city of
any motor vehicle, motorcycle or motorboat without factory installed mufflers
or their equivalent; provided that if no factory installed or equivalent
muffler was present at the time of manufacture of the motor vehicle,
motorcycle, or motorboat, then sound emanating from the motor vehicle,
motorcycle, or motorboat shall be effectively muffled in a reasonable manner by
equipment so constructed and used to muffle sound.
      (6)   No person shall use a muffler cutout, bypass or similar device upon
any motor vehicle or motorcycle operated within the city.
      (7)   No person in actual physical control of a motor vehicle within the
city shall use a dynamic braking system unless said use is necessary to prevent
or avoid an accident that may cause property damage, injury or loss of life.
This provision shall not apply to fire trucks or other emergency vehicles, or
any school bus equipped with a dynamic braking system.
   (c)   Noise prohibited; dwelling. No person occupying a dwelling within the
city shall amplify from within the dwelling the sound produced by a radio, tape
player, television or other mechanical sound-making device or instrument used
for the purposes of entertainment, so that the sound is plainly audible at a
distance of 25 feet or more from the property line of the lot or parcel of land
upon which said dwelling is situated.
   (d)   Exemptions.
      (1)   The following are exempt from the provisions of this article:
         A.   Noise resulting from emergency or necessary maintenance work as
performed by the city, the state or the United States of America or any of
their political subdivisions, or public utility companies, including, but not
limited to, any work of any kind on roads, streets, bridges, alleys, city owned
cemetery, rights-of-way or government owned property;
         B.   Noise resulting from any emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call or acting in time of emergency, or during training exercises and
maintenance, or from any school bus;
         C.   Noise from any emergency signaling device;
         D.   Noise from a burglar or fire alarm installed on any building,
motor vehicle or other property so long as the alarm terminates its operation
within five minutes of its activation; provided that it shall be deemed
reasonable for an activated alarm to continue to operate if a crime or fire is
in progress at or near the property and/or until law enforcement or other
emergency personnel have responded to a legitimate call for assistance related
in any way to the property at which the activated alarm is located;
         E.   Noise from domestic power tools, landscaping and yard maintenance
equipment, and agricultural equipment but only when operated between the hours
of 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. during weekdays, i.e., Mondays through Fridays; and
between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. during weekends, i.e., Saturdays
and Sundays, and legal holidays. Lawn mower racing is never deemed to be an
exempt activity pursuant to the provisions of this article;
         F.   Noise from commercial or industrial power tools, landscaping and
yard maintenance equipment, and agricultural equipment on a residential
property or within 250 feet of a residential property line when operated on
commercial or industrial property, between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.
on weekdays and between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. on weekends and
legal holidays;
         G.   Noise from church or chapel bells and chimes when used as part of
any religious observance or service or for national celebrations or public
holidays, and those bells and chimes that are presently installed and in use,
provided said use is reasonable;
         H.   Noise generated during the normal course of business by any
properly licensed commercial or industrial enterprise operating lawfully within
an area properly zoned for said enterprise, unless or until said lawful
business use is deemed abandoned as a matter of law or fact pursuant to any
other city ordinance;
         I.   Noise from construction, drilling, earthmoving, excavating or
demolition activity provided all motorized equipment used in such activity is
equipped with functioning mufflers;
         J.   Noise from snow blowers, snow throwers and snow plows when
operated with a muffler for the purpose of snow removal;
         K.   Noise generated in situations within the jurisdiction of the
Federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration;
         L.   Noise generated from city sponsored or approved celebrations or
events, including, but not limited to parades, outdoor concerts, festivals and
athletic events;
         M.   Noise generated from any secondary school and higher education
sponsored or approved celebrations or events, including, but not limited to,
outdoor concerts or band festivals and outdoor athletic events and practices;
         N.   Noise produced by a governmental body or employee thereof in the
performance of any governmental function;
         O.   Noise generated from athletic events or practices;
         P.   Noise generated from airplanes or other piloted vehicles arriving
to or departing from the Philippi-Barbour County Airport;
         Q.   Noise generated from railroads operating within the city;
         R.   Noise generated during events sponsored by and conducted either
at the City Building or other Youth Center;
         S.   Noise generated from fireworks authorized by the city;
         T.   Noise generated during events promoted by the Philippi Convention
and Visitors Bureau; and
         U.   Noise generated during events promoted by Alderson-Broaddus
College upon the college campus, or otherwise as authorized by the city.
      (2)   For purposes of the exemptions contained in subsection (d)(1)L. and
(d)(1)M. above, all celebrations and events held during the annual Blue and
Gray Festival, Philip Barbour High School’s annual Homecoming, or any college
sanctioned events held upon the campus of Alderson-Broaddus College shall be
presumed to be city sponsored or approved, or secondary school and higher
education approved. Philippi Convention and Visitors Bureau events are also
presumed to be “city sponsored or approved” and are specifically exempt from
the foregoing prohibitions. Any list of presumed city sponsored or approved and
secondary school and higher education approved celebrations and events listed
under this subsection (d) is not intended to be exclusive.
(Ord. passed 4-16-2013)
§ 511.04 MEASUREMENT, PENALTIES AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (a)   (1)   Any noise that exceeds a noise level of 83 dBA calculated on a
distance from the point of generation of the noise source of not less than 25
feet shall be prima facie evidence of a noise prohibited by §
511.03.
      (2)   Noise resulting in a decibel reading or calculation less than 83
dBA from 25 feet also constitutes a noise prohibited by §
511.03 if such noise otherwise constitutes a prohibited noise activity pursuant
to §
511.03. Furthermore, there is no specific decibel measurement requirement to
establish a violation of any noise prohibited by §
511.03.
   (b)   Any person found guilty before the Municipal Court of the city of
violating any provision of this article as defined herein shall be deemed to be
guilty of a misdemeanor offense, and shall be punished by a fine as follows:
$100 for the first offense within a 24-month period; $200 for a second offense
within a 24-month period; $300 for a third offense within a 24-month period;
$400 for a fourth offense within a 24-month period and $500 for a fifth and
each subsequent offense within a 24-month period. If the violation is of a
continuing nature, each day during which said violation occurs shall constitute
an additional, separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. passed 4-16-2013)
§ 511.05 FEDERAL LAW AND SEVERABILITY.
   (a)   The Council of the city specifically recognizes the existence and
application of the Federal Noise Pollution and Abatement Act of 1972, popularly
known and referred to as the Noise Control Act of 1972, 42 U.S.C. §§ 4901 et
seq. The provisions of this article are intended to supplement the federal law
and applicable rules and regulations established therefrom and as are
administered by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.
   (b)   The provisions of this article are severable and if any provision or
part thereof shall be held invalid for any reason by a court of competent
jurisdiction, such invalidity shall not affect or impair any of the other
provisions or parts of this article. It is hereby declared to be the intent of
the City Council that this article nevertheless would have been adopted if such
invalid provision or part thereof had not been included herein.
(Ord. passed 4-16-2013)
ARTICLE 513: GAMBLING
Section
   
513.01   Keeping or exhibiting gambling apparatus
   
513.02   Permitting gambling apparatus on premises
   
513.03   Acting as lookout or guard for keeper of gambling apparatus
   
513.04   Playing on gambling apparatus; hotels, public places
   
513.05   Making wager for value or furnishing money to another for wager
   
513.06   Permitting gambling at public places
   
513.07   Cheating or fraudulent actions while gambling or making a wager
   
513.08   Poolrooms and pool tickets
   
513.09   Lotteries and raffles
 
   
513.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Crimes against public policy, see W.Va. Code Art. 61-10
   Gambling at fairs prohibited, see W.Va. Code § 19-7-8
   Gaming contracts, see W.Va. Code Art. 55-9
   Pari-mutuel system of wagering at race track permitted, see W.Va. Code § 19-
23-9
§ 513.01 KEEPING OR EXHIBITING GAMBLING APPARATUS.
   No person shall keep or exhibit a gaming table, commonly called an A.B.C. or
E.O. table, faro bank, keno table, or any slot machine, multiple coin console
machine, multiple coin console slot machine or device in the nature of a slot
machine, or any other gaming table or device of like kind, under any
denomination or which has no name, whether the game, table, bank, machine or
device is played with cards, dice or otherwise, or be a partner, or concerned
in interest, in keeping or exhibiting such table, bank, machine or gaming
device of any character. Any such table, faro bank, machine or gaming device,
and all money staked or exhibited to allure persons to bet at such table or
upon such gaming device, may be seized by order of the Police Court and the
money so seized shall be forfeited to the Municipality and paid into the
Municipal Treasury and the table, faro bank, machine or gaming device shall be
completely destroyed. However, the provisions of this section shall not extend
to coin-operated nonpayout machines with free play features or to automatic
weighing, measuring, musical and vending machines which are so constructed as
to give a certain uniform and fair return in value or services for each coin
deposited therein and in which there is no element of chance.
(W.Va. Code § 61-10-1)
§ 513.02 PERMITTING GAMBLING APPARATUS ON PREMISES.
   No person shall knowingly permit a gaming table, bank or device, as
mentioned in §
513.01, to be kept or exhibited on any premises in his or her occupation.
(W.Va. Code § 61-10-2)
§ 513.03 ACTING AS LOOKOUT OR GUARD FOR KEEPER OF GAMBLING APPARATUS.
   No person shall act as doorkeeper, guard or watch, or employ another person
to act as such, for a keeper or exhibitor of any gaming table, bank or device
as mentioned in §
513.01, nor resist, nor by any means or device, prevent, hinder or delay the
lawful arrest of such keeper or exhibitor, or the seizure of the table, bank or
device, or money exhibited or staked thereat, nor unlawfully take the same from
the person seizing it.
(W.Va. Code § 61-10-3)
§ 513.04 PLAYING ON GAMBLING APPARATUS; HOTELS, PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person shall bet or play at any gaming table, bank or device as mentioned
in §
513.01, or, at any hotel or tavern, other public place or place of public
resort, play at any game except bowling, chess or backgammon, draughts or a
licensed game, or bet on the side of those who play at any game, whether or not
the game is permitted or licensed.
(W.Va. Code § 61-10-4)
§ 513.05 MAKING WAGER FOR VALUE OR FURNISHING MONEY TO ANOTHER FOR WAGER.
   No person shall, at any place, public or private, bet or wage money or other
thing of value on any game of chance, or knowingly furnish any money or other
thing of value to any other person to bet or wage on any such game.
(W.Va. Code § 61-10-5)
§ 513.06 PERMITTING GAMBLING AT PUBLIC PLACES.
   No keeper of a hotel, tavern or other public place shall permit unlawful
gaming at his or her house, or at any outhouse, booth, arbor or other place
appurtenant thereto.
(W.Va. Code § 61-10-6)
§ 513.07 CHEATING OR FRAUDULENT ACTIONS WHILE GAMBLING OR MAKING A WAGER.
   No person playing at any game or making a wager, or having a share in any
stake or wager, or betting on the hands or sides of others playing at any game
or making a wager, shall cheat, or by fraudulent means win or acquire for
himself or herself, or another, money or any other valuable thing. (W.Va. Code
§ 61-10-9)
§ 513.08 POOLROOMS AND POOL TICKETS.
   “Poolroom”, wherever used in this section, means any room where any pool
ticket, chance voucher or certificate is sold entitling or purporting to
entitle the holder or promisee thereof, or any other person, to money or other
thing of value, contingent upon the result of any horse race, prizefight, game
of chance, game of skill or science or other sport or contest. No person shall
set up or promote, or be connected with or interested in the management or
operation of any poolroom. The buying, selling or transferring of tickets or
chances in any lottery is hereby prohibited.
(W.Va. Code § 61-10-10)
§ 513.09 LOTTERIES AND RAFFLES.
   (a)   Except as otherwise provided by law, no person shall set up, promote
or be concerned in managing or drawing a lottery or raffle for money or other
thing of value; knowingly permit such lottery in any house under his or her
control; knowingly permit money or other property to be raffled for in such
house or to be won therein by throwing or using dice or by any other game of
chance; knowingly permit the sale in such house of any chance or ticket, or
share of a ticket in a lottery, or any writing, certificate, bill, token or
other device purporting or intended to guarantee or assure to any person or to
entitle him or her to a prize, or a share of or interest in a prize to be drawn
in a lottery.
   (b)   No person shall for himself or herself or any other person, buy, sell,
transfer or have in his or her possession for the purpose of sale or with
intent to exchange, negotiate or transfer, or aid in selling, exchanging,
negotiating or transferring a chance or ticket, or a share of a ticket, in a
lottery or any such writing, certificate, bill, token or device. However, this
section shall not be deemed to apply to that certain type or form of lottery or
raffle designated and familiarly known as “policy” or “numbers”.
(W.Va. Code § 61-10-11)
§ 513.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   General penalty: whoever violates any provision of this article for
which no other penalty is provided upon conviction shall be fined not more than
$500. Each day such violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
   (b)   Whoever violates §§
513.04 or
513.06 upon conviction shall be fined not more than $100.
   (c)   Whoever violates §
513.05 upon conviction shall be fined not more than $300.
ARTICLE 517: INDECENCY AND OBSCENITY
Section
   
517.01   Operating a place for or permitting or engaging in prostitution,
lewdness or assignation
   
517.02   Detention of person in place of prostitution
   
517.03   Pandering
   
517.04   Pimping
   
517.05   Obscene or harassing telephone calls
   
517.06   Indecent exposure
   
517.07   Invasion of privacy by looking
   
517.08   Sale or display of obscene matter
 
   
517.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prevent indecent practices, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-5(19)
   Authority to prohibit distribution of obscene literature, see W.Va. Code §
8-12-5(17)
   Authority to suppress houses of ill fame, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-5(18)
   Equitable remedies, see W.Va. Code Art. 61-9
§ 517.01 OPERATING A PLACE FOR OR PERMITTING OR ENGAGING IN PROSTITUTION,
LEWDNESS OR ASSIGNATION.
   (a)   No person shall keep, set up, maintain or operate any house, place,
building, hotel, tourist camp, other structure or part thereof, or vehicle,
trailer or other conveyance for the purpose of prostitution, lewdness or
assignation; or own any place, house, hotel, tourist camp, other structure or
part thereof, or trailer or other conveyance knowing the same to be used for
the purpose of prostitution, lewdness or assignation, or let, sublet or rent
any such place, premises or conveyance to another with knowledge or good reason
to know of the intention of the lessee or rentee to use such place, premises or
conveyance for prostitution, lewdness or assignation; or offer, or offer to
secure another for the purpose of prostitution or for any other lewd or
indecent act; or receive or offer or agree to receive any person into any
house, place, building, hotel, tourist camp or other structure, or vehicle,
trailer or other conveyance for the purpose of prostitution, lewdness or
assignation, or permit any person to remain there for such purpose; or for
another or others, direct, take or transport, or offer or agree to take or
transport, or aid or assist in transporting any person to any house, place,
building, hotel, tourist camp, other structure, vehicle, trailer or other
conveyance, or to any other person with knowledge or having reasonable cause to
believe that the purpose of such directing, taking or transporting is
prostitution, lewdness or assignation; or aid, abet or participate in the doing
of any acts herein prohibited. Whoever violates this subsection (a) shall, for
a first offense, be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (b)   (1)   No person shall engage in prostitution, lewdness or assignation,
or solicit, induce, entice or procure another to commit an act of prostitution,
lewdness or assignation; or reside in, enter or remain in any house, place,
building, hotel, tourist camp or other structure, or enter or remain in any
vehicle, trailer or other conveyance for the purpose of prostitution, lewdness
or assignation; or aid, abet or participate in the doing of any of the acts
herein prohibited.
      (2)   Whoever violates this subsection (b) shall, for a first or second
offense, be guilty of a misdemeanor.
      (3)   The subsequent offense provision shall apply only to the pimp,
panderer, solicitor, operator or any person benefitting financially or
otherwise from the earnings of a prostitute.
   (c)   All leases and agreements, oral or written, for letting, subletting or
renting any house, place, building, hotel, tourist camp or other structure
which is used for the purpose of prostitution, lewdness or assignation, shall
be void from and after the date any person who is a party to such an agreement
shall be convicted of an offense hereunder. “Tourist camp” includes any
temporary or permanent buildings, tents, cabins or structures, or trailers or
other vehicles which are maintained, offered or used for dwelling or sleeping
quarters for pay.
   (d)   In the trial of any person charged with a violation of any of the
provisions of this section, testimony concerning the reputation or character of
any house, place, building, hotel, tourist camp or other structure, and of the
person or persons who reside in or frequent them, and of the defendant or
defendants, shall be admissible in evidence in support of the charge.
(W.Va. Code § 61-8-5)
§ 517.02 DETENTION OF PERSON IN PLACE OF PROSTITUTION.
   (a)   No person shall by any means keep, hold, detain or restrain any person
in a house of prostitution or other place where prostitution is practiced or
allowed; shall, directly or indirectly, keep, hold, detain or restrain or
attempt to keep, hold, detain or restrain, in any house of prostitution or
other place where prostitution is practiced or allowed, any person by any
means, for the purpose of compelling such person, directly or indirectly, to
pay, liquidate or cancel any debt, dues or obligations incurred or said to have
been incurred by such person.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section shall, for a first offense, be guilty of
a misdemeanor if the person so kept, held, detained or restrained under this
section is not a minor.
(W.Va. Code § 61-8-6)
§ 517.03 PANDERING.
   (a)   (1)   No person shall procure an inmate for a house of prostitution,
or by promises, threats, violence or by any device or scheme, cause, induce,
persuade or encourage a person to become an inmate of a house of prostitution,
or shall procure a place as inmate in a house of prostitution for a person. No
person shall, by promises, threats, violence or any device or scheme cause,
induce, persuade or encourage an inmate of a house of prostitution to remain
therein as such inmate; or shall, by fraud or artifice, or by duress of person
or goods, or by abuse of any position of confidence or authority, procure any
person to become an inmate of a house of ill fame, to enter any place in which
prostitution is encouraged or allowed within this municipality, or to come into
or leave this municipality for the purpose of prostitution, or shall procure
any person to become an inmate of a house of ill fame within this municipality
or to come into or leave this municipality for the purpose of prostitution; or
shall receive or give or agree to receive or give any money or thing of value
for procuring or attempting to procure any person to become an inmate of a
house of ill fame within this municipality, or to come into or leave this
municipality for the purpose of prostitution.
      (2)   It shall not be a defense to prosecution for any of the acts
prohibited in this section that any part of such act or acts shall have been
committed outside of this municipality, and the offense shall in such case be
deemed and alleged to have been committed and the offender tried and punished
in the municipality or county in which the prostitution was intended to be
practiced, or in which the offense was consummated, or any overt act in
furtherance of the offense was committed.
      (3)   Any such person shall be a competent witness in any prosecution
under this section to testify for or against the accused as to any transaction,
or as to conversation with the accused, or by the accused with another person
or persons in his or her presence, notwithstanding his or her having married
the accused before or after the violation of any of the provisions of this
section, whether called as a witness during the existence of the marriage or
after its dissolution. The act or state of marriage shall not be a defense to
any violation of this section.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor for the first
offense unless the inmate referred to in this section is a minor.
(W.Va. Code § 61-8-7)
§ 517.04 PIMPING.
   (a)   No person knowing another person to be a prostitute, shall live or
derive support or maintenance, in whole or in part, from the earnings or
proceeds of the prostitution of such prostitute, or from money loaned or
advanced to or charged against such prostitution by any keeper or manager or
inmate of a house or other place where prostitution is practiced or allowed, or
shall tout or receive compensation for touting for such prostitution. A
prostitute shall be a competent witness in any prosecution hereunder to testify
for or against the accused as to any transaction or conversation with the
accused, or by the accused with another person or persons in the presence of
the prostitute, even if the prostitute may have married the accused before or
after the violation of any of the provisions of this section, whether called as
a witness during the existence of the marriage or after its dissolution.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section shall, for a first offense, be guilty of
a misdemeanor unless the prostitute referred to in this section is a minor.
(W.Va. Code § 61-8-8)
§ 517.05 OBSCENE OR HARASSING TELEPHONE CALLS.
   (a)   No person with intent to harass or abuse another by means of telephone
shall:
      (1)   Make any comment, request, suggestion or proposal which is obscene;
      (2)   Make a telephone call, whether or not conversation ensues, without
disclosing his or her identity and with intent to harass any person at the
called number;
      (3)   Make or cause the telephone of another repeatedly or continuously
to ring, with intent to harass any person at the called number;
      (4)   Make repeated telephone calls, during which conversation ensues,
with intent to harass any person at the called number; or
      (5)   Threaten to commit a crime against any person or property.
   (b)   No person shall knowingly permit any telephone under his or her
control to be used for any purpose prohibited by this section.
   (c)   Any offense committed under this section may be deemed to have
occurred at the place at which the telephone call was made, or the place at
which the telephone call was received.
(W.Va. Code § 61-8-16)
§ 517.06 INDECENT EXPOSURE.
   No person shall intentionally expose his or her sex organs or anus or the
sex organs or anus of another person, or intentionally cause such exposure by
another or engage in any overt act of sexual gratification, under circumstances
in which the person knows that the conduct is likely to cause affront or alarm;
provided, that it is not considered indecent exposure for a mother to breast
feed a child in any location, public or private.
(W.Va. Code § 61-8-9)
§ 517.07 INVASION OF PRIVACY BY LOOKING.
   No person shall unlawfully enter upon the property of another or secretly or
furtively peep through or attempt to peep into, through, or spy through a
window, door or other aperture of any building, structure or other enclosure of
any nature occupied by or intended for occupancy as a dwelling or dormitory,
whether or not such building, structure or enclosure be permanently situated or
transportable and whether or not such occupancy be permanent or temporary.
§ 517.08 SALE OR DISPLAY OF OBSCENE MATTER.
   (a)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section:
      (1)   “Knowingly” means to have knowledge of or to be aware of the
content or character of obscene matter.
      (2)   “Matter” means any book, magazine, newspaper or other printed or
written material, or any picture, drawing or photograph, motion picture, or
other visual representation, or live conduct, or any recording, transcription
or mechanical, chemical or electrical reproduction, or any other articles,
equipment, machines or materials.
      (3)   “Individual” means any human being regardless of age.
      (4)   “Obscene” means matter which the average individual applying
contemporary community standards would find:
          A.   Taken as a whole, appeals to the prurient interest;
          B.   Depicts or describes in a patently offensive way ultimate sexual
acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated; and
          C.   The matter, taken as a whole, lacks serious literary, artistic,
political or scientific value, and which either:
            1.   Depicts or describes patently offensive representation of
masturbation, excretory functions, lewd exhibition of the genitals, sodomy,
fellatio, cunnilingus, bestiality, sadism, masochism; or
            2.   Depicts or describes nudity or sexual acts of persons, male or
female, below the age of 18 years.
      (5)   “Person” means any individual, partnership, firm, association,
corporation or other legal entity.
      (6)   “Prepare” means to produce, publish or print.
      (7)   “Public display” means the placing of material on or in a
billboard, viewing screen, theater, marquee, newsstand, display sack, window,
showcase, display case or similar public places so that material can be
purchased or viewed by individuals.
   (b)   Individual relief. The circuit court shall have jurisdiction to issue
an injunction to enforce the purposes of this section upon petition by the
attorney for the municipality or a representative thereof or any citizen of the
municipality who can show a good faith and valid reason for making such
application. No bond shall be required unless for good cause shown.
   (c)    Activities prohibited. No person shall knowingly send or cause to be
sent or cause to be brought into the municipality for sale or public display,
or prepare, sell or make a public display, or in the municipality offer to
prepare, sell or make a public display, or have in his or her possession with
the intent to sell or make a public display of any obscene matter to any
individual.
   (d)   Employees not prosecuted. No employee shall be guilty of a violation
of this section when such employee is a projectionist, ticket taker, usher, or
when such employee prepares, sells or makes a public display of obscene matter
while acting within the scope of his or her regular employment, unless such
employee has a proprietary interest in such obscene matter or is a shareholder
or officer of a corporation which has a proprietary interest in such obscene
matter.
   (e)   Exceptions. Nothing in this section shall be construed so as to apply
to any person exercising a right secured by the Constitution or laws of this
state or of these United States.
(W.Va. Code § 8-12-5b(b))
§ 517.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   General penalty: whoever violates any provision of this article for
which no other . penalty is provided upon conviction shall be fined not more
than $500. Each day such violation continues shall constitute a separate
offense.
   (b)   Whoever violates §§
517.01(a) or 517.06 upon conviction shall be fined not more than $250.
   (c)   Whoever violates §
517.01(b) upon conviction for a first offense shall be fined not more than
$100, and upon a conviction for a second offense shall be fined not more than
$250.
   (d)   Whoever violates §
517.08 upon conviction for a first offense shall be fined not more than $500,
and upon a conviction for a second or subsequent offense such person shall be
fined not more than $1,000.
(Ord. passed 8-8-2017)
ARTICLE 521: LIQUOR CONTROL
Section
   
521.01   Definitions
   
521.02   Article not applicable to certain uses by physicians, druggists and
others
   
521.03   Prohibited acts generally
   
521.04   Unlawful sale or possession by alcoholic liquor licensee
   
521.05   Unlawful purchase of alcoholic liquors from state agency
   
521.06   Intoxication or drinking in public places; illegal possession
   
521.07   Acts prohibited by non-intoxicating beer licensee
   
521.08   Unlawful purchase of non-intoxicating beer
   
521.09   Acts prohibited by private club licensee
   
521.10   Unlawful purchase from private club
   
521.11   Acts prohibited by wine dealers
   
521.12   Unlawful purchase of wine
   
521.13   Unlawful purchase from retail liquor licensee
 
   
521.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate liquor sales, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-5(20)
   Local option, see W.Va. Code Art. 60-5
   Nonintoxicating beer, see W.Va. Code Art. 11-16
   Search warrants, see W.Va. Code § 60-6-18
§ 521.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this article:
   (a)   “Alcohol” means ethyl alcohol whatever its origin and shall include
synthetic ethyl alcohol but not denatured alcohol.
   (b)   “Alcoholic liquor” includes alcohol, beer, wine, and spirits, and any
liquid or solid capable of being used as a beverage, but shall not include
nonintoxicating beer.
   (c)   “An agency” means a drugstore, grocery store, or general store
designated by the Commission as a retail distributor of alcoholic liquor for
the West Virginia Alcohol Beverage Control Commission.
   (d)   “Beer” means any beverage obtained by the fermentation of barley,
malt, hops, or any other similar product or substitute, and containing more
alcohol than that of nonintoxicating beer.
   (e)   “Brewery” means an establishment where beer is manufactured or in any
way prepared.
   (f)   “Commissioner” or “Commission” means the West Virginia Alcohol
Beverage Control Commissioner.
   (g)   “Department” means the organization through which the Commission
exercises powers imposed upon it by this article.
   (h)   “Distillery” means an establishment where alcoholic liquor other than
wine or beer is manufactured or in any way prepared.
   (i)   “Intoxicated” means a person’s faculties are impaired by alcohol or
other substance to the point where physical or mental control or both are
markedly diminished.
   (j)   “Manager” means an individual who is the applicant’s or licensee’s on-
premises employee, member, partner, shareholder, director, or officer who meets
the licensure requirements of W.Va. Code §§ 11-16-1 et seq. and rules
promulgated thereunder who actively manages, conducts, and carries on the day-
to-day operations of the applicant or licensee with full and apparent authority
or actual authority to act on behalf of the applicant or licensee. Such duties
include but are not limited to: coordinating staffing; reviewing and approving
payroll; ordering and paying for inventory, such as nonintoxicating beer, wine
and liquor, as applicable; and managing security staff, security systems, video
and other security equipment; and any further acts or actions involved in
managing the affairs of the business, on behalf of owners, partners, members,
shareholders, officers, or directors.
   (k)   “Manufacture” means to distill, rectify, ferment, brew, make, mix,
concoct, process, blend, bottle, or fill an original package with any alcoholic
liquor.
   (l)   “Manufacturer” means any person engaged in the manufacture of any
alcoholic liquor, and among others includes a distiller, a rectifier, a wine
maker, and a brewer.
   (m)   “Nonintoxicating beer” means any beverage obtained by the fermentation
of barley, malt, hops, or similar products or substitute, and containing not
more alcohol than that specified by W.Va. Code § 11-16-2.
   (n)   “Original package” means any closed or sealed container or receptacle
used for holding alcoholic liquor.
   (o)   “Person” means an individual, firm, partnership, limited partnership,
corporation, or voluntary association.
   (p)   “Powdered alcohol” means an alcohol manufactured in a powder or
crystalline form for either direct use or reconstitution as an alcoholic liquor
or food. For purposes of this chapter, powdered alcohol excludes any material
intended for industrial purposes.
   (q)   “Public place” means any place, building, or conveyance to which the
public has, or is permitted to have access, including restaurants, soda
fountains, hotel dining rooms, lobbies and corridors of hotels and any highway,
street, lane, park, or place of public resort or amusement; provided, that the
term “public place” shall not mean or include any of the above-named places or
any portion or portions thereof which qualify and are licensed under the
provisions of this article to sell alcoholic liquors for consumption on the
premises; provided, however, that the term “public place” shall not mean or
include any legally demarcated area designated solely for the consumption of
beverages and freshly prepared food that directly connects and adjoins any
portion or portions of a premises that qualifies and is licensed under the
provisions of this article to sell alcoholic liquors for consumption thereupon;
provided further, that the term “public place” shall not include a facility
constructed primarily for the use of a Division I, II, or III college or
university that is a member of the National Collegiate Athletic Association, or
its successor, and used as a football, basketball, baseball, soccer, or other
Division I, II, or III sports stadium which holds a special license to sell
wine pursuant to the provisions of West Virginia Code 60-8-3, in the designated
areas of sale and consumption of wine and other restrictions established by
that section and the terms of the special license issued thereunder.
   (r)   “Sale” means any transfer, exchange, or barter in any manner or by any
means, for a consideration, and shall include all sales made by a principal,
proprietor, agent, or employee.
   (s)   “Selling” includes solicitation or receipt of orders; possession for
sale; and possession with intent to sell.
   (t)   “Spirits” means any alcoholic beverage obtained by distillation and
mixed with potable water and other substances in solution and includes brandy,
rum, whiskey, cordials, and gin.
   (u)   “State liquor store” means a store established and operated by the
Commission under this article for the sale of alcoholic liquor in the original
package for consumption off the premises.
   (v)   “Wine” means any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of
the natural content of fruits, or other agricultural products, containing
sugar.
   (w)   “Winery” means an establishment where wine is manufactured or in any
way prepared.
(W.Va. Code § 60-1-5)
§ 521.02 ARTICLE NOT APPLICABLE TO CERTAIN USES BY PHYSICIANS, DRUGGISTS AND
OTHERS.
   The provisions of this article shall not prevent:
   (a)   A physician from prescribing the use of alcoholic liquors when
necessary for a bona fide patient;
   (b)   A druggist from selling, upon a prescription properly issued by a
physician, alcoholic liquors for medicinal purposes;
   (c)   A physician, dentist or veterinarian, in the legitimate practice of
his or her profession, from using and administering alcoholic liquors;
   (d)   Hospitals, sanitariums or that division of any institution which is
regularly conducted as a hospital, dispensary or infirmary from using or
administering alcoholic liquors to bona fide patients. Institutions and the
divisions thereof provided in this section may carry a stock of alcoholic
liquors sufficient for this purpose; and
   (e)   Religious organizations from using wine for sacramental purposes.
(W.Va. Code § 60-6-5)
§ 521.03 PROHIBITED ACTS GENERALLY.
   No person shall:
   (a)   Manufacture or sell in this city, without a license, any alcoholic
liquor except as permitted by W.Va. Code Chapter 60;
   (b)   Aid or abet in the manufacture or sale of alcoholic liquor without a
license, except as permitted by W.Va. Code Chapter 60;
   (c)   Sell or tender without a license any alcoholic liquor other than
provided by W.Va. Code Article 60-6;
   (d)   Adulterate any alcoholic liquor by the addition of any drug, methyl
alcohol, crude, unrectified or impure form of ethyl alcohol, or any other
foreign or deleterious substance or liquid;
   (e)   Refill, with alcoholic liquor, any bottle or other container in which
alcoholic liquor has been sold at retail in this state;
   (f)   Advertise any alcoholic liquor in this city except in accordance with
the rules and regulations of the West Virginia Alcohol Beverage Control
Commissioner;
   (g)   Distribute, deal in, process or use crowns, stamps or seals required
under the authority of W.Va. Code Chapter 60, except in accordance with the
rules and regulations prescribed by the West Virginia Alcohol Beverage Control
Commissioner;
   (h)   Manufacture or sell, aid or abet in the manufacture or sale, possess,
transport or ship, use or in any other manner provide or furnish powdered
alcohol;
(W.Va. Code § 60-6-7)
   (i)   Manufacture, sell, give or offer to make a sale or gift of, transport
or otherwise possess any alcoholic liquor or nonintoxicating beer except as
permitted by W.Va. Code Chapters 11 and 60; and
   (j)   Whoever violates subsections (a) to (h) above is guilty of a
misdemeanor for a first offense.
§ 521.04 UNLAWFUL SALE OR POSSESSION BY ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR LICENSEE.
   No person licensed under W.Va. Code Chapter 60 shall:
   (a)   Sell, furnish, tender or serve alcoholic liquors of a kind other than
that which is permissible under W.Va. Code Chapter 60;
   (b)   Sell, furnish, tender or serve beer to which wine, spirits or alcohol
has been added;
   (c)   Sell, furnish, tender or serve wine to which other alcoholic spirits
have been added, otherwise than as required in the manufacture thereof under
regulations of the Commission;
(W.Va. Code § 60-6-8)
   (d)   (1)   Sell, furnish, tender or serve alcoholic liquors or
nonintoxicating beer to a person who is:
         A.   Less than 21 years of age;
         B.   An habitual drunkard;
         C.   Intoxicated;
         D.   Addicted to the use of any controlled substance as defined by
W.Va. Code Chapter 60A; and
         E.   Mentally incompetent.
      (2)   It shall be a defense to a violation of subsection (d)(1)A. above
if the seller shows that the purchaser:
         A.   Produced written evidence which showed his or her age to be at
least the required age for purchase and which bore a physical description of
the person named on the writing which reasonably described the purchaser; or
         B.   Produced evidence of other facts that reasonably indicated at the
time of sale that the purchaser was at least the required age.
(W.Va. Code § 60-3-22; 60-6-8)
   (e)   Sell, furnish, tender or serve alcoholic liquors except as authorized
by his or her license;
   (f)   Sell, furnish, tender or serve alcoholic liquors other than by the
drink, poured from the alcoholic liquors’ original container; provided, that
under certain requirements exceptions to liquor by the drink are as follows:
      (1)   A private club licensed under W.Va. Code §§ 60-7-1 et seq., that is
in good standing with the Commissioner and has paid a $1,000 on-premises only
bottle service fee to the Commissioner, may sell or serve liquor by the bottle
to two or more persons for consumption on the licensed premises only, and any
liquor bottle sold by such a private club shall be sold at retail for personal
use, and not for resale, to a person for not less than 300% of the private
club’s cost, and no such liquor bottle shall be removed from the licensed
premises by any person or the licensee; and
      (2)   A Class A licensee licensed under West Virginia Code 60-8-1 et
seq., may sell or serve wine by the bottle to two or more persons for
consumption on the licensed premises only, unless such licensee has obtained a
license or privilege authorizing other activity.
   (g)   Sell, furnish, tender, or serve pre-mixed alcoholic liquor that is not
in the original container; provided, that a licensee may sell, furnish, tender,
and serve pre-mixed beverages consisting of alcoholic liquors, nonalcoholic
mixer, and ice if:
      (1)   The frozen drink mixing machine is emptied and sanitized daily; and
      (2)   That a written record reflecting the cleaning and sanitizing of the
frozen drink machine is maintained for inspection by the Commissioner and
health inspectors.
   (h)   Sell, furnish, tender or serve any alcoholic liquor when forbidden by
the provisions of this article;
   (i)   Sell, possess, possess for sale, tender, serve, furnish or provide any
powdered alcohol;
   (j)   Keep on the premises covered by his or her license alcoholic liquor
other than that which he or she is authorized to sell, furnish, tender, or
serve by such license or by this article; and
   (k)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor for the first
offense.
(W.Va. Code § 60-6-8)
§ 521.05 UNLAWFUL PURCHASE OF ALCOHOLIC LIQUORS FROM STATE AGENCY.
   No person shall:
   (a)   Being under the age of 21 years, for the purpose of purchasing
alcoholic liquors from a state liquor store or an agency, misrepresent his or
her age, or for such purpose present or offer any written evidence of age which
is false, fraudulent or not actually his or her own, or illegally attempt to
purchase alcoholic liquors from a state liquor store or an agency.
   (b)   Knowingly buy for, give to or furnish to anyone under the age of 21
years to whom they are not related by blood or marriage, any alcoholic liquors
from whatever source.
(W.Va. Code § 60-3-22a)
§ 521.06 INTOXICATION OR DRINKING IN PUBLIC PLACES; ILLEGAL POSSESSION.
   (a)   A person shall not:
      (1)   Appear in a public place in an intoxicated condition;
      (2)   Drink alcoholic liquor or nonintoxicating beer in a public place;
      (3)   Tender a drink of alcoholic liquor or nonintoxicating beer to
another person in a public place;
      (4)   Operate a business without a license issued under W.Va. Code §§ 60-
1-1 et seq., which knowingly facilitates the consumption of alcoholic liquors
in a public place by providing for on-site items such as cups, glasses, ice and
nonalcoholic beverages used to mix with alcoholic liquors, refrigeration, or
on-site storage of alcoholic liquors in a lounge area or space for persons to
gather, perhaps offering musical entertainment, exotic dancing, or other such
nude entertainment, or other similar activity or entertainment. Such business
may be commonly known as a “bring your own bottle”, “ bring your own booze” or
“BYOB” establishments;
      (5)   Possess alcoholic liquor in the amount in excess of ten gallons, in
containers not bearing stamps or seals of the West Virginia Alcohol Beverage
Control Commissioner, without having first obtained written authority from the
Commissioner therefor; or
      (6)   Possess any alcoholic liquor which was manufactured or acquired in
violation of the provisions of W.Va. Code Chapter 60.
   (b)   Any law enforcement officer may arrest without a warrant and take the
following actions against a person who, in his or her presence, violates
subsection (a)(1) above:
      (1)   If there is some nonintoxicated person who will accept
responsibility for the intoxicated person, the officer may issue the
intoxicated person a citation specifying the date for appearance before a
judicial officer and release him or her to the custody of the individual
accepting responsibility; provided, that the issuance of a citation shall be
used whenever feasible;
      (2)   If it does not impose an undue burden on the officer, he or she
may, after issuance of the citation, transport the individual to the
individual’s present residence or arrange for the transportation;
      (3)   If the individual is incapacitated or the alternatives provided in
subsection (b)(1) and (b)(2) above are not possible, the officer shall
transport or arrange for transportation to the appropriate judicial officer as
defined by W.Va. Code § 27-11-17; or
      (4)   If the individual is incapacitated and, in the law enforcement
officer’s judgment, is in need of acute medical attention, that officer shall
arrange for transportation by ambulance or otherwise to a hospital emergency
room. The officer shall accompany the individual until he or she is discharged
from the emergency room or admitted to the hospital. If the individual is
released from the emergency room, the officer may proceed as described in
subsections (b)(1), (b)(2) and (b)(3) above. If the individual is admitted to
the hospital, the officer shall issue a citation to the individual specifying a
date for appearance before a judicial officer.
   (c)   Upon presentment before the proper judicial officer, the law
enforcement officer serves as the chief complaining witness. The judicial
officer shall determine if there is probative evidence that the individual may
be guilty of the charge of public intoxication. If such evidence is not
presented, the charge shall be dismissed and the individual released. If
sufficient evidence is presented, the judicial officer shall issue a warrant
and establish bail or issue a summons to the individual. Once a warrant or
summons has been issued, the following actions may be taken:
      (1)   If the individual is no longer incapacitated, he or she may be
released;
      (2)   If the individual is still incapacitated but a nonintoxicated
person is available to accept responsibility for him or her, he or she may be
released to the responsible person; or
      (3)   If the individual is still incapacitated and no responsible person
is available, the judicial officer shall proceed under the provisions of W.Va.
Code Article 27-5 or Article 27-6A.
   (d)   Any law enforcement officer may arrest and hold in custody, without a
warrant, until complaint may be made before a judicial officer and a warrant or
summons issued, any person who in the presence of the law enforcement officer
violates any one or more of subsections (a)(1) through (a)(5) above; provided,
that the law enforcement officer may use reasonable force to prevent harm to
himself or herself, the individual arrested or others in carrying out the
provisions of this section.
(W.Va. Code § 60-6-9)
§ 521.07 ACTS PROHIBITED BY NON-INTOXICATING BEER LICENSEE.
   (a)   It is unlawful:
      (1)   For any licensee, his, her, its or their servants, agents or
employees to sell, give or dispense, or any individual to drink or consume, in
or on any licensed premises or in any rooms directly connected, nonintoxicating
beer or cooler on weekdays between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m., or
between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m., or a Class A retail dealer to
sell nonintoxicating beer for on-premises consumption only between the hours of
2:00 a.m. and 1:00 p.m. in any county upon approval as provided in W.Va. Code §
7-1-3ss, on any Sunday, except in private clubs licensed under the provisions
of W.Va. Code §§ 60-7-1 et seq., where the hours shall conform with the hours
of sale of alcoholic liquors;
      (2)   For any licensee, his, her, its or their servants, agents or
employees to sell, furnish or give any nonintoxicating beer, as defined in this
article, to any person visibly or noticeably intoxicated or to any person known
to be insane or known to be a habitual drunkard;
      (3)   For any licensee, his, her, its or their servants, agents, or
employees to sell, furnish, or give any nonintoxicating beer as defined in this
article to any person who is less than 21 years of age;
      (4)   For any distributor to sell or offer to sell, or any retailer to
purchase or receive, any nonintoxicating beer as defined in this article,
except for cash and a right of action shall not exist to collect any claims for
credit extended contrary to the provisions of this subdivision. Nothing herein
contained in this section prohibits a licensee from crediting to a purchaser
the actual price charged for packages or containers returned by the original
purchaser as a credit on any sale, or from refunding to any purchaser the
amount paid or deposited for the containers when title is retained by the
vendor; provided, that a distributor may accept an electronic transfer of funds
if the transfer of funds is initiated by an irrevocable payment order on the
invoiced amount for the nonintoxicating beer. The cost of the electronic fund
transfer shall be borne by the retailer and the distributor shall initiate the
transfer no later than noon of one business day after the delivery;
      (5)   For any brewer or distributor to give, furnish, rent, or sell any
equipment, fixtures, signs, supplies, or services directly or indirectly or
through a subsidiary or affiliate to any licensee engaged in selling products
of the brewing industry at retail or to offer any prize, premium, gift, or
other similar inducement, except advertising matter, including indoor
electronic or mechanical signs, of nominal value up to $25 per stock keeping
unit, to either trade or consumer buyers; provided, that a distributor may
offer, for sale or rent, tanks of carbonic gas; provided, however, that, in the
interest of public health and safety, a distributor may, independently or
through a subsidiary or affiliate, furnish, sell, install, or maintain draught
line equipment, supplies, and cleaning services to a licensed retailer so long
as the furnishing or sell of draught line services may be negotiated at no less
than direct cost; provided further, that a distributor may furnish, rent, or
sell equipment, fixtures, signs, services, or supplies directly or indirectly
or through a subsidiary or affiliate to any licensee engaged in selling
products of the brewing industry at retail under the conditions and within the
limitations as prescribed herein. Nothing contained in this section prohibits a
brewer from sponsoring any professional or amateur athletic event or from
providing prizes or awards for participants and winners in any events.
      (6)   For any brewer or distributor to sponsor any professional or
amateur athletic event or provide prizes or awards for participants and winners
when a majority of the athletes participating in the event are minors, unless
specifically authorized by the Commissioner;
      (7)   For any retail licensee to sell or dispense nonintoxicating beer
through draught lines where the draught lines have not been cleaned at least
every two weeks in accordance with rules promulgated by the Commissioner, and
where written records of all cleanings are not maintained and available for
inspection;
      (8)   For any licensee to permit in his or her premises any lewd,
immoral, or improper entertainment, conduct or practice;
      (9)   For any licensee except the holder of a license to operate a
private club issued under the provisions of W.Va. Code §§ 60-7-1 et seq. or a
holder of a license or a private wine restaurant issued under the provisions of
W.Va. Code §§ 60-8-1 et seq. to possess a federal license, tax receipt, or
other permit entitling, authorizing, or allowing the licensee to sell liquor or
alcoholic drinks other than nonintoxicating beer;
      (10)   For any licensee to obstruct the view of the interior of his or
her premises by enclosure, lattice, drapes, or any means which would prevent
plain view of the patrons occupying the premises. The interior of all licensed
premises shall be adequately lighted at all times; provided, that provisions of
this subdivision do not apply to the premises of a Class B retailer, the
premises of a private club licensed under the provisions of W.Va. Code §§ 60-7-
1 et seq., or the premises of a private wine restaurant licensed under the
provisions of W.Va. Code §§ 60-8-1 et seq.;
      (11)   For any licensee to manufacture, import, sell, trade, barter,
possess, or acquiesce in the sale, possession, or consumption of any alcoholic
liquors on the premises covered by a license or on premises directly or
indirectly used in connection with it; provided, that the prohibition contained
in this subdivision with respect to the selling or possessing or to the
acquiescence in the sale, possession, or consumption of alcoholic liquors is
not applicable with respect to the holder of a license to operate a private
club issued under the provisions of W.Va. Code §§ 60-7-1 et seq. nor shall the
prohibition be applicable to a private wine restaurant licensed under the
provisions of W.Va. Code §§ 60-8-1 et seq. insofar as the private wine
restaurant is authorized to serve wine;
      (12)   For any retail licensee to sell or dispense nonintoxicating beer,
as defined in this article, purchased, or acquired from any source other than a
distributor, brewer, or manufacturer licensed under the laws of this state;
      (13)   For any licensee to permit loud, boisterous, or disorderly conduct
of any kind upon his or her premises or to permit the use of loud musical
instruments if either or any of the same may disturb the peace and quietude of
the community where the business is located; provided, that a licensee may have
speaker systems for outside broadcasting as long as the noise levels do not
create a public nuisance or violate local noise ordinances;
      (14)   For any person whose license has been revoked, as provided in this
article, to obtain employment with any retailer within the period of one year
from the date of the revocation, or for any retailer to knowingly employ that
person within the specified time;
      (15)   For any distributor to sell, possess for sale, transport, or
distribute nonintoxicating beer except in the original container;
      (16)   For any licensee to knowingly permit any act to be done upon the
licensed premises, the commission of which constitutes a crime under the laws
of this state or municipality;
      (17)   For any Class B retailer to permit the consumption of
nonintoxicating beer upon his or her licensed premises;
      (18)   For any Class A licensee, his, her, its or their servants, agents,
or employees, or for any licensee by or through any servants, agents, or
employees, to allow, suffer, or permit any person less than 18 years of age to
loiter in or upon any licensed premises; except, however, that the provisions
of this subdivision do not apply where a person under the age of 18 years is in
or upon the premises in the immediate company of his or her parent or parents,
or where and while a person under the age of 18 years is in or upon the
premises for the purpose of and actually making a lawful purchase of any items
or commodities sold, or for the purchase of and actually receiving any lawful
service rendered in the licensed premises, including the consumption of any
item of food, drink, or soft drink lawfully prepared and served or sold for
consumption on the premises;
      (19)   For any distributor to sell, offer for sale, distribute, or
deliver any nonintoxicating beer outside the territory assigned to any
distributor by the brewer or manufacturer of nonintoxicating beer or to sell,
offer for sale, distribute, or deliver nonintoxicating beer to any retailer
whose principal place of business or licensed premises is within the assigned
territory of another distributor of the nonintoxicating beer; provided, that
nothing in this section is considered to prohibit sales of convenience between
distributors licensed in this state where one distributor sells, transfers, or
delivers to another distributor a particular brand or brands for sale at
wholesale; and
      (20)   For any licensee or any agent, servant, or employee of any
licensee to knowingly violate any rule lawfully promulgated by the Commissioner
in accordance with the provisions of W.Va. Code Chapter 29A.
   (b)   Any person who violates any provision of W.Va. Code § 11-16-18,
including, but not limited to, any provision of this section, or any rule, or
order lawfully promulgated by the Commissioner, or who makes any false
statement concerning any material fact in submitting an application for a
license or for a renewal of a license or in any hearing concerning the
revocation of a license, or who commits any of the acts in this section
declared to be unlawful is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished for each offense by a fine of not less than $25, nor
more than $500. Magistrates have concurrent jurisdiction with the circuit court
and any other courts having criminal jurisdiction in their county for the trial
of all misdemeanors arising under this article.
   (c)   (1)   A Class B licensee that:
         A.   Has installed a transaction scan device on its licensed premises;
and
         B.   Can demonstrate that it requires each employee, servant, or agent
to verify the age of any individual to whom nonintoxicating beer is sold,
furnished , or given away by the use of the transaction device may not be
subject to:
            1.   Any criminal penalties whatsoever, including those set forth
in subsection (b) above;
            2.   Any administrative penalties from the Commissioner; or
            3.   Any civil liability whatsoever for the improper sale,
furnishing, or giving away of nonintoxicating beer to an individual who is less
than 21 years of age by one of his or her employees, servants or agents.
         Any agent, servant, or employee who has improperly sold, furnished or
given away nonintoxicating beer to an individual less than 21 years of age is
subject to the criminal penalties of subsection (b) above. Any agent, servant,
or employee who has improperly sold, furnish, or given away nonintoxicating
beer to an individual less than 21 years of age is subject to termination from
employment, and the employer shall have no civil liability for the termination.
      (2)   For purposes of this section, a Class B licensee can demonstrate
that it requires each employee, servant, or agent to verify the age of any
individual to whom nonintoxicating beer is sold by providing evidence:
         A.   That is has developed a written policy which requires each
employee, servant, or agent to verify the age of each individual to whom
nonintoxicating beer will be sold, furnished, or given away;
         B.   That it has communicated this policy to each employee, servant,
or agent; and
         C.   That it monitors the actions of its employees, servants, or
agents regarding the sale, furnishing, or giving away of nonintoxicating beer
and that it has taken corrective action for any discovered noncompliance with
this policy.
      (3)   “Transaction scan” means the process by which a person checks, by
means of a transaction scan device, the age and identity of the cardholder, and
“transaction scan device” means any commercial device or combination of devices
used at a point of sale that is capable of deciphering in an electronically
readable format the information enclosed on the magnetic strip or bar code of a
driver’s license or other governmental identity card.
   (d)   Nothing in this section nor any rule of the Commissioner shall prevent
or be considered to prohibit any licensee from employing any person who is at
least 18 years of age to serve in the licensee’s lawful employ, including the
sale or delivery of nonintoxicating beer as defined in this article. With the
prior approval of the Commissioner, a licensee whose principal business is the
sale of food or consumer goods, or the providing of recreational activities,
including, but not limited to, nationally franchised fast food outlets, family
oriented restaurants, bowling alleys, drug stores, discount stores, grocery
stores, and convenience stores, may employ persons who are less than 18 years
of age but at least 16 years of age; provided, that the person’s duties may not
include the sale or delivery of nonintoxicating beer or alcoholic liquors;
provided, however, that the authorization to employ persons under the age of 18
years shall be clearly indicated on the licensee’s license.
(W.Va. Code § 11-16-18)
§ 521.08 UNLAWFUL PURCHASE OF NON-INTOXICATING BEER.
   (a)   (1)   No person under the age of 21 years shall purchase, consume,
sell, possess or serve nonintoxicating beer.
      (2)   Nothing in this section, nor any rule or regulation of the Alcohol
Beverage Control Commissioner, shall prevent or be deemed to prohibit any
person who is at least 18 years of age from serving in the lawful employment of
any licensee, which may include the sale or delivery of nonintoxicating beer.
Further, nothing in this section, nor any rule or regulation of the
Commissioner, shall prevent or be deemed to prohibit any person who is less
than 18 but at least 16 years of age from being employed by a licensee whose
principal business is the sale of food or consumer goods or the providing of
recreational activities, including, but not limited to, nationally franchised
fast food outlets, family-oriented restaurants, bowling alleys, drug stores,
discount stores, grocery stores and convenience stores; provided, that such
person shall not sell or deliver nonintoxicating beer.
      (3)   Nothing in this subsection shall prohibit a person who is at least
18 years of age from purchasing or possessing nonintoxicating beer when he or
she is acting upon the request of or under the direction and control of any
member of a state, federal or local law enforcement agency or the West Virginia
Alcohol Beverage Administration while the agency is conducting an investigation
or other activity relating to the enforcement of the alcohol beverage control
statutes and the rules and regulations of the Commissioner.
   (b)   No person under the age of 21 years for the purpose of purchasing
nonintoxicating beer, shall misrepresent his or her age, or for such purpose
present or offer any written evidence of age which is false, fraudulent or not
actually his or her own, or shall illegally attempt to purchase nonintoxicating
beer.
   (c)   No person shall knowingly buy for, give to or furnish nonintoxicating
beer to anyone under the age of 21 years to whom they are not related by blood
or marriage.
(W.Va. Code § 11-16-19)
§ 521.09 ACTS PROHIBITED BY PRIVATE CLUB LICENSEE.
   (a)   No person licensed under W.Va. Code Article 60-7, or his or her agent,
employee or member thereof, on such licensee’s premises shall:
      (1)   Sell, offer for sale, tender, or serve any alcoholic liquors other
than by the drink poured from the original package or container, except as
authorized in §
521.04;
      (2)   Authorize or permit any disturbance of the peace, obscene, lewd,
immoral or improper entertainment, conduct or practice, gambling or any slot
machine, multiple coin console machine, multiple coin console slot machine, or
device in the nature of a slot machine; however, various games, gaming and
wagering conducted by duly licensed persons of the West Virginia State Lottery
Commission, charitable bingo games conducted by duly licensed charitable or
public service organization (or its auxiliaries), pursuant to W.Va. Code §§ 47-
20-1 et seq., and charitable raffle games conducted by a duly licensed
charitable or public service organization (or its auxiliaries), pursuant to
W.Va. Code §§ 47-21-1 et seq., all of which are permissible on a licensee’s
licensed premises when operated in accordance with this code, rules and
regulations; provided, that a private resort hotel holding a license issued
pursuant to W.Va. Code §§ 60-7-1 et seq., may sell, tender or dispense
nonintoxicating beer, wine, or alcoholic liquors in or on the premises licensed
under W.Va. Code §§ 29-22A-1 et seq., and 29-22C-1 et seq., or W.Va. Code §§
29-25-1 et seq., during hours of operation authorized by W.Va. Code §§ 29-22A-
1 et seq., and 29-22C-1 et seq., or 29-25-1 et seq.;
      (3)   Sell, give away or permit the sale of, gift to or the procurement
of any nonintoxicating beer, wine or alcoholic liquors for or to, or permit the
consumption of nonintoxicating beer, wine or alcoholic liquors on the
licensee’s premises, by any person less than 21 years of age;
      (4)   Sell, give away, or permit the sale of, gift to or the procurement
of any nonintoxicating beer, wine or alcoholic liquors, for or to any person
known to be deemed legally incompetent, or for or to any person who is
physically incapacitated due to consumption of nonintoxicating beer, wine or
alcoholic liquor or the use of drugs;
      (5)   Sell, give or dispense nonintoxicating beer, wine or alcoholic
liquors in or on any licensed premises, or in any rooms directly connected
therewith between the hours of 3:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. on weekdays or
Saturdays, between the hours of 3:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m. on any Sunday or,
between the hours of 3:00 a.m. and 1:00 p.m. in any county upon approval as
provided for in W.Va. Code § 7-1-3ss, on any Sunday;
      (6)   Permit the consumption by, or serve to, on the licensed premises
any nonintoxicating beer, wine or alcoholic liquors, covered by this article,
to any person who is less than 21 years of age;
      (7)   With the intent to defraud, alter, change or misrepresent the
quality, quantity or brand name of any alcoholic liquor;
      (8)   Sell or offer for sale any alcoholic liquor to any person who is
not a duly elected or approved dues paying member in good standing of the
private club or a guest of such member;
      (9)   Sell, offer for sale, give away, facilitate the use of or allow the
use of carbon dioxide, cyclopropane, ethylene, helium or nitrous oxide for
purposes of human consumption except as authorized by the Commissioner;
      (10)   A.   Employ any person who is less than 18 years of age in a
position where the primary responsibility for such employment is to sell,
furnish, tender, serve, or give nonintoxicating beer, wine or alcoholic liquors
to any person; or
         B.   Employ any person who is between the ages of 18 and 21 who is not
directly supervised by a person aged 21 or over in a position where the primary
responsibility for such employment is to sell, furnish, tender, serve, or give
nonintoxicating beer, wine or alcoholic liquors to any person.
      (11)   Violate any reasonable rule or regulation of the Alcohol Beverage
Control Commissioner.
   (b)   No licensee shall advertise in any news media or other means, outside
of the licensee’s premises, the fact that alcoholic liquors may be purchased
thereat.
(W.Va. Code § 60-7-12)
§ 521.10 UNLAWFUL PURCHASE FROM PRIVATE CLUB.
   (a)   No person under the age of 21 years shall order, pay for, share the
cost of or attempt to purchase any nonintoxicating beer, wine or alcoholic
liquors from a licensee or consume any nonintoxicating beer, wine or alcoholic
liquors purchased from a private club licensee or possess any nonintoxicating
beer, wine or alcoholic liquors purchased from a licensee; provided, that
nothing in this subsection (a) shall prohibit a person who is at least 18 years
of age from purchasing or possessing nonintoxicating beer, wine or alcoholic
liquors when he or she is acting upon the request of or under the direction and
control of any member of a state, federal or local law enforcement agency or
the West Virginia Alcohol Beverage Administration while the agency is
conducting an investigation or other activity relating to the enforcement of
the alcohol beverage control statutes and the rules and regulations of the
Commissioner.
   (b)   No person under the age of 21 years, for the purpose of purchasing
nonintoxicating beer, wine or alcoholic liquors from a private club licensee,
misrepresent his or her age, or for such purpose present or offer any written
evidence of age which is false, fraudulent or not actually his or her own, or
illegally attempt to purchase nonintoxicating beer, wine or alcoholic liquors
from a licensee.
   (c)   No person shall knowingly buy for, give to or furnish to anyone under
the age of 21 years any nonintoxicating beer, wine or alcoholic liquors
purchased from a licensee.
(W.Va. Code § 60-7-12a)
§ 521.11 ACTS PROHIBITED BY WINE DEALERS.
   It shall be unlawful:
   (a)   For a supplier or distributor to sell or deliver wine purchased or
acquired from any source other than a person registered under the provisions of
W.Va. Code § 60-8-6, or for a retailer to sell or deliver wine purchased or
acquired from any source other than a licensed distributor or a farm winery as
defined in W.Va. Code § 60-1-5a;
   (b)   Unless otherwise specifically provided for by the provisions of W.Va.
Code Article 60-8, for a licensee under W.Va. Code Article 60-8 to acquire,
transport, possess for sale, or sell wine other than in the original package;
   (c)   For a licensee, his or her servants, agents or employees to sell,
furnish or give wine to any person less than 21 years of age or to a mental
incompetent or person who is physically incapacitated due to the consumption of
alcoholic liquor or the use of drugs; provided that the provisions of W.Va.
Code § 60-3A-25a shall apply to sales of wine;
   (d)   For a licensee to permit a person who is less than 18 years of age to
sell, furnish or give wine to any person;
   (e)   For a supplier or distributor to sell or deliver any brand of wine
purchased or acquired from any source other than the primary source of supply
of the wine which granted the distributor the right to sell such brand at
wholesale. For the purposes of this article, “primary source of supply” means
the vintner of the wine, the importer of a foreign wine who imports the wine
into the United States, the owner of a wine at the time it becomes a marketable
product, the bottler of a wine, or an agent specifically authorized by any of
the above enumerated persons to make a sale of the wine to a West Virginia
distributor; provided, that no retailer shall sell or deliver wine purchased or
acquired from any source other than a distributor or farm winery licensed as
such in this state; provided, however, that nothing herein is considered to
prohibit sales of convenience between distributors licensed in this state
wherein one such distributor sells, transfers or delivers to another such
distributor a particular brand or brands for sale at wholesale of which brand
or brands such other distributor has been authorized by a licensed supplier to
distribute. The Alcohol Beverage Commissioner shall promulgate rules necessary
to carry out the provision of this subsection (e);
   (f)   For a person to violate any reasonable rule promulgated by the Alcohol
Beverage Control Commissioner under W.Va. Code Article 60-8; and
   (g)   Nothing in this article, nor any rule or regulation of the
Commissioner, shall prevent or be considered to prohibit any licensee from
employing any person who is at least 18 years of age to serve in any licensee’s
lawful employment, including the sale or delivery of wine under the provisions
of this article. With the prior approval of the Commissioner a licensee whose
principal business is the sale of food or consumer goods or the providing of
recreational activities, including, but not limited to, nationally franchised
fast food outlets, family oriented restaurants, bowling alleys, drug stores,
discount stores, grocery stores, and convenience stores, may employ persons who
are less than 18 years of age but at least 16 years of age; provided, that such
person’s duties may not include the sale or delivery of nonintoxicating beer or
alcoholic liquors; provided, however, that the authorization to employ such
persons, under the age of 18 years shall be clearly indicated on the licensee’s
license.
(W.Va. Code § 60-8-20)
§ 521.12 UNLAWFUL PURCHASE OF WINE.
   (a)   (1)   No person under the age of 21 years shall purchase, consume,
sell, possess or serve wine or other alcoholic liquor.
      (2)   Nothing in this section, nor any rule or regulation of the Alcohol
Beverage Control Commissioner, shall prevent or be deemed to prohibit any
person who is at least 18 years of age from serving in the lawful employment of
any licensee, which may include the sale or delivery of wine. Further, nothing
in this section, nor any rule or regulation of the Commissioner, shall prevent
or be deemed to prohibit any person who is less than 18 but at least 16 years
of age from being employed by a licensee whose principal business is the sale
of food or consumer goods or the providing of recreational activities,
including, but not limited to, nationally franchised fast food outlets, family-
oriented restaurants, bowling alleys, drug stores, discount stores, grocery
stores and convenience stores; provided, that such person shall not sell or
deliver wine or alcoholic liquor.
      (3)   Nothing in this subsection (a) shall prohibit a person who is at
least 18 years of age from purchasing or possessing wine or alcoholic liquor
when he or she is acting upon the request of or under the direction and control
of any member of a state, federal or local law enforcement agency or the West
Virginia Alcohol Beverage Administration while the agency is conducting an
investigation or other activity relating to the enforcement of the alcohol
beverage control statutes and the rules and regulations of the Commissioner.
   (b)   No person under the age of 21 years, for the purpose of purchasing
wine or other alcoholic liquors from a licensee, shall misrepresent his or her
age, or for such purpose present or offer any written evidence of age which is
false, fraudulent or not actually his or her own, or illegally attempt to
purchase wine or other alcoholic liquors.
   (c)   No person shall knowingly buy for, give to or furnish wine or other
alcoholic liquors from any source to anyone under the age of 21 years to whom
they are not related by blood or marriage.
(W.Va. Code § 60-8-20a)
§ 521.13 UNLAWFUL PURCHASE FROM RETAIL LIQUOR LICENSEE.
   (a)   (1)   No person who is under the age of 21 years shall purchase,
consume, sell, serve or possess alcoholic liquor.
      (2)   Nothing is this section, nor any rule or regulation of the Alcohol
Beverage Control Commissioner, shall prevent or be deemed to prohibit any
person who is at least 18 years of age from serving in the lawful employment of
a licensee which includes the sale and serving of alcoholic liquor.
      (3)   Nothing in this subsection shall prohibit a person who is at least
18 years of age from purchasing or possessing alcoholic liquor when he or she
is acting upon the request of or under the direction and control of any member
of a state, federal or local law enforcement agency or the West Virginia
Alcohol Beverage Administration while the agency is conducting an investigation
or other activity relating to the enforcement of the alcohol beverage control
statutes and the rules and regulations of the Commissioner.
   (b)   No person under the age of 21 years shall, for the purpose of
purchasing liquor from a retail licensee, misrepresent his or her age, or for
such purpose present or offer any written evidence of age which is false,
fraudulent or not actually his or her own, or illegally attempt to purchase
liquor from a retail licensee.
   (c)   No person shall knowingly buy for, give to or furnish to anyone under
the age of 21 to whom he or she is not related by blood or marriage any liquor
from whatever source.
   (d)   No person while on the premises of a retail outlet shall consume
liquor or break the seal on any package or bottle of liquor.
(W.Va. Code § 60-3A-24)
§ 521.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   Whoever violates §§
521.05(a), 521.12(b) or 521.13(b) shall be fined not more than $50, or, in lieu
of such fine, may, for the first offense, be placed on probation for not more
than one year.
   (b)   Whoever violates §§
521.05(b), 521.12(c) or 521.13(d) shall be fined not more than $100.
(W.Va. Code §§ 60-3-22a, 60-8-20a, 60-3A-24)
   (c)   Whoever violates §
521.06(a)(1) shall be sentenced by a judicial officer in accordance with the
following options:
      (1)   Upon first offense, a fine of not less than $5 nor more than $100.
If the individual, prior to conviction, agrees to voluntarily attend an alcohol
education program of not more than six hours duration at the nearest community
mental health - mental retardation center, the judicial officer may delay
sentencing until the program is completed and upon completion may dismiss the
charges;
      (2)   Upon conviction for a second offense, a fine of not less than $5
nor more than $100 or completion of not less than five hours of alcoholism
counseling at the nearest community mental health - mental retardation center;
      (3)   Upon third and subsequent convictions, a fine of not less than $5
nor more than $100 or a fine of not less than $5 nor more than $100 and
completion of not less than five hours of alcoholism counseling at the nearest
community mental health - mental retardation center; provided, that three
convictions for public intoxication within the preceding six months is
considered evidence of alcoholism. For the educational counseling programs
described in this subsection (c) the community mental health - mental
retardation center may charge each participant its usual and customary fee and
shall certify in writing to the referring judicial officer the completion or
failure to complete the prescribed program for each individual; and
      (4)   A person charged with a violation of §
521.06(a)(1) who is an alcoholic shall be found not guilty by reason of
addiction and proper disposition made pursuant to W.Va. Code Articles 27-5 and
Article 27-6A.
   (d)   Whoever violates §
521.06(a)(2) shall be fined not less than $5 nor more than $100; and upon a
second or subsequent conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than $5 nor
more than $100 or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both.
   (e)   Whoever violates §
521.06(a)(3) shall be fined not less than $5 nor more than $100.
   (f)   Whoever violates §
521.06(a)(4) or (a)(5) shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500.
Upon conviction of a second or subsequent offense, he or she is guilty of a
felony and, shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(W.Va. Code § 60-6-9)
   (g)   (1)   Whoever violates §
521.08(a) shall be fined an amount not to exceed $500, or, in lieu of such
fine, may, for the first offense, be placed on probation for a period not to
exceed one year.
      (2)   Whoever violates §
521.08(b) shall be fined an amount not to exceed $50, or, in lieu of such fine,
may, for the first offense, be placed on probation for a period not exceeding
one year.
      (3)   Whoever violates §
521.08(c) shall be fined an amount not to exceed $100.
(W. Va. Code § 11-16-19)
   (h)   Whoever violates §
521.09 shall be fined not less than $500 or more than $1,000.
(W.Va. Code § 60-7-12)
   (i)   Whoever violates §
521.10(a) or (b) shall be fined not more than $500, and in addition may, for
the first offense be placed on probation for a period not to exceed one year.
   (j)   Whoever violates §
521.10(c) shall be fined not more than $500.
(W.Va. Code § 60-7-12a)
   (k)   Whoever violates §§
521.12(a) or 521.13(a) shall be fined not more than $500, or, in lieu thereof,
may, for the first offense, be placed on probation for a period not to exceed
one year.
(W.Va. Code §§ 60-8-20a, 60-3A-24)
   (l)   Whoever violates §
521.13(c) shall be fined not more than $250.
(W.Va. Code § 60-3A-24)
Editor’s note:
   See §
501.99 for general Code penalty if no specific penalty is provided.
ARTICLE 525: MINORS
Section
   
525.01   Contributing to delinquency or neglect of minor
   
525.02   Cruelty to children
   
525.03   Parental liability for acts of children
   
525.04   Abandoned airtight containers
   
525.05   Curfew
   
525.06   Truancy
   
525.07   Tobacco usage restrictions
 
   
525.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Delinquent child defined, see W.Va. Code § 49-1-202
§ 525.01 CONTRIBUTING TO DELINQUENCY OR NEGLECT OF MINOR.
   (a)   No person 18 years of age or older shall knowingly contribute to or
encourage the delinquency of a child.
   (b)   As used in this section, “delinquency” means the violation or
attempted violation of any federal or state statute, county or municipal
ordinance, or a court order, or the habitual or continual refusal to comply,
without just cause, with the lawful supervision or direction of a parent,
guardian or custodian.
   (c)   In addition to any penalty provided under §
501.99 and any restitution which may be ordered by the court pursuant to W.Va.
Code § 61-11A-5, the court may order any person convicted of a violation of
subsection (a) above to pay all or any portion of the cost of medical,
psychological or psychiatric treatment provided the child resulting from the
acts for which the person is convicted.
   (d)   This section does not apply to any parent, guardian or custodian who
fails or refuses, or allows another person to fail or refuse, to supply a child
under the care, custody or control of the parent, guardian or custodian with
necessary medical care, when medical care conflicts with the tenets and
practices of a recognized religious denomination or order of which parent,
guardian or custodian is an adherent or member.
   (e)   It is not an essential element of the offense created by this section
that the minor actually be delinquent.
   (f)   Upon conviction, the court may suspend the sentence of a person found
guilty under this section. A suspended sentence may be subjected to the
following terms and conditions:
      (1)   That offender pay for any and all treatment, support, and
maintenance while the child is in the custody of the state or person that the
court determines reasonable and necessary for the welfare of the child;
      (2)   That the offender post a sufficient bond to secure the payment for
all sums ordered to be paid under this section, as long as the bond does not
exceed $5,000; and
      (3)   That the offender participate in any program or training that will
assist the child in correcting the delinquent behavior or, in the case of
neglect, that will assist the offender in correcting his or her behavior that
led to violation of this section.
   (g)   (1)   The penalty of a bond given upon suspension of a sentence which
becomes forfeited is recoverable without a separate suit. The court may cause a
citation or a summons to issue to the principal and surety, requiring that they
appear at a time named by the court, not less than ten days, from the issuance
of the summons, and show cause why a judgment should not be entered for the
penalty of the bond and execution issued against the property of the principal
and the surety.
      (2)   Any money collected or paid upon an execution, or upon the bond,
shall be deposited with the clerk of the court in which the bond was given. The
money shall be applied first to the payment of all court costs and then to the
treatment, care or maintenance of the child who was at issue when the offender
was convicted of this section.
   (h)   If the guilty person had custody of the child prior to conviction, the
court or judge may, on suspending sentence, permit the child to remain in the
custody of the person, and make it a condition of suspending sentence that the
person provides whatever treatment and care may be required for the welfare of
the child, and shall do whatever may be calculated to secure obedience to the
law or to remove the cause of the delinquency.
(W.Va. Code § 61-8D-10)
§ 525.02 CRUELTY TO CHILDREN.
   (a)   No person shall cruelly ill treat, abuse or inflict unnecessary cruel
punishment upon, any infant or minor child, and no person, having the care,
custody or control of any minor child, shall willfully abandon or neglect the
minor child.
   (b)   In addition to any penalty provided under this section and any
restitution which may be ordered by the court, the court may order any person
convicted under the provisions of this section to pay all or any portion of the
cost of medical, psychological or psychiatric treatment of the victim, the need
for which results from the act or acts for which the person is convicted,
whether or not the victim is considered to have sustained bodily injury.
§ 525.03 PARENTAL LIABILITY FOR ACTS OF CHILDREN.
   (a)   The custodial parent or parents of any minor child shall be personally
liable in an amount not to exceed that specified in W.Va. Code § 55-7A-2 for
damages which are the proximate result of any one or a combination of the
following acts of the minor child:
      (1)   The malicious and willful injury to the person of another;
      (2)   The malicious and willful injury or damage to the property of
another, whether the property be real, personal, or mixed;
      (3)   The malicious and willful setting fire to a forest or wooded area
belonging to another; or
      (4)   The willful taking, stealing and carrying away of the property of
another, with the intent to permanently deprive the owner of possession.
   (b)   For purposes of this section, “custodial parent or parents” means the
parent or parents with whom the minor child is living, or a divorced or
separated parent who does not have legal custody but who is exercising
supervisory control over the minor child at the time of the minor child’s act.
   (c)   Persons entitled to recover damages under this section shall include,
but are not limited to, the state, any municipal corporation, county commission
and board of education, or other political subdivision of this state or any
person or organization of any kind or character. The action may be brought in
magistrate or another court of competent jurisdiction. Recovery hereunder shall
be limited to the actual damages, based upon direct out-of-pocket loss, taxable
court costs, and interest from date of judgment. The right of action and remedy
granted herein shall be in addition to and not exclusive of any rights of
action and remedies therefor against a parent or parents for the tortious acts
of his, her or their children heretofore existing under the provisions of any
law, statutory or otherwise, or now so existing independently of the provisions
of this section.
(W.Va. Code § 55-7A-2)
§ 525.04 ABANDONED AIRTIGHT CONTAINERS.
   No person shall abandon any refrigerator or food freezer appliance or other
airtight appliance having a height or length of greater then two feet without
first removing all entry doors therefrom.
(W.Va. Code § 61-2-26)
§ 525.05 CURFEW.
   (a)   No minor under the age of 17 years shall loiter, idle, wander or play
in or upon the streets, highways, alleys, parks, playgrounds or other public
grounds, public places and public buildings, vacant lots or other unsupervised
places between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of the following day;
provided, that the provisions of this section shall not apply to a minor
accompanied by his or her parent, guardian or other adult person having the
care and custody of the minor or where the minor is upon an emergency errand or
legitimate business directed by his or her parent, or while the minor is
legally employed and is going to and from the place of such employment or is
engaged in the duties thereof, unless exempted under division (d) of this
section.
   (b)   Any minor violating the provisions of subsection (a) above shall be
deemed a delinquent child under the provisions of the state law and shall be
dealt with as such under the provisions of the state law, unless exempted under
division (d) of this section.
   (c)   No parent, guardian or other adult person having the care and custody
of a minor under the age of 18 years shall knowingly permit such minor to
loiter, idle, wander, stroll or play in or upon the public streets, highways,
roads, alleys, parks, playgrounds or other public grounds, public places and
public buildings, places of amusement and entertainment, vacant lots or other
unsupervised places between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of the
following day; provided, that the provisions of this section shall not apply
when the minor is accompanied by his or her parent, guardian or other adult
person having the care and custody of the minor, or where the minor is upon an
emergency errand or legitimate business directed by his or her parent, guardian
or other adult person having the care and custody of the minor, or where the
minor is lawfully employed and is going to or from the place of such employment
or is engaged in the duties thereof, unless exempted under division (d) of this
section.
   (d)   It is an exemption to a violation under this section that the person
engaged in the prohibited conduct while:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next- door neighbor, if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department about the minor’s presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      (9)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with state law.
§ 525.06 TRUANCY.
   (a)   No person under the age of 18 years shall be upon or about public
streets, public places of amusement and entertainment within the city during
the hours when said person is required to be in attendance at either a public
or private school as required by state law.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for a person to encourage or assist a student not
to attend or return to school unless said absence is excused under one of the
exceptions found in the ordinance or such excuse is recognized by law.
   (c)   Parent(s) or legal guardian of school children who violate this
section will be given a warning on the first violation, a $50 fine on the
second violation and a $100 fine on each subsequent violation.
   (d)   Students who violate this mandatory school attendance will be
identified and the proper school officials and the parent or legal guardian of
the student shall be notified and summoned to court for a hearing on the
matter.
   (e)   This section is in no way intended to replace the State of West
Virginia “School Attendance Law” found in W.Va. Code §§ 18-8-1 and 18-8-10.
   (f)   This section is in no way intended to replace any truancy supervision
by the school districts, private schools or any other school recognized by law.
(Ord. 96-08, passed 10-23-1996)
§ 525.07 TOBACCO USAGE RESTRICTIONS.
   (a)   Sale or gift of tobacco to persons under 18. No person, firm,
corporation or business entity may sell, give or furnish, or cause to be sold,
given or furnished, to any person under the age of 18 years:
      (1)   Any pipe, cigarette paper or any other paper prepared, manufactured
or made for the purpose of smoking any tobacco or tobacco product;
      (2)   Any cigar, cigarette, snuff, chewing tobacco or tobacco product, in
any form; or
      (3)   Any tobacco-derived product, alternative nicotine product or vapor
product.
   (b)   Penalty. Any firm or corporation that violates any provision of
subsection (a) above and any individual who violates any provision of
subsection (a) above shall be fined $50 for the first offense. Upon any
subsequent violation at the same location or operating unit, the firm,
corporation or individual shall be fined as follows: at least $250 but not more
than $500 for the second offense, if it occurs within two years of the first
conviction; at least $500 but not more than $750 for the third offense, if it
occurs within two years of the first conviction; and at least $1,000 but not
more than $5,000 for any subsequent offense, if the subsequent offense occurs
within five years of the first conviction.
   (c)   Fine. Any individual who knowingly and intentionally sells, gives or
furnishes or causes to be sold, given or furnished to any person under the age
of 18 years any cigar, cigarette, snuff, chewing tobacco, tobacco product or
tobacco-derived product, in any form, for the first offense shall be fined not
more than $100; upon conviction thereof for a second or subsequent offense
shall be fined not less than $100 and not more than $500.
   (d)   Employer-employee action. Any employer who discovers that his or her
employee has sold or furnished tobacco products or tobacco-derived products to
minors may dismiss such employee for cause. Any such discharge shall be
considered as “gross misconduct” for the purposes of determining the discharged
employee’s eligibility for unemployment benefits in accordance with the
provisions of W.Va. Code § 21A-6-3 if the employer has provided the employee
with prior written notice in the workplace that such act or acts may result in
their termination from employment.
(W.Va. Code § 16-9A-2)
   (e)   Use or possession of tobacco or tobacco-derived products by persons
under the age of 18 years. No person under the age of 18 years shall have on or
about his or her person or premises or use any cigarette, or cigarette paper or
any other paper prepared, manufactured or made for the purpose of smoking any
tobacco products, in any form; or, any pipe, snuff, chewing tobacco, tobacco
product or tobacco-derived product; provided, that minors participating in the
inspection of locations where tobacco products or tobacco-derived products are
sold or distributed pursuant to W.Va. Code § 16-9A-7 shall not be deemed to
violate the provisions of this subsection (e). Any person violating the
provisions of this subsection (e) shall for the first violation be fined $50
and be required to serve eight hours of community service; for a second
violation, the person shall be fined $100 and be required to serve 16 hours of
community service; and for a third and each subsequent violation, the person
shall be fined $200 and be required to serve 24 hours of community service.
Notwithstanding the provisions of W.Va. Code § 49-4-701, the Magistrate Court
has concurrent jurisdiction.
(W.Va. Code § 16-9A-3)
§ 525.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   General penalty: whoever violates any provision of this article for
which no other penalty is provided shall upon conviction be fined not more than
$500. Each day such violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
   (b)   Whoever violates §
525.04, upon conviction shall be fined not more than $200.
(Ord. passed 8-8-2017)
ARTICLE 529: OFFENSES RELATING TO PERSONS
Section
   
529.01   Assault and battery
   
529.02   Assault and battery on school employees
   
529.03   Controlled substances
   
529.04   Breathing, inhaling or drinking certain intoxicating compounds
   
529.98   Conditional discharge for first offense
 
   
529.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Harassing telephone calls, see §
517.06
   Intoxication or drinking in public places, see §
521.06
Statutory reference:
   State law provisions, see W.Va. Code Art. 61-2
   Uniform Controlled Substances Act, see W.Va. Code Ch. 60A
§ 529.01 ASSAULT AND BATTERY.
   (a)   Assault. No person shall unlawfully attempt to commit a violent injury
to the person of another or unlawfully commit an act which places another in
reasonable apprehension of immediately receiving a violent injury.
   (b)   Battery. No person shall unlawfully and intentionally make physical
contact of an insulting or provoking nature with the person of another or
unlawfully and intentionally cause physical harm to another person.
(Ord. passed 10-16-2018)
§ 529.02 ASSAULT AND BATTERY ON SCHOOL EMPLOYEES.
   (a)   No person shall commit an assault:
      (1)   By unlawfully attempting to commit a violent injury to the person
of a school employee while he or she is engaged in the performance of his or
her duties, is commuting to or from his or her place of employment or if the
motive for the assault is retaliation for some action taken by the employee to
supervise or discipline one or more pupils pursuant to W.Va. Code §§ 18A-5-1 or
18A-5-1a; or
      (2)   By unlawfully committing an act which places a school employee in
reasonable apprehension of immediately receiving a violent injury while the
employee is engaged in the performance of his or her duties, is commuting to or
from his or her place of employment or if the motive for the assault is
retaliation for some action taken by the employee to supervise or discipline
one or more pupils pursuant to W.Va. Code §§ 18A-5-1 or 18A-5-1a.
   (b)   No person shall commit a battery:
      (1)   By unlawfully and intentionally making physical contact of an
insulting or provoking nature with the person of a school employee while he or
she is engaged in the performance of his or her duties, is commuting to or from
his or her place of employment or if the motive for the battery is retaliation
for some action taken by the employee to supervise or discipline one or more
pupils pursuant to W.Va. Code §§ 18A-5-1 or 18A-5-1a; or
      (2)   By unlawfully and intentionally causing physical harm to a school
employee while he or she is engaged in the performance of his or her duties, is
commuting to or from his or her place of employment or if the motive for the
battery is retaliation for some action taken by the employee to supervise or
discipline one or more pupils pursuant to W.Va. Code §§ 18A-5-1 or 18A-5-1a.
   (c)   For the purposes of this section, “school employee” means a person
employed by the Board of Education whether employed on a regular full-time
basis, an hourly basis or otherwise, if at the time of the commission of any
offense provided for in this section, such person is engaged in the performance
of his or her duties or is commuting to or from his or her place of employment.
For the purposes of this section, a “school employee” shall be deemed to
include a student teacher.
(Ord. passed 10-16-2018)
§ 529.03 CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES.
   (a)   Except as authorized by W.Va. Code Chapter 60A, no person shall
manufacture, deliver or possess with intent to deliver, a controlled substance
classified in Schedule V under W.Va. Code §§ 60A-2-211 or 60A-2-212.
   (b)   (1)   No person shall knowingly or intentionally possess a controlled
substance as defined in W.Va. Code § 60A-1-101 unless the substance was
obtained directly from, or pursuant to, a valid prescription or order of a
practitioner while acting in the course of his or her professional practice, or
except as otherwise authorized by W.Va. Code Chapter 60A.
      (2)   Any person who violates this subsection (b) is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, disposition may be made under §
529.98, subject to the limitations specified in said section; provided, that
any first offense for possession of synthetic cannabinoids,
methylenedioxypyrovalerone (MPVD), methylenedioxypyrovalerone and/or mephedrone
as defined in W.Va. Code Chapter 60A; or less than 15 grams of marijuana, shall
be disposed of under §
529.98.
   (c)   Except as authorized by W.Va. Code Chapter 60A, no person shall
create, deliver or possess with intent to deliver, a counterfeit substance as
defined by W.Va. Code § 60A-1-101(f).
   (d)   It is unlawful for any person knowingly or intentionally:
      (1)   To create, distribute or deliver, or possess with intent to
distribute or deliver, an imitation controlled substance as defined by W.Va.
Code § 60A-1-101(g); or
      (2)   To create, possess or sell or otherwise transfer any equipment with
the intent that such equipment shall be used to apply a trademark, trade name
or other identifying mark, imprint, number or device, or any likeness thereof,
upon a counterfeit substance, an imitation controlled substance, or the
container or label of a counterfeit substance or an imitation controlled
substance.
      (3)   A practitioner, as defined in W.Va. Code § 60A-1-101(y), who
administers or dispenses a placebo shall be exempt from prosecution under
subsection (d)(1) above.
   (e)   Whoever violates this section, upon conviction, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor for a first offense.
(Ord. passed 10-16-2018)
§ 529.04 BREATHING, INHALING OR DRINKING CERTAIN INTOXICATING COMPOUNDS.
   (a)   No person shall intentionally breathe, inhale, or drink any compound,
liquid or chemical containing acetone, amylacetate, benzol or benzene, butyl
acetate, butyl alcohol, carbon tetrachloride, chloroform, cyclohexanone,
ethanol or ethyl alcohol, ethyl acetate, hexane, isopropanol or isopropyl
alcohol, isopropyl acetate, methyl “cellosolve” acetate, methyl ethyl ketone,
methyl isobutyl ketone, toluol or toluene, trichloroethylene, tricresyl
phosphate, xylol or xylene, or any other solvent, material substance, chemical
or combination thereof, having the property or releasing toxic vapors for the
purpose of inducing a condition of intoxication, stupefaction, depression,
giddiness, paralysis or irrational behavior or in any manner changing,
distorting or disturbing the auditory, visual or mental processes. For the
purposes of this section, any condition so induced shall be deemed to be an
intoxicated condition.
   (b)   This section does not apply to:
      (1)   Any person who commits any act described herein pursuant to the
direction or prescription of a licensed physician or dentist authorized to so
direct or prescribe, including the inhalation of anesthesia for medical or
dental purposes; or
      (2)   To any alcoholic liquor or nonintoxicating beer as defined in W.Va.
Code § 60-1-5.
(Ord. passed 10-16-2018)
§ 529.98 CONDITIONAL DISCHARGE FOR FIRST OFFENSE.
   (a)   Whenever any person who has not previously been convicted of any
offense under this Article 529 of the codified ordinances of the city, or under
any statute of the United States or of any state relating to narcotic drugs,
marihuana or stimulant, depressant or hallucinogenic drugs, pleads guilty to or
is found guilty of possession of a controlled substance under §
529.03(b), the court, without entering a judgment of guilt and with the consent
of the accused, may defer further proceedings and place him or her on probation
upon terms and conditions. Upon violation of a term or condition, the court may
enter an adjudication of guilt and proceed as otherwise provided. Upon
fulfillment of the terms and conditions, the court shall discharge the person
and dismiss the proceedings against him or her. Discharge and dismissal under
this section shall be without adjudication of guilt and is not a conviction for
purposes of this section or for purposes of disqualifications or disabilities
imposed by law upon conviction of a crime. The effect of the dismissal and
discharge shall be to restore the person in contemplation of law to the status
he or she occupied prior to arrest and trial. No person as to whom a dismissal
and discharge have been effected shall be thereafter held to be guilty of
perjury, false swearing, or otherwise giving a false statement by reason of his
or her failure to disclose or acknowledge his or her arrest or trial in
response to any inquiry made of him or her for any purpose. There may be only
one discharge and dismissal under this section with respect to any person.
   (b)   After a period of not less than six months which shall begin to run
immediately upon the expiration of a term of probation imposed upon any person
under this chapter, the person may apply to the court for an order to expunge
from all official records all recordations of his or her arrest, trial, and
conviction, pursuant to this section. If the court determines after a hearing
that the person during the period of his or her probation and during the period
of time prior to his or her application to the court under this section has not
been guilty of any serious or repeated violation of the conditions of his or
her probation, it shall order the expungement.
   (c)   Notwithstanding any provision of this code to the contrary, any person
prosecuted pursuant to the provisions of this Article 529 whose case is
disposed of pursuant to the provisions of this section shall be liable for any
court costs assessable against a person convicted of a violation of §
529.03(b). Payment of such costs may be made a condition of probation.
   (d)   The costs assessed pursuant to this section, whether as a term of
probation or not, shall be distributed as other court costs in accordance with
the codified ordinances of the city and the laws of the state.
(Ord. passed 10-16-2018)
§ 529.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   General penalty: whoever violates any provision of this article for
which no other penalty is provided shall upon conviction be fined not more than
$500. Each day such violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
   (b)   Whoever violates §§
529.01(a) or 529.02(a), upon conviction, shall be fined not more than $100.
(Ord. passed 8-8-2017)
ARTICLE 533: OFFENSES RELATING TO PROPERTY
Section
   
533.01   Shoplifting
   
533.02   Trespass
   
533.03   Petit larceny
   
533.04   Dealing with stolen goods
   
533.05   Injury or destruction of property or monuments
   
533.06   Tampering with and theft of utilities; CATV
   
533.07   Littering and deposit of garbage, rubbish, junk and the like
   
533.08   Barricades and warning lights; abandoned excavations
   
533.09   Damaging shrubbery; flowers; trees and timber
   
533.10   Unauthorized use of dumpsters
   
533.11   Fraudulently obtaining food or lodging
 
   
533.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate advertising, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-5(31)
   State law provisions, see W.Va. Code Art. 61-3
§ 533.01 SHOPLIFTING.
   (a)   General definitions.
      (1)   “Card-not-present credit or debit transaction” means a credit or
debit sale of merchandise by telephone, mail order, internet or other means
that does not require the cardholder’s signature or physical presentation of
the credit or debit card to the merchant.
      (2)   “Conceal” means to hide, hold or carry merchandise so that,
although there may be some notice of its presence, it is not visible through
ordinary observation.
      (3)   “Merchant” means an owner or operator of any mercantile
establishment, and includes the merchant’s employees, servants, security agents
or other agents.
      (4)   “Mercantile establishment” means any place where merchandise is
displayed, held or offered for sale, either at retail or wholesale. “Mercantile
establishment” does not include adjoining parking lots or adjoining areas of
common use with other establishments.
      (5)   “Merchandise” means any goods, foodstuffs, wares or personal
property or any part or portion thereof of any type or description displayed,
held or offered for sale, or a shopping cart.
      (6)   “Value of the merchandise” means the merchant’s stated price of the
merchandise, or in the event of altering, transferring or removing a price
marking or causing a cash register or other sales device to reflect less than
the retail value of the merchandise, as defined in subsection (b) below, the
difference between the merchant’s stated price of the merchandise and the
altered price.
(W.Va. Code § 61-3A-6)
   (b)   Shoplifting defined.
      (1)   A person commits the offense of shoplifting if, with intent to
appropriate merchandise without paying the merchant’s stated price for the
merchandise, such person, alone or in concert with another person, knowingly:
         A.   Conceals the merchandise upon his or her person or in another
manner;
         B.   Removes or causes the removal of merchandise from the mercantile
establishment or beyond the last station for payment;
         C.   Alters, transfers or removes any price marking affixed to the
merchandise;
         D.   Transfers the merchandise from one container to another;
         E.   Causes cash register or other sales recording device to reflect
less than the merchant’s stated price for the merchandise;
         F.   Removes a shopping cart from the premises of the mercantile
establishment; or
         G.   Repudiates a card-not-present credit or debit transaction after
having taken delivery of merchandise ordered from the merchant and does not
return the merchandise or attempt to make other arrangements with the vendor.
      (2)   A person also commits the offense of shoplifting if such person,
alone or in concert with another person, knowingly and with intent obtains an
exchange or refund or attempts to obtain an exchange or refund for merchandise
which has not been purchased from the mercantile establishment.
(W.Va. Code § 61-3A-1)
   (c)   Breach of peace; detention. An act of shoplifting as defined herein,
is hereby declared to constitute a breach of peace and any owner of
merchandise, his or her agent or employee, or any law enforcement officer who
has reasonable ground to believe that a person has committed shoplifting, may
detain such person in a reasonable manner and for a reasonable length of time
not to exceed 30 minutes, for the purpose of investigating whether or not such
person has committed or attempted to commit shoplifting. Such reasonable
detention shall not constitute an arrest nor shall it render the owner of
merchandise, his or her agent or employee, liable to the person detained.
(W.Va. Code § 61-3A-4)
   (d)   Evidence.
      (1)   Evidence of stated price or ownership of merchandise may include,
but is not limited to:
         A.   The actual merchandise alleged to have been shoplifted;
         B.   The unaltered content of the price tag or marking from such
merchandise; or
         C.   Properly identified photographs of such merchandise.
      (2)   Any merchant may testify at a trial as to the stated price or
ownership of merchandise, as well as to other matters pertaining to the case.
(W.Va. Code § 61-3A-2)
   (e)   Civil liability.
      (1)   General rule. Any person who commits any of the acts described in
this section shall be civilly liable:
         A.   To restore the merchandise to the mercantile establishment;
         B.   If such merchandise is not recoverable or is damaged, for actual
damages, including the value of the merchandise involved in the shoplifting;
         C.   For other actual damages arising from the incident, not including
the loss of time or loss of wages incurred by the mercantile establishment or
any merchant in connection with the apprehension and processing of the suspect;
and
         D.   In all cases, for a penalty to be paid to the mercantile
establishment in the amount of $50 or double the value of the merchandise
whichever is higher.
      (2)   Costs and attorneys’ fees. A merchant who is a prevailing party
under this section is entitled to costs.
      (3)   Effect of conviction. A conviction for the offense of theft by
shoplifting is not a prerequisite to the maintenance of a civil action
authorized by this section. However, a merchant who has recovered the penalty
prescribed by subsection (f) below is not entitled to recover the penalty
imposed by this section.
      (4)   Right to demand payment. The fact that a mercantile establishment
may bring an action against an individual as provided in this section does not
limit the right of such establishment to demand, orally or in writing, that a
person who is liable for damages or a penalty under this section remit such
damages or penalty prior to the commencement of any legal action.
(W.Va. Code § 61-3A-5)
   (f)   Penalty. A person convicted of shoplifting shall be punished as
follows:
      (1)   First offense conviction. Upon a first shoplifting conviction:
         A.   When the value of the merchandise is less than or equal to $500
the defendant shall be fined not more than $250.
         B.   When the value of the merchandise exceeds $500, the defendant
shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500 and such fine shall not be
suspended.
      (2)   Second offense conviction. Upon a second shoplifting conviction:
         A.   When the value of the merchandise is less than or equal to $500
the defendant shall be fined not less than $100, nor more than $500.
         B.   When the value of the merchandise exceeds $500, the defendant
shall be fined not less than $500.
      (3)   Mandatory penalty. In addition to the fines by this section, in all
cases of conviction for the offense of shoplifting, the court shall order the
defendant to pay a penalty to the mercantile establishment involved in the
amount of $50, or double the value of the merchandise involved, whichever is
higher. The mercantile establishment shall be entitled to collect such
mandatory penalty as in the case of a civil judgment This penalty shall be in
addition to the mercantile establishment’s rights to recover the stolen
merchandise.
      (4)   Prior convictions. In determining the number of prior shoplifting
convictions for purposes of imposing punishment under this section, the court
shall disregard all such convictions occurring more than seven years prior to
the shoplifting offense in question.
(W.Va. Code § 61-3A-3) (Ord. passed 8-8-2017)
§ 533.02 TRESPASS.
   (a)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      (1)   “Structure” means any building of any kind either temporary or
permanent, which has a roof over it, together with the curtilage thereof.
      (2)   “Conveyance” means any motor vehicle, vessel, railroad car,
railroad engine, trailer, aircraft or sleeping car, and “to enter a conveyance”
includes taking apart any portion of the conveyance.
      (3)   An act is committed “in the course of committing” if it occurs in
an attempt to commit the offense or in flight after the attempt or commission.
      (4)   “Posted land” is land that has:
         A.   Signs placed not more than 500 feet apart, along and at each
corner of the boundaries of the land. The signs shall be reasonably maintained,
with letters of not less than two inches in height, and the words “no
trespassing”. The signs shall be placed along the boundary line and at all
roads, driveways and gates of entry onto the posted land so as to be clearly
noticeable from outside of the boundary line; or
         B.   Boundaries marked with a clearly visible purple painted marking,
consisting of one vertical line no less than eight inches in length and two
inches in width, and the bottom of the mark not less than three nor more than
six feet from the ground or normal water surface. Such marks shall be affixed
to immovable, permanent objects that are no more than 100 feet apart and
readily visible to any person approaching the property.
         C.   Signs shall also be posted at all roads, driveways or gates of
entry onto the posted land so as to be clearly noticeable from outside the
boundary line.
         D.   It is not necessary to give notice by posting on any enclosed
land or place not exceeding five acres in area on which there is a dwelling
house or property that by its nature and use is obviously private in order to
obtain the benefits of this article pertaining to trespass on enclosed lands.
      (5)   “Cultivated land” means that land which has been cleared of its
natural vegetation and is presently planted with a crop, orchard, grove,
pasture or trees or is fallow land as part of a crop rotation.
      (6)   “Fenced land” means that land which has been enclosed by a fence of
substantial construction, whether with rails, logs, post and railing, iron,
steel, barbed wire, other wire or other material, which stands at least three
feet in height. For the purpose of this section it shall not be necessary to
fence any boundary or part of a boundary of any land which is formed by water
and is posted with signs pursuant to the provisions of this section.
      (7)   Where lands are posted, cultivated or fenced as described herein,
then such lands, for the purpose of this section, shall be considered as
enclosed and posted.
      (8)   “Trespass” means the willful unauthorized entry upon, in or under
the property of another, but shall not include the following:
         A.   Entry by the state, its political subdivisions or by the
officers, agencies or instrumentalities thereof as authorized and provided by
law.
         B.   The exercise of rights in, under or upon property by virtue of
rights of way or easements by a public utility or other person owning such
right-of-way or easement whether by written or prescriptive right.
         C.   Permissive entry, whether written or oral, and entry from a
public road by the established private ways to reach a residence for the
purpose of seeking permission shall not be trespass unless signs are posted
prohibiting such entry.
         D.   Entry performed in the exercise of a property right under
ownership of an interest in, under or upon such property.
         E.   Entry where no physical damage is done to property in the
performance of surveying to ascertain property boundaries, and in the
performance of necessary work of construction, maintenance and repair of a
common property line fence, or buildings or appurtenances which are immediately
adjacent to the property line and maintenance of which necessitates entry upon
the adjoining owner’s property.
(W.Va. Code § 61-3B-1)
   (b)   Trespass in structure or conveyance. Any person who knowingly enters
in, upon or under a structure or conveyance without being authorized, licensed
or invited, or having been authorized, licensed or invited is requested to
depart by the owner, tenant or the agent of such owner or tenant, and refuses
to do so, shall be fined not more than $100. If the offender is armed with a
firearm or other dangerous weapon while in the structure or conveyance, with
the unlawful and felonious intent to do bodily injury to a human being in such
structure or conveyance at the time the offender knowingly trespasses, such
offender shall, notwithstanding the provisions of W.Va. Code § 61-7-1, be
subject to the penalty provided in §
501.99(a).
(W.Va. Code § 61-3B-2)
   (c)   Trespass on property other than structure or conveyance.
      (1)   Whoever knowingly and without being authorized, licensed or
invited, enters or remains on any property, other than a structure or
conveyance, as to which notice against entering or remaining is either given by
actual communication to such person or by posting, fencing or cultivation,
shall be fined as follows:
         A.   First offense conviction. Upon a first trespassing conviction
pursuant to subsection (a) above, the person shall be fined not less than $100
nor more than $500.
         B.   Second offense conviction. Upon a second trespassing conviction
pursuant to subsection (a) above, the person shall be fined not less than $500
nor more than $1,000.
         C.   Third offense conviction. Upon a third and subsequent trespassing
conviction pursuant to subsection (a) above, the person shall be fined not less
than $1,000 nor more than $1,500.
      (2)   If the offender defies an order to leave, personally communicated
to him or her by the owner, tenant or agent of such owner or tenant, or if the
offender opens any door, fence or gate, and thereby exposes animals, crops or
other property to waste, destruction or freedom, or causes any damage to
property by such trespassing on property other than a structure or conveyance,
he or she shall be subject to the penalty provided in §
501.99(a).
      (3)   If the offender is armed with a firearm or other dangerous weapon
with the unlawful and felonious intent to do bodily injury to a human being
during his or her commission of the offense of trespass on property other than
a structure or conveyance, such offender shall, notwithstanding the provisions
of W.Va. Code § 61-7-1, be imprisoned not more than 30 days, or fined not more
than $100, or both.
      (4)   Notwithstanding and in addition to any other penalties provided by
law, any person who performs or causes damage to property in the course of a
willful trespass shall be liable to the property owner in the amount of twice
the amount of such damage, provided, that the provisions of this section shall
not apply in a labor dispute.
(W.Va. Code § 61-3B-3)
§ 533.03 PETIT LARCENY.
   No person shall commit petit larceny as defined in W.Va. Code § 61-3-13
within the city.
§ 533.04 DEALING WITH STOLEN GOODS.
   If any person buys or receives from another person, or aids in concealing,
or transfers to a person other than the owner thereof, any stolen goods or
other thing of value which he or she knows or has reason to believe has been
stolen, he or she shall be deemed guilty of the larceny thereof, and may be
prosecuted although the principal offender is not convicted.
(W.Va. Code § 61-3-18)
§ 533.05 INJURY OR DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY OR MONUMENTS.
   (a)   No person shall unlawfully, but not feloniously, take and carry away
or destroy, tamper with, injure or deface any property, real or personal, not
his or her own.
   (b)   No person shall break down, destroy, injure, deface or remove any
monument erected for the purpose of designating the boundaries of the
municipality, tract or lot of land, or any tree marked for that purpose.
(W.Va. Code § 61-3-30)
§ 533.06 TAMPERING WITH AND THEFT OF UTILITIES; CATV.
   (a)   No person with intent to injure or defraud shall procure, make or
cause to be made, any pipe, tube, wire or other conductor of gas, water or
electric energy, and connect the same, or cause it to be connected, with any
main, service pipe or other pipe for conducting or supplying gas, or water or
any wires or other conductor of electric energy, in such manner as to supply
gas, water or electric energy to any lamp, motor, burner, orifice or any other
device, by or at which gas, water or electric energy is consumed, around or
without passing through the meter provided for measuring and registering the
quantity of gas, water or electric energy consumed, or in any other manner so
as to evade payment therefor, and no person, with like intent, shall injure or
alter any gas, water or electric meter, or obstruct its action.
(W.Va. Code § 61-3-44)
   (b)   No person with intent to injure or defraud shall connect, or cause to
be connected, any pipe, tube, wire, electrical conductor or other instrument
with any main, service pipe or other pipe or conduit or flume for conducting
water, or with any main, service pipe or other pipe or conduit for conducting
gas, or with any main, service wire or other electric conductor used for the
purpose of conducting electric energy for light, heat or motive services, for
the purpose of taking therefrom water, gas or electric energy, without the
knowledge of the owner thereof and with intent to evade payment therefor.
(W.Va. Code § 61-3-45)
   (c)   No person shall make any unauthorized connection, whether physically,
electrically, acoustically, inductively or otherwise, with any part of a CATV
system within the Municipality for the purpose of enabling anyone to receive
any television signal, radio signal, picture, sound or other transmission,
without payment for the service.
   (d)   No person, without the consent of the owner, shall willfully tamper
with, remove or injure any cables, wires or equipment used for distribution of
television signals, radio signals, pictures, sound or other transmission.
§ 533.07 LITTERING AND DEPOSIT OF GARBAGE, RUBBISH, JUNK AND THE LIKE.
   (a)   No person shall, without lawful authority, place or dispose of in any
manner, upon any public property or upon the premises of another, any paper,
trash, garbage, waste, rubbish, refuse, junk or any substance or material which
is or may become noxious, offensive, injurious or dangerous to the public
health, comfort or safety.
   (b)   No person shall cause or allow trash, garbage, waste, rubbish, refuse
or any other noxious or offensive materials or substances to be collected or
remain in any place to the damage or prejudice of others or of the public, or
unlawfully obstruct, impede, divert, corrupt or render unwholesome or impure,
any natural watercourse.
§ 533.08 BARRICADES AND WARNING LIGHTS; ABANDONED EXCAVATIONS.
   (a)   No person shall abandon or knowingly permit to remain on public or
private property, any excavation, well, cesspool or structure which is in the
process of construction, reconstruction, repair or alteration unless the same
is adequately protected by suitable barricades and guarded by warning devices
or lights at night so that the condition will not reasonably prove dangerous to
life or limb.
   (b)   No person shall destroy, remove, damage or extinguish any barricade or
warning light that is placed for the protection of the public so as to prevent
injury to life or limb.
   (c)   Any owner or agent in control of a premises upon which a basement,
cellar, well or cistern has been abandoned due to demolition, failure to build
or any other reason shall cause the same to be filled to the ground surface
with rock, gravel, earth or other suitable material.
§ 533.09 DAMAGING SHRUBBERY; FLOWERS; TREES AND TIMBER.
   (a)   It is unlawful to break, cut, take or carry away, or in any manner to
damage any of the shrubbery or flowers, including everything under the title of
flora, whether wild or cultivated, growing within 100 yards on either side of
any public road in the city, without the permission in writing of the owner or
tenant of the land upon which the shrubbery or flowers, including everything
under the title of flora, are growing.
   (b)   It is unlawful for any person to enter upon the lands or premises of
another without written permission of the owner of the lands or premises, in
order to break, cut, take or carry away or in any manner to damage or cause to
be broken, cut, taken or carried away or in any manner damaged, any trees or
timber on the land.
   (c)   It is unlawful for any person willfully or knowingly to have in his or
her possession, or to haul along any public road in the city, any trees,
shrubbery or flowers, including everything under the title of flora, which are
protected by this section, unless the person so having in his or her possession
or hauling the trees, shrubbery or flowers, and any other plant, has permission
in writing so to do from the owner or tenant of the land from which they have
been taken.
   (d)   At the request of a law enforcement officer, a person engaged in any
act which would constitute an offense under the provisions of subsections (a),
(b) or (c) above if such act were done without the required permission
specified therein, shall display the written permission to such officer.
   (e)   Notwithstanding the provisions of this section:
      (1)   An employee of the Department of Highways or of a county or
municipality performing roadside maintenance shall obtain the permission of an
owner before engaging in any act specified in subsections (a), (b) or (c)
above, but is not required to obtain the permission in writing or to display
the written permission as provided in subsection (d) above; and
      (2)   If an employee, agent or contractor of a public utility has
obtained the written permission of an owner pursuant to a contract with such
owner or his or her predecessor in title or by other operation of law, the
employee, agent or contractor of such public utility shall, prior to engaging
in any act specified in subsections (a), (b) or (c) above, provided reasonable
notice to the owner under rules and regulations which the Public Service
Commission shall promulgate; provided, that such rules and regulations shall
not required prior notice in a case of sudden emergency endangering persons or
property of either the landowner, the occupant of the land, the public utility
or the general public. However, such rules and regulations shall require
reasonable notice to the landowner that such acts have been performed without
prior notice by reason of such emergency.
(Ord. 89-3, passed 7-5-1988)
§ 533.10 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF DUMPSTERS.
   No person without authorization shall dump garbage or trash, or assist in
the unauthorized dumping of garbage or trash, in a dumpster or other solid
waste container which is located on the property of another person and leased
or otherwise owned or maintained by another person. The act of throwing
isolated objects into a dumpster or other solid waste container in the
prevention or elimination of litter is specifically excepted from any penalties
under this section.
(W.Va. Code § 61-3-53)
§ 533.11 FRAUDULENTLY OBTAINING FOOD OR LODGING.
   No person shall, at any hotel, inn, eating, lodging or boardinghouse, or
restaurant, receive or cause to be furnished any food or accommodation, with
intent to defraud the owner or keeper of such hotel, inn, eating, lodging, or
boardinghouse, or restaurant. No person shall obtain credit at any hotel, inn,
eating, lodging or boardinghouse, or restaurant, by the use of any false
pretense or device, or by depositing in such hotel, inn, eating, lodging or
boardinghouse, or restaurant, any baggage or property of less value than the
amount of such credit, or of the bill by such person incurred, with such
fraudulent intent. No person after obtaining credit or accommodation at any
hotel, inn, eating, lodging or boardinghouse, or restaurant, shall abscond from
such hotel, inn, eating, lodging or boardinghouse, or restaurant, or shall
remove or attempt to remove therefrom any baggage or personal property of any
kind subject to the lien provided for in W.Va. Code § 38-11-5, with intent to
defraud the owner or keeper of such hotel, inn, eating, lodging or
boardinghouse, or restaurant, without first having paid, satisfied or arranged
all claims or bills for lodging, entertainment or accommodation.
(W.Va. Code § 61-3-40)
§ 533.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   General penalty: whoever violates any provision of this article for
which no other penalty is provided shall upon conviction be fined not more than
$500. Each day such violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
   (b)   Whoever violates §
533.05(b) shall upon conviction be fined not more than $200.
   (c)   Any person convicted of a violation of §
533.09 shall be subject to the following penalties:
      (1)   Upon a first conviction, the defendant shall be fined not less than
$50 nor more than $250.
      (2)   Upon a second conviction, the defendant shall be fined not less
than $250 nor more than $500.
      (3)   Upon any subsequent conviction in excess of a second conviction,
the defendant shall be fined not less than $500 nor more than $1,000.
      (4)   Notwithstanding the provisions of W.Va. Code § 61-11A-4 or W.Va.
Code § 50-3-2a, the magistrate or court may order restitution not to exceed the
value of unauthorized solid waste services received.
ARTICLE 535: YARD SALES
Section
   
535.01   Intent and purpose
   
535.02   Definitions
   
535.03   Municipal permit required
   
535.04   Property permitted to be sold
   
535.05   Number of sales permitted
   
535.06   Limitation of length of sale
   
535.07   Display of sale property
   
535.08   Advertising; signs
   
535.09   Public nuisance
   
535.10   Parking
   
535.11   Persons and sales exempted
   
535.12   Separate violations
   
535.13   Effective date
 
   
535.99   Penalty
§ 535.01 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   (a)   The intrusion of non-regulated yard/garage sales is causing annoyance
to citizens in residential areas and congestion of the streets in residential
areas in the city.
   (b)   The provisions contained in this article are intended to prohibit the
infringement of any businesses and business activity in any residential area by
regulating the term and frequency of yard/garage sales, so as not to disturb or
disrupt the residential environment of the area.
   (c)   The provisions and prohibitions hereinafter contained are enacted not
to prevent but to regulate yard/garage sales for the safety and welfare of the
city’s citizens.
(Ord. passed 7-25-2017)
§ 535.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this article, the following terms, phrases, words and
their derivations shall have the meaning given herein. When not inconsistent
with the context, words used in the present tense include the future; words in
the plural number include the singular number, and words in the singular number
the plural number. The word “shall” is always mandatory and not merely
directory.
   (a)   “Sale” shall mean and include all general sales, open to the public,
conducted from or on a residential premises in any residential zone, as defined
by the zoning ordinance, for the purpose of disposing of personal property
including, but not limited to, all sales entitled “garage”, “lawn”, “yard”,
“attic”, “porch”, “room”, “backyard”, “patio”, “flea market” or “rummage” sale.
This definition shall not include a situation where no more than five specific
items are held out for sale and all advertisement of such sale specifically
names these items to be sold.
   (b)   “Personal property” shall mean property which is owned, utilized and
maintained by an individual or members of his or her residence and acquired in
the normal course of living in or maintaining a residence. It does not include
merchandise which was purchased for resale or obtained on consignment.
(Ord. passed 7-25-2017)
§ 535.03 MUNICIPAL PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful within the municipal corporate limits for any
individual to conduct a sale of or offer for sale personal property, under
authority granted by this article, without first obtaining a permit from the
city. Permits shall be obtainable at the City Building, located at 344 S. Main
Street, Philippi, West Virginia, at no charge, and shall be displayed in a
conspicuous location at all times while the sale is in progress.
(Ord. passed 7-25-2017)
§ 535.04 PROPERTY PERMITTED TO BE SOLD.
   It shall be unlawful for any individual to sell or offer for sale, under
authority granted by this article, property other than personal property.
(Ord. passed 7-25-2017)
§ 535.05 NUMBER OF SALES PERMITTED.
   (a)   No more than four such sales shall be held at any residence and/or
family household or by any individual or entity during a calendar year, and no
residence and/or family household shall exceed one sale for each quarter.
   (b)   If members of more than one residence join in such sale, then such
sale shall be considered as having occurred at all such residences and all such
residences shall be required to obtain a separate permit.
(Ord. passed 7-25-2017)
§ 535.06 LIMITATION OF LENGTH OF SALE.
   No sale of personal property as authorized by this ordinance shall exceed
any consecutive 72-hour period.
(Ord. passed 7-25-2017)
§ 535.07 DISPLAY OF SALE PROPERTY.
   Personal property offered for sale may be displayed within the residence, in
a yard, garage, carport and/or in a private driveway. No personal property
offered for sale at such a sale shall be displayed in any public right-of way.
(Ord. passed 7-25-2017)
§ 535.08 ADVERTISING; SIGNS.
   (a)   Time limitations. No sign or other form of advertisement shall be
exhibited for more than two days prior to the day such sale is to commence.
   (b)   Removal of signs. Signs shall be removed at the end of the sale.
   (c)   Rights-of-way. No signs shall be placed in any city right-of-way or on
or attached to any utility poles, street signs or traffic control signs.
(Ord. passed 7-25-2017)
§ 535.09 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   The individual(s) conducting the sale and the owner(s) or tenant(s) of the
premises on which such sale or activity is conducted shall be jointly and
severally responsible for the maintenance of good order and decorum on the
premises during all hours of such sale or activity. No such individual shall
permit any loud or boisterous conduct on said premises nor permit vehicles to
impede the passage of traffic on any roads or streets in the area of such
premises. All such individuals shall obey the reasonable orders of any member
of the Police or Fire Department of the city in order to maintain the public
health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. passed 7-25-2017)
§ 535.10 PARKING.
   All parking of vehicles shall be conducted in compliance with all applicable
laws and ordinances. Further, the Police Department may enforce such temporary
controls to alleviate any special hazards and/or congestion created by any such
sale.
(Ord. passed 7-25-2017)
§ 535.11 PERSONS AND SALES EXEMPTED.
   The provisions of this article shall not apply to or affect the following:
   (a)   Persons selling goods pursuant to an order or process of a court of
competent jurisdiction;
   (b)   Persons acting in accordance with their powers and duties as public
officials;
   (c)   Any sale conducted by any merchant or mercantile or other business
establishment from or at a place of business where such sale would be permitted
by the zoning regulations of the city or under the protection of the
nonconforming use section thereof or any other sale conducted by a
manufacturer, dealer or vendor and which sale would be conducted from properly
zoned premises and not otherwise prohibited in other ordinances; or
   (d)   Any bona fide charitable, eleemosynary, educational, cultural or
governmental institution or organization when the proceeds from the sale are
used directly for the institution or the organization’s charitable purposes and
the goods or articles are not sold on a consignment basis.
(Ord. passed 7-25-2017)
§ 535.12 SEPARATE VIOLATIONS.
   Every article sold and every day a sale is conducted in violation of this
article shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. passed 7-25-2017)
§ 535.13 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This article shall be effective upon the date of its passage.
(Ord. passed 7-25-2017)
§ 535.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this article, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than $500 for each offense. In
addition, anyone who violates this article by failing to remove any sale sign
(s) as required herein shall, upon conviction, be fined $25 for each such sign.
Each individual violation of a provision of the article shall constitute an
additional, separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. passed 7-25-2017)
ARTICLE 537: SAFETY AND SANITATION
Section
   
537.01   Offensive trades
   
537.02   Smoking in public facilities
   
537.03   Blocking aisles prohibited in theaters and public halls
   
537.04   Depositing material in water course prohibited
   
537.05   Littering
   
537.06   Nuisances on drainage area
 
   
537.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority to eliminate hazards to public safety, see W.Va. §§ Code 8-12-5
(23), (44)
§ 537.01 OFFENSIVE TRADES.
   No person shall establish, maintain or conduct a business, trade or
occupation in which offensive odors or excessive dust or smoke are produced.
§ 537.02 SMOKING IN PUBLIC FACILITIES.
   (a)   Definitions. As used in this section, the following terms shall have
the meanings indicated:
      (1)   “Public meeting” includes all meetings open to the public.
      (2)   “Public places” means any enclosed, indoor area open to and
frequented by the public or serving as a public of work, including, but not
limited to, restaurants, retail stores, theaters, banks, commercial
establishments, public conveyances, educational facilities, recreational
facilities, hospitals, nursing homes, auditoriums, arenas, meeting rooms and
grocery stores.
      (3)   “Smoking instrument” means any cigar, cigarette, pipe or other
smoking equipment.
   (b)   Smoking prohibited except in permitted areas. No person shall smoke or
carry any lighted smoking instrument in a public place or at a public meeting
except in permitted smoking areas.
   (c)   Designation of smoking areas.
      (1)   The proprietor or person in charge may designate no more than 50%
of a public place or public meeting as a smoking area except as follows.
      (2)   The owner or person in charge of the facility in which smoking is
prohibited may designate separate rooms or areas in which smoking is permitted,
provided that:
         A.   Designated smoking rooms or areas shall be reasonably separate
from rooms or areas entered by the public in the normal course of business or
use of the facility;
         B.   In designated smoking areas, existing physical barriers and
ventilation systems shall be used when possible to minimize the toxic effect of
smoke in adjacent non-smoking areas; and
         C.   In places of work in which smokers and non-smokers work in the
same office or room, it shall be the responsibility of employers to provide
smoke-free work areas to accommodate employees who request the same.
   (d)   Signs. To advise persons of the existence of “No Smoking” or “Smoking
Permitted” areas, signs shall be posted as follows:
      (1)   In public places where the proprietor or person in charge prohibits
smoking in the entire establishment, a sign using the words “No Smoking” and/or
the international no smoking symbol shall be conspicuously posted either on all
public entrances or in a position clearly visible on entry into the
establishments;
      (2)   In public places where certain areas are designated as smoking
areas pursuant to this section, the statement “No Smoking Except in Designated
Areas” shall be conspicuously posted on all public entrances or in a position
clearly visible on entry into the establishment; and
      (3)   In public places where smoking is permitted in the entire
establishment, a sign using the words “Smoking Permitted” and/or the
international smoking symbol shall be conspicuously posted either on all public
entrances or in a position clearly visible on entry into the establishment.
   (e)   Areas where smoking is prohibited. Smoking shall not be permitted and
smoking areas shall not be designated in those areas where smoking is
prohibited by the Fire Chief, state statute, ordinances or regulations of the
city, or other applicable laws.
   (f)   Responsibilities of proprietors. The proprietor or person in charge of
a public place or public meeting shall make reasonable efforts to obtain
compliance with this section in such places by:
      (1)   Posting appropriate signs;
      (2)   Arranging seating and work areas to provide a smoke-free area;
      (3)   Asking smokers to refrain from smoking upon request of a client or
an employee or any other person suffering discomfort from the smoke;
      (4)   Affirmatively directing smokers to designated smoking areas; and
      (5)   Using existing physical barriers and ventilation systems to
minimize the toxic efforts of transient smoke in adjacent no-smoking areas.
   (g)   Inspection of premises; violation notices. The City Manager or his or
her designated representative is authorized to make such inspections as may be
necessary to enforce this section, and no person shall impede or interfere with
inspections made hereunder. The City Manager or his or her designated
representative, after proper identification, shall be permitted to enter, at
any reasonable time, any premises covered by this section within the city, for
the purpose of making inspections to determine compliance with this section.
   (h)   Penalty. Any person who violates this section at a place or location
where signs are located pursuant to subsection (d) above shall be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine of
$10. Any person who violates any other subsection of this section shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be punished
by a fine not exceeding $300. Each time this section is violated shall be
considered a separate offense.
(Ord. passed 3-3-1992)
§ 537.03 BLOCKING AISLES PROHIBITED IN THEATERS AND PUBLIC HALLS.
   No owner, lessee, manager or the agent in charge shall permit the aisles of
any exhibition hall, theater or other assembly hall open for the patronage of
the public to become obstructed or crowded, but such aisles shall at all times
be kept clear and no person shall be allowed to stand therein. At no time shall
a greater number of persons be admitted to the exhibition hall or theater than
the seats provided therefor; provided, that in the event the construction of
the building warrants it, the Chief of the Fire Department is authorized to
permit patrons to stand in the foyer of a theater, under such regulations as he
or she may issue; provided further, that in no case shall any person be
permitted to stand in the galleries or balconies or in the entrances thereto or
exits therefrom, and under no circumstances may patrons stand in that part of
the foyer used as an exit unless the exit is properly roped off.
§ 537.04 DEPOSITING MATERIAL IN WATER COURSE PROHIBITED.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly and willfully throw, cause to be thrown or
release any dead animal, carcass or part thereof, garbage, sink or shower
waste, organic substance, human or animal excrement, contents of privy vault,
septic tank, cesspool or the effluent from any cesspool or nauseous or
offensive or poisonous substances into any well, cistern, spring, brook, pond,
stream or other body of water which is used for domestic purposes. None of the
provisions contained in this section shall apply to those commercial or
industrial wastes which are subject to the regulatory control of the West
Virginia Department of Natural Resources or the West Virginia Air Pollution
Control Commission.
   (b)   Upon conviction of any such offense, the person convicted shall,
within 24 hours after such conviction, remove and bury or cause to be buried at
least three feet under the ground or destroy or cause to be destroyed as
otherwise directed by the Police Chief, any of such offensive materials which
the person so convicted has thrown, caused to be thrown, released or knowingly
permitted to remain in water used for domestic purposes, contrary to the
provisions of this section, and his or her failure or refusal to do so shall
constitute a second violation of the provisions of this section. The continued
failure or refusal of such convicted person to so bury or destroy such
offensive materials shall constitute a separate, distinct and additional
offense for each successive 24-hour period of such failure or refusal.
§ 537.05 LITTERING.
   (a)   No person shall place, deposit, dump or throw, or cause to be placed,
deposited, dumped or thrown, any litter, garbage, refuse, trash, can, bottle,
paper, ashes, cigarette or cigar butt, carcass of any dead animal or any part
thereof, offal or any other offensive or unsightly matter in or upon any public
or private highway, road, street or alley, or upon the surface of any land
within 100 yards thereof without the consent of the owner, or in or upon any
private property into or upon which the public is admitted by easement or
license, or upon any private property without the consent of the owner, or in
or upon any public park or other public property other than in such place as
may be set aside for such purpose by the governing body having charge thereof.
   (b)   If any such materials be thrown, cast, dumped or discharged from a
motor vehicle in violation of the provisions hereof, such action shall be
deemed prima facie evidence that the owner and driver of such motor vehicle
intended to violate the provisions of this section.
   (c)   No portion of this section shall be construed to restrict a private
owner in the use of his or her own private property or to prohibit the disposal
of materials designated in this section in any manner authorized by law.
Whoever violates this section shall be subject to the penalty provided an §
501.99; provided, that at the election of the person charged with violating any
provision of this section, execution of any such sentence shall be suspended
upon the condition that such person for a total of 16 hours pick up and remove
from any area of any public highway, road, street or alley, land or property,
or public park or other public property, the area to be specified by the court,
any and all litter, garbage, refuse, trash, cans, bottles, papers, ashes,
cigarette or cigar butts, carcass of any dead animal or any part thereof, offal
or any other offensive or unsightly matter placed, deposited, dumped or thrown
thereon contrary to the provisions of this section by anyone prior to the date
of such conviction. If execution of any such sentence is so suspended and the
person convicted satisfies the conditions upon which execution was suspended,
he or she shall be discharged with like effects as if the fine had been fully
paid and the sentence had been fully executed, and if he or she does not
satisfy such condition, then such sentence shall be executed.
   (d)   Any law enforcement officer who shall observe a person violating the
provisions of this section shall have a mandatory duty to make an arrest or
otherwise prosecute the violator to the limits provided herein.
§ 537.06 NUISANCES ON DRAINAGE AREA.
   No person shall locate, build or construct or permit to be located or
constructed or remain located after construction, whether he or she is the
owner, lessee, tenant, manager in charge or other person in control of the
premises, any privy, water closet, pig-pen, slaughterhouse, chicken house,
stable or barn in such manner that the drainage therefrom will or may enter the
waters of the Tygart River above the filtration plant of the city, or into any
tributary, brook, pond, lake, basin, reservoir, stream, creek or spring which
falls or flows into the river above such point.
§ 537.99 PENALTY.
   See §
501.99 for general code penalty if no specific penalty is provided.
ARTICLE 541: RAILROADS
Section
   
541.01   Obstructing railroad crossings
   
541.02   Trespassing
 
   
541.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Stopping at grade crossing, see §§
343.01 through
343.04
Statutory reference:
   Authority to eliminate grade crossings, see W.Va. Code § 17-10-7
   Grant of right-of-way, see W.Va. Code § 31-2-13
§ 541.01 OBSTRUCTING RAILROAD CROSSINGS.
   (a)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      (1)   “Carrier”, “railroad” or “railroad company” means a common carrier
by railroad.
      (2)   “Train” or “trains” means engines, cars and any type of railroad
equipment or rolling stock, or any part thereof, capable of blocking any
crossing of a railroad track or tracks and any public street, road or highway.
   (b)   Blocking of crossing prohibited; time limit.
      (1)   No railroad company, except in an emergency, shall order, allow or
permit the operation of or operate its system so that a train blocks the
passage of vehicular traffic over the railroad crossing of any public street,
road or highway for a period longer than ten minutes. This subsection does not
apply to an obstruction of any such street, road or highway caused by a
continuously moving train or caused by circumstances wholly beyond the control
of the railroad, but does apply to all other obstructions as aforesaid,
including, but not limited to, those caused by a stopped train or a train
engaged in switching, loading or unloading operations.
      (2)   Upon receiving notification from a law enforcement officer, member
of a fire department, operator of an emergency medical vehicle, or a member of
an emergency services provider that emergency circumstances require the
immediate clearing of a public highway railroad grade crossing, the members of
the train crew of the train, railroad car or equipment, or engine blocking such
crossing shall immediately notify the appropriate railroad dispatcher of the
pending emergency situation. Upon receipt of notice of such emergency
circumstances by the train crew or dispatcher, the railroad shall immediately
clear the crossing, consistent with the safe operation of the train.
   (c)   Responsibility of railroad company. The railroad company shall be
solely responsible for the acts of its agents and employees in violating any
provision of this section.
   (d)   Presumption. There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a train is
operated by the carrier whose marks, numbers, signs and symbols of
identification appear on the engine or caboose of such train.
   (e)   Service of process. Process issuing for a violation of this section
may be served upon the engineer or conductor of the train causing a violation
of the provisions of this section or any other officer, agent or attorney-in-
fact of the railroad company authorized by law to receive service of summons or
other process issuing against such railroad company.
(W.Va. Code Art. 31-2A)
§ 541.02 TRESPASSING.
   No person not a passenger or employee, shall be found trespassing upon any
railroad or traction car or train of any railroad, by jumping on or off any car
or train in motion, on its arrival at or departure from any station or depot of
such railroad, or on the passage of any such car or train over any part of such
railroad; nor shall any person drive any horse or any horse-drawn or motor-
driven vehicle across or upon any railroad track or bridge, except at public or
private crossings.
(W.Va. Code § 61-3-43)
§ 541.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   Any railroad company, carrier or railroad violating the provisions of
§
541.01(b)(1), upon a first conviction shall be fined not less than $150; upon a
second conviction occurring at the same crossing within one year thereafter,
shall be fined not less than $250; and upon a third or subsequent conviction
occurring at the same crossing within one year after the first conviction,
shall be fined not less than $350.
   (b)   Any railroad company, carrier or railroad violating the provisions of
§
541.01(b)(2), upon a first conviction shall be fined not less than $1,000; upon
a second conviction occurring at the same crossing within one year thereafter,
shall be fined not less than $2,500; and upon a third or subsequent conviction
occurring at the same crossing within one year after the first conviction,
shall be fined not less than $5,000.
   (c)   Whoever violates §
541.02, upon conviction shall be fined not more than $25.
   (d)   General penalty: whoever violates any provision of this article for
which no other penalty is provided shall upon conviction be fined not more than
$500. Each day such violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. passed 8-8-2017)
ARTICLE 545: WEAPONS AND EXPLOSIVES
Section
   
545.01   Definitions
   
545.02   Carrying a deadly weapon without provisional license or other
authorization by persons under 21 years of age
   
545.03   Exceptions as to prohibitions against carrying concealed deadly
weapons
   
545.04   Persons prohibited from possession of firearms
   
545.05   Possession of deadly weapons by minors prohibited
   
545.06   Possession of machine guns
   
545.07   Display or sale of deadly weapons
   
545.08   Brandishing deadly weapons
   
545.09   Possessing deadly weapons on premises of educational facilities
   
545.10   Fireworks sale, possession and discharge
   
545.11   Discharging firearms
   
545.12   Throwing or shooting missiles
 
   
545.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prohibit carrying weapons, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-5(16)
   Dangerous weapons, see W.Va. Code Art. 61-7
   Limitations on power to restrict ownership, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-5a
§ 545.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this article, unless the context otherwise requires:
   (a)   “Blackjack” means a short bludgeon consisting, at the striking end, of
an encased piece of lead or some other heavy substance and, at the handle end,
a strap or springy shaft which increases the force of impact when a person or
object is struck. “Blackjack” includes, but is not limited to, a billy, billy
club, sand club, sandbag or slapjack.
   (b)   “Gravity knife” means any knife that has a blade released from the
handle by the force of gravity or the application of centrifugal force, and
when so released is locked in place by means of a button, spring, lever or
other locking or catching device.
   (c)   “Knife” means an instrument, intended to be used or readily adaptable
to be used as a weapon, consisting of a sharp-edged or sharp-pointed blade,
usually made of steel, attached to a handle, which is capable of inflicting
cutting, stabbing or tearing wounds. “Knife” includes, but is not limited to,
any dagger, dirk, poniard or stiletto with a blade over three and one-half
inches in length, any switchblade knife or gravity knife, and any other
instrument capable of inflicting cutting, stabbing or tearing wounds. A pocket
knife with a blade three and one-half inches or less in length, a hunting or
fishing knife carried for hunting, fishing, sports or other recreational uses,
or a knife designed for use as a tool or household implement shall not be
included within the term “knife” as defined herein, unless such knife is
knowingly used or intended to be used to produce serious bodily injury or
death.
   (d)   “Switchblade knife” means any knife having a spring-operated blade
which opens automatically upon pressure being applied to a button, catch or
other releasing device in its handle.
   (e)   “Nunchuka” means a flailing instrument consisting of two or more rigid
parts, connected by a chain, cable, rope or other nonrigid, flexible or springy
material, constructed in such a manner as to allow the rigid parts to swing
freely, so that one rigid part may be used as a handle and the other rigid part
may be used as the striking end.
   (f)   “Metallic or false knuckles” means a set of finger rings attached to a
transverse piece, to be worn over the front of the hand for use as a weapon,
and constructed in such a manner that, when striking another person with the
fist or closed hand, considerable physical damage may be inflicted upon the
person struck. The term “metallic or false knuckles” includes any such
instrument, without reference to the metal or other substance or substances
from which the metallic or false knuckles are made.
   (g)   “Pistol” means a short firearm having a chamber which is integral with
the barrel, designed to be aimed and fired by the use of a single hand.
   (h)   “Revolver” means a short firearm having a cylinder of several chambers
that are brought successively into line with the barrel to be discharged,
designed to be aimed and fired by the use of a single hand.
   (i)   “Pepper spray” means a temporarily disabling aerosol that is composed
partly of capsicum oleoresin and causes irritation, blinding of the eyes, and
inflammation of the nose, throat, and skin that is intended for self-defense
use.
   (j)   “Deadly weapon” means an instrument which is designed to be used to
produce serious bodily injury or death or is readily adaptable to such use. The
term “deadly weapon” includes, but is not limited to, the instruments defined
in subsections (a) to (h) above or other deadly weapons of like kind or
character which may be easily concealed on or about the person. For the
purposes of W.Va. Code § 18A-5-1a and W.Va. Code § 61-7-11a, in addition to the
definition of “knife” set forth in subsection (c) above, the term “deadly
weapon” also includes any instrument included within the definition of “knife”
with a blade of three and one-half inches or less in length. Additionally, for
the purposes of W.Va. Code § 18A-5-1a and W.Va. Code § 61-7-11a, the term
“deadly weapon” includes explosive, chemical, biological, and radiological
materials. Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, the term
“deadly weapon” does not include any item or material owned by the school or
county board, intended for curricular use, and used by the student at the time
of the alleged offense solely for curricular purposes. The term “deadly weapon”
does not include pepper spray as defined in subsection (i) above, when used by
any person over the age of 16 solely for self-defense purposes.
   (k)   “Concealed” means hidden from ordinary observation so as to prevent
disclosure or recognition. A deadly weapon is concealed when it is carried on
or about the person in such a manner that another person in the ordinary course
of events would not be placed on notice that the deadly weapon was being
carried. For purposes of concealed handgun licensees, a licensee shall be
deemed to be carrying on or about his or her person while in or on a motor
vehicle if the firearm is located in a storage area in or on the motor vehicle.
   (l)   “Firearm” means any weapon which will expel a projectile by action of
an explosion.
   (m)   “Controlled substance” has the same meaning as is ascribed to that
term in W.Va. Code § 60A-1-101(e).
   (n)   “Drug” has the same meaning as is ascribed to that term in W.Va. Code
§ 61A-1-101(m). (W.Va. Code § 61-7-2)
§ 545.02 CARRYING A DEADLY WEAPON WITHOUT PROVISIONAL LICENSE OR OTHER
AUTHORIZATION BY PERSONS UNDER 21 YEARS OF AGE.
   (a)   No person under 21 years of age and not otherwise prohibited from
possessing firearms under §
545.03 shall carry a concealed deadly weapon, without a state license or other
lawful authorization established under the provisions of the West Virginia
Code.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section shall, for a first offense, be guilty of
a misdemeanor.
(W.Va. Code § 61-7-3)
§ 545.03 EXCEPTIONS AS TO PROHIBITIONS AGAINST CARRYING CONCEALED DEADLY
WEAPONS.
   (a)   The provisions in §
545.02 do not apply to any person at least 18 years of age and fewer than 21
years of age who is:
      (1)   Carrying a deadly weapon upon his or her own premises;
      (2)   Carrying a firearm, unloaded, from the place of purchase to his or
her home, residence or place of business or to a place of repair and back to
his or her home, residence or place of business; or
      (3)   Possessing a firearm while hunting in a lawful manner or while
traveling from his or her home, residence or place of business to a hunting
site and returning to his or her home, residence or place of business;
      (4)   A member of a properly organized target-shooting club authorized by
law to obtain firearms by purchase or requisition from this state or from the
United States for the purpose of target practice from carrying any pistol, as
defined in this article, unloaded, from his or her home, residence or place of
business to a place of target practice and from any place of target practice
back to his or her home, residence or place of business, for using any such
weapon at a place of target practice in training and improving his or her skill
in the use of the weapons;
      (5)   A law enforcement officer or law enforcement official or chief
executive as defined in W.Va. Code § 30-29-1;
      (6)   An employee of the West Virginia Division of Corrections duly
appointed pursuant to W.Va. Code § 25-1-11c, while the employee is on duty;
      (7)   A member of the United States Armed Forces, Reserve or National
Guard;
      (8)   A resident of another state who holds a valid permit or license to
possess or carry a handgun issued by a state or a political subdivision subject
to the provisions and limitations set forth in W.Va. Code § 61-7-6a;
      (9)   A federal law enforcement officer or federal police officer
authorized to carry a weapon in the performance of the officer’s duty; and
      (10)   A parole officer appointed pursuant to W.Va. Code § 62-12-14 in
the performance of his or her duties.
   (b)   The following judicial officers and prosecutors and staff are exempt
from paying any application fees or licensure fees required under the West
Virginia Code. However, they shall make application and satisfy all licensure
and handgun safety and training requirements to obtain a license as set forth
in W.Va. Code § 61-7-4:
      (1)   Any justice of the Supreme Court of Appeals of West Virginia;
      (2)   Any circuit judge;
      (3)   Any retired justice or retired circuit judge designated senior
status by the Supreme Court of Appeals of West Virginia;
      (4)   Any family court judge;
      (5)   Any magistrate;
      (6)   Any prosecuting attorney;
      (7)   Any assistant prosecuting attorney; or
      (8)   Any duly appointed investigator employed by a prosecuting attorney.
(W.Va. Code § 61-7-6)
§ 545.04 PERSONS PROHIBITED FROM POSSESSION OF FIREARMS.
   (a)   Except as provided in this section, no person shall possess a firearm,
as such is defined in §
545.01, who:
      (1)   Has been convicted in any court of a crime punishable by
imprisonment for a term exceeding one year;
      (2)   Is habitually addicted to alcohol;
      (3)   Is an unlawful user of or habitually addicted to any controlled
substance;
      (4)   Has been adjudicated to be mentally incompetent or who has been
involuntarily committed to a mental institution pursuant to the provisions of
W.Va. Code Chapter 27 or in similar law of another jurisdiction; provided, that
once an individual has been adjudicated as a mental defective or involuntarily
committed to a mental institution, he or she shall be duly notified that they
are to immediately surrender any firearms in their ownership or possession;
provided, however, that the Mental Hygiene Commissioner or Circuit Judge shall
first make a determination of the appropriate public or private individual or
entity to act as conservator for the surrendered property;
      (5)   Is an alien illegally or unlawfully in the United States;
      (6)   Has been discharged from the armed forces under dishonorable
conditions;
      (7)   Is subject to a domestic violence protective order that:
         A.   Was issued after a hearing of which such person received actual
notice and at which such person had an opportunity to participate;
         B.   Restrains such person from harassing, stalking or threatening an
intimate partner of such person or child of such intimate partner or person, or
engaging in other conduct that would place an intimate partner in reasonable
fear of bodily injury to the partner or child; and
         C.   1.   Includes a finding that such person represents a credible
threat to the physical safety of such intimate partner or child; or
            2.   By its terms explicitly prohibits the use, attempted use or
threatened use of physical force against such intimate partner or child that
would reasonably be expected to cause bodily injury.
      (8)   Has been convicted of a misdemeanor offense of assault or battery
either under the provisions of W.Va. Code § 61-2-28, or the provisions of W.Va.
Code § 61-2-9(a) or (b), or a federal or state statute with the same essential
elements in which the victim was a current or former spouse, current or former
sexual or intimate partner, person with whom the defendant has a child in
common, person with whom the defendant cohabits or has cohabited, a parent or
guardian, the defendant’s child or ward or a member of the defendant’s
household at the time of the offense or has been convicted in any court of any
jurisdiction of a comparable misdemeanor crime of domestic violence.
   (b)   Any person prohibited from possessing a firearm by the provisions of
subsection (a) above may petition the circuit court of the county in which he
or she resides to regain the ability to possess a firearm and if the court
finds by clear and convincing evidence that the person is competent and capable
of exercising the responsibility concomitant with the possession of a firearm,
the court may enter an order allowing the person to possess a firearm if such
possession would not violate any federal law; provided, that a person
prohibited from possessing a firearm by the provisions of subsection (a)(4)
above may petition to regain the ability to possess a firearm in accordance
with W.Va. Code § 61-7A-5.
   (c)   Any person may carry a concealed deadly weapon without a license
therefor who is:
      (1)   At least 21 years of age;
      (2)   A United States citizen or legal resident thereof;
      (3)   Not prohibited from possessing a firearm under the provisions of
this section; and
      (4)   Not prohibited from possessing a firearm under the provisions of 18
U.S.C. § 922(g) or (n).
   (d)   Any person who has been convicted of an offense which disqualifies him
or her from possessing a firearm by virtue of a criminal conviction whose
conviction was expunged or set aside or who subsequent thereto receives an
unconditional pardon for said offense shall not be prohibited from possessing a
firearm by the provisions of the section.
(W.Va. Code § 61-7-7)
§ 545.05 POSSESSION OF DEADLY WEAPONS BY MINORS PROHIBITED.
   (a)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this article to the contrary, a
person under the age of 18 years who is not married or otherwise emancipated
shall not possess or carry concealed or openly any deadly weapon; provided,
that a minor may possess a firearm upon premises owned by such minor or his or
her family or on the premises of another with the permission of his or her
parent or guardian and in the case of property other than his or her own or
that of his or her family, with the permission of the owner or lessee of such
property. Nothing in this section shall prohibit a minor from possessing a
firearm while hunting in a lawful manner or while traveling from a place where
he or she may lawfully possess a deadly weapon, to a hunting site, and
returning to a place where he or she may lawfully possess such weapon.
   (b)   A violation of this section by a person under the age of 18 years
shall subject the child to the jurisdiction of the circuit court under the
provisions of W.Va. Code § 49-4-701 et seq., and such minor may be proceeded
against in the same manner as if he or she had committed an act which if
committed by an adult would be a crime, and may be adjudicated delinquent.
(W.Va. Code § 61-7-8)
§ 545.06 POSSESSION OF MACHINE GUNS.
   No person shall carry, transport or have in his or her possession, any
machine gun, submachine gun or any other fully automatic weapon unless he or
she has fully complied with applicable federal statutes and all applicable
rules and regulations of the Secretary of the Treasury of the United States
relating to such firearms.
(W.Va. Code § 61-7-9)
§ 545.07 DISPLAY OR SALE OF DEADLY WEAPONS.
   (a)   Any person who violates the provisions of subsection (b) below shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not
more than $5,000 or shall be confined in the county jail for not more than one
year, or both fined and confined, except that where the person violating
subsection (b) below is other than a natural person, the person shall be fined
not more than $10,000.
   (b)   A person may not knowingly sell, rent, give or lend, or, where the
person is other than a natural person, knowingly permit an employee thereof to
knowingly sell, rent, give or lend, any deadly weapon other than a firearm to a
person prohibited from possessing a deadly weapon other than a firearm by any
provision of this article.
(W.Va. Code § 61-7-10)
§ 545.08 BRANDISHING DEADLY WEAPONS.
   No person armed with a firearm or other deadly weapon, whether licensed to
carry the same or not, shall carry, brandish or use such weapon in a way or
manner to cause, or threaten, a breach of the peace. (W.Va. Code § 61-7-11)
§ 545.09 POSSESSING DEADLY WEAPONS ON PREMISES OF EDUCATIONAL FACILITIES.
   (a)   No person shall shoot or discharge any firearm as follows:
      (1)   Across or in any public road in the municipality, at any time;
      (2)   Within 500 feet of any school or church;
      (3)   Within 500 feet of any dwelling house; provided, that a person who
is a resident of a dwelling house, and his or her authorized guest, may shoot
or discharge a firearm in a lawful manner within 500 feet of the dwelling house
where the person lives, if the firearm is being discharged with the express or
implied knowledge and consent of all residents of that dwelling house, and no
other dwelling houses are located within 500 feet of where the firearm is
discharged; or
      (4)   On or near any park or other place where persons gather for
purposes of pleasure.
   (b)   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a) above, any person
operating a gun repair shop, licensed to do business in the state and duly
licensed under applicable federal statutes, is exempt from the prohibition
established by this section for the purpose of testing firearms.
§ 545.10 FIREWORKS SALE, POSSESSION AND DISCHARGE.
   (a)   “Fireworks” means any combustible or explosive composition, or any
substance or combination of substances, or article prepared for the purpose of
producing a visible or an audible effect by combustion, explosion, deflagration
or detonation, and shall include blank cartridges, toy pistols, toy cannons,
toy canes or toy guns in which explosives are used, the type of unmanned
balloons which require fire underneath to propel the same, firecrackers,
torpedoes, skyrockets, Roman candles, daygo bombs, or other fireworks of like
construction and any fireworks containing any explosive or flammable compound,
or any tablets or other device containing any explosive substance, except that
the term “fireworks” shall not include:
      (1)   Model rockets and model rocket engines, designed, sold and used for
the purpose of propelling recoverable aero models and shall not include toy
pistols, toy canes, toy guns or other devices in which paper or plastic caps
manufactured in accordance with the United States Department of Transportation
regulations for packing and shipping of toy paper or plastic caps are used and
toy paper or plastic caps manufactured as provided therein, the sale and use of
which shall be permitted at all times. Each package containing toy paper or
plastic caps offered for retail sale shall be labeled to indicate the maximum
explosive content per cap.
      (2)   The following sparklers and novelties shall not be considered
fireworks and require a business registration fee be paid to be authorized to
sell, as provided in W.Va. Code § 11-12-86:
         A.   Explosive caps designed to be fired in toy pistols, provided that
the explosive mixture of the caps shall not exceed twenty-five hundredths of a
grain for each cap.
         B.   Snake and glow worms composed of pressed pellets of a pyrotechnic
mixture that produce a large snake-like ash when burning.
         C.   Smoke devices consisting of a tube or sphere containing a
pyrotechnic mixture that produces white or colored smoke.
         D.   Trick noisemakers which produce a small report designed to
surprise the user and which include:
            1.   A party popper, which is a small plastic or paper item
containing not in excess of twenty-five hundredths of a grain of explosive
mixture. A string protruding from the device is pulled to activate the device,
expelling paper streamers and producing a small report.
            2.   A string popper which is a small tube containing not in excess
of twenty-five hundredths of a grain of explosive mixture with string
protruding from both ends. The strings are pulled to activate the friction-
sensitive mixture, producing a small report.
            3.   A snapper or drop pop, which is a small paper wrapped item
containing no more than twenty-five hundredths of a grain of explosive mixture
coated on small bits of sand. When dropped, the device produces a small report.
         E.   Wire sparklers consisting of wire or stick coated with
nonexplosive pyrotechnic mixture that produces a shower of sparks upon
ignition. These items must not exceed 100 grams of mixture per item.
         F.   Other sparkling devices which emit showers of sparks and
sometimes a whistling or crackling effect when burning, do not detonate or
explode, are hand-held or ground-based, cannot propel themselves through the
air and contain not more than 75 grams of chemical compound per tube or not
more than a total of 200 grams if multiple tubes are used; provided, that
sparklers and sparkler devices as provided for herein shall not be sold to
anyone below the age of 16 years old.
(W.Va. Code § 29-3-23)
      (3)   Sparkler and sparkler devices may not be sold to anyone under the
age of 16.
      (4)   Any business that desires to sell sparklers and novelties must
obtain a sparklers and novelties registration certificate, for each place of
business, prior to offering such items for sale. The fee for this certificate
is $15 per registration year.
         A.   All sparklers and novelties registration certificates expire on
June 30 of the registration year (July 1 to June 30) for which the certificate
is issued, regardless of when the sparklers and novelties registration
certificate becomes effective.
         B.   A separate sparklers and novelties registration certificate must
be obtained for each business location in the municipality from which such
items will be sold, and a $15 sparkler and novelty registration fee must be
paid for each certificate.
         C.   This $15 fee may not be prorated based upon when during the
business registration year the sparklers and novelties registration fee is paid
or the sparklers and novelties registration certificate becomes effective.
         D.   A business that wants to sell sparklers and novelty must also
have a municipal business license for the current registration year and a
sparklers and novelties registration certificate for that year. Both may be
issued by the City Clerk.
   (b)   (1)   Except as hereinafter provided, no person, firm, copartnership
or corporation shall offer for sale, possess, expose for sale, sell at retail,
keep with intent to sell at retail, or use or explode any fireworks, provided,
permits for the supervised display of fireworks may be granted upon application
to the State Fire Marshal and after approval of the Police and Fire Chiefs, and
the filing of a bond by the applicant as provided hereinafter. Every such
display shall be handled by a competent operator licensed or certified as to
competency by the State Fire Marshal and shall be of such composition,
character, and so located, discharged or fired as in the opinion of the Fire
Chief, after proper inspection, and of the Police Chief shall not be hazardous
to property or endanger any person or persons. After such privilege shall have
been granted, the sale, possession, use and distribution of fireworks for such
display shall be lawful for that purpose only. No permit granted hereunder
shall be transferable.
      (2)   The Mayor shall require a bond from the licensee in a sum not less
than $1,000 conditioned on compliance with the provisions of this section and
W.Va. Code Article 29-3 and the regulations of the State Fire Commission,
provided, that the municipality shall not be required to file such bond.
      (3)   Before any permit for a pyrotechnic display shall be issued, the
person, firm or corporation making application therefor shall furnish proof of
financial responsibility to satisfy claims for damages to property or personal
injuries arising out of any act or omission on the part of such person, firm or
corporation or any agent or employee thereof, in such amount, character and
form as the State Fire Marshal determines to be necessary for the protection of
the public.
(W.Va. Code § 29-3-24) (Ord. passed 6-27-1995; Ord. 95-09, passed 11-7-1995)
§ 545.11 DISCHARGING FIREARMS.
   (a)   No person shall discharge any air gun, rifle, shotgun, revolver,
pistol or other firearm within the corporate limits of the Municipality.
   (b)   This section does not apply when firearms are used in self defense, in
the discharge of official duty or when otherwise lawfully authorized.
§ 545.12 THROWING OR SHOOTING MISSILES.
   No person shall throw, shoot or propel an arrow, missile, pellet, stone,
metal or other similar substance capable of causing physical harm to persons or
property, in or on any public place, in or on the property of another, or from
any private property into or onto any public place or the property of another.
This section does not apply to supervised archery ranges or instruction nor
when otherwise lawfully authorized.
§ 545.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   Whoever violates §
545.04 shall be fined not more than $1,000.
   (b)   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a) above, any person:
      (1)   Who has been convicted in this state or any other jurisdiction of a
felony crime of violence against the person of another or of a felony sexual
offense; or
      (2)   Who has been convicted in this state or any other jurisdiction of a
felony controlled substance offense involving a Schedule I controlled substance
other than marijuana, a Schedule II or a Schedule III controlled substance as
such are defined in W.Va. Code §§ 60A-2-204, 60A-2-205 and 60A-2-206, and who
possesses a firearm as such is defined in §
545.01 shall be guilty of a felony and shall be prosecuted under appropriate
state law. The provisions of §
545.04(b) shall not apply to persons convicted of offenses referred to in this
subsection or to persons convicted of a violation of this subsection.
(W.Va. Code § 61-7-7)
Editor’s note:
   See §
501.99(a) for general code penalty if no specific penalty is provided.
ARTICLE 546: DRUG AND GANG HOUSES AND
OTHER DISORDERLY HOUSES
Section
   
546.01   Drug and gang houses, houses of prostitution and other disorderly
houses
   
546.02   Violation
   
546.03   Order of abatement
 
   
546.04   Penalty
§ 546.01 DRUG AND GANG HOUSES, HOUSES OF PROSTITUTION AND OTHER DISORDERLY
HOUSES.
   (a)   Any premises used for prostitution; illegal gambling; illegal
possession, storage or delivery of or trafficking in controlled substances, or
other illegal drug activity is hereby declared to be a public nuisance;
provided that no public nuisance or violation of this section shall be deemed
to exist unless:
      (1)   The property is used for two or more such offenses or incidents
within any 12-month period; or
      (2)   The offense for which the property is used is punishable by
imprisonment for one year or more.
   (b)   “Premises” as defined herein shall mean any lot or any structure on
any lot, regardless of the nature of the use.
(Ord. passed 12-18-2018)
§ 546.02 VIOLATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who owns, manages or controls any
premises defined as public nuisance in §
546.01(a)(1) or(a)(2) and who:
   (a)   Knowingly permits an illegal activity described in §
546.01(a)(1) or(a)(2) to occur or continue on such premises; or
   (b)   Fails to implement reasonable and warranted abatement measures
identified in the order of abatement issued pursuant to §
546.03, or subsequently agreed to, or other abatement measures which
successfully abate the nuisance within the 30-day period following the notice,
or within any other agreed upon period, shall be subject to a fine according to
the schedule set forth in §
546.04.
(Ord. passed 12-18-2018)
§ 546.03 ORDER OF ABATEMENT.
   (a)   The Chief of Police, Code Enforcement Official or other authorized
representative of the city may bring an action to abate a public nuisance
described by §
546.01(a) in the city’s Municipal Court.
   (b)   Upon a finding by the Municipal Court that the premises is a nuisance
as defined in §
546.01(a), the Chief of Police, Code Enforcement Officer or other authorized
representative of the city shall issue an order of abatement.
   (c)   The order of abatement shall require the defendant to take measures
reasonably calculated to prevent the recurrence of the illegal activity.
   (d)   The order of abatement may also authorize the issuance of search
warrants reasonably calculated to determine whether the nuisance has been
abated or whether the order of the court has been obeyed.
(Ord. passed 12-18-2018)
§ 546.04 PENALTY.
   (a)   Whoever violates §
546.02(a)(1), upon conviction shall be fined not less than $100 and not more
than $1,000 per offense.
   (b)   (1)   Whoever violates §
546.02(a)(2), upon conviction shall be fined not less than $100 and not more
than $1,000 per offense, provided that:
      (2)   No person shall be found in violation of §
546.02(a)(2) unless the city proves by a preponderance of the evidence that the
abatement measures were reasonable and warranted and proves beyond a reasonable
doubt that the defendant knowingly failed to implement the abatement measures.
   (c)   Each day that a violation of this article continues shall be
considered a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. passed 12-18-2018)
PART SEVEN: BUSINESS AND TAXATION CODE
ARTICLE 701: GENERAL LICENSING PROCEDURES
Section
   
701.01   Conditions precedent to doing business
   
701.02   Application and issuance of license; fees; records
   
701.03   False statements
   
701.04   Confidentiality
   
701.05   Separate license required
   
701.06   License year; expiration; renewal; minimum tax; proration
   
701.07   Display of license
   
701.08   Unlawful acts
   
701.09   Civil penalties
   
701.10   Collection by proceedings in court
   
701.11   Enforcement; injunctions
   
701.12   Suspension and revocation of licenses; appeals
 
   
701.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   License taxes generally, see
Art. 741
   Specific license taxes, see
Art. 745
Statutory reference:
   Issuance of license, see W.Va. Code § 8-13-4
§ 701.01 CONDITIONS PRECEDENT TO DOING BUSINESS.
   Payment in full of the proper tax or fee as required by the city, the
issuance of a city license certificate, and the fulfillment of all terms and
conditions of such grant shall be conditions precedent to the transaction of
any business, profession, calling, vocation, activity, trade or employment for
which a city license is required.
§ 701.02 APPLICATION AND ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; FEES; RECORDS.
   (a)   Each applicant for a city license shall make application to the City
Clerk on a form to be provided by the city, and holders of business franchise
certificates or other forms of state licenses authorizing them to do business
within the city shall display such state certificates or licenses to the City
Clerk at the time of making application for the city license.
   (b)   Upon payment of such license tax or fee as may be imposed by city and
upon the city license for which application is made, the City Clerk shall issue
the license applied for; provided, that the application is in proper form, and
that all requirements of state law, the codified ordinances and other
ordinances and all conditions precedent to the issuance of such license appear
to the City Clerk to have been complied with; and provided further, that
applications for licenses which are required to be issued by Council shall be
referred by the City Clerk to Council at its next meeting succeeding the date
of filing thereof, and he or she shall not issue any such license until
authorized so to do by Council, and in any such case the payment of any license
tax or fee shall be deferred until such application has been approved by
Council.
   (c)   The City Clerk shall maintain on file all applications for city
licenses and a record of each license issued, which shall set forth name and
business address of licensee, the date of issuance and the term for which
issued, the type of license, the amount of license tax to be paid, the number
of license, and such additional information as may be pertinent to establish
that all requirements of laws and ordinances have been complied with.
§ 701.03 FALSE STATEMENTS.
   No person shall knowingly make any false statement in any application for a
city license, or in any tax return, report or other statement relating to any
activity licensed by the city and which is required to be made to any city
officer or agency.
§ 701.04 CONFIDENTIALITY.
   All returns and tax statements made by taxpayers to city officers shall be
regarded as confidential and, except in compliance with judicial order, or as
may be required by the proper administration hereof, the City Clerk, his or her
agents and employees, and former City Clerks, agents and employees, shall not
divulge facts or information obtained in the administration of this Part Seven:
Business and Taxation Code.
§ 701.05 SEPARATE LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Except as may be provided otherwise in the Business and Taxation Code or
other ordinance, any person who, at more than one fixed place of business
within the city, engaged in or prosecutes any business, profession, calling or
vocation for which a city license is required shall obtain a separate license
and pay the prescribed tax or fee therefor each such fixed place of business
and for each such business, profession, calling or vocation.
§ 701.06 LICENSE YEAR; EXPIRATION; RENEWAL; MINIMUM TAX; PRORATION.
   (a)   A license year shall begin on July 1, of each calendar year and shall
expire with the expiration of the next ensuing June 30, and licenses shall
expire at midnight on the last day of June subsequent to the date of issuance
and shall be renewable annually, except such licenses for which the tax or fee
is by the day, week, month or other period less than a year, and except as may
be provided otherwise by the Business and Taxation Code or other ordinances.
   (b)   The license tax or fee for an initial license upon the commencement of
business shall be in proportion to the duration of such license to the annual
tax or fee; provided, that no license for any purpose for any length of time
shall be issued for less than $5.
§ 701.07 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Each person to whom a city license has been issued shall keep such license
conspicuously posted upon or within the premises to which such license relates.
Each licensee having no fixed place of business shall carry his or her license
upon his or her person at all times while engaging the licensed business or any
transaction incidental thereto, and shall display such license upon request of
any person with whom he or she is transacting business or any law enforcement
officer.
§ 701.08 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   Nothing in this article, and no payment for or issuance of any city license
under the provision hereof, shall be deemed to legalize any act which otherwise
may be in violation of law, or to exempt any person from any penalty prescribed
for such violation.
§ 701.09 CIVIL PENALTIES.
   Any person engaging in or prosecuting any business, profession, calling or
vocation contrary to the provisions of this article, whether without obtaining
a city license therefor before commencing the same, or by continuing the same
after the termination of the effective period of any such license may, in
addition to paying the prescribed license tax or fee, be liable for a penalty
of $50 for each month or fraction thereof during which he or she has been in
default of such payment.
§ 701.10 COLLECTION BY PROCEEDINGS IN COURT.
   The City Clerk may collect any license tax, fee or penalty unpaid under the
provisions of this article by appropriate proceedings in any court of competent
jurisdiction.
§ 701.11 ENFORCEMENT; INJUNCTIONS.
   If any person engaged in or prosecutes any business, profession, calling or
vocation contrary to any of the provisions of the Business and Taxation Code,
whether without first obtaining a license therefor or by continuing the same
after the termination of the effective period of any such license, or by any
violation of the terms and conditions of such license, he or she shall be
subject to immediate prosecution in the municipal court and, in addition, the
City Attorney may, in the name of the city, seek such injunctive relief as may
be appropriate in any court of competent jurisdiction.
§ 701.12 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF LICENSES; APPEALS.
   The City Clerk, upon reasonable notice to the licensee, may summarily revoke
any license issued by him or her pursuant to the Business and Taxation Code for
any reason which would have been grounds for denial of such license when first
issued, for violation of any term or condition of such license, for violation
of any pertinent provision of state law, the codified ordinances or other
ordinances, or for the perpetration or attempted perpetration of fraud,
malpractice or malfeasance by the licensee, without prejudice to prosecution of
such licensee by the city. Any person having interest in any license so revoked
and who feels aggrieved thereby may request the City Clerk to further
investigate the grounds for revocation and to reconsider his or her action, and
if the City Clerk accedes to such request he or she may suspend or reinstate
the license pending his or her final decision. If the City Clerk refuses to
accede to such request, or if, upon reconsideration, he or she affirms his or
her revocation of the license, the party so aggrieved may appeal to Council,
appear in person or by counsel, and may testify in person. The decision of
Council following such hearing shall be final, subject to only such judicial
review as may be provided by law.
§ 701.99 PENALTY.
   Except as may herein by expressly provided otherwise, any person violating
any provision under this article shall, upon conviction thereof be fined not
more than $500, and each day or part thereof that any violation shall continue
shall be deemed to constitute a distinct and separate offense and be punishable
accordingly.
(Ord. passed 8-8-2017)
ARTICLE 711: REGISTRATION OF CONTRACTORS
Section
   
711.01   Definitions
   
711.02   Registration; restrictions
   
711.03   City registration issuance; fees
   
711.04   Registration revocation; appeal
§ 711.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, “contractor” means any person who
undertakes to, or offers to undertake, or submits a bid to or does himself or
herself or by or through others, furnishes work, or both materials and work, in
the erection, construction, repair or alteration of structures including, but
not limited to, buildings, sidewalks, roads and the like, of every kind within
the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. passed 10-18-1990)
§ 711.02 REGISTRATION; RESTRICTIONS.
   No person shall engage in the business of contractor without first obtaining
a registration as hereinafter provided, nor shall a person continue to engage
in any such activity after his or her registration has expired, been suspended
or revoked. It shall be the responsibility of every general contractor to hire
only such subcontractors as are registered under this article. All contractors
shall be current on their city business and occupation taxes before a
registration will be issued.
(Ord. passed 10-18-1990)
§ 711.03 CITY REGISTRATION ISSUANCE; FEES.
   (a)   An application for a contractor’s registration shall be made to the
office of the Building Inspector, on such forms as may be required or
prescribed by the Building Inspector and shall be available for public
inspection.
   (b)   Upon approval of the application for a contractor’s registration by
the Building Inspector, a fee of $20 for the first year and $20 for each year
thereafter shall be paid to the City Clerk, whereupon the registration shall be
issued. Such application form should include, in the discretion of the Building
Inspector, but may not be limited to, the following information and such
applicant shall state such information on the application.
      (1)   Name of individual applying and company name if desired;
      (2)   Address and telephone number;
      (3)   Federal identification number and Social Security number;
      (4)   Two personal references; and
      (5)   Bank references.
   (c)   Contractor’s registration shall be valid for a period of one year
beginning July 1 of each year. No registration issued hereunder shall be
transferable. A contractor may not be issued a building permit unless he or she
possesses a valid contractor’s registration. No fee shall be prorated.
(Ord. passed 10-18-1990)
§ 711.04 REGISTRATION REVOCATION; APPEAL.
   (a)   A registration issued pursuant to this section may be revoked by the
Building Inspector if he or she finds that the contractor is guilty of
fraudulent use of his or her registration, incompetency in the exercise of the
privileges of such registration, fraud or misrepresentation in securing the
registration of permits granted under the Building Code, refusal to conform his
or her work to the requirements of law, or breaches of such other duties placed
on the contractor by this article or general law. Any such revocation shall be
preceded by written notice of the anticipated revocation sent by certified mail
to the contractor’s last known address at least 15 days prior to revocation,
but not before the Building Inspector has made every effort to serve the
contractor in person. Such notice shall inform the contractor of the grounds
for revocation and his or her right to an appeal to the Code Appeals Board. A
revocation of a registration shall not entitle a contractor to a refund of any
part of the fee.
   (b)   If the Building Inspector refuses to register any contractor or if a
contractor is notified by the Building Inspector that he or she was not in
compliance with any provision of this article, such contractor shall have the
same right of appeal as under a revocation of a registration. If any decision
of the Code Appeals Board is adverse to any contractor, the contractor may
apply to the Circuit Court of the county for a review of such decision in the
appropriate manner within 30 days of such decision.
   (c)   The Building Inspector shall advise the contractor of his, her or its
rights under this section on any notice given to such contractor relating to
the review of the Building Inspector’s decision.
(Ord. passed 10-18-1990)
ARTICLE 715: CANVASSERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
715.01   Canvassers to register with Clerk
   
715.02   Registration cards to be carried and exhibited upon request
   
715.03   Registration period; renewal of registration
   
715.04   Information required for registration
   
715.05   Fee for registration
   
715.06   Appeals
   
715.07   Duties of Clerk
 
   
715.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Trespass, see §
533.02
   Unnecessary noises, see
Art. 511
§ 715.01 CANVASSERS TO REGISTER WITH CLERK.
   (a)   Any person desiring to engage in house to house canvassing in the city
as a solicitor or canvasser of orders at retail for goods, wares, merchandise
or services for future delivery or performance, or as a solicitor or canvasser
at retail of orders for, or subscriptions to, magazines, periodicals or
newspapers for future delivery, shall apply at the office of the City Clerk for
registration and be registered as a solicitor or canvasser before engaging in
any such solicitation or canvassing; provided that no such registration shall
be required for any person who solicits orders for, or subscriptions to, any
newspaper, periodical or magazine published in the city.
   (b)   No such registration shall be required for any person who solicits
orders for, or subscriptions to any newspaper, periodical or magazine published
in the city, nor shall such registration be required for any religious,
charitable, educational, scientific or civic organization or group which has
its principal office, or place of business or meeting place in the city.
§ 715.02 REGISTRATION CARDS TO BE CARRIED AND EXHIBITED UPON REQUEST.
   When any person has properly registered as a solicitor or canvasser within
the city, he or she shall receive from the City Clerk a registration card
showing that he, or she, is duly registered, and such solicitor or canvasser
shall keep such registration card on his or her person, at all times, while
engaging in seeking orders within this city, and which registration card shall
be exhibited upon the request of any officer of the city or other public
official.
§ 715.03 REGISTRATION PERIOD; RENEWAL OF REGISTRATION.
   (a)   On or before the last day of the month following the date of
registration, if the solicitor desires to continue seeking orders in the city,
he or she shall again apply to the City Clerk for renewal of his or her
registration, and thereupon the City Clerk may issue another registration card
with date of expiration shown thereon which shall be the last day of the month
next following the date of registration.
   (b)   Registration shall not be for a greater period than two months;
provided, however, if applicant for registration shall exhibit evidence to the
City Clerk that he or she is properly employed as a solicitor for a reputable
and responsible employer, then, in such event, the registration may be for a
period of one year.
§ 715.04 INFORMATION REQUIRED FOR REGISTRATION.
   (a) An applicant for registration shall give the following information to
the City Clerk before registration may be granted, namely: name of solicitor,
age, weight, color of hair, color of eyes and other distinguishing marks; home
address of solicitor including street number, street, county and state; full
local address of the solicitor; articles or services or subscriptions to be
offered to the public, with the true, correct and full address of each firm or
business house represented by applicant for registration, and the authentic
signature of the applicant.
   (b)   If required by the City Clerk, the applicant for registration shall
file with the Clerk a recent photograph or picture of applicant in order to
fully identify the applicant. The picture or photograph shall show at least the
head and shoulder of applicant in a clear and distinct manner.
   (c)   The City Clerk may require applicants to give the registration data
under oath, and may require such other reasonable information as to his or her
identity, the character of his or her business, the method or plan of
solicitation, as the Clerk may deem proper, and such that will fulfill the
purpose of this article in protecting the public against fraud or
misrepresentation.
§ 715.05 FEE FOR REGISTRATION.
   Each applicant shall pay to the City Clerk the sum of $20, or another amount
set by Council from time to time, to defray the expense of administration of
this article, and the cost of issuance of registration card.
§ 715.06 APPEALS.
   If the City Clerk shall fail or refuse to register any solicitor, or house
to house canvasser, for any reason, such person may apply to Council for
registration, and be registered within the discretion of Council.
§ 715.07 DUTIES OF CLERK.
   The City Clerk shall carefully preserve all documents relating to
registration of solicitors or canvassers, and shall supply the Chief of Police
of the city with copies of such registrations. It shall be the duty of the City
Clerk to notify all firms and business houses which the applicant has stated
are his or her principals that such applicant has been registered and give the
date of expiration of such registration.
§ 715.99 PENALTY.
   If any person shall violate any of the provisions of this article, he or she
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction shall be fined not more
than $100, or another amount as set by Council from time to time, and upon
failure to pay his or her fine, may be placed in jail, at the discretion of the
Police Judge, for a period not exceeding ten days.
(Ord. passed 8-8-2017)
ARTICLE 719: REGISTRATION OF LANDLORDS
Section
   
719.01   Definitions
   
719.02   Registration; restrictions
   
719.03   City registration issuance; fees
   
719.04   Registration revocation; appeal
Cross-reference:
   Multifamily dwellings, see
Art. 1729
§ 719.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, “landlord” means any person who undertakes
to, or offers to undertake or does himself or herself or by or through others,
furnishes real property for lease or rent for any purpose.
(Ord. passed 10-18-1990)
§ 719.02 REGISTRATION; RESTRICTIONS.
   No person shall engage in the business of leasing or renting real property
without first obtaining a registration as hereinafter provided, nor shall a
person continue to engage in any such activity after his or her registration
has expired, been suspended or revised.
(Ord. passed 10-18-1990)
§ 719.03 CITY REGISTRATION ISSUANCE; FEES.
   (a)   An application for a landlord’s registration shall be made to the
office of the Building Inspector, on such forms as may be required or
prescribed by the Building Inspector and shall be available for public
inspection.
   (b)   Upon approval of the application a landlord’s registration by the
Building Inspector, a fee of $20 per year shall be paid to the City Clerk,
whereupon the registration shall be issued. Such application form shall include
in, the discretion of the Building Inspector, but may not be limited to the
following information and such applicant shall state such information on the
application:
      (1)   Name of individual applying and company name if desired;
      (2)   Address and telephone number;
      (3)   Federal identification number and Social Security number; and
      (4)   A list by street of all applicant’s rental property within the
city.
   (c)   Landlord’s registration shall be valid for a period of one year
beginning July 1, of each year. Registration may be renewed. If a registration
is allowed to lapse for one full year, a new registration shall be obtained by
filing a new application and paying the fee. No registration issued hereunder
shall be prorated or transferable.
(Ord. passed 10-18-1990)
§ 719.04 REGISTRATION REVOCATION; APPEAL.
   (a)   A registration issued pursuant to this section may be revoked by the
Building Inspector if he or she finds that the landlord’s rental property is
unfit for habitation of use for its intended purpose or for landlord’s refusal
to conform his or her property to the requirements of law, or breaches of such
other duties placed on the landlord by the Building Code or general law. Any
such revocation shall be preceded by written notice of the anticipated
revocation sent by certified mail to the landlord’s last known address at least
15 days prior to revocation, but not before the Building Inspector has made
every effort to serve the landlord in person. Such notice shall inform the
landlord of the grounds for revocation and his or her right to an appeal to the
Code Appeals Board as provided by law. A revocation of a registration shall not
entitle a landlord to a refund of any part of the registration fee.
   (b)   If the Building Inspector refuses to register any landlord or if an
landlord is notified by the Building Inspector that he or she was not in
compliance with any provision of this article, such landlord shall have the
same right of appeal as under a revocation of a registration. If any decision
of the Code Appeals Board is adverse to any landlord, the landlord may apply to
the Circuit Court of the county for review of such decision in the appropriate
manner within 30 days of such decision.
   (c)   The Building Inspector shall advise the landlord of his or her rights
under this section on any notice given to such landlord relating to the review
of the Building Inspector’s decision.
(Ord. passed 10-18-1990)
CHAPTER THREE - Taxation and Service Charges
      
741.   License Taxes Generally
      
745.   Business and Occupation Tax
      
749.   Hotel Occupancy Tax
      
757.   Nonintoxicating Beer
      
761.   Intoxicating Liquor
      
765.   Private Clubs
      
769.   Public Utilities Service Tax
      
773.   Wine Distributors and Retailers
      
777.   Municipal Service Fee
      
781.   Exchange of Tax Information
ARTICLE 741: LICENSE TAXES GENERALLY
Section
   
741.01   Legislative findings; purpose
   
741.02   Definitions
   
741.03   Payment and term of license
   
741.04   Fees to constitute debts due the city
   
741.05   Applicability; nontransferability
   
741.06   Effect of imposition of license tax
   
741.07   Acts prohibited
   
741.08   Effect of license
   
741.09   Duties and powers of City Clerk
   
741.10   License fees cumulative
   
741.11   Change in name or partners
   
741.12   Applicability of Article 701
   
741.13   Display of certificate
   
741.14   Fees for owning and operating coin-operated amusement devices or
vending machines
   
741.15   Coin-operated laundromats; car wash
   
741.16   Circus, carnivals and other public shows
   
741.17   Trading stamps
   
741.18   Fortunetellers
   
741.19   Wholesale dealers in tobacco
   
741.20   Junk dealers or their agents
   
741.21   Pawnbrokers
   
741.22   Theaters and public shows
   
741.23   Collection agencies
   
741.24   Employment agencies
   
741.25   Billiard, pool, bowling alleys and bagatelle tables
   
741.26   Stores
   
741.27   Reserved
   
741.28   Fees for certain trades, professions, or occupations
   
741.29   Reserved
   
741.30   Reserved
   
741.31   Dental corporations
   
741.32   Funeral establishments
   
741.33   Medical corporations
   
741.34   Nursing homes and personal care homes
   
741.35   Hospitals
   
741.36   Hawker and peddler
   
741.37   Itinerant vendors
   
741.38   Barber and beautician schools
   
741.39   Insurers
   
741.40   Construction; severability
   
741.41   False statements prohibited
   
741.42   Prosecution; injunctions
   
741.43   Effective date
   
741.44   Registration of nonlicensed businesses
 
   
741.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority to levy, see W.Va. Code § 8-13-4
   Business franchise registration certificate tax, see W.Va. Code Art. 11-12
   Limitation on municipal tax, see W.Va. Code § 11-12-4
   Collection of taxes, see W.Va. Code §§ 8-13-15 et seq.
§ 741.01 LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS; PURPOSE.
   Council hereby finds that in order to provide essential municipal services,
city revenue needs require the imposition of the following license taxes upon
the businesses and commercial ventures listed in this article.
§ 741.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (a)   Except where otherwise defined in this article, businesses,
occupations, trades, commercial ventures and terms of art used in §§
741.14 through
741.26 have those meanings given them in the West Virginia Code, as amended and
in force on January 1, 1970.
   (b)   Except as otherwise defined in this article, terms, phrases,
occupations, trades, commercial ventures and terms of art used in sections of
this article other than those referred to in subsection (a) above shall have
the meaning given to them in the West Virginia Code, as amended and currently
in force and, when there is more than one such meaning, they shall have the
meaning given in the section of the West Virginia Code imposing any state
license tax correlative to the city’s license tax.
   (c)   “Fee” and “tax” may be used interchangeably to refer to the charges
imposed under this article.
   (d)   “Person” includes, wherever the context will permit, not only natural
persons, but all other legal entities such as partnerships, corporations,
business trusts and the like.
§ 741.03 PAYMENT AND TERM OF LICENSE.
   Except as otherwise specified in this article, the entirety of any license
fee designated as an annual fee shall be billed on or about June 1 in each
year, and shall be paid within 30 days of the bill being sent. All annual
licenses provided for by this article shall be issued for a term of one year
beginning on July 1 and ending on the next succeeding June 30. Where licenses
of other periods are authorized by this article, they shall be of such
duration, and shall begin and end on such dates, as the City Clerk may provide;
but the City Clerk shall select such dates as state law requires, if any, for
any correlative state licenses, certificates or permits.
§ 741.04 FEES TO CONSTITUTE DEBTS DUE THE CITY.
   The fees provided for in this article shall constitute debts due to the city
and may be collected by the City Clerk by an appropriate action in either the
Circuit Courts or Magistrate Courts of the state.
§ 741.05 APPLICABILITY; NONTRANSFERABILITY.
   Except where otherwise expressly provided herein, the fees provided for
herein apply to any person undertaking the here described activities, trades or
professions for any part, no matter how small, or a given time period in which
the fee is imposed. Except where otherwise expressly provided herein, the
licenses provided for in this article are not transferable; that is, the
payment by one person of a license fee provided for in this article shall not
exempt or excuse a purchaser from, a successor to, or assignee of, any such
person from the payment of the prescribed fee for the maintenance or possession
of a particular license for the conduct of a particular activity. The licenses
provided for herein are nontransferable personal privileges. The fees provided
for in this article apply only to persons engaging in the specified acts,
having the specified ownership, or carrying on the specified operation or
conduct of a trade or business where the foregoing are located within the
geographic limits of the city.
§ 741.06 EFFECT OF IMPOSITION OF LICENSE TAX.
   In every case where this article imposes a license tax or fee, it shall be
deemed that a license is required to perform the activity and that a license
can and must be issued by the City Clerk with respect to that activity, but
only upon payment of the requisite fee and completion of the requisite
application. The imposition of a license tax by this article shall mean that
the payment of the tax is a prerequisite to the lawful conduct of the activity
upon which the tax is imposed.
§ 741.07 ACTS PROHIBITED.
   Whenever a license tax is imposed by this article, no person shall engage in
the activity or occupation upon which the fee is levied, nor own or operate any
device upon which the fee is levied, without first paying the tax and acquiring
the license provided for under this article.
§ 741.08 EFFECT OF LICENSE.
   In any case in which a license is required by this article, the issuance of
the license shall be deemed a prerequisite to the lawful conduct of the
activity for which the license is required. Issuance of any license under this
article shall not, however, make valid or legal any act not otherwise valid or
legal or not otherwise authorized by other provisions of law. Nothing in this
article shall authorize any act, activity or ownership not otherwise lawful.
§ 741.09 DUTIES AND POWERS OF CITY CLERK.
   The City Clerk shall have the power to prepare application forms for any
licenses required under this article. The application may contain questions on
or blanks for any information reasonably deemed necessary by the City Clerk.
The City Clerk is expressly authorized to require applicants to have, and to
provide evidence of, a valid and existing state business franchise registration
certificate. Proper completion of an application is a condition precedent to
the City Clerk having any duty to issue a license. Upon proper completion of a
license application and payment of the requisite fee, the City Clerk shall
issue the requested license to the applicant. The form of the license and
information thereon shall be such as the City Clerk may reasonably prescribe.
The City Clerk, or his or her designated agent, shall have the power to examine
activities and locations of each business to determine compliance with this
article.
§ 741.10 LICENSE FEES CUMULATIVE.
   The license fees imposed in this article are cumulative and the imposition
of any one fee does not preclude the imposition of other fees upon any one
individual or entity. The fees imposed by this article are imposed for engaging
in certain trades or activities, or for the use of possession of certain
devices. The pursuit of a particular trade or activity, or the ownership or use
of a particular device, shall not excuse a person or entity from the
requirement for a license and payment of a license fee for each such activity
or device for which, if engaged in or possessed singly, a license requirement
and license fee would be imposed.
§ 741.11 CHANGE IN NAME OR PARTNERS.
   A change in the name under which a person does business shall not require
the person to seek any new license for any activity licensed under a prior
name, nor shall the withdrawal or addition of partners to a partnership require
the partnership to obtain a new license, provided that the partnership always
retains at least one partner who was a member of the firm at the time of
license was granted.
§ 741.12 APPLICABILITY OF ARTICLE 701.
   The provisions of Article 701, where inconsistent with this article or with
general law, shall have no applicability to this article or the licenses
provided for herein.
§ 741.13 DISPLAY OF CERTIFICATE.
   The licenses provided for in this article shall be evidenced by license
certificates. The holder of a license shall display the license certificate in
a prominent place at or near the location of the licensed activity or device,
and shall make the license certificate available for inspection by city police,
the City Clerk, City Manager or his or her designated agent.
§ 741.14 FEES FOR OWNING AND OPERATING COIN-OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICES OR
VENDING MACHINES.
   (a)   Persons owning and operating coin-operated merchandise, service,
amusement or music devices or vending machines shall obtain annual licenses and
pay the fees prescribed in this section.
   (b)   The liability for the license to operate any type of coin-operated
merchandise, service, amusement or music devices or vending machines shall be
upon the owner of the machine. The ownership shall be established by either a
bill of sale, paid invoice or a conditional sales contract with has been
recorded in the applicable County Clerk’s office. The leasing of such a machine
shall not be considered as a transfer to ownership of the machine and where a
lessor-lessee relationship exists, the lessor shall be liable for the
applicable license and fees.
   (c)   The annual license fee to own and operate a coin-operated baggage or
parcel checking machine or device which is used for the storage of baggage or
parcels of any character shall be $20 for each section of any such device which
is operated on the coin-in-the-slot principle.
   (d)   The annual license fee to own and operate any coin-operated toilet
locker or device, sanitary napkin device or bed vibrator device shall be 20 for
every such locker or device.
   (e)   The annual license fee to own and operate any coin-operated amusement
or music devices, shall be as follows:
      (1)   Where a person owns fewer than 20 such devices, the fee for each
device is:
 
For one-cent devices                  $2
For five-cent devices                 $5
For ten-cent devices                  $10
For devices requiring more than $0.10 $12.50
 
      (2)   (a)   Where a person owns and operates 20 or more such devices, the
aggregate fee to the owner is:
 
For one-cent devices                  $50
For five-cent devices                 $150
For ten-cent devices                  $225
For devices requiring more than $0.10 $300
 
         (b)   The operator of more than one type of device shall pay the
highest fee prescribed.
      (3)   Any device taking more than one denomination of coin shall be
licensed on the basis of the largest denomination of coin taken or the total of
coins necessary to make the device function.
   (f)   The annual license fee to own and operate coin-operated merchandise or
service devices shall be as follows:
      (1)   Where a person owns fewer than 20 such devices, the fee for each
device is:
 
For one-cent devices                  $2
For five-cent devices                 $5
For ten-cent devices                  $10
For devices requiring more than $0.10 $12.50
 
      (2)   (a)   Where a person owns and operates 20 or more such devices, the
aggregate fee to the owner is:
 
For one-cent devices                  $50
For five-cent devices                 $100
For ten-cent devices                  $150
For devices requiring more than $0.10 $250
 
         (b)   The operator of more than one type of device shall pay the
highest fee prescribed.
      (3)   Any device taking more than one denomination of coin shall be
licensed on the basis of the largest denomination of coin taken or the total of
coins necessary to make the device function.
   (g)   No license fee shall be required of stores or businesses owning and
operating machines or devices described in this section and owned by them in
their own licensed stores; provided, however, that where the principal business
is the operation of the machines or devices, then the licenses shall be
obtained as outlined above.
   (h)   The provisions of this section shall not be applicable to any pay
telephone, postage stamp vending machines or currency changing machines
operated on the coin-in-the-slot principle.
§ 741.15 COIN-OPERATED LAUNDROMATS; CAR WASH.
   Coin-operated laundromats and car washes shall pay an annual license fee as
follows:
 
1—5 devices      $15
6—9 devices      $3 each
10 or more devices $30
 
§ 741.16 CIRCUS, CARNIVALS AND OTHER PUBLIC SHOWS.
   (a)   The license to exhibit a circus or menagerie, a circus and menagerie
combined, wild west show or other itinerant show not exhibited in a theater,
opera house or other permanent place for public shows, shall be $20 per year.
   (b)   The license fee to exhibit a street or other carnival shall be$20 a
week for each entertainment, performance or exhibition given at or in the
vicinity of any such carnival. Each such entertainment, performance or
exhibition shall require a separate license, whether or not shown under the
same canvas and whether or not exhibited for additional being concluded, so
that an additional fee for admission is charged, and additional license fee
shall be required for any further or additional entertainment, performance or
exhibition. To operate any riding device of any kind at or in the vicinity of
any street or carnival show, the fee shall be$20 per week for each such device.
   (c)   To keep or maintain any concession stand selling service, goods, wares
or merchandise, such as food, soft drinks, ice cream, candy floss and the like,
at or in the vicinity of such street or carnival show, the fee shall be $20 a
week for each such concession. To maintain concession stands such as ball
games, bingo, cane rack, penny pitch-till-you-win, striking machine, weighing,
machine, shooting gallery, artful dodger, bumper, fish pond, dart game, or
other legitimate games of skill, none of which shall be controlled by the
operator, at or in the vicinity of any street or carnival show, the license fee
shall be $20 a week for each such concession. To operate or maintain a candy
wheel or any legitimate merchandise wheels, when operated without control of
the operator, the license fee shall be $25 a day. To operate or maintain rides
of all kinds the license fee shall be $10 each week.
   (d)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any educational,
literary, dramatic, musical or benevolent society, or volunteer fire companies,
not conducted for private profit, where such exhibitions are confined to one
county, unless professional or paid talent, other than director, is employed in
such exhibitions.
(Ord. passed 10-18-1990)
§ 741.17 TRADING STAMPS.
   The annual license fee to sell or offer for sale merchants’ trading stamps,
premium stamps or certificates of like nature, or to undertake to redeem such
stamps or certificates in money or goods, shall be $175; provided, however,
that this section shall not apply to any coupon or similar device issued and
redeemed by a manufacturer or packer.
§ 741.18 FORTUNETELLERS.
   The annual license fee to act as a fortuneteller, palmist, phrenologist,
spiritualist, medium, clairvoyant, mindreader or any other person who performs
the art of profession of telling the past or forecasting the future shall be
$200.
§ 741.19 WHOLESALE DEALERS IN TOBACCO.
   (a)   Definitions. When used in this section the following words, terms and
phrases and any variations thereof required by the context, shall have the
meaning ascribed to them below except where the context indicates a different
meaning.
      (1)   “Cigarettes” means any roll for smoking made wholly or in part of
tobacco, irrespective of size or shape and whether or not such tobacco is
flavored, adulterated or mixed with any other ingredient, the wrapper or cover
of which is made of paper or any other substance or material except tobacco.
      (2)   “Person” means any individual firm, association, company,
partnership, corporation, joint stock company, club, agency, syndicate,
municipal corporation or other political subdivision of this state, trust,
receiver, trustee, fiduciary and conservator.
      (3)   “Wholesaler” includes any person who:
         A.   Purchases cigarettes directly from the manufacturer; or
         B.   Purchases cigarettes from any other person who purchases from the
manufacturer and who acquires such cigarettes solely for the purpose of bona
fide resale to retail dealers or to other persons for the purposes of resale
only; or
         C.   Services retail outlets by the maintenance of an established
place of business for the purchase of cigarettes, including, but not limited
to, the maintenance of warehousing facilities for the storage and distribution
of cigarettes. Nothing contained herein shall prevent a person from qualifying
in different capacities as both a “wholesaler” and “retailer” under the
applicable provisions of this article.
      (4)   “Sale at wholesale” means any bona fide transfer of title to
cigarettes for a valuable consideration, made in or the ordinary course of
trade or in the usual conduct of the wholesale’s business, to a retailer for
the purpose of resale.
   (b)   Fees. Former subsection (b) was replaced on October 18, 1990.
§ 741.20 JUNK DEALERS OR THEIR AGENTS.
   (a)   Definitions.
      (1)   “Junk” as used in this section, means old or scrap gold, copper,
brass, rope, rags, batteries, paper, rubber, automobile parts, iron, steel and
other cold scrap ferrous or nonferrous metals.
      (2)   “Junk dealers” includes all persons engaged in the business of
buying or selling junk as defined in subsection (a)(1) above.
      (3)   “Junk dealer’s agents” includes all person who buy or sell junk as
defined in subsection (a)(1) above for or on behalf of a junk dealer, as
defined in subsection (a)(2) above, but the term “junk dealer’s agent” shall
not be constructed to include any persons regularly employed upon a salary by a
regularly licensed junk dealer engaged in such business within the state.
      (4)   “Itinerant junk collector” includes only such persons who gather
junk from place to place with the aid of a cart or vehicle hand drawn or
propelled, who have no fixed place of business.
      (5)   “Nonresident junk dealer” or “nonresident junk dealer’s agent”
includes all persons who act as junk dealers or junk dealer’s agents who are
nonresidents of the state and all firms so engaged whose members are
nonresidents of the state and all corporations which have not been admitted to
hold property and transact business in the state.
   (b)   Fees. The annual license fee to act as a resident junk dealer shall be
$20; to act as a resident junk dealer’s agent, $20; to act as a nonresident
junk dealer or his or her agent who buys or solicits for the purchase of junk
within the state, $20; to act as an itinerant junk collector, $20.
§ 741.21 PAWNBROKERS.
   The annual license fee to engage in the business of pawnbroker shall be $20.
“Pawnbroker” includes any person, firm, partnership, association or corporation
engaged in the business of lending money on deposit or pledge of personal
property or other valuable thing, other than securities or printed evidence of
indebtedness, or in the business of purchasing personal property, such as
articles made of or containing gold, silver, platinum or other precious metals
or jewels of any description for the purpose of reducing or smelting them into
any form different from their condition or construction when purchased and
reselling or marketing the product.
§ 741.22 THEATERS AND PUBLIC SHOWS.
   The license fee for the operation of a theater, opera house or other
permanent place for public shows shall be $20 per theater.
§ 741.23 COLLECTION AGENCIES.
   The annual license fee to engage in the business of a collection agency
shall be $20. For the purposes of this section, solicitation, by or through an
agent shall be considered to be engaging the business of a collection agency.
§ 741.24 EMPLOYMENT AGENCIES.
   The annual license fee to conduct the business of an employment agent, to
receive applications for employment, to hire or contract with persons for
employment shall be $20, except that the annual license fee for an agency or
registry for the employment of registered professional nurses, practical nurses
or undergraduate nurses shall be $20; provided, however, that the provisions of
this section shall not be applicable to any such agency or registry operated by
a registered professional nurses association or any district subdivision
thereof for the exclusive benefit of its registrants and not for profit.
§ 741.25 BILLIARD, POOL, BOWLING ALLEYS AND BAGATELLE TABLES.
   The annual license fee to keep or maintain a bowling alley, a billiard, pool
or bagatelle table, or table of like kind, for public use, where any charge is
made for the use of the same, shall be $20.
§ 741.26 STORES.
   (a)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “General store” means any store or any mercantile establishment in
which goods, wares or merchandise of any kind are purchased, ordered, sold or
offered for sale either at retail or wholesale;
      (2)   “Person” includes any group or combination acting as a unit,
individual, committee, guardian, trustee, executor, administrator, partnership,
co-partnership, joint adventure, association, trust, firm or corporation,
either domestic or foreign, which is controlled or held with others by majority
stock ownership or ultimately controlled or directed by one management or
association of ultimate management; and
      (3)   “Special store” means any store or stores or any mercantile
establishment or establishments, in which goods, wares or merchandise or any
kind except cigarettes, tobacco products and soft drinks are purchased,
ordered, sold or offered for sale, either at retail or wholesale, and which
contains no coin-operated device or devices, owned and operated by the store
proprietor.
   (b)   Every person establishing, operating or maintaining one or more
special stores within the city under the same general management, supervision
or ownership shall pay $20 per year for each store.
   (c)   Every person establishing, operating or maintaining one or more
general stores within the city under the same general management, supervision
or ownership shall pay $20 per year for each store.
   (d)   The establishment, operation or maintenance of stores by the following
shall be exempt from the license tax imposed by this article:
      (1)   The United States of America, the state and its political
subdivisions;
      (2)   Religious and charitable organization; and
      (3)   Any person or persons engaged within this state in the business of
producing agricultural products who, individually or collectively, sell in such
store only agricultural products which he, she or they have produced.
   (e)   The license fee provided for in this section shall be one-half of that
prescribed in subsections (b) and (c) above, if the license applicant seeks a
license for any period of less than one year.
§ 741.27 RESERVED.
Editor’s note:
   Former §
741.27 was repealed on October 18, 1990.
§ 741.28 FEES FOR CERTAIN TRADES, PROFESSIONS, OR OCCUPATIONS.
   (a)   Unless otherwise indicated below, there shall be a license tax
imposed, on an annual basis, upon each person practicing in the following
trades, professions or occupations within the city.
   (b)   The fees shall be in the amounts listed below, and shall enable the
payer to purchase a license to engage in the trade, profession or occupation
for one year unless some other fee period is indicated, in which case the fee
will purchase a license for that period.
      (1)   For architects, a fee of $20;
      (2)   For attorneys, a fee of $20;
      (3)   For auctioneers, a fee of $20;
      (4)   For barbers, beauticians and manicurists $20;
      (5)   For chiropractors, a fee of $20;
      (6)   For dentists, a fee of $20;
      (7)   For dental hygienists, no fee;
      (8)   For embalmers, a fee of $20;
      (9)   For engineers, a fee of $20;
      (10)   For foresters, a fee of $20;
      (11)   For funeral directors; a fee of $20;
      (12)   For landscape architects, a fee of $20;
      (13)   For land surveyors, a fee of $20;
      (14)   For insurance brokers, a fee of $20;
      (15)   For midwives, a fee of $20;
      (16)   For nursing home administrators, a fee of $20;
      (17)   For occupational therapists, a fee of $20;
      (18)   Former subsection (b)(18) was repealed on October 18, 1990;
      (19)   For osteopathic physicians and surgeons, a fee of $20;
      (20)   Former subsection (b)(20) was repealed on October 18, 1990;
      (21)   For physical therapists, a fee of $20;
      (22)   For physicians, surgeons and podiatrists, a annual fee of $20;
      (23)   For polygraph examiners, no fee;
      (24)   For practical nurses, a fee of $20;
      (25)   For private detectives and investigators; a fee of $20;
      (26)   For psychologists, a annual fee of $20;
      (27)   For radiologic technologists, a annual fee of $20;
      (28)   For real estate brokers, a fee of $20;
      (29)   For real estate salesmen, a fee of $20;
      (30)   For registered professional nurses, a fee of $20;
      (31)   For sanitarians, no fee;
      (32)   For social workers, a fee of $20; and
      (33)   For veterinarians, an annual fee of $20.
§ 741.29 RESERVED.
Editor’s note:
   Former §
741.29 was repealed on October 18, 1990.
§ 741.30 RESERVED.
Editor’s note:
   Former §
741.30 was repealed on October 18, 1990.
§ 741.31 DENTAL CORPORATIONS.
   An annual license fee of $20 is imposed on each dental corporation for the
privilege of doing business.
§ 741.32 FUNERAL ESTABLISHMENTS.
   An annual license fee of $20 is hereby imposed upon each funeral
establishment doing business within the city.
§ 741.33 MEDICAL CORPORATIONS.
   An annual license fee of $20 is hereby imposed upon each medical corporation
doing business within the city.
§ 741.34 NURSING HOMES AND PERSONAL CARE HOMES.
   Upon nursing homes, there is imposed a license fee equal to$20 year.
§ 741.35 HOSPITALS.
   Upon each hospital there is imposed an annual license fee in an amount
varying in accord with the following table:
 
For Hospitals with Fee
5—49 beds        $20
50—99 beds       $30
100—199 beds     $40
200 or more beds   $50
 
§ 741.36 HAWKER AND PEDDLER.
   On each hawker or peddler there is imposed a license fee as follows:
 
On foot               $10
Vehicle under 0.5 ton $15
Vehicle under 1 ton   $50
Vehicle under 2 tons  $100
More than two tons    $15 plus $100 for every additional ton or fraction
                      thereof
 
§ 741.37 ITINERANT VENDORS.
   Itinerant vendors shall be charged a license fee of $500.
§ 741.38 BARBER AND BEAUTICIAN SCHOOLS.
   Upon every barber and beautician school there is imposed an annual fee of
$250.
§ 741.39 INSURERS.
   Upon every corporation or entity acting as an insurer, there is imposed an
annual license fee of $50.
§ 741.40 CONSTRUCTION; SEVERABILITY.
   The provisions of this article shall be construed so as to make them
consistent with state law and consistent with the correlative statutes
providing for state licensing fees. If any section or sections of this article
shall, even when so construed, be found to be in violation of the law or
Constitutions of the state or the United States or shall be found to be an
attempted exercise of power not granted to the city, the resulting invalidity
of that section or those sections shall not mean the remaining sections of this
article shall not be enforced. It is the intent of Council that each license
tax imposed herein should be imposed, even if other license taxes provide for
herein could not have been imposed.
§ 741.41 FALSE STATEMENTS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall knowingly make any false statement in any application for a
city license provided for in this article, or in any report or other statement
relating to any activity licensed by the city and which is required to be made
to any city officer or agency.
§ 741.42 PROSECUTION; INJUNCTIONS.
   If any person engages in or prosecuted any business, activity, trade or
employment contrary to any of the provisions of this code, whether without
first obtaining a license therefor or by continuing the same after the
termination of the effective period of such license, or by any violation of the
terms and conditions of such license, he or she shall be subject to immediate
prosecution in the municipal court and, in addition, the City Attorney may, in
the name of the city, seek such injunctive relief as may be appropriate in any
court of competent jurisdiction.
§ 741.43 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   Until July 1, 1986, no license fee provided for in this article shall be
required in order lawfully to perform any activity for which this article
requires a license nor shall any license fee be imposed for activities prior to
July 1, 1986; however, all other provisions of this article shall be in full
force and effect from the date of passage of this section.
§ 741.44 REGISTRATION OF NONLICENSED BUSINESSES.
   Any person undertaking any other business activity not licensed under this
article shall be required annually to make application to and to register with,
the City Clerk on such forms as he or she shall prescribe.
§ 741.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   Whoever engages in any activity contrary to the provisions of this
article, whether without obtaining a license required therefor before
commencing the same or by continuing the same after the termination of the
effective period of any such license, may, in addition to paying the license
tax, be liable for a penalty of $50 for each month or fraction thereof during
which he or she has been in default of the license tax. It shall be the duty of
the City Clerk to collect the full amount of the license tax and penalty
imposed and he or she shall not issue any license until the license tax and the
penalty have been paid in full.
   (b)   In addition to the foregoing and except as may herein be otherwise
expressly provided, whoever violates any provision under this article, upon
conviction shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $200, and each day or
part thereof that any violation continues shall be deemed to constitute a
distinct and separate offense and be punishable accordingly.
   (c)   Whoever knowingly makes a false statement in any license tax
application, upon conviction thereof shall be fined not less than $200 nor more
than $500. Each false statement, whether made with or without other false
statements on any one application shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. passed 8-8-2017)
ARTICLE 745: BUSINESS AND OCCUPATION TAX
Section
   
745.01   Definitions
   
745.02   Interstate and foreign commerce revenue excluded in measuring tax
   
745.03   Administration and construction
   
745.04   Imposition of privilege tax
   
745.05   Natural resource products
   
745.06   Manufacturing, compounding or preparing products; exceptions
   
745.07   Business of selling tangible property; exceptions
   
745.08   Public service or utility business
   
745.09   Business of contracting
   
745.10   Business of operating amusements
   
745.11   Service business or calling not otherwise specifically taxed
   
745.12   Business of furnishing property for hire
   
745.13   Small loan and industrial loan businesses
   
745.14   Banking and other financial business
   
745.15   Exemptions
   
745.16   Tax credit for industrial expansion; regulations
   
745.17   Computation of tax; remittance
   
745.18   Return and remittance by taxpayer
   
745.19   Erroneous computation
   
745.20   Failure to make return; assessment by City Manager
   
745.21   Jeopardy assessments
   
745.22   Notice of assessment; petition for reassessment; hearing
   
745.23   Appeal; correction of assessment; injunction
   
745.24   Tax year
   
745.25   Tax cumulative
   
745.26   Payment; penalty for nonpayment
   
745.27   Lien of tax due and unpaid
   
745.28   Enforcement of collection
   
745.29   Payment upon sale of business; liability of successor
   
745.30   Recording of tax liens
   
745.31   Collection by distraint; suit to enforce lien
   
745.32   Authority to revoke licenses
   
745.33   Unauthorized disclosure of tax information
 
   
745.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority to levy, see W.Va. Code § 8-13-5
   Business and occupation tax, see W.Va. Art. 11-13
   Collection of taxes, see W.Va. Code §§ 8-13-15 et seq.
§ 745.01 DEFINITIONS.
   When used in this article, the term “person” or the term “company” herein
used interchangeably, includes any individual, firm, co-partnership, joint
adventure, association, corporation, trust or any other group or combination
acting as a unit, and the plural as well as the singular number, unless the
intention to give a more limited meaning is disclosed by the context; and, for
the purposes of this article the following words, terms and context; and, for
the purposes of this article the following words, terms and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
   (a)   “Banking business” or “financial organization” means any bank, banking
association, trust company, industrial loan company, small loan company or
licensee, building and loan association, savings and loan association, credit
union, finance company, investment company, investment broker or dealer, and
any other similar business organization at least 90% of the assets of which
consists of intangible personal property and at least 90% of the gross receipts
of which consists of dividends, interest and other charges derived from the use
of money or credit.
   (b)   “Contracting” includes the furnishing of work, or both materials and
work, in the fulfillment of a contract for the construction, alteration,
repair, decoration or improvement of a new or existing building or structure,
or any part thereof, or for the alteration, improvement or development of real
property.
   (c)   “Business” includes all activities engaged in or caused to be engaged
in with the object of gain or economic benefit, either direct or indirect.
“Business” includes the production of natural resources or manufactured
products which are used or consumed by the producer or manufacturer and shall
include the activities of a banking business or financial organization.
   (d)   “Gross income” means the gross receipts of the taxpayer, other than a
banking or financial business, received as compensation for personal services
and the gross receipts of the taxpayer derived from trade, business, commerce
or sales and the value proceeding or accruing from the sale of tangible
property (real or personal), or service, or both, and all receipts by reason of
the investment of the capital of the business engaged in, including rentals,
royalties, fees, reimbursed costs or expenses or other emoluments however
designated and include all interest, carrying charges, fees or other like
income, however denominated, derived by the taxpayer from repetitive carrying
of accounts, in the regular course and conduct of his or her business, and
extension of credit in connection with any the sale of any tangible personal
property or service, and without any deductions on account of the cost of
property sold, the cost of materials used, labor costs, taxes, royalties paid
in cash or in kind or otherwise, interest of discount paid or any other expense
whatsoever.
   (e)   “Gross proceeds of sales” means the value, whether in money or other
property, actually proceeding from the sale of tangible property without any
deduction on account of the cost of property sold or expenses of any kind.
   (f)   “Gross income” and “gross proceeds of sales” shall not be construed to
include:
      (1)   Cash discounts allowed and taken on sales;
      (2)   The proceeds of sale of goods, wares or merchandise returned by the
customers when the sale price is refunded in either cash or by credit;
      (3)   The amount allowed as “trade-in-value” for any article accepted as
part payment for any article sold;
      (4)   Excise taxes imposed by this state; or
      (5)   Money or other property received or held by a professional person
for the sole use and benefit of a client or another person or money received by
the taxpayer on behalf of a bank or other financial institution for the
repayment of a debt of another.
   (g)   “Sale,” “sales” or “selling” includes any transfer of ownership of, or
title to, property, whether or in exchange for other property.
   (h)   “Selling at wholesale” or “wholesale sales” means and includes:
      (1)   Sales of any tangible personal property for the purpose of resale
in the form of tangible personal property;
      (2)   Sales of machinery, supplies or materials which are to be directly
consumed or used by the purchaser in the conduct of any business or activity
which is subject to the tax imposed by this article; and
      (3)   Sales of any tangible personal property of the United States of
America, its agencies and instrumentalities or to the state, its institutions
or political subdivisions.
   (i)   “Service business or calling” includes all activities engaged in by a
person for other persons for a consideration, which involve the rendering of a
service as distinguished from the sale of tangible property, but shall not
include the services rendered by an employee to his or her employer. The term
shall include, but not limited to:
      (1)   Persons engaged in manufacturing, compounding or preparing for
sale, profit, or commercial use, articles, substances or commodities which are
owned by another or others;
      (2)   Persons engaged as independent contractors in producing natural
resource products which are owned by another or others, as personal property,
immediately after the same are served, extracted, reduced to possession and
produced; and
      (3)   The repetitive carrying of accounts, in the regular course and
conduct of business, and extension of credit in connection with the sale of any
tangible property or service, except as to persons taxed pursuant to the
provisions of §
745.14.
(Ord. passed 6-7-1983)
§ 745.02 INTERSTATE AND FOREIGN COMMERCE REVENUE EXCLUDED IN MEASURING TAX.
   The measure of tax assessed in this article shall not include gross income
derived from commerce between this state and other states of the United States
or between this state and foreign countries.
(Ord. passed 6-7-1983)
§ 745.03 ADMINISTRATION AND CONSTRUCTION.
   The administration of this article is vested in and shall be exercised by
the City Manager, who shall prescribe forms and reasonable rules or procedure
in conformity with this article, subject to the approval of Council, for the
making of returns and for the ascertainment, assessment and collection of the
taxes imposed hereunder. The enforcement of any of the provisions of this
article in any of the courts of the state shall be under the exclusive
jurisdiction of the City Manager who shall require the assistance and act
through the City Attorney.
(Ord. passed 6-7-1983)
§ 745.04 IMPOSITION OF PRIVILEGE TAX.
   (a)   There is hereby levied and shall be collected annual privilege taxes
against the persons, on account of the business and other activities, and in
the amounts to be determined by the application of rates against values or
gross income as set forth in §§
745.05 to
745.14 inclusive of this article.
   (b)   If any person liable for any tax under §§
745.05 to
745.14 shall ship or transport his or her products or any part thereof out of
the city without making sale of such products, the value of the products in the
condition or from in which they exist immediately before transportation out of
the city shall be the basis for the assessment of the tax imposed in those
sections. The City Manager shall prescribe equitable and uniform rules for
ascertaining such value.
   (c)   In determining value, however, as regards sales from one to another of
affiliated companies or persons, or under other circumstances where the
relation between the buyer and seller is such that the gross proceeds from the
sale are not indicative of the true value of the subject matter of the sale,
the City Manager shall prescribe uniform and equitable rules for determining
the value upon which such privilege tax shall levied, corresponding as nearly
as possible to the gross proceeds from the sale of similar products of nearly
as possible to the gross proceeds from the sale of similar products of like
quality or character where no common interest exists between the buyer and the
seller but the circumstances and conditions are otherwise similar.
   (d)   Gross income in the measure of the tax under §
745.14, except in the case of production of natural gas, shall neither be added
nor deducted in computing the tax levied under the other sections of this
article.
   (e)   A person exercising any privilege taxable under §§
745.05 to
745.15 and engaging in the business of selling his or her natural resources or
manufactures products as retail in this city shall be required to make returns
of the gross proceeds of such retail sales and pay the tax imposed in §
745.07 for the privilege of engaging in the business of selling such natural
resources or manufactured products at retail in this city. But any person
exercising any privilege taxable under §§
745.05 to
745.14 and engaging in the business of selling his or her natural resources or
manufactured or manufacturers, wholesalers or jobbers, and in the case of
limestone, sand, gravel and other mineral products, to commercial consumers,
shall not be required to pay the tax imposed in §
745.07 for the privilege of selling such natural resource products or
manufactured products at wholesale.
   (f)   Manufacturers exercising any privilege taxable under §
745.06 shall not be required to pay the tax imposed in §
745.07 for the privilege of selling their manufactured products for delivery
outside of the city, but the gross income derived from the sale of such
manufactured products outside of the city shall be included in determining the
measure of the tax imposed on such manufacturer in §
745.07.
   (g)   A person exercising privileges taxable under the other sections of
this article, producing coal, oil, natural gas, minerals, timber or other
natural resource products, the production of which is taxable under §
745.05, and using or consuming the same in his or her business, shall be deemed
to be engaged in the business of mining and producing coal, oil, natural gas,
commercial use and shall be required to make returns on account of the
production of the business showing the gross proceeds or equivalent in
accordance with uniform and equitable rules responding as nearly as possible to
the gross proceeds from the sale of similar products of like quality of
character by other taxpayers, which rules the City Manager shall prescribe.
(Ord. passed 6-7-1983)
§ 745.05 NATURAL RESOURCE PRODUCTS.
   (a)   Upon every person engaging or continuing within the city in the
business of producing for sale, profit or commercial use any natural resource
products, the amount of such tax to be equal to the value of the articles
produced as shown by the gross proceeds derived from the sale thereof by the
producer, except as hereinafter provided, multiplied by the respective rates as
follows: coal: 0.1%; limestone or sandstone, quarried or mined: 1.5%; oil: 6%;
natural gas, in excess of the value of $5,000: 6%; blast furnace slag: 3%;
sand, gravel or other mineral products, not quarried or mined: 3%; timber:
1.5%; and other natural resource products: 2%. The measure of this tax is the
value of the entire production of this city, regardless of the place of sale or
the fact that delivery may be made to points outside of the city; provided,
that for the purposes of the production of oil classification, and the
production of natural gas classification, as set forth in this section,
multiple co-owners of oil or natural gas, in place, lessees thereof, or others
being vested with the title and ownership to part or all of the oil and gas, as
personal property, immediately after severance, extraction, reduction to
possession and production, except royalty recipients, in kind, shall be deemed
to be a “group or combination acting as a unit” and one “person”, as defined in
§
745.01, if not otherwise defined therein, whenever engaged in the business of
producing oil or natural gas through common use, by joint or separately
executed contracts, of the same independent contractors for separate deposit of
gross receipts in separate members’ accounts or for members of such group or
combination to take in kind any proportionate part of such natural resources.
   (b)   Lessees, sublessees or other denominated lessees are considered to be
producers of all the oil nor natural gas produced, regardless of any payment,
in kind, to lessors, sublessors or other denominated lessors of a part of such
natural resources as rents or royalties. Recipients of royalties or rents, in
kind, in cash or otherwise are taxable on their gross income pursuant to the
provisions of §
745.07.
(Ord. passed 6-7-1983)
§ 745.06 MANUFACTURING, COMPOUNDING OR PREPARING PRODUCTS; EXCEPTIONS.
   Upon every person engaging or continuing within this city in the business of
manufacturing, compounding or preparing for sale, profit or commercial use,
either directly or through the activity of others in whole or commodities, or
electric power produced by public utilities or others and not taxed under other
provisions of this article, substance, commodities or electric power
manufactured, compounded or prepared for sale, as shown by the gross proceeds
derived from the sale thereof by the manufacturer or person compounding or
preparing the same except as hereinafter provided, multiplied by a rate of
0.30%. The measure of this tax is the value of the entire product manufactured,
compounded or prepared in this city for sale, profit or commercial use,
regardless of the place of sale or the fact the deliveries may to be made to
points outside the city. However, the dressing and processing of food by a
person, firm or corporation shall not be considered as manufacturing or
compounding, but the sale of these products on a wholesale basis shall be
subject to the same tax as is imposed on the business of selling at wholesale
as provided in §
745.07.
(Ord. passed 6-7-1983)
§ 745.07 BUSINESS OF SELLING TANGIBLE PROPERTY; EXCEPTIONS.
   Upon every person engaging or continuing within this city in the business of
selling any tangible property whatsoever, real or personal, including the sale
of food, and the services incident to the sale of food in hotels, restaurants,
cafeterias, confectionaries, and other public eating houses, except sales by
any person engaging or continuing in the business of horticulture, agriculture
or grazing, or of selling stocks, bonds or other evidences of indebtedness,
there is likewise hereby levied, and shall be collected, a tax equivalent to
two-tenths of one percent of the gross income of the business, except that in
the case of selling at wholesale (or jobber) the tax shall be equal to 0.30% of
the gross income of the business.
(Ord. passed 6-7-1983)
§ 745.08 PUBLIC SERVICE OR UTILITY BUSINESS.
   Upon any person engaging or continuing within this city in any public
service or utility business, except railroad, railroad car, express, pipe line,
telephone and telegraph companies, water carriers by steamboat or steamship and
motor vehicle carriers, there is likewise hereby levied and shall be collected
taxes on account of the business engaged in equal to the gross income of the
business multiplied by the respective rates as follows: street and inter-urban
and electric railways, 1%; water companies, 4%, except as to income from
municipality owned water plants; electric light and power companies, 4% on
sales and demand charges for domestic purposes and commercial lighting and 3%
on sales and demand charges for all other purposes, except as to income from
municipally owned plants producing or purchasing electricity and distributing
the same; natural gas companies, 3% on the gross income for this purpose to be
determined by deducting from gross income from all sales to consumers the
amount of the tax paid by the taxpayers under §
745.05; toll bridge companies, 3%; and upon all other public service utility
business, 2%. The measure of this tax shall not include gross income derived
from commerce between the city and other localities. The measure of the tax
under this section shall include only gross income received from the supplying
of public services. The gross income of the taxpayer from any other activity
shall be included in the measure of the tax imposed upon the appropriate
section or sections of this article.
(Ord. passed 6-7-1983)
§ 745.09 BUSINESS OF CONTRACTING.
   Upon every person engaging or continuing within this city in the business of
contracting, the tax shall be $2 on each $100 of the gross income of the
business.
(Ord. passed 6-7-1983)
§ 745.10 BUSINESS OF OPERATING AMUSEMENTS.
   Upon every person engaging or continuing within this city in the business of
operating a theater, opera house, moving picture show, vaudeville, amusement
park, dance hall, skating rink, race track, radio broadcasting station or any
other part at which amusements are offered to the public, the tax shall be
equal to 0.50% the gross income of the business.
(Ord. passed 6-7-1983)
§ 745.11 SERVICE BUSINESS OR CALLING NOT OTHERWISE SPECIFICALLY TAXED.
   Upon every person engaging or continuing within this city in any service
business or calling not otherwise specifically taxed under this article, there
is likewise hereby levied and shall be collected a tax equal to 1.00% of the
gross income of any such business.
(Ord. passed 6-7-1983)
§ 745.12 BUSINESS OF FURNISHING PROPERTY FOR HIRE.
   Upon every person engaging or continuing within this city in the business of
furnishing any real or tangible personal property which has a tax site in this
city, or any interest therein, for hire, loan, lease or otherwise, whether the
return be in the form of rentals, royalties, fees or otherwise, the tax shall
be 0.65% of the gross income of any such activity. The term “tangible personal
property” as used herein, shall not include money or public securities.
(Ord. passed 6-7-1983)
§ 745.13 SMALL LOAN AND INDUSTRIAL LOAN BUSINESSES.
   Every person engaging or continuing within this city in the business of
making loans of money, credit goods, or things in action, who because of such
activity is required under the provisions of W.Va Code Article 47-7A to obtain
a license from the Commissioner of Banking of the state, and each and every
person industrial loan company shall be subject to the provisions of, and shall
pay the taxes specified in, §
745.14.
(Ord. passed 6-7-1983)
§ 745.14 BANKING AND OTHER FINANCIAL BUSINESS.
   (a)   Upon every person engaging or continuing within this city in the
business of banking or financial business, the tax shall be equal to 0.65% of
the gross income received from interest, premiums, discounts, dividends,
service fees or charges, commissions, fines, rents from real or tangible
personal property, however denominated, royalties, charges for bookkeeping or
data processing, receipts from check sales, charges for fees, and receipts from
the sale of tangible personal property; provided, that gross income shall not
include:
      (1)   Interest received on the obligations of the United States, its
agencies and instrumentalities;
      (2)   Interest received on the obligations of this state, territory or
possession of the United States or any political subdivision of any of the
foregoing or of the District of Columbia; or
      (3)   Interest received on investments or loans primarily secured by
first mortgages or deeds of trust on residential property occupied by
nontransients; provided, further, that all interest derived on activities
exempt under subsection (a)(1) hereof, shall be reported, as to amounts, on the
return of a person taxable under the provisions of this section.
   (b)   Persons taxed pursuant to the provisions of this section shall not be
taxed under §§
745.05 to
745.13 inclusive.
   (c)   Council hereby finds and declares that it is the intent of Council to
subject national banking associations and other financial organizations to the
tax imposed by this article, in accordance with the authorization contained in
§ 5219 of the Revised Statutes of the United States as amended by Public Law
91-516 by the Congress of the United States on December 24, 1969.
(Ord. passed 6-7-1983)
§ 745.15 EXEMPTIONS.
   (a)   There shall be an exemption in every case $50 in amount of tax
computed under the provisions of this article. A person exercising a privilege
taxable hereunder for a fractional part of a tax year shall be entitled to an
exemption of the sum bearing the proportion of $50 that the period of time the
privilege is exercised bears to a whole year. Only one exemption shall be
allowed to any one person, whether he or she exercised one or more privileges
taxable hereunder.
   (b)   The provisions of this article shall not apply to:
      (1)   Insurance companies which pay the state a tax upon premiums;
provided, that such exemption shall not extend to the part of a gross income of
insurance companies which is received for the use of real property, other than
property in which any such company maintains its office or offices in this
city, whether such income be in the form of rentals or royalties;
      (2)   Nonprofit cemetery companies organized and operated for the
exclusive benefit of their members;
      (3)   Fraternal societies, organizations and associations organized and
operated for the exclusive benefit of their members and not for profit;
provided, that this exemption shall not extend to that part of the gross income
arising from the sale of alcoholic beverages, food and related services, of
such fraternal societies, organizations and associations which are licensed as
private clubs under the provisions of W.Va. Code Article 60-7;
      (4)   Corporations, associations and societies organized and operated
exclusively for religious or charitable purposes;
      (5)   Production credit association, organized under the provisions of
the Federal Farm Credit Act of 1933; and
      (6)   Any credit union organized under the provisions of W.Va. Code Ch.
31; provided, that the exemptions of this section shall not apply to
corporations or cooperative associations organized under the provisions of
W.Va. Code Article 19-4.
(Ord. passed 6-7-1983)
§ 745.16 TAX CREDIT FOR INDUSTRIAL EXPANSION; REGULATIONS.
   (a)   There shall be allowed as a credit against tax imposed by this article
the amount determined under W.Va. Code Article 11-13C, relating to tax credit
for industrial expansion.
   (b)   The City Manager shall prescribe such regulations as may be necessary
to carry out the purposes of this section and the above cited state law as it
may be applicable within this city.
(Ord. passed 6-7-1983)
§ 745.17 COMPUTATION OF TAX; REMITTANCE.
   (a)   The taxes levied hereunder shall be due and payable in quarterly
installments on or before the expiration of one month from the end of the
quarter in which they accrue. The taxpayer shall, within one month from the
expiration of each quarter, make out an estimate of the tax for which he or she
is liable for such quarter, sign it and mail it, together with a remittance, in
the form required by §
745.21, of the amount of tax to the office of the City Manager. In estimating
the amount of tax due for each quarter, the taxpayer may deduct one-fourth of
the tax credit of the total exemption allowed for the year. When the total tax
for which any person is liable under this chapter does not exceed the sum of
$100 in any year, the taxpayer may pay the same quarterly as aforesaid, or with
consent in writing of the City Manager, at the end of the month next following
the close of the tax year.
   (b)   Any other provision of this section notwithstanding, the City Manager,
if he or she deems it necessary to ensure payment of the tax, may require the
return and payment under this section for periods of shorter duration than
quarter-year periods.
§ 745.18 RETURN AND REMITTANCE BY TAXPAYER.
   On or before the expiration of one month after the end of the tax year each
taxpayer shall make a return for the entire year showing the gross proceeds of
sales or gross income of business, trade or calling, and compute the amount of
chargeable against him or her in accordance with the provisions of this chapter
and deduct the amount of quarterly payments, as hereinbefore provided, if any,
and transmit with his or her report a remittance in the form required by §
745.17 covering the residue of the tax chargeable against him or her to the
office of the City Manager; such return shall be signed by the taxpayer, if
made by an individual, or by the president, vice president, secretary or
treasurer of a corporation, if made on behalf of a corporation. If made on
behalf of a partnership, joint adventure, association, trust or any other group
or combination acting as a unit, any individual delegated by such firm, co-
partnership, joint adventure, association, trust or any other group or
combination acting as a unit shall sign the return on behalf of the taxpayer.
The City Manager, for good cause shown, may extend the time for making the
annual return or the application of any taxpayer and grant such reasonable
additional time with which to make the same as may, by him or her, be deemed
advisable.
(Ord. passed 6-7-1983)
§ 745.19 ERRONEOUS COMPUTATION.
   (a)   If the taxpayer shall make any error in computing the tax assessable
against him or her, the City Manager shall correct such error or reassess the
proper amount of taxes, and notify the taxpayer of his or her action by mailing
to him or her promptly a copy of the corrected assessment, and any additional
tax for which such taxpayer may be liable shall be paid within ten days after
the receipt of such statement.
   (b)   If the amount already paid exceeds that which should have been paid on
the basis of the tax so recomputed, the excess so paid shall be immediately
refunded to the taxpayer upon the requisition of the City Manager and shall be
payable out of any funds available for the purpose. The taxpayer may, at his or
her election, apply an overpayment credit to taxes subsequently accruing
hereunder.
(Ord. passed 6-7-1983)
§ 745.20 FAILURE TO MAKE RETURN; ASSESSMENT BY CITY MANAGER.
   If any person shall fail or refuse to make a return, either in whole or in
part, or if the City Manager has reasonable ground to believe that any return
made is so deficient as not to form the basis of a satisfactory assessment of
the tax, he or she may proceed as he or she deems best to obtain information on
which to base the assessment of tax. The City Manager may, in person or by duly
appointed agent, make examination of the books, records and papers, and audit
the accounts of any such person, and may take the evidence, on oath, of any
person whom he or she may believe shall be in possession of any relevant
information. As soon as possible after procuring such information as the City
Manager may be able to obtain as to any person failing or refusing to make a
return, he or she shall proceed to assess the tax and shall notify the person
assessed of the amount of the tax. The assessment of the tax by the City
Manager shall be final as to any person who refuses to make a return.
(Ord. passed 6-7-1983)
§ 745.21 JEOPARDY ASSESSMENTS.
   (a)   If the City Manager believes that the collection of any tax which he
or she is required to administer will be jeopardized by delay, he or she shall
thereupon make an assessment of the tax, noting that fact upon the assessment.
The amount assessed shall be immediately due and payable. Unless the taxpayer
against whom a jeopardy assessment is made petitions for reassessment within 20
days after service of notice of the jeopardy assessment, such an assessment
becomes final.
   (b)   A petition for reassessment by a person against whom a jeopardy
assessment has been made must be accompanied by such security as the City
Manager may deem necessary to ensure compliance with this article.
(Ord. passed 6-7-1983)
§ 745.22 NOTICE OF ASSESSMENT; PETITION FOR REASSESSMENT; HEARING.
   The City Manager shall give to the taxpayer written notice of any assessment
made pursuant to this article. Unless the taxpayer to whom a notice of
assessment is directed shall, within 30 days after thereof (except in case of
jeopardy assessments), either personally or by certified mail, file with the
City Manager a petition in writing, verified under oath, such taxpayer or his
or her duly appointed agent, having knowledge of the facts, setting forth with
definiteness and particularity the items of the assessment objected to ,
together with the reasons for such objections, such assessment shall become and
be deemed conclusive and the amount of thereof shall be payable at the end of a
30-day period. In every case where a petition for reassessment as above
described is filed, the City Manager shall assign a time and place for the
hearing thereof and shall notify the petitioner of such hearing by written
notice at least 20 days in advance thereof and such hearing shall be held
within 60 days from the filing of the petition for reassessment unless
continued by agreement or by the City Manager for good cause. The hearing shall
be informal and may be conducted by an examiner designated by the City Manager.
At such hearing evidence may be offered to support the assessment or to prove
that it is incorrect. After such hearing the City Manager shall, within a
reasonable time, give notice in writing of the decision. Unless an appeal is
taken within 30 days from service of this notice, the City Manager’s decision
shall be final.
(Ord. passed 6-7-1983)
§ 745.23 APPEAL; CORRECTION OF ASSESSMENT; INJUNCTION.
   If any person, having made the return and paid the tax as provided by this
article, feels aggrieved by the assessment so made upon him or her for any year
by the City Manager, he or she may apply to Council by petition, in writing,
within 30 days after notice is mailed to him or her by the City Manager, for a
hearing and correction of the amount of the tax so assessed upon him or her by
the City Manager, in which petition shall be set forth the reasons why such
hearings should be granted and the amount of tax should be reduced. Council
shall promptly consider such petition, and may grant such hearing or deny it.
If denied, the petitioner shall be forthwith notified thereof; if granted, the
Council shall notify the petitioner of the time and place fixed for such
hearing. After such hearing, Council may make such order in the matter as may
appear to it just and lawful, and shall furnish a copy of such order to the
petitioner. Any person improperly charged with any tax required to be paid by
him or her may recover the amount so paid, together with interest, in any
proper action or suit against the city as may authorized by law.
(Ord. passed 6-7-1983)
§ 745.24 TAX YEAR.
   The assessment of taxes herein made and the returns required therefor shall
be for the year ending on December 31. If the taxpayer, in exercising a
privilege taxable under this article, keep the books reflecting the same on a
basis other that such year, he or she may, with the consent of the City
Manager, make his or her annual returns and pay taxes for the year covering his
or her accounting period, as shown by the method of keeping his or her books.
(Ord. passed 6-7-1983)
§ 745.25 TAX CUMULATIVE.
   The tax imposed by this article shall be in addition to all other licenses
and taxes levied by the Business and Taxation Code and other city ordinances as
a condition precedent to engaging in any business, trade or calling. A person
exercising a privilege taxable under this article, subject to payment of all
licenses and charges which are a condition precedent to exercising the
privilege taxed, may exercise the privilege for the current tax year upon the
condition that he or she shall pay the tax accruing under this article.
(Ord. passed 6-7-1983)
§ 745.26 PAYMENT; PENALTY FOR NONPAYMENT.
   (a)   Every remittance of taxes imposed by this article shall be made by
bank draft, certified check, money order or certificate of deposit to the City
Manager, who shall issue his or her receipt therefor to the taxpayer and pay
the money into the city treasury to be kept and accounted for as provided by
law.
   (b)   If any taxpayer fails to make the return required by this article, or
makes his or her return but fails to remit in whole or in part the proper
amount of tax, there shall be added to the amount of tax unpaid, from the date
such tax should have been paid, a penalty in the amount of 5% of the tax for
the first month, or fraction thereof, of delinquency and 1% of the tax for each
succeeding month, or fraction of delinquency; provided, that if such failure is
due to reasonable cause, the City Manager may waive or remit in whole or in
part these penalties.
   (c)   If the failure to pay is due to fraud or intent to evade this article
and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, there shall be added an
additional penalty of 25% of the amount of the tax exclusive of penalties.
   (d)   The penalties so added shall be collected at the same time and in the
same manner and as part of the tax.
(Ord. passed 6-7-1983)
§ 745.27 LIEN OF TAX DUE AND UNPAID.
   (a)   A tax due and unpaid under this article shall be a debt to the city.
   (b)   It shall be a personal obligation of the taxpayer and shall be a lien
upon the property of the taxpayer; provided, that no tax lien shall be
enforceable against a purchaser (including lien creditor) for valuable
consideration without notice, unless docketed in the office of the county court
of such county.
(Ord. passed 6-7-1983)
§ 745.28 ENFORCEMENT OF COLLECTION.
   The city may use any means for the collection of the taxes imposed by this
article as are provided by law for the enforcement and collection of similar
taxes of the state.
(Ord. passed 6-7-1983)
§ 745.29 PAYMENT UPON SALE OF BUSINESS; LIABILITY OF SUCCESSOR.
   (a)   Any person exercising any privilege taxable under this article who
shall sell out his or her business or stock of goods, or shall cease doing
business, shall file the return prescribed by §
745.18 and remit the entire tax that may be chargeable against him or her
because of all business done, within 30 days after selling out his or her
business or stock of goods, or ceasing to do such business.
   (b)   The successor in business of any such person shall withhold so much of
the purchase money as will satisfy the taxes and penalty which may be due until
the former owner shall produce a receipt from the City Manager evidencing the
payment of such taxes and penalty. If the purchaser of a business or stock of
goods shall fail to withhold purchase money as above provided, and the taxes
and penalty shall remain unpaid after expiration of the 30-day period allowed
for payment therefor, he or she shall be personally liable for the payment of
all such taxes and penalty, and the same shall be recoverable by the City
Manager as provided by §
745.28.
(Ord. passed 6-7-1983)
§ 745.30 RECORDING OF TAX LIENS.
   The City Manager, for the more effective collection of the tax, may file
with the Clerk of the appropriate county court a certified copy of an
assessment of taxes under this article for recordation. Upon payment of the
taxes delinquent under this article, the lien of which shall have been
recorded, the City Manager shall certify in duplicate the fact and amount of
payment and the balance due, if any, and shall forward the certificates, one to
the taxpayer and the one to the Clerk of County Court of the county in which
such lien has been recorded. From the date that such certificate is admitted to
record the land of the taxpayer in the city shall be free from any lien for
taxes under this article accrued to the date that the certificate was issued.
(Ord. passed 6-7-1983)
§ 745.31 COLLECTION BY DISTRAINT; SUIT TO ENFORCE LIEN.
   The City Manager may distraint upon any goods, chattels or intangibles
represented by negotiable evidences of indebtedness of any taxpayer delinquent
under this article for the amount of all taxes and penalties accrued and unpaid
hereunder. The lien created by this article on real estate may be enforced by
suit in equity and any other means provided by law.
(Ord. passed 6-7-1983)
§ 745.32 AUTHORITY TO REVOKE LICENSES.
   In addition to the penalties provided in §
745.99, the failure of any taxpayer to make any required return to pay the tax
imposed upon him or her by this article, either or both, within five days
following the prescribed date for the filing of such return or the payment of
such tax shall constitute good cause for Council to revoke or to refuse to
renew, either or both, the city license of such taxpayer to engage in the
business taxed under this article, as well as any other city business license
held by him or her.
(Ord. passed 6-7-1983)
§ 745.33 UNAUTHORIZED DISCLOSURE OF TAX INFORMATION.
   No officer or employee of the city shall release to any person any tax
information obtained by virtue of a reciprocal exchange of tax information
agreement between the state and the city, unless the person receiving the
information is the authorized counsel of the state or the city and shall be
using the information only for the purpose of administering business and
occupation taxes or carrier income taxes, or the person who filed the return
has authorized, in writing, its release, thereby waiving his or her right to
secrecy. Unauthorized disclosure of tax information shall be a misdemeanor, and
upon conviction, punishable by a fine of not more than $1,000, or another such
amount as set by Council from time to time, or imprisonment for not more than
one year, or both, together will all costs or prosecution.
(Ord. passed 6-7-1983)
§ 745.99 PENALTY.
   No person shall refuse to make any return required to be made by this
article, or make any false or fraudulent return or false statement in any
return, with intent to defraud the city or to evade the payment of the tax, or
any part thereof, imposed by this article, or for any person to aid or abet
another in any attempt to evade the payment of the tax, or any part thereof,
imposed by this article, or for the president, vice president, secretary or
treasurer of any corporation to make or permit to be made for any corporation
or association any false return or any false statement in any return required
in this article, with the intent to evade the payment of any tax hereunder. Any
person violating any of the provisions of this article shall, on conviction
thereof, be fined not more than $1,000, or another such amount as set by
Council from time to time, or imprisoned not exceeding 30 days, or punished by
both fine and imprisonment, at the discretion of the court, within the
limitations knowingly swear to or verify any false or fraudulent return, or any
return containing any false or fraudulent statement with the intention
aforesaid shall be guilty of the offense of false swearing and, on conviction
thereof, shall be punished in the manner provided by law. Any corporation for
which a false return, or a return containing a false statement, as aforesaid,
shall be punished by a fine or not more than $1,000.
(Ord. passed 6-7-1983)
ARTICLE 749: HOTEL OCCUPANCY TAX
Section
   
749.01   Definitions
   
749.02   Imposition of tax
   
749.03   Rate of tax
   
749.04   Collection of tax
   
749.05   Exceptions to collection of tax
   
749.06   Liability for failure to collect or remit tax
   
749.07   Payment of tax and tax return
   
749.08   Records and preservation
   
749.09   Administration
   
749.10   Proceeds of tax; application of proceeds
   
749.11   Annual reports by convention and visitor’s bureaus
 
   
749.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Convention and Visitor’s Bureau, see
Art. 167
Statutory reference:
   Hotel occupancy tax, see W.Va. Code Art. 7-18
   Hotels and restaurants, see W.Va. Code Art. 16-6
§ 749.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this article:
   (a)   “Consideration paid” or “consideration” means the amount received in
money, credits, property or other considerations for or in exchange for the
right to occupy a hotel room as herein defined.
   (b)   “Consumer” means a person who pays the consideration for the use or
occupancy of a hotel room. The term “consumer” shall not be construed to mean
the government of the United States of America, its agencies or
instrumentalities, or the government of the state or political subdivisions
thereof.
   (c)   “Hotel” means any facility, building or buildings, publicly or
privately owned in which the public may, for a consideration, obtain sleeping
accommodations. The term shall include, but not be limited to, boarding houses,
hotels, motels, inns, condominiums, lodges and tourist homes. The term “hotel”
shall not be construed to mean any hospital, extended care facility, nursing
home or college housing unit, or any facility providing fewer than three rooms
in private homes, not exceeding a total of ten days in a calendar year;
provided, that where a college housing unit provides sleeping accommodations
for the general non-student public for a consideration, the term “hotel” shall,
if otherwise applicable, apply to such accommodations for the purposes of this
tax.
   (d)   “Hotel operator” means the person who is proprietor of a hotel,
whether in the capacity of owner, lessee, mortgagee in possession, licensee,
trustee in possession, trustee in bankruptcy, receiver, executor or in any
other capacity. Where the hotel operator performs his or her functions through
a managing agent of any type or character other than an employee, the managing
agent shall also be deemed a hotel operator for the purposes of this article
and shall have the same duties and liabilities as his or her principal.
Compliance with the provisions of this article by either the principal or the
managing agent shall, however, be considered to be compliance by both.
   (e)   “Hotel room” means any room or suite of rooms or other facility
affording sleeping accommodations to the general public and situated within a
hotel. The term “hotel room” shall not be construed to mean a banquet room,
meeting room or any other room not primarily used for, or in conjunction with,
sleeping accommodations.
   (f)   “Person” means any individual, firm, partnership, association, social
club, fraternal organization, receiver, corporation, guardian, trustee,
committee, estate, executor, administrator or any other group or combination
acting as a unit.
   (g)   “Tax”, “taxes” or “this tax” means the hotel occupancy tax authorized
by this article.
   (h)   “Taxing authority” means a municipality levying or imposing the tax
authorized by this article.
   (i)   “Taxpayer” means any person liable for the tax authorized by this
article.
(Ord. passed 2-21-2006)
§ 749.02 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   There is hereby imposed a privilege tax upon the use or occupancy of a hotel
room located within the boundaries of the city.
(Ord. passed 2-21-2006)
§ 749.03 RATE OF TAX.
   The rate of tax imposed shall be 6% of the consideration paid for the use or
occupancy of a hotel room. Such consideration shall not include the amount of
tax imposed on the transaction, or charges for meals, valet service, room
service, telephone service or other charges or consideration not paid for use
or occupancy of a hotel room.
(Ord. passed 2-21-2006)
§ 749.04 COLLECTION OF TAX.
   (a)   The consumer shall pay to the hotel operator the amount of tax imposed
by this article which tax shall be added to and constitute a part of the
consideration paid for the use or occupancy of the hotel room, and which tax
shall be collectible as such by the hotel operator who shall account for and
remit to the city all taxes paid by consumers. The hotel operator shall
separately state the tax on all bills, invoices, accounts, books of account and
records relating to consideration paid for occupancy or use of a hotel room.
The hotel operator may commingle taxes collected hereunder with the proceeds of
the rental of hotel accommodations. The city’s claim shall be enforceable
against, and shall be superior to, all other claims against the money so
commingled excepting only claims of the state for moneys held by the hotel
collected as taxes. All taxes collected shall be deemed to be held in trust by
the hotel until the same has been remitted to the city.
   (b)   A hotel or hotel operator shall not represent to the public in any
manner, directly or indirectly, that it will absorb all or any part of the tax
or that the tax is not to be considered an element in the price to be collected
from the consumer.
   (c)   A hotel operator doing business wholly or partially on a credit basis
shall require the consumer to pay the full amount of tax due upon a credit sale
at the time such sale is made or within 30 days thereafter.
   (d)   A profit may not accrue as the result of the collection of the tax
authorized by this article, and in the event the total amount of taxes
collected by a hotel operator are in excess of the amount for which a consumer
would be liable, the total amount of all taxes collected by any hotel operator
shall be remitted to the city.
(Ord. passed 2-21-2006)
§ 749.05 EXCEPTIONS TO COLLECTION OF TAX.
   The tax imposed by this article shall not be collected in the following
instances:
   (a)   For any consumer occupying a hotel room for 30 or more consecutive
days; or
   (b)   When hotel room occupancy is billed directly to any agency of the
United States government or to any agency of the state or any political
subdivision thereof, but provided in the event the occupancy is paid for by an
employee for which reimbursement shall be paid, the occupancy shall be subject
to the tax.
(Ord. passed 2-21-2006)
§ 749.06 LIABILITY FOR FAILURE TO COLLECT OR REMIT TAX.
   If any hotel operator fails to collect the tax authorized by this section or
shall fail to properly remit such tax to the city, he or she shall be
personally liable for such amount that he or she failed to collect or remit
unless the hotel operator can by good and substantial evidence prove the
refusal of the consumer to pay the tax despite the diligent effort and good
faith to collect the tax. If a hotel operator is an association or corporation,
the officers thereof actually participating in the management or operation of
the association or corporation shall be personally liable, jointly and
severally, for any default to collect or remit the tax.
(Ord. passed 2-21-2006)
§ 749.07 PAYMENT OF TAX AND TAX RETURN.
   (a)   All taxes collected by virtue of this article shall be due and payable
in monthly installments on or before the fifteenth day of the calender month
for all taxes collected in the preceding calendar month.
   (b)   In addition, the hotel operator shall prepare and deliver to the city
a return in a form prescribed by the City Manager which shall include all
information necessary for the computation, collection and subsequent
distribution of the tax and shall be signed by the hotel operator or his or her
duly authorized agent.
(Ord. passed 2-21-2006)
§ 749.08 RECORDS AND PRESERVATION.
   (a)   Each hotel operator shall keep complete and accurate records of
taxable sales and of charges together with a record of the tax collected
thereon, and shall keep all pertinent documents in such form as the city may
require.
   (b)   Such records and other documents shall be preserved for a period of
not less than three years, unless the city shall consent in writing to their
destruction within that period of time or shall require that they be kept for a
longer period.
(Ord. passed 2-21-2006)
§ 749.09 ADMINISTRATION.
   The City Manager may promulgate rules, regulations and administrative
procedures concerning the assessment, collection and refund of the tax
authorized by this article.
(Ord. passed 2-21-2006)
§ 749.10 PROCEEDS OF TAX; APPLICATION OF PROCEEDS.
   (a)   Generally. The net proceeds of the tax collected and remitted to the
city pursuant to this article shall be deposited into the General Revenue Fund
of the city and, after appropriation thereof, shall be expended only as
provided herein.
   (b)   Required expenditures. At least 50% of the net revenue receivable
during the fiscal year by the city pursuant to this article shall be
appropriated to the Philippi Convention and Visitor’s Bureau so long as it
remains active in the city.
   (c)   Permissible expenditures. After making the appropriation required by
subsection (b) above, the remaining portion of the net revenues receivable
during the fiscal year by such city pursuant to this article may be expended
for one or more of the purposes set forth herein; but for no other purpose. The
purposes for which expenditures may be made are as follows:
      (1)   The planning, construction, reconstruction, establishment,
acquisition, improvement, renovation, extension, enlargement, equipment,
maintenance, repair and operation of publicly owned convention facilities,
including, but not limited to, arenas, auditoriums, civic centers and
convention centers;
      (2)   The payment of principal or interest or both on revenue bonds
issued to finance such convention facilities;
      (3)   The promotion of conventions;
      (4)   The construction or maintenance of public parks, tourist
information centers and recreation facilities (including land acquisition); or
      (5)   The promotion of the arts.
   (d)   Definitions. For purposes of this section, the following terms are
defined:
      (1)   “Convention and visitor’s bureau” and “visitor’s and convention
bureau” are interchangeable and either shall mean a non-stock, nonprofit
corporation with a full-time staff working exclusively to promote tourism and
to attract conventions, conferences and visitors to the municipality, county or
region in which such convention and visitor’s bureau or visitor’s and
convention bureau is located or engaged in business within.
      (2)   “Convention center” means a convention facility owned by the state,
a county, a municipality or other public entity or instrumentality and shall
include all facilities, including armories, commercial, office, community
service and parking facilities and publicly owned facilities constructed or
used for the accommodation and entertainment of tourists and visitors,
construed in conjunction with the convention center and forming reasonable
appurtenances thereto.
      (3)   “Fiscal year” means the year beginning July 1 and ending June 30 of
the next calendar year.
      (4)   “Net proceeds” means the gross amount of tax collections less the
amount of tax lawfully refunded.
      (5)   “Promotion of the arts” means activity to promote public
appreciation and interest in one or more of the arts. It includes the promotion
of music for all types, the dramatic arts, dancing, painting and the creative
arts through shows, exhibits, festivals, concerts, musicals and plays.
      (6)   “Recreational facilities” means and includes any public park,
parkway, playground, public recreation center, athletic field, sports arena,
stadium, skating rink or arena, golf course, tennis courts and other park and
recreation facilities, whether of a like or different nature, that are owned by
a county or municipality.
      (7)   “Region” means an area consisting of one or more counties that have
agreed by contract to fund a convention and visitor’s bureau to promote those
counties.
      (8)   “Regional travel council” means a nonstock, nonprofit corporation,
with a full-time staff, working exclusively to promote tourism and to attract
conventions, conferences and visitors to the region of this state served by the
regional travel council.
      (9)   “Historic site” means any site listed on the United States National
Register of Historic Places, or listed by a local historical landmarks
commission, established under state law, when such sites are owned by a city, a
county or a nonprofit historical association and are open from time to time to
accommodate visitors.
   (e)   Additional definitions. For purposes of this section, the term:
      (1)   “Willfully” means the intentional violation of a known legal duty
to perform any act, required to be performed by any provision of this article
in respect of which the violation occurs; provided, that the mere failure to
perform any act shall not be a willful violation under this article. A willful
violation of this article requires that the defendant have had knowledge of or
notice of a duty to perform such act, and that the defendant, with knowledge of
or notice of such duty, intentionally failed to perform such act.
      (2)   “Evade” means to willfully and fraudulently commit any act with the
intent of depriving the state of payment of any tax which there is a known
legal duty to pay.
      (3)   “Fraud” means any false representation or concealment as to any
material fact made by any person with knowledge that is not true and correct,
with the intention that such representation or concealment be relied upon by
the state.
(Ord. passed 2-21-2006)
§ 749.11 ANNUAL REPORTS BY CONVENTION AND VISITOR’S BUREAUS.
   Each year, on or before August 15, every convention and visitor’s bureau
which receives any appropriations of hotel occupancy tax from the city shall
file with the city a statement, including an income tax and balance sheet,
showing all amounts of hotel occupancy tax appropriated to the convention and
business bureau and all expenditures of hotel occupancy tax made by the
convention and visitor’s bureau for the prior fiscal year.
(Ord. passed 2-21-2006)
§ 749.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully refuse to do any of
the following:
      (1)   Collect or pay the tax;
      (2)   To make the return required to be made by this article;
      (3)   Make any false or fraudulent return or false statement in any
return with the intent to defraud the city;
      (4)   Evade the payment of the tax or any part thereof;
      (5)   Aid or abet another in an attempt to evade the payment of the tax
or any part thereof; and
      (6)   For any officer, partner or principal of any corporation or
association to willfully make or willfully permit to be made for such
corporation or association any false return or any false statement in any
return authorized by this article with the intent to evade the payment of the
tax.
   (b)   Any person found guilty of willfully violating any of the provisions
set forth herein shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more
than $500.
(Ord. passed 8-8-2017)
ARTICLE 757: NONINTOXICATING BEER
Section
   
757.01   License required
   
757.02   Annual license tax
   
757.03   License year; classes of dealers; amount of tax
   
757.04   Application for license; display
   
757.05   Unlawful acts
   
757.06   Revocation of license
 
   
757.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Liquor control, see
Art. 521
Statutory reference:
   Municipal license tax, see W.Va. Code § 11-16-17
   Nonintoxicating beer, see W.Va. Code Art. 11-16
§ 757.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person within the city shall manufacture for sale, sell or possess for
sale, any nonintoxicating beer without a city license so to do as provided in
this article; provided, that nothing contained in this article, and no license
or payment under the provisions hereof, shall be taken to legalize any act
which otherwise may be in violation of law, or exempt any person from any
penalty prescribed for such violation.
§ 757.02 ANNUAL LICENSE TAX.
   (a)   Every person licensed by the state pursuant to the provisions of W.Va.
Code Article 11-16, whether as a retailer, private club, wholesaler or brewer
on nonintoxicating beer and who does business as such within this city shall
pay to the city an annual license tax as provided in this article.
   (b)   Upon the payment of such annual license tax to the city the licensee
shall be issued a city license corresponding to the state license, which shall
be displayed at all times in a conspicuous place upon the premises thereby
licensed.
   (c)   City licenses under this article shall not be transferable.
§ 757.03 LICENSE YEAR; CLASSES OF DEALERS; AMOUNT OF TAX.
   There is hereby levied and imposed by annual license tax upon all brewers
and dealers in or of nonintoxicating beer within the city, which license period
shall begin on July 1 of each year and end on June 30 of the following year,
and if granted for a less period the same shall be completed quarterly in
proportion to the remainder of the fiscal year as follows.
   (a)   Retail dealers shall be divided into two classes, Class A and Class B.
In the case of Class A retail dealer the license fee shall be $100 for each
place of business; the license fee for social, fraternal or private clubs not
operating for profit, and having been in continuous operation for two years or
more immediately preceding the date of application, shall be $100.
      (1)   Class A license issued for social, fraternal or private clubs as
herein provided, shall authorize the licensee to sell nonintoxicating beer at
retail for consumption only on the licensed premises where sold. All other
Class A licenses shall authorize the licensee to sell nonintoxicating beer at
retail for consumption on or off the licensed premises.
      (2)   In the case of Class B retailer, there shall be two types of a
Class B license. The fee for a Class B license authorizing the sale of
unchilled beer only shall be $15. The fee for a Class B license authorizing the
sale of both chilled and unchilled beer shall be $100. A Class B license shall
authorize the licensee to sell nonintoxicating beer at retail in bottles, cans
or other sealed containers only, and only for consumption off the licensed
premises. Sales under this license to any person at any one time must be in
less quantities than five gallons. Such license may be issued only to the
proprietor or owner of a grocery store. For the purpose of this section the
term “grocery store” means and includes any retail establishment commonly known
as a grocery store or delicatessen, where food or food products are sold for
consumption off the premises.
   (b)   In the case of a wholesaler the license fee shall be $250 for each
place of business.
   (c)   In the case of a brewer with its principal place of business located
in this city, the license fee shall be $500 for each place of manufacture.
§ 757.04 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; DISPLAY.
   (a)   All licenses under the provisions of this article shall be issued by
the City Manager upon written application therefor verified by the applicant
under oath. Application forms shall be furnished by the city, designed to
elicit all information necessary for the City Manager to determine the
eligibility of the applicant for the license applied for; the amount of the
license fee; the location within the city of the premises to be licensed and
whether or not such premises and structures comply with all applicable
provisions of state law, the codified ordinances and other ordinances; and no
person shall make any false statement in any application for license under this
article.
   (b)   Before issuing any license hereunder, the City Manager may require the
applicant to display his or her corresponding state license.
§ 757.05 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   It shall be unlawful:
   (a)   For any licensee, his or her servants, agents or employees to sell,
give or dispense, or any individual to drink or consume, in or on any licensed
premises or in any rooms directly connected therewith, nonintoxicating beer on
weekdays between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m., or before 2:00 p.m. on
any Sunday, except in private clubs licensed under the provisions of W.Va. Code
Article 60-7, where the hours shall conform with the hours for dispensing of
alcoholic liquors;
   (b)   For any licensee, his or her servants, agents or employees to sell,
furnish or give any nonintoxicating beer to any person visibly or noticeably
intoxicated, or to any insane person, or to any habitual drunkard, or to any
person under the age of 18 years;
   (c)   For any distributor to sell or offer to sell, or any retailer to
purchase or receive, any nonintoxicating beer except for cash; and no right of
action shall exist to collect any claims for credit extended contrary to the
provisions of this section. Nothing herein contained shall prohibit a licensee
from crediting to a purchaser the actual price charged for packages or
containers returned by the purchaser for credit on any sale, or from refunding
to any purchaser the amount paid or deposited for such containers when title is
retained by the vendor;
   (d)   For any brewer or distributor to transport or deliver nonintoxicating
beer to any retail licensee on Sunday;
   (e)   For any brewer or distributor to give, furnish, rent or sell any
equipment, fixtures, signs or supplies directly or indirectly or through a
subsidiary or affiliate to any licensee engaged in selling products of the
brewing industry at retail or to offer any prize, premium, gift, or other
similar inducement, except advertising matter of nominal value, to either trade
or consumer buyers; provided that nothing contained herein shall prohibit a
distributor from offering for sale or renting tanks of carbonic gas;
   (f)   For any licensee to transport, sell, deliver or purchase any
nonintoxicating beer or product of the brewing industry upon which there shall
appear a label or other informative data which in any manner refers to the
alcoholic content of such beer or product of the brewing industry, or upon the
label of which there appear the word or words “strong”, “full strength”,
“prewar strength”, “high test” or other similar expression bearing upon the
alcoholic content of such products of the brewing industry, or which refers in
any manner to the original alcoholic strength, extract or balling proof from
which such beverage was produced except that such label shall contain a
statement that the alcoholic content thereof does not exceed 3.2% by weight;
   (g)   For any licensee to permit in his or her premises any lewd, immoral or
improper entertainment, conduct or practices;
   (h)   For any licensee, except the holder of license to operate a private
club issued under the provisions of W.Va. Code Article 60-7, to possess a
federal license, tax receipt or other permit entitling, authorizing or allowing
such licensee to sell liquor or alcoholic drinks;
   (i)   For any licensee to obstruct the view of the interior of his or her
premises by enclosure, lattice, drapes or any means which would prevent plain
view of the patrons occupying such premises. The interior of all licensed
premises shall be adequately lighted at all times; provided, that provisions of
this subsection (i) shall not apply to the premises of a Class B retailer or to
the premises of a private club licensed under the provisions of W.Va. Code
Article 60-7;
   (j)   For any licensee to manufacture, import, sell, trade, barter, possess
or acquiesce in the sale, possession or consumption of any alcoholic liquors on
the premises covered by such license or on premises directly or indirectly used
in connection therewith; provided, that the prohibitions contained in this
subsection (j) with respect to the holder of a license to operate a private
club issued under the provisions of W.Va. Code Article 60-7;
   (k)   For any licensee to print, paint or place upon a door, window, or in
any other public place in or about the premises, the word “saloon” or similar
words to be used in any advertisement by the licensee;
   (l)   For any retail licensee to permit loud, boisterous or disorderly
conduct of any kind upon his or her premises or to permit the use of loud
musical instruments if either or any thereof may disturb the peace and quietude
of the community wherein such business is located; provided, that no licensee
shall have in connection with his or her place of business any loudspeaker
located on the outside of the licensed premises that broadcasts or carries
music of any kind;
   (m)   For any person whose state license has been revoked, as provided in
W.Va. Code Article 11-16, to obtain employment with any retailer within the
period of one year from the date of such renovation, or for any retailer to
employ knowingly any such person within such time;
   (n)   For any distributor to sell, possess for sale, transport or distribute
nonintoxicating beer except in the original container;
   (o)   For any licensee to permit any act to be done upon the licensed
premises, the commission of which constitutes a crime under the laws of this
state;
   (p)   For any Class B retailer to permit the consumption of nonintoxicating
beer upon his or her licensed premises; and
   (q)   For any licensee, his or her servants, agents or employees, or for any
licensee by or through such servants, agents or employees, to allow, suffer to
permit any person under the age of 18 years to loiter in or upon any licensed
premises; except, however, that the provisions of this subsection (q) shall not
apply where such person under the age of 18 years, is in, on or upon such
premises in the immediate company of his or her parent, or where and while such
person under the age of 18 years is in, on or upon such premises for the
purpose of any actually making a lawful purchase of any items or commodities
therein sold, or for the purchase of and actually receiving any lawful service
therein rendered, including the consumption of any item of food, drink or soft
drink therein lawfully prepared and served or sold for consumption on such
premises.
§ 757.06 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Council shall revoke the license granted to any licensee under this article
subject to an appeal of any licensee to a court of competent jurisdiction,
whenever such licensee has his, her or its license revoked by the state’s
Nonintoxicating Beer Commissioner pursuant to the provisions of W.Va. Code
Article 11-16.
§ 757.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this article shall, upon
conviction, be fined not more than $500.
ARTICLE 761: INTOXICATING LIQUOR
Section
   
761.01   Levy
   
761.02   Liquor license fee
Cross-reference:
   Liquor control, see
Art. 521
Statutory reference:
   Authority to levy, see W.Va. Code §§ 8-13-7; 60-7-7
§ 761.01 LEVY.
   Pursuant to the provisions of W.Va. Code § 8-13-7, there is hereby imposed a
tax of 5% of the retail purchase price of any and all intoxicating liquors
purchased from the Alcohol Beverage Control Commission or from any person
licensed to sell wine at retail to the public under the provision of W.Va. Code
Article 60-7, within the corporate boundaries of the municipality. Such tax
shall be levied upon the purchaser of the intoxicating liquor or wine, and
shall be added to any collected with the retail purchase price of such
intoxicating liquor or wine. Such tax shall be received by the municipality
from the State Treasury pursuant to the rules and regulations adopted by the
Alcohol Beverage Control Commissioner; provided, however, that such tax shall
not be collected on intoxicating liquors, other than wine sold or purchased
from holders of a license issued under the provisions of W.Va. Code Article 60-
7. Provided further, such tax shall be collected upon all sales of wine to
holders of a license issued under the provisions of W.Va. Code Article 60-
7 from a wine distributor licensed pursuant to the provisions of W.Va. Code
Article 60-3.
(Ord. passed 8-16-1983)
§ 761.02 LIQUOR LICENSE FEE.
   (a)   As the state shall require a retail outlet to obtain a liquor license
from the state, the city, shall also issue liquor licenses subsequent to the
retail outlet receiving a liquor license from the state. After the issuance of
a state liquor license the applicant must then file an application with the
City Clerk.
   (b)   The annual retail license period shall be from July 1 to June 30, of
the following year. The annual retail license fee, if an applicant holds a
Class A retail license under state law shall be the sum of $1,500, or another
amount set by Council from time to time, per outlet. The annual retail license
if an applicant holds a Class B retail license shall be $500, or another amount
set by Council from time to time, per outlet. The annual retail license fee for
the initial year of issuance shall be prorated based on the number of days
remaining between the date of issuance and the following June 30.
   (c)   A retail license shall expire on June 30, of each year and may be
renewed only upon the submission to the City Clerk.
   (d)   No person may sell liquor at any retail outlet if the retail license
applicable to such outlet has been suspended or revoked, or has expired.
   (e)   All retail licenses issued or renewed under the provisions of this
section shall expire and be of no further force or effect as of July 1, 2000.
Licenses issued thereafter will be so issued in accordance with applicable law.
   (f)   Violations of the provisions of this article shall be punishable by a
fine of $500, or another amount set by Council from time to time.
(Ord. passed 3-6-1990)
ARTICLE 765: PRIVATE CLUBS
Section
   
765.01   License; fees
   
765.02   Display of license; prohibited sales
   
765.03   Records
   
765.04   Revocation
Cross-reference:
   Liquor control, see
Art. 521
Statutory reference:
   Authority to license, see W.Va. Code §§ 8-13-7, 60-7-7
   Private clubs, see W.Va. Code Art. 60-7
§ 765.01 LICENSE; FEES.
   All private clubs, as defined in W.Va. Code § 60-7-2, the premises of which
are situated within the corporate limits of the city and which are operated for
a profit incurring to the benefit of their owners, shall pay to the city an
annual license fee for a license issued under the provisions of W.Va. Code
Article 60-7, as follows:
   (a)   The annual license fee for a license issued to a fraternal or
veterans’ organization or a nonprofit social club shall be $375, or another
amount set by Council from time to time.
   (b)   The annual license fee for a license issued to a private club other
than a private club of the type specified in subsection (a) above shall be $500
if such private club has less than 1,000 members and $1,250, or another amount
set by Council from time to time, if such club has 1,000 or more members.
   (c)   The fee for any such license issued following January 1, of any year
and to expire on June 30, of such year shall be one-half of the annual license
fee prescribed by subsections (a) and (b) above.
§ 765.02 DISPLAY OF LICENSE; PROHIBITED SALES.
   (a)   Each licensee holding a state license issued under the provisions of
W.Va. Code Article 60-7 for a private club the premises of which are situated
within the city, shall, upon first obtaining such license and at the time of
each renewal thereof, report to the City Clerk’s and display such state license
to him or her and pay the city license fee which is imposed upon him or her by
this article, and it shall be unlawful for any such licensee or any officer,
member or employee of any private club so licensed, the premises of which being
situated within the city limits of this city, to see intoxicating liquor upon
such premises unless all fees due to the city, as provided in this article have
been paid.
   (b)   All such fees shall be paid in the City Clerk’s office at the City
Hall on or before June 30, for the ensuing fiscal year, whereupon a license
shall be issued by the City Clerk, which shall be on such form or forms as
prescribed by him or her.
§ 765.03 RECORDS.
   The City Clerk, upon display to him or her of a state private club license,
shall make a record thereof and preserve such record in his or her office, and,
upon payment to him or her of the city license fee as prescribed in this
article, he or she shall issue to the licensee a receipt for such payment,
which shall indicate the amount paid, the type of private club and its address
within the city, and expiration date of the license for which such city license
fee has been paid. It shall be the duty of each such licensee to maintain such
city receipt on display in a conspicuous place on the premises of the private
club to which it relates.
§ 765.04 REVOCATION.
   In the event that any private club license issued by the state, or any
agency thereof, is revoked, then, in such event, any license issued under this
article shall be likewise revoked and shall be null and void, without the
necessity of further proceedings hereunder, and the City Clerk shall note the
fact in his or her records.
ARTICLE 769: PUBLIC UTILITY SERVICE TAX
Section
   
769.01   Definitions
   
769.02   Imposition and levying of tax; amount
   
769.03   Collection; payment; accounting; effective date; proration
   
769.04   Records
   
769.05   Exemptions
   
769.06   Nonliability of utility; refunds, rules and regulations
   
769.07   Notice to utilities
 
   
769.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Business and occupation tax on utilities, see §
745.08
Statutory reference:
   Public utilities tax, see W.Va. Code § 8-13-5a
§ 769.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words and phrases, when used in this article, shall for the
purpose of this article, have the following respective meanings.
   (a)   “Person” includes individuals, firms, partnerships, associations,
corporations and combinations thereof, of whatever form or character.
   (b)   “Public utility service” means all services and tangible personal
property purchased within this municipality from a seller, as hereinafter
defined in this section, namely, telephone service; electric service; gas
service, including bottles or liquid gas, if the seller thereof is classified
as a public utility subject to the jurisdiction of the Public Service
Commission of the state; water service and sanitary sewer service, if
purchased, used or consumed within the corporate limits of this municipality.
   (c)   “Purchaser” includes every person who purchases, uses or consumes a
public utility service.
   (d)   “Seller” includes every person, whether a public service corporation,
a municipality or private corporation, classified as a public utility and
subject to the jurisdiction of the Public Service Commission of the state, who
sells, furnishes or supplies a public utility service.
   (e)   “User” means the owner or tenant of private residential property or
the owner or tenant of property used for commercial or industrial purposes, and
every combination thereof, of every kind or description.
§ 769.02 IMPOSITION AND LEVYING OF TAX; AMOUNT.
   (a)   There is hereby imposed and levied upon each and every purchaser of a
public utility service, an excise tax upon the privilege of purchasing, using
or consuming, within the corporate limits of this municipality, such public
utility service.
   (b)   Such tax shall be in the amount of 2% of the charge, exclusive of any
federal or state tax thereon imposed upon the purchaser, made by the seller
against the purchaser, with respect to each public utility service, which tax
in every case shall be collected by the seller and paid by the purchaser upon
the amount of each periodic statement rendered such purchaser by the seller,
and shall be paid by the purchaser to the seller at the time of the purchase or
such charge shall become due and payable under the agreement between the
purchaser and the seller.
§ 769.03 COLLECTION; PAYMENT; ACCOUNTING; EFFECTIVE DATE; PRORATION.
   It shall be the duty of every seller in acting as the tax collecting medium
or agent for this municipality, to collect from each purchaser for the use of
this municipality, the tax hereby imposed and levied at the time of collecting
the purchase price charged for its public utility service, and the amount of
tax actually collected during each calendar month shall be reported by each
seller to this municipality, and each seller shall remit the amount of tax
shown by such report to have been collected, to this municipality on or before
the last day of the second calendar month following the month in which
collected, together with the name and address of any purchaser who has failed
or refused to pay the tax so imposed and levied. The tax imposed and levied by
this article shall apply to periodic statements rendered after July 1, 1971,
for public utility service rendered subsequent to July 1, 1971, and when any
such periodic statement covers public utility service rendered both before and
after such date, only that portion of the charge for public utility service
rendered after such date shall be such portion of the total charge as the
number of days after June 30, 1971, within the period covered by such periodic
statement, bear to the total number of days covered by such periodic statement.
The required reports shall be in the form prescribed by the official of this
municipality charged with the responsibility of collecting taxes due this
municipality.
§ 769.04 RECORDS.
   Each and every seller shall keep and maintain complete records showing all
purchases of public utility service within the corporate limits of this
municipality, which records shall show the charge made against each purchaser,
the dates such public utility service was furnished, the date of payment
therefor, and the amount of tax imposed hereunder, and such records shall be
kept for a least two years, during which period they may be inspected by the
duly authorized agents of this municipality, at reasonable times, and duly
authorized agents of this municipality shall have the right, power and
authority to make at the expense of this municipality, such transcripts thereof
during such times as they may desire.
§ 769.05 EXEMPTIONS.
   The tax hereby imposed and levied shall not apply to the following
transactions:
   (a)   Purchases of public utility service for resale;
   (b)   Purchases of public utility service by the United States of America,
the state and the political subdivisions, municipalities, boards, commissions,
authorities and public corporations thereof;
   (c)   Purchases of tangible personal property such as appliances of the
like, as distinguished from the public service supplied;
   (d)   Charges for telephone services which are paid by the insertion of
coins into coin-operated telephones, and specific charges or tolls for
telephone calls to points outside the corporate limits of this municipality;
and
   (e)   Non-recurring or one-time charges incidental to the furnishing of
public utility service.
§ 769.06 NONLIABILITY OF UTILITY; REFUNDS, RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (a)   There shall be no liability upon the seller for erroneously failing to
bill for such tax as a result of a good faith mistake on the part of the
seller. When any purchaser contends that such tax is not owed by such purchaser
on the ground that the public utility service was not purchased, used or
consumed within the corporate limits of this municipality, the seller shall
refer the question to the official of this municipality charged with the
responsibility of collecting taxes due to this municipality, and such seller
shall thereafter collect or refrain from collecting such tax from such
purchaser for such public utilities service, as instructed in writing to do by
such officials of this municipality. Any and all claims for refunds of any such
tax shall be presented to this municipality and not to the seller.
   (b)   The official of this municipality charged with the responsibility of
collecting taxes due this municipality, shall have the authority to promulgate
and enforce reasonable rules and regulations necessary for the administration
and enforcement of this article.
§ 769.07 NOTICE TO UTILITIES.
   The tax hereby imposed and levied shall not be effective until this
municipality gives 60 days’ notice in writing, by certified mail, of the
effective date of the section, to any public utility doing business within this
municipality, which is required to collect the tax imposed and levied hereby.
§ 769.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   Any amount of tax due and unpaid under this article shall be a debt
due this municipality. It shall be a personal obligation of the purchaser which
shall be enforceable as provided in W.Va. Code 8-13-15 or in any other manner
now or hereafter provided by law for compelling the payment of taxes due
municipalities.
   (b)   Any purchaser failing or refusing to pay the tax hereby imposed and
levied and any seller or purchaser violating any of the provisions hereof or
any lawful rule and regulation promulgated hereunder, shall be fined not more
than $100. The failure or refusal to pay the tax for public utility service
purchased, used or consumed during different periodic statement periods, shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense.
ARTICLE 773: WINE DISTRIBUTORS AND RETAILERS
Section
   
773.01   License required
   
773.02   Tax imposed
   
773.03   Application and issuance of license
   
773.04   License for more than one establishment
Cross-reference:
   Liquor control, see
Art. 521
Statutory reference:
   Authority to levy, see W.Va. Code § 8-13-4
§ 773.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (a)   There is hereby imposed an annual license tax upon distributors and
retailers of wine within the city, and to such end, after the effective date of
this section, no person may engage in business in the capacity of distributor
or retailer of wine as provided by W.Va. Code Article 60-8, within the
corporate limits of the city, nor shall a person continue to engage in any such
activity after his or her license has expired, been suspended or revoked.
   (b)   No person may be licensed in more than one of such capacities at the
same time.
(Ord. passed 7-7-1981)
§ 773.02 TAX IMPOSED.
   The city shall collect an annual fee for a license issued under this article
as follows:
   (a)   Twenty-five hundred dollars per year for a distributors license; and
   (b)   One hundred fifty dollars per year for a retailer’s license.
(Ord. passed 7-7-1981)
§ 773.03 APPLICATION AND ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   The license period shall begin on July 1, of each year and ending on June
30, of the following year, and if the initial license is granted for less than
a year, the fee shall be computed in proportion to the number of quarters
remaining the fiscal year, including the quarter in which application is made.
(Ord. passed 7-7-1981)
§ 773.04 LICENSE FOR MORE THAN ONE ESTABLISHMENT.
   A retailer who has more than one place of retail business shall obtain a
license for each separate retail establishment. A retailer’s license may be
issued only to the proprietor or owner of a bona fide grocery store or wine
specialty shop.
(Ord. passed 7-7-1981)
ARTICLE 777: MUNICIPAL SERVICE FEE
Section
   
777.01   Definitions
   
777.02   Assessment
   
777.03   Monthly billing
   
777.04   Due date; default
   
777.05   Debt a personal obligation
   
777.06   Unlawful refusal of payment
   
777.07   New and separate offense
   
777.08   Prosecution
   
777.09   Right to promulgate rules and regulations
   
777.10   Charges imposed in addition to other charges
 
   
777.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Power to levy, see W.Va. Code § 8-13-13
§ 777.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (a)   “Municipal service user” means any person, association, corporation,
partnership, joint venture, trust, institution or other group who receives
municipal services through and provided by, the city.
   (b)   “Domestic user” means a single person or family unit receiving
municipal services and who resides in a residence dwelling house, apartment,
mobile home or trailer, and all warehouses. A family unit shall be considered
as one municipal service unit.
   (c)   “Commercial user” means a person, association, corporation,
partnership, joint venture, trust or other group engaged in a business or
profession, which receives municipal services. In a building occupied by two or
more commercial or professional tenants, each tenant shall be considered a
municipal service user.
   (d)   “Institution” means Alderson Broaddus College, Broaddus Hospital, the
Barbour County Court, the Board of Education of Barbour County, Barbour County
Bank, First National Bank in Philippi and manufacturers.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1993; Ord. passed 5-5-2015)
§ 777.02 ASSESSMENT.
   There is hereby imposed, levied and assessed upon each municipal service
user:
   (a)   A municipal service charge of $9.50 per month, or a fraction thereof,
or another amount set by Council from time to time, upon each domestic user
within the corporate boundary of the city for each electric meter;
   (b)   A municipal service charge of $15 per month, or a fraction thereof, or
another amount set by Council from time to time, upon each commercial user
within the corporate boundary of the city for each electric meter; and
   (c)   A municipal service charge of $30 per month, or a fraction thereof, or
another amount set by Council from time to time, upon each institutional user
who resides within the corporate boundary of the city for each electric meter
except the Board of Education of the county, and the fee shall there be charged
on each school.
(Ord. passed 4-21-1998; Ord. passed 5-5-2015)
§ 777.03 MONTHLY BILLING.
   The charges and fees hereby provided for shall be billed and collected
monthly in advance.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1993; Ord. passed 5-5-2015)
§ 777.04 DUE DATE; DEFAULT.
   All municipal service charges shall be due and payable in the office of the
City Manager within ten days after bills for said charges have been mailed. A
penalty of 10% shall be added to such charges if not paid within the ten-day
period. If default continues for a period of more than 30 days, an additional
10% penalty shall be added for each and every 30-day period, or a fraction
thereof, that such municipal service charges remain unpaid.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1993; Ord. passed 5-5-2015)
§ 777.05 DEBT A PERSONAL OBLIGATION.
   The charges levied and assessed under the provisions of this article shall
be a debt due the city and shall be a personal obligation of the municipal
service user.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1993; Ord. passed 5-5-2015)
§ 777.06 UNLAWFUL REFUSAL OF PAYMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any municipal service user to refuse to pay the
municipal service charges herein provided. It shall also be unlawful for any
municipal service user to aid or abet another municipal service user in
avoiding the payment of the municipal service charges herein imposed.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1993; Ord. passed 5-5-2015)
§ 777.07 NEW AND SEPARATE OFFENSE.
   Each month, or a fraction thereof, that a municipal service user is in
violation of this article shall constitute a new and separate offense.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1993; Ord. passed 5-5-2015)
§ 777.08 PROSECUTION.
   The city may prosecute any municipal service user under §
777.09, in addition to imposing the penalties under §
777.04.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1993; Ord. passed 5-5-2015)
§ 777.09 RIGHT TO PROMULGATE RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   Council may promulgate from time to time the rules and regulations to
effectuate the provisions of this article, which rules and regulations shall
have, upon proper promulgation, the force and effect of law.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1993; Ord. passed 5-5-2015)
§ 777.10 CHARGES IMPOSED IN ADDITION TO OTHER CHARGES.
   The charges imposed, levied and assessed by this article shall be in
addition to all other licenses and taxes levied by the statutes of the state
and by the ordinances of the city.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1993; Ord. passed 5-5-2015)
§ 777.99 PENALTY.
   Any municipal service user violating any provision of this article or any of
the rules and regulations promulgated by Council hereunder, shall, upon
conviction thereof, be fined not more than $100, and costs of prosecution.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1993; Ord. passed 5-5-2015)
ARTICLE 781: EXCHANGE OF TAX INFORMATION
Section
   
781.01   Purpose
   
781.02   Exchange of information
   
781.03   Information subject to exchange
   
781.04   Disclosure to other governmental units
   
781.05   Persons entitled to secure information
   
781.06   Withholding of tax information
   
781.07   Security and protection of return information
§ 781.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this article is to aid in the administration of state and
municipal taxes by providing for the exchange of tax information between the
state and the city.
§ 781.02 EXCHANGE OF INFORMATION.
   The state and city hereby agree that they shall, in accordance with the
terms and conditions contained in this article exchange, disclose to and permit
the other party to inspect tax information in its possession, but only to the
extent necessary in the administration and enforcement of the requesting
party’s tax laws and for the assessment and collection of its taxes.
§ 781.03 INFORMATION SUBJECT TO EXCHANGE.
   (a)   Tax information subject to this agreement shall include reports,
declarations and returns, or copies thereof, filed with the Tax Commissioner or
the appropriate municipal authorities, provided that:
      (1)   This information is limited to business and occupation tax and
income tax on sales from single location business and liquor sales tax; and
      (2)   This information shall be furnished only to the extent necessary
for the administration of the requesting party’s tax laws.
   (b)   Under no circumstances shall the tax information exchange include any
information or data secured from the federal government, from another state or
the District of Columbia, or from any other municipality or local government
unit.
(Ord. passed 10-27-1992)
§ 781.04 DISCLOSURE TO OTHER GOVERNMENTAL UNITS.
   Neither party to this agreement shall disclose any tax information obtained
by virtue of this agreement to the federal government, to another state, to
other agencies or departments of the receiving party, or to any other local
government unit or municipality without the consent of the party from which the
information is obtained.
§ 781.05 PERSONS ENTITLED TO SECURE INFORMATION.
   (a)   The parties to this agreement shall furnish, in writing, the names,
addresses and other needed information of the personnel authorized to request,
inspect and receive tax information under the terms of this article.
   (b)   The Tax Commissioner or the appropriate municipal authority shall
promptly give written notice to the other party of any change in employment,
duties or other relevant matters which affect a designated person’s right to
request, inspect and receive information under this article.
§ 781.06 WITHHOLDING OF TAX INFORMATION.
   Either party to this agreement may withhold or refuse to exchange tax
information if disclosure of such information would be detrimental to its
ability to enforce or to administer its tax laws, or to the assessment and
collection of taxes; or if disclosure of such tax information would interfere
with any pending audit or litigation; or if the security measures practiced by
the requesting party are insufficient to ensure the confidentiality of the tax
information requested.
§ 781.07 SECURITY AND PROTECTION OF RETURN INFORMATION.
   (a)   It shall be the obligation of the party who requested and received tax
information under this agreement to protect the confidentiality and secrecy of
that information.
   (b)   Any officer or employee of the city who makes such disclosure is
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined not more than
$1,000, together with the costs of prosecution.
   (c)   For the purposes of this article, “unauthorized disclosure” means the
release to any person of any tax information obtained by virtue of this
agreement, unless the person receiving the information is the authorized
counsel of the state or city and shall be using the information only for the
purpose of administering business and occupation taxes or carrier income taxes;
or the person who filed the return has authorized, in writing, its release,
thereby waiving his or her right to secrecy.
(Ord. passed 8-8-2017), Utilities and Public Services Code
PART NINE: STREETS, UTILITIES AND PUBLIC SERVICES CODE
CHAPTER ONE - Street and Sidewalk Areas
ARTICLE 905: ABANDONMENT
Section
   
905.01   Petition to abandon
   
905.02   Deposit of costs; fees nonreturnable
   
905.03   Action by Council; hearing
   
905.04   Grounds for disapproval
   
905.05   Division of abandoned public way
   
905.06   Quitclaim deed
§ 905.01 PETITION TO ABANDON.
   (a)   Any person may file with the City Clerk his or her petition, duly
verified, setting forth the facts and reasons for abandonment and vacation of
some street, alley or public way and request that the city abandon and vacate
the same and the interest of the petitioner in the abandonment and vacation.
Accompanying such petition shall be an engineer’s plat or map thereof showing
the portion of any street, alley or public way, proposed to be abandoned
together with the names and addresses of the abutting property owners; also
attached to such petition shall be letters or affidavits of the abutting
property owners showing their consent to the abandonment or vacation. In the
event the latter cannot be obtained, the reason for its omission shall be fully
indicated in the petition.
   (b)   Also accompanying such petition shall be sufficient information
documenting title of the abutting property owners, giving deed book, page, date
of deed and record date; the names of grantor and grantee; will book, page and
date if it was by will; data as to inheritance if it was by inheritance and all
the information which would be necessary in order to identify and verify the
ownership of the persons desiring quitclaim deeds and also furnishing
sufficient information to the City Engineer and City Attorney for the
preparation of such deeds prior thereto.
§ 905.02 DEPOSIT OF COSTS; FEES NONRETURNABLE.
   The petitioner shall deposit, at the time of filing his or her petition, the
sum of $100 plus $25, or another amounts set by Council from time to time, for
each quitclaim deed to cover the administrative cost, cost of publication, the
costs of preparation of the deeds and recordation thereof. No part of the
filing fee paid pursuant to this section shall be returnable to the applicant
or petitioner.
§ 905.03 ACTION BY COUNCIL; HEARING.
   (a)   Upon receipt of the petition hereinbefore mentioned, the Clerk shall
present the same to Council. Council shall then, ascertain and determine
whether the street, alley or public way serves, or is expected to serve any
public purpose.
   (b)   Council shall consider an ordinance providing for the vacation and
abandonment of the street, alley or public way. A public hearing thereon shall
be held in accordance with regular procedures prior to passage of such
ordinance.
§ 905.04 GROUNDS FOR DISAPPROVAL.
   Council will not approve an abandonment or vacation of any street, alley or
public way under the following conditions:
   (a)   If the street, alley or public way serves or is expected to serve any
public purpose;
   (b)   If any person or property, not consenting to such vacation or
abandonment, is found to suffer special damage;
   (c)   If the vacation or abandonment will landlock or make inaccessible any
property, where the owners thereof have not consented; and
   (d)   If the vacation or abandonment unreasonably impedes the flow of
traffic.
§ 905.05 DIVISION OF ABANDONED PUBLIC WAY.
   Unless otherwise agreed by the owners of the property abutting thereon, the
street, alley or public way shall be divided along the centerline, and each
abutting property owner taking such portion thereof to the centerline.
§ 905.06 QUITCLAIM DEED.
   The ordinance vacating and abandoning the street, alley or public way shall
provide that the City Manager execute and deliver to the proper party a
quitclaim deed for that portion of the street, alley or public way to go to
such property owner.
ARTICLE 915: OPENING PROCEDURE
Section
   
915.01   Petition; opening of streets and alleys
   
915.02   Action by Council
   
915.03   Dispensing with petition of private citizen
   
915.04   Assessments
   
915.05   Assessments as debt due city; lien on property
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-5(2)
   Street assessments, see W.Va. Code Art. 8-18
§ 915.01 PETITION; OPENING OF STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   Whenever any private citizen in the city desires a street, alley or other
public way to be opened in the city, he or she may file with the City Clerk a
petition, duly verified, setting forth the facts and reasons for the opening of
a street, alley or other public way. Accompanying such petition shall be an
engineer’s plat or map thereof showing the location and dimensions of the
street, alley or other public way to be opened. Also attached to the petition
shall be letters or affidavits of the abutting property owners showing their
consent or disapproval of the proposed matter; an estimate of the costs of
opening; and a statement by each abutting property owner whether he or she
shall be willing to assume his or her proportionate share of costs for the
opening.
§ 915.02 ACTION BY COUNCIL.
   (a)   Upon receipt of the petition to open a street, alley or other public
way, the City Clerk shall present the same to Council. Council shall have the
right, by simple resolution, to declare the street, alley or other public way
referred to in the petition to be opened for public use and travel as of a date
to be named in the resolution.
   (b)   Such resolution may further attach conditions and specifications in
the opening as may be deemed proper. Nothing in this section shall prevent
Council from holding, in its discretion, a public hearing at the regular
Council meeting in which any proposed resolution is acted upon.
§ 915.03 DISPENSING WITH PETITION OF PRIVATE CITIZEN.
   Council, in situations of utmost and immediate interest and practicality to
the city, may dispense with the necessity of a petition of a private citizen to
open a public street, alley or other public way and direct by resolution that
the city open such public way and assume all costs of same.
§ 915.04 ASSESSMENTS.
   (a)   Council, upon the recommendations of the City Engineer, shall
determine the costs of opening any street, alley or other public way. Council
shall apportion the actual costs among abutting property owners, unless:
      (1)   The city assumes the costs of the opening; or
      (2)   One or more property owners voluntarily assumes the entire costs of
opening in writing.
   (b)   The statement of the estimated costs of opening and the method of
assessment under this section shall be contained in any resolution by Council
approving the opening.
§ 915.05 ASSESSMENTS AS DEBT DUE CITY; LIEN ON PROPERTY.
   All costs apportioned among abutting property owners or by another
assessment method as provided for in §
915.04, shall be a debt due the city and collectible in any court of competent
jurisdiction, and in addition shall be a lien upon the property of the owner.
ARTICLE 919: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
   
919.01   Animals; vehicles on sidewalks
   
919.02   Displaying goods
   
919.03   Disturbing barriers; driving on closed streets
   
919.04   Solicitation of patronage
   
919.05   Openings in sidewalks
   
919.06   Painting advertisements on sidewalk
   
919.07   Playing on streets
   
919.08   Snow and ice on sidewalks
   
919.09   Snow and ice on skylights and fire escapes
   
919.10   Spitting prohibited
 
   
919.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate streets and sidewalks, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-5(1)
§ 919.01 ANIMALS; VEHICLES ON SIDEWALKS.
   No person owning or having charge of any horse or mule shall permit the same
to run, walk or be upon any sidewalk or pavement in the city or drive a dray,
cart, wagon, carriage or other vehicle on any such sidewalk or pavement, except
at such points as regular crossings have been established and are maintained.
§ 919.02 DISPLAYING GOODS.
   No person shall place any merchandise or obstruction of any kind upon any
street or sidewalk within the city for the purpose of advertising, display or
sale. Wherever a business house is constructed and maintained close to the
property line between any public street or sidewalk and such business property
and the owner of the property has caused the space between the city sidewalk
line and the front of such building to be cemented or otherwise improved in
such manner as to cause the same to appear to be a part of the city sidewalk,
and such part so improved by such owner is constantly used by pedestrians as a
part of the sidewalk, no owner of such property, his or her lessee, tenant,
agent or any other person shall construct or maintain wholly or partly on such
ground between the city sidewalk line and the front of such building any
structure for the sale, advertising or display of merchandise which is
constructed in whole or in part of glass or dangerous materials.
§ 919.03 DISTURBING BARRIERS; DRIVING ON CLOSED STREETS.
   When any street has been closed or barred from entrance, for the purpose of
constructing, repairing, paving, sewering or otherwise improving such street,
either by the city or by the Board of Park Commissioners or their authorized
employees or contractors, no person shall take down or disturb any barriers
that may have been erected or drive over such streets without permission of the
Street Department, the Board of Park Commissioners or their authorized
representatives, or the contractor engaged in doing such work.
§ 919.04 SOLICITATION OF PATRONAGE.
   No person in any street or highway or upon any sidewalk or footway shall
engage in obstructing passage along or upon the same, by catching hold of or
soliciting any person or in any way interfering with his or her free passage
along any of the streets, highways, sidewalks or footways, for the purpose of
inducing or compelling him or her to buy any article or thing which such
solicitor may have for sale, whether in possession or from any store or stand,
or patronize any hotel, inn, boardinghouse or other place of entertainment or
amusement.
§ 919.05 OPENINGS IN SIDEWALKS.
   No owner, lessee or one in control of any grate, door or opening in any
sidewalk shall permit the same to remain open any longer than may be reasonably
necessary to enable such owner, lessee or occupant to move or remove goods in
the course of his or her trade or business, and while open, such grate, door or
other opening, shall be properly barricaded so as to prevent pedestrians from
falling into the same.
§ 919.06 PAINTING ADVERTISEMENTS ON SIDEWALK.
   No person shall deface any sidewalk by painting or printing thereon any
advertisement or other matter.
§ 919.07 PLAYING ON STREETS.
   No person shall engage in any sport or game which might produce injury to
anyone, or endanger the property or person on any street, except such streets
as may be hereafter designated by resolution of Council, or as shall be set
apart by the Chief of Police.
§ 919.08 SNOW AND ICE ON SIDEWALKS.
   No owner of a lot or the agent in charge thereof shall permit snow and ice
to accumulate on the sidewalk in front of or abutting upon such property for a
period of more than 24 hours after the snow or ice has fallen thereon, and if
any owner of such lot or agent in charge thereof shall fail or refuse to remove
any accumulation of snow and ice upon the property, in addition to other
penalties, the City Engineer may remove or cause to be removed the accumulation
of snow and ice, and the cost of removing the snow and ice shall be assessed
against the owner of the property abutting on the sidewalk from which the same
is removed and shall be collected as provided by law.
§ 919.09 SNOW AND ICE ON SKYLIGHTS AND FIRE ESCAPES.
   No person in charge thereof shall permit the skylights and fire escapes on
any building to become covered with accumulations of ice and snow, or materials
of any kind.
§ 919.10 SPITTING PROHIBITED.
   Spitting is hereby prohibited, either upon the walk or on the sidewalk or
upon the floor of any hall, office, hotel, apartment house, tenement or lodging
house, restaurant, store, streetcar or the stairs of any public building,
church, theater, railway station or factory.
§ 919.99 PENALTY.
   See §
101.99 for general code penalty if no specific penalty is provided.
CHAPTER THREE - Utilities
ARTICLE 921: WATER
Section
   
921.01   Definitions
   
921.02   Cross-connections restricted
   
921.03   Rules and Regulations
   
921.04   Schedule of rates
 
   
921.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Deposit limitation, see W.Va. Code § 24-3-8
   Discontinuance for nonpayment, see W.Va. Code § 8-19-13
   Power to regulate, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-5(32)
   Rate review by Public Service Commission, see W.Va. Code § 24-2-4b
§ 921.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions and terms shall apply in the interpretation and
enforcement of this article.
   (a)   “Public water supply” means the water works system furnishing water to
the municipality for general use and which supply is recognized as the public
water supply by the state’s Department of Health.
   (b)   “Cross-connection” means any physical connection whereby the public
water supply is connected with any other water supply system, whether public or
private, either inside or outside of any building or buildings, in such manner
that a flow of water into the public water supply is possible either through
the manipulation of valves or because of ineffective check or back pressure
valves, or because of any other arrangements.
   (c)   “Auxiliary intake” means any piping connection or other device whereby
water may be secured from a source other than that normally used.
   (d)   “By-pass” means any system of piping or other arrangement whereby the
public water supply is connected directly with sewer, drain, conduit, pool,
storage reservoir, or other device which normally contains sewage or other
waste or liquid which would be capable of importing contamination to the public
water supply.
   (e)   “Person” means any and all persons, natural or artificial, including
any individual firm or association, and any municipal or private corporation
organized or existing under the laws of this or any other state or county.
§ 921.02 CROSS-CONNECTIONS RESTRICTED.
   (a)   No person shall cause a cross-connection, auxiliary intake, by-pass or
interconnection to be made, or allow one to exist for any purpose whatsoever
unless the construction and operation of same have been approved by the state’s
Department of Health, and the operation of such cross-connection, auxiliary
intake, by-pass or interconnection is at all times under the direct supervision
of the Superintendent of the Water Works.
   (b)   Any person whose premises are supplied with water from the public
water supply, and who also has on the same premises a separate source of water,
or stores water in an uncovered or unsanitary storage reservoir from which the
water stored therein is circulated through a piping system, shall file with the
Superintendent of the Water Works, a statement of the non-existence of
unapproved or unauthorized cross-connections, auxiliary intakes, by-passes or
interconnections. Such statement shall also contain an agreement that no cross-
connection, auxiliary intake, by-pass or interconnection will be permitted upon
the premises until the construction and operation of same have received the
approval of the state’s Department of Health, and the operation and maintenance
of same have been placed under the direct supervision of the Superintendent of
the Water Works.
   (c)   Any person who now has cross-connections, auxiliary intakes, by-passes
or interconnections in violation of the provisions of this article shall be
allowed a reasonable time within which to comply with such provisions. After a
thorough investigation of existing conditions and an appraisal of the time
required to complete the work, the amount of time to be allowed shall be
designated by the Superintendent of the Water Works. In addition to, or in lieu
of any fines and penalties that may be judicially assessed for violations of
this article, the Superintendent of the Water Works shall discontinue the
public water supply service at any premises upon which there is found to be a
cross-connection, auxiliary intake, by-pass or interconnection, and service
shall not be restored until such cross-connection, auxiliary intake, by-pass or
interconnection has been discontinued.
§ 921.03 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (a)   Rules and Regulations for the Government of Water Utilities, adopted
by the Public Service Commission of the state, and now in effect, and all
amendments thereto and modifications thereof hereafter made by the Commission
are hereby adopted by the City Commission.
   (b)   Each consumer shall be metered and billed separately.
   (c)   Owners or landlords of buildings occupied by two or more householders
or tenants occupying separate apartments, storerooms or offices, shall be
required to install pipe lines to connect to the meter installed at the street
curb line at their own cost and expense in order that each householder or
tenant occupying such separate apartment, storeroom or office in such building
can be served through a separate meter.
   (d)   Where it is not practicable for the owner or landlord, or the owner or
landlord refuses, to install pipe lines so that each householder or tenant
occupying a separate apartment, storeroom or office can be served by separate
meter, the owner or landlord shall pay and be responsible for the water bills
for all water furnished to the several householders or tenants occupying
separate apartments, storerooms or offices in the building.
   (e)   Where the condition described in subsection (d) above exists, the
minimum charge shall apply to each of such householders or tenants occupying
separate apartments, storerooms or offices, and the minimum charge for the
building shall be determined by multiplying the number of such householders or
tenants occupying separate apartments, storerooms or offices by the minimum
charge. If the minimum charge thus arrived at is greater than an amount
ascertained by applying the schedule of rates herein set out to the total
quantity of water consumed, as metered, in such building, the owner or landlord
shall be charged for and shall pay the minimum charge for the building;
provided, however, that if such minimum charge thus arrived at is less than the
commodity rate ascertained by computing the total amount of water metered and
supplied to the building in question, then the owner or landlord shall pay the
amount ascertained by applying the schedule of rates to the total quantity of
water used in such building.
   (f)   In no instance shall two or more buildings be supplied with water
through one meter.
(Ord. passed 10-1-1984)
§ 921.04 SCHEDULE OF RATES.
   (a)   Schedule I.
      (1)   Applicability. Applicable within the entire territory served.
      (2)   Availability. Available for residential, domestic, commercial and
industrial services; to colleges; and to hospitals.
      (3)   Rates (customers with metered water supply).
 
First 2,000 gallons used per month $10.45 per 1,000 gallons
Next 3,000 gallons used per month  $10.45 per 1,000 gallons
Next 20,000 gallons used per month $5.80 per 1,000 gallons
Over 25,000 gallons used per month $4.80 per 1,000 gallons
 
      (4)   Minimum bill. Each customer shall pay a minimum charge of $20.90
per month (equivalent to 2,000 gallons of water usage).
5/8-inch meter   $20.90 per month
3/4-inch meter   $31.35 per month
1-inch meter     $52.25 per month
1-1/2-inch meter $76.29 per month
1-1/4-inch meter $104.50 per month
2-inch meter     $167.20 per month
3-inch meter     $313.50 per month
4-inch meter     $522.50 per month
6-inch meter     $1,045.00 per month
8-inch meter     $1,672.00 per month
 
      (5)   Flat rate charge. $47.03 per month; customers with non-metered
water supply; equivalent to 4,500 gallons of water usage.
      (6)   Delayed payment penalty. The above schedule is net. On all current
usage billings not paid in full when due, 10% will be added to the net current
amount unpaid. This delayed payment penalty is not interest and is only to be
collected once for each bill where it is appropriate.
      (7)   Resale rates.
 
Customer charge $50 per month
Usage charge    $4 per 1,000 gallons
 
      (8)   Customer deposits. As provided for by West Virginia Code and Public
Service Commission Rules and Regulations.
      (9)   Water service connection charge. The following charges are to be
made whenever the utility installs a new tap to serve an applicant.
         A.   A tap fee of $100 will be charged to customers applying for
service before construction is completed adjacent to the customer’s premises in
connection with a certificate proceeding before the Commission. This pre-
construction tap fee will be invalid after the completion of construction
adjacent to the applicant’s premises that is associated with a certificate
proceeding.
         B.   A tap fee of $350, or the actual cost of the connection (solely
determined by the city), whichever is greater, will be charged to customers who
apply for service outside of a certificate proceeding before the Commission for
each new tap to the system.
      (10)   Disconnect charge/reconnection charge/administrative fee.
         A.   Water service will not be restored until all past due water bills
have been paid in full and all accrued penalties plus a disconnection charge of
$30 have been paid.
         B.   There shall be a $30 reconnection charge paid prior to
restoration of water service which had been previously disconnected for any
reason.
         C.   In the event that city staff or agents collect money at the
customer’s residence or otherwise give the customer the opportunity to pay the
bill at the office in order to stop disconnection, an administrative fee of $30
shall be paid in addition to other charges to prevent disconnection.
      (11)   Returned check charge. A service charge of $25 will be imposed
upon any customer whose check for payment of charges is returned by the bank
due for any reason.
      (12)   Incremental costs. An amount not to exceed $5 per 1,000 gallons is
to be used when the bill reflects unusual consumption which can be attributed
to eligible leakage on the customer’s side of the meter. This rate shall be
applied to all such unusual consumption above the customer’s historical average
usage. The city shall establish a nondiscriminatory policy regarding this
provision for leak adjustments.
      (13)   EFT, credit card and drop box payments. A service charge will be
imposed on EFT, credit card or drop box payments. The amount shall be equal to
the actual charges to the city from the financial institution for processing
payment.
      (14)   Multiple occupancy. On apartment buildings or other multiple
occupancy buildings, each family or business unit shall be required to pay not
less than the minimum charge herein established for a five-eighths inch meter,
the minimum bill for the size of meter installed, or the actual charge for
water used, whichever is greater. Motels and hotels shall pay according to the
size of the meter installed.
   (b)   Schedule II fire protection schedule.
      (1)   Applicability. Applicable in all areas served by the city.
      (2)   Availability of service. Available for public and private fire
protection service.
      (3)   Private rates. Where connections, hydrants, sprinklers, and the
like, on property maintained by customer.
 Per Year
                                                                  Per Year
2-inch service line with hydrants, sprinklers and/or connections  $72
3-inch service line with hydrants, sprinklers and/or connections  $144
4-inch service line with hydrants, sprinklers and/or connections  $288
6-inch service line with hydrants, sprinklers and/or connections  $720
8-inch service line with hydrants, sprinklers and/or connections  $1,200
10-inch service line with hydrants, sprinklers and/or connections $2,400
12-inch service line with hydrants, sprinklers and/or connections $3,000
 
      (4)   Periodic billing. The schedule of rates and charges may be applied
on a monthly, bi-monthly, quarterly, semi-annual or annual basis, provided no
lower charges apply, at customer’s request.
      (5)   Public rates. Six thousand eight hundred dollars per annum, payable
in 12 monthly installments. The city is to be entitled to as many fire hydrants
as it may deem necessary; the said city to furnish said hydrants and to pay for
installation thereof, and the water department to maintain said hydrants.
(Ord. passed 9-19-2017)
§ 921.99 PENALTY.
   See §
101.99 for general codified ordinance penalty.
ARTICLE 925: SEWER REGULATIONS
Section
   
925.01   Definitions
   
925.02   General requirements
   
925.03   Use of public sewers required
   
925.04   Public sewers and extensions
   
925.05   Application for service
   
925.06   Customer service lines
   
925.07   Sewer user charges
   
925.08   Billing procedure
   
925.09   Liens and penalties for nonpayment
   
925.10   Access to properties
   
925.11   Detrimental wastes
   
925.12   Admission of industrial wastes
   
925.13   Change in customer
   
925.14   Discontinuance of service
   
925.15   Refund agreements
   
925.16   Protection from damage
   
925.17   Schedule of rates
 
   
925.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Sanitary Board, see
Art. 149
Statutory reference:
   Power to regulate utility systems, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-5(32)
   Sewer connections, see W.Va. Code § 8-18-22
§ 925.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meaning of terms
used herein shall be as follows:
   (a)   “B.O.D.” or “biochemical oxygen demand” means the quantity of oxygen
expressed in milligrams per liter, utilized in the biochemical oxidation of
organic matter under standard laboratory procedures of five days at 20°C.
   (b)   “Building drain” means that part of the lowest piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the customer service line
and/or to the lateral sewer.
   (c)   “Building sewer” means the extension from the building drain to the
customer service line and/or lateral sewer.
   (d)   “City” means the City of Philippi, Barbour County, West Virginia, a
municipal corporation incorporated under the laws of this state.
   (e)   “Combined sewer” means a sewer receiving both surface runoff and
sewage.
   (f)   “Customer” means a person, corporation, partnership or association and
is that party whether owner or tenant, utilizing sewer service furnished by the
city to a property.
   (g)   “Customer service line” means the extension from the building drain of
any structure to the lateral of a sanitary sewer controlled by the city.
   (h)   “Garbage” means solid wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   (i)   “Governing body” means the Mayor and Council, together, who are
charged with the responsibility of enacting ordinances and determining the
public policy for the city.
   (j)   “Improved property” means any property located within the city upon
which there is erected a structure intended for continuous or periodic
habitation, occupancy or use by human beings or animals and from which
structure sanitary sewage and/or industrial wastes are or may be discharged.
   (k)   “Industrial waste” means any garbage, refuse or sludge from a waste
treatment plant, water supply treatment plant or air pollution control facility
and other discarded material including solid, liquid, semisolid, or contained
gaseous material resulting from industrial, commercial, mining and agricultural
operations, and from community activities, but does not include solid or
dissolved material in domestic sewage or solid or dissolved materials in
irrigation return flows.
   (l)   “Lateral” means that part of the sewer system extending from a sewer
located in the street to the curb line; or, if there shall be no curb line, to
the property line; or, if no such lateral shall be provided, then “lateral”
means that portion of, or place in, a sewer which is provided for connection of
any customer service line.
   (m)   “Natural outlet” means any outlet, including storm sewers and combined
sewers, which flows into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of
surface or groundwater.
   (n)   “Owner” means any person, corporation, partnership or association
vested with ownership, legal, or equitable, sole or partial, in any real
property.
   (o)   “Person” means any individual, firm, company, association, society,
corporation, partnership or group.
   (p)   “pH” means the reciprocal of the logarithm of the hydrogen ion
concentration. The concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions, in grams, per
liter of solution.
   (q)   “Public sewer” means a sewer in which all owners of abutting
properties have equal rights that is controlled by the city.
   (r)   “Rights-of-way” or “easement” means an acquired legal right for the
specific land owned by others.
   (s)   “Sanitary sewage” means normal water-carried household and toilet
wastes from any improved property. The preferred term is wastewater.
   (t)   “Sanitary sewer” means a sewer controlled by the city that carries
liquid and water-carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings,
industrial plants and institutions, and to which storm, surface and
groundwaters are not intentionally admitted.
   (u)   “Sewer” means any pipe or conduit that carries wastewater, domestic
drainage, sanitary wastes or industrial wastes.
   (v)   “Sewer system” means all wastewater facilities, owned by the city, for
collecting, pumping, treating and disposing of sanitary sewage or industrial
wastes.
   (w)   “Significant industrial user” means any industrial user that will
contribute greater than 10% of the design flow or design pollutant loading of
the wastewater facilities.
   (x)   “Single-family dwelling” means any room, group of rooms, house trailer
or other enclosure occupied or intended for occupancy as separate living
quarters by a family or other group of persons living together, or by persons
living alone.
   (y)   “Slug” means any discharge of wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration
longer than 15 minutes and is more than five times the average 24-hour
concentration of flows during normal operation and shall adversely affect the
collection system and/or performance of the wastewater facilities.
   (z)   “Storm sewer” or “storm drain” means a sewer which carries storm and
surface waters and drainage, but excludes sewage and polluted industrial
wastes.
   (aa)   “Superintendent” means the Superintendent of sanitary sewer and
wastewater facilities for the city, or his or her authorized deputy, agent or
representative.
   (bb)   “Suspended solids” means those solids which are visible and in
suspension in the water. Included are the larger floating particles consisting
of sand, grit, clay, fecal solids, paper, sticks of wood, particles of food and
garbage, and similar materials.
   (cc)   “Wastewater facilities” means the structures, equipment and processes
required to collect, carry and treat domestic and industrial wastes and to
dispose of the effluent.
   (dd)   “Watercourse” means a channel in which a flow of water occurs, either
continuously or intermittently.
§ 925.02 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   This article has been enacted in compliance with requirements of the
United States Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) and the West Virginia
Department of Natural Resources (WVDNR).
   (b)   In accordance with EPA requirements, this article shall be reviewed by
Council no less often than every two years. Particular items to be included in
the review include the wastewater contribution of customers and customer
classes and the total cost of operation and maintenance of the wastewater
facilities. As a result of the review Council shall revise the effective rates
and charges to accomplish the following:
      (1)   Maintain the proportionate distribution of operation and
maintenance costs among customers and customer classes;
      (2)   Generate sufficient revenue to pay the total operation and
maintenance costs necessary to the proper operation and maintenance, including
replacement of the wastewater facilities; and
      (3)   Apply excess revenues collected from a class of customers to the
costs of operation and maintenance attributable to that class for the next year
and adjust rates accordingly.
   (c)   The city will notify each user, at least annually, in conjunction with
a regular bill, of the rates and that portion of the rates which are
attributable to wastewater facilities services.
§ 925.03 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED.
   (a)   No person shall place, deposit or permit to be deposited in any
unsanitary manner on public or private property within the city, or in any area
under the jurisdiction of the city, any human or animal excrement, garbage, or
objectionable waste. No person shall discharge to any natural outlet or
watercourse within the city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city,
any wastewater or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has
been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this article, as well
as with applicable regulations of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, the
West Virginia Department of Natural Resources and the state’s Department of
Health.
   (b)   Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall construct or maintain
any privy, privy vault, sinkhole, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended for wastewater disposal or storage on any property which is presently
served by a sanitary sewer of the city.
   (c)   The owners of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the city
and abutting on any street, alley, right-of-way or easement in which there is
now located or may hereafter be located a sanitary sewer of the city, are
hereby required at the owner’s expense to install suitable toilet facilities
therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper sanitary sewer
in accordance with the provisions of this article. All sanitary sewage and
industrial wastes from any improved property, after connection of such improved
property with a sewer shall be conducted into the sanitary sewer, subject to
such limitations and restrictions as are established herein or otherwise shall
from time to time be established by Council.
   (d)   Every privy vault, cesspool, sinkhole, septic tank or similar
receptacle in existence shall be abandoned and, at the discretion of Council,
shall be cleansed and filled at the expense of the owner, and any such
receptacle not so abandoned and/or cleansed and filled, shall constitute a
public nuisance and such nuisance may be abated as provided by law.
§ 925.04 PUBLIC SEWERS AND EXTENSIONS.
   (a)   Council shall be responsible for maintenance and protection of all
sanitary sewers.
   (b)   All extension of the sanitary sewers shall be approved by the city and
shall comply with applicable rules and regulations of the West Virginia
Department of Natural Resources and the state’s Department of Health.
   (c)   Any person or agency, public or private, paving or repairing a road
under which a sanitary sewer has been laid shall be responsible for adjusting
the height of manhole frames and covers to make them flush with the road
surface.
   (d)   Any person or agency, public or private, changing the elevation of the
ground surface above a sanitary sewer shall be responsible for adjusting
manhole elevations, correcting sewer structural problems, relocation of sewers,
and/or making any other changes directed by the city that shall be required to
protect the sewer and provide access to the sewer.
§ 925.05 APPLICATION FOR SERVICE.
   (a)   No person or property owners shall connect with or tap a sanitary
sewer, either directly or indirectly, without first having obtained a permit
from the Superintendent, acting for and in behalf of the city, which permit may
be secured by complying with the procedure hereinafter set forth.
   (b)   The procedure for obtaining a permit for connecting with or tapping a
sanitary sewer shall be as provided herein.
      (1)   The application for such permit shall be in the following form:
   CITY OF PHILIPPI
   PHILIPPI, WEST VIRGINIA
   APPLICATION FOR SEWER TAP PERMIT
The undersigned makes application to tap into the sewer system of the City of
Philippi as follows:
Lot No. ___________________   Block No. _________________________________
House No. _________________   Street or Avenue ___________________________
Date of Tap: Day _____________ Month ______ Year ______ Hour ________________
By: Name _________________________________      
Address: __________________________________
   The undersigned property owner, for and in consideration of the granting of the
permission to make said tap, does hereby covenant and agree that: (a) he will erect
all necessary barricades around the proposed construction and will provide red
lights for the same between sun-down and sun-up and will take all other necessary
precautions for the protection of the public; (b) he will assume sole responsibility
and liability for all claims for injury or damages which may arise or result from
said construction; (c) he will save and hold the City of Philippi harmless from any
and all claims for damages or actions at law or in equity which may arise either
directly or indirectly, out of the making and completing of the construction of the
sewer tap or connection applied for; and (d) he will be responsible and liable for
any and all damage resulting from such construction; that such liability shall
continue for a period of twenty-four months from the date of the final inspection of
the work by the duly designated representative of the city, and that such liability
shall include any and all damages or injuries to street, sidewalk, gutter or curb
which may appear within a twenty-four month period, as a result of the work done by
applicant, his agents or contractors.
   It is further understood that the word “he” shall mean any person, male or
female, or any corporation, firm, partnership or association.
   Given under my hand and seal, in duplicate, this ______ day of _______,
20________.
By: ___________________________________
 
      (2)   The sewer connection or sewer tap permit shall be in the following
form:
 
   PERMIT FOR SEWER TAP
   Pursuant to application above, approved: Permit No. ________________
Date this ______ day of _______, 20________
   CITY OF PHILIPPI
   PHILIPPI, WEST VIRGINIA
   By: __________________________________
   Its ___________________________________
 
      (3)   An application for a sewer tap or connection permit shall be
executed in duplicate. The original shall be retained by the Superintendent;
and the duplicate copy shall be delivered to the applicant upon the payment by
the applicant of the requisite fee.
   (c)   The fee for a sewer tap permit for residential commercial service
shall be $150, and the fee for a sewer tap permit for industrial service shall
be $200; provided, that where any owner, or his or her predecessors in title,
of property consisting of two or more lots has extended the required sanitary
sewer lines into a subdivision in accordance with the prior written approval
of, and inspection by, the Superintendent, acting for and in behalf of the
city, and without cost or expense to the city, the tap or connection fee shall
be $150 for the connection of the subdivision sewer main to the public sewer
main and in addition a sewer permit shall be obtained for each lot in such
subdivision as and when sewer taps or connections to serve such lots are made.
The fee for each such additional tap or connection shall be $150.
   (d)   (1)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
         (a)   For residential and commercial service; and
         (b)   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
      (2)   In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make
application on the special form furnished by the city. The permit application
shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information
considered pertinent in the judgment of the Superintendent. A permit and
inspection fee of $150 for a residential or commercial building sewer permit
and $200 for an industrial building sewer permit shall be paid to the city at
the time the application is filed.
   (e)   In cases where the city will transport and treat wastes of users
located outside of the city’s political jurisdiction, a written agreement
between Council and the political jurisdiction in which such users are located,
if there be one, shall be required as a prerequisite for obtaining a sewer
connection permit. Such agreement shall provide that the outlying political
jurisdiction will institute a system of user charges acceptable to the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency, the West Virginia Department of Natural
Resources and the state’s Public Service Commission.
§ 925.06 CUSTOMER SERVICE LINES.
   (a)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with, or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any sanitary sewer or appurtenance of the
city without first obtaining a written permit from the Superintendent.
   (b)   There shall be two classes of sewer service permits: for residential
and commercial service; and for service to establishments producing industrial
wastes. In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make application on
a special form furnished by the city. The permit application shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information considered
pertinent in the judgment of the Superintendent. An adequate and responsible
bond shall be required and delivered to the city for the purpose of repairing
and replacing any damage done to any public street or way by reason of such
installation of a sewer connection or a sewer before such permit is issued. The
city shall determine the amount of such bond.
   (c)   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation, connection and
maintenance of the customer service line shall be borne by the owner. The owner
shall indemnify the city from any loss or damage that may directly or
indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the customer service line, and
such installation shall be done by a certified plumber or a person approved by
the Superintendent under whose supervision the installation shall be made.
   (d)   A separate and independent customer service line shall be provided for
every building or series of buildings located on a single parcel of land by the
applicant. Old building sewers may be used in connection with new customer
service lines only when they are found, on examination by the Superintendent,
to meet all requirements of this article.
   (e)   The slope, alignment and materials of construction of a customer
service line, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe,
jointing, testing and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the
requirements of the sanitary sewer specifications used by the city. All
customer service lines must be a minimum of four inches in diameter and must be
of standard strength vitrified clay pipe provided with ASTM C-425 type special
joints, medium weight ductile iron pipe with O-ring rubber joints, Class 2400
asbestos-cement pipe, or polyvinyl chloride (PVC) sewer pipe meeting ASTM Spec.
2729. Adequate soil cover to protect the service line from crushing or frost
action is required. No customer service line shall be laid in the same trench
with any gas and/or water line and must be separated by at least ten feet from
any water line. The slope of the customer service line shall be no less than
one-eighth inch per foot. All excavations for customer service line
installation shall be adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to
protect the public from hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public
property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored in a manner
satisfactory to the city.
   (f)   The customer service line shall be connected to a sanitary sewer at
the place designated by the Superintendent and shall be made by the city
employees under the supervision of the Superintendent. The invert of a customer
service line at the point of connection shall be at the same or higher
elevation than the invert of the sanitary sewer.
   (g)   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, foundation drains,
areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a customer
service line or lateral sewer which in turn is connected directly or indirectly
to a sanitary sewer. Upon determination that this type of connection has been
made, the city shall cause the owner to be notified by certified mail that he
or she shall remove such connection within 30 days. Should the owner fall to do
so, penalties called for under §
925.99(b) shall be invoked.
   (h)   Except as otherwise provided in this article, each improved property
shall be connected separately and independently with a lateral through an
independent customer service line. Grouping of more than one improved property
on one customer service line shall not be permitted except under special
circumstances and for good sanitary reasons or other good causes shown and then
only after special permission of the Superintendent as may be prescribed by
Council; provided, however, a single customer service line may be permitted to
serve a school, mobile home park, apartment house or other permanent multiple
unit property.
   (i)   Where an improved property, at the time connection to a sanitary sewer
is required, shall be served by its own sewage disposal system or device, the
existing sewer line shall be broken on the structure side of such sewage
disposal system or device and attachment shall be made, with proper fittings,
to continue such sewer line as a customer service line. The Superintendent may,
at his or her discretion, permit the utilization of an existing sewer line
provided an inspection discloses that it is reasonably true to grade and
alignment and in good condition. In case of an existing sewer line utilizing a
type of sewer pipe not specified herein, the Superintendent shall have the
right to require the owner to uncover the full extent of the pipe to determine
its condition and may require its replacement with approved pipe as outlined
herein if the inspection discloses such pipe to be deteriorated in any manner.
The cost of replacing the pipe where necessary, shall be the sole
responsibility of the owner thereof.
   (j)   No customer service line shall be covered until it has been inspected
and approved by the Superintendent or his or her representative. Every customer
service line shall be maintained in a sanitary and safe operating condition by
the owner of such improved property.
   (k)   The applicant for the sewer service permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the customer service line is ready for inspection and
connection to the sanitary sewer. The connection and testing shall be made by
the Superintendent or his or her representative.
§ 925.07 SEWER USER CHARGES.
   (a)   Sewer user charges, or rates, are imposed upon and shall be collected
from the owner of each improved property which shall be connected with the
sanitary sewer system, for use of the sewer system, whether such use shall be
direct or indirect. The sewer user charges shall commence and shall be
effective as of the date of connection of each such improved property to the
sewer system or within 31 days of availability of the sewer system, whichever
is first, and shall be payable as provided herein.
   (b)   The Superintendent is authorized to bill the customer for the cost of
services performed at the request of the customer if the solution to the
problem is known or found to be the responsibility of the customer.
   (c)   Every owner of improved property which is connected to the sewer
system shall provide the city with and thereafter shall keep the city advised
of his or her correct address. Failure of any person to receive bills for sewer
user charges shall not be considered an excuse for nonpayment nor shall such
failure result in an extension of the period of time during which the net bill
shall be payable.
   (d)   Surcharge for high strength users: users discharging any water or
wastes with a 30-day average BOD in excess of 300 milligrams per liter or a 30-
day average suspended solids content in excess of 300 milligrams per liter or
containing suspended solids with a character or quantity of pollutant requiring
unusual attention or expense to handle or treat, shall pay, in addition to the
base monthly sewer user charges, an additional surcharge (Cs) as determined by
the following formula:
            Cs   =   BC(B) + SC(S) + PC(P) Vu
      Where:
            B   =   Concentration of BOD from a user above a base level (300
mg/l);
            BC   =   O & M cost for treatment of a unit for biochemical oxygen
demand (BOD);
            S   =   Concentration of suspended solids from a user above a base
level (300 mg/l);
            SC   =   O & M cost for treatment of a unit of suspended solids;
            P   =   Concentration of any pollutant from a user above a base
level;
            PC   =   O & M cost for treatment of a unit of any pollutant; and
            Vu   =   Volume contribution from a user per unit of time.
   (e)   Council shall review user charges annually and revise them
periodically to reflect actual treatment works operation and maintenance costs.
§ 925.08 BILLING PROCEDURE.
   All rates or charges provided for by this article shall be billed and
collected monthly by the city or by persons or agencies authorized by the city.
All bills shall be considered due and payable on or before the twentieth day
following the date rendered.
§ 925.09 LIENS AND PENALTIES FOR NONPAYMENT.
   (a)   Sewer user charges or related charges imposed by ordinance shall be a
lien on the improved property connected to and served by the sewer system; and
any such sewer user charges or other charges which are delinquent for a period
of 30 days shall, together with a penalty of 10% and a reasonable attorney’s
fee, be filed as a lien against the improved property and premises so connected
to and served by the sewer system, which lien shall be filed in the office of
the Clerk of the County Commission, and shall be collected in the same manner
now provided by law for the enforcement of tax liens on real property. Such
liens shall be of equal dignity, rank and priority with a lien on such premises
for state, county, school and municipal taxes.
   (b)   At the discretion of the city, it may request that the water service
to any improved property be shut off for nonpayment of sewer user charges if
the bill for sewer user charges is delinquent for a period of 50 days and such
owner shall have received 24-hour notice from the city of the intention to shut
off the water supply, provided such action is not in violation of any rules of
the West Virginia Public Service Commission or the state’s Department of
Health. In such event, water service shall not be restored until the owner of
the improved property has paid all delinquent user charges to the city, plus
the then appropriate charge for the re-installment of the water meter and
opening of the water service line.
§ 925.10 ACCESS TO PROPERTIES.
   (a)   The city and its Superintendent shall have the right of access at
reasonable times to any part of any improved property served by the sewer
system as shall be required for purposes of maintenance, inspection,
measurement, sampling and testing and for the performance of other functions
relating to service rendered by the city through the sewer system.
   (b)   Every employee of the city whose duties required him or her to enter
the premises of a customer will carry on his or her person identification as an
employee or representative of the city.
   (c)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees are authorized
to obtain information concerning industrial processes which have a direct
bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the sewer system.
   (d)   The Superintendent or other duly authorized employees of the city
bearing proper identification shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for the
purpose of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement, sampling,
repair and maintenance of any portion of the wastewater facilities lying within
such easement. All entry and subsequent work shall be done in full accordance
with the terms of the easement pertaining to the private property involved.
§ 925.11 DETRIMENTAL WASTES.
   (a)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any unpolluted
waters such as storm water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage or
cooling water to any sanitary sewer.
   (b)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any sanitary sewer:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, motor oil or other
flammable or explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (2)   Any water or waste with a BOD in excess or 300 milligrams per
liter, except as provided for herein;
      (3)   Any water or waste containing suspended solids in excess of 300
milligrams per liter, except as provided for herein;
      (4)   Any water containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or gases in
sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, to
injure or interfere with any waste treatment process, constitute a hazard to
humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in receiving
waters of the wastewater treatment plant effluent;
      (5)   Any water or waste having a pH lower than 6.5 or greater than 8.5
or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment or personnel of the wastewater facilities or the sanitary
sewers; and
      (6)   Any solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size
capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sanitary sewers, or other
interference with the proper operation of the wastewater facilities such as,
but not limited to, gravel, ashes, bones, red dog, sand, mud, coal, straw,
shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar, plastics, wood, unground garbage,
whole blood, paunch manure, hair and fleshings, entrails, and paper dishes,
cups, milk, containers and the like, either whole or ground by garbage
grinders.
   (c)   The following described substances, materials, waters or wastes shall
be limited in discharges to the sewer system, to concentrations or quantities
which will not harm either the sanitary sewers or wastewater facilities; will
not have an adverse effect on the receiving stream; or will not otherwise
endanger lives, limb, public property or constitute a nuisance. The limitations
or restrictions on materials or characteristics of waste or wastewater
discharged to the sewer system which shall not be exceeded by any person
without approval of the Superintendent are as follows:
      (1)   Wastewater having a temperature higher than 40°C;
      (2)   Wastewater containing more than 25 milligrams per liter of
petroleum oil, non- biodegradable cutting oils or products of mineral oil
origin;
      (3)   Wastewater containing floatable oils, fat or grease in excess of
500 milligrams per liter;
      (4)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded with no particle
greater than one-half inch any dimension. Garbage grinders may be connected to
sanitary sewers only from homes, hotels, institutions, restaurants, hospitals
or similar places where garbage originates from the preparation of food in on-
site kitchens for the purpose of consumption on the premises;
      (5)   Any water or waste containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, mercury
and similar objectionable or toxic substances to such degree that any such
material received in the composite wastewater at the wastewater facilities
exceeds the limits established by Council for such materials;
      (6)   Any water or waste containing color-producing or odor-producing
substances exceeding limits which may be established by Council;
      (7)   Any radioactive waste or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by Council in compliance with
applicable state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Quantities of flow, concentrations, or both which constitute a
“slug” as defined herein; and
      (9)   Water or waste containing substances such as synthetic detergents
which are not amenable to treatment or reduction by the wastewater facilities
employed, or are amenable to treatment only to such degree that the wastewater
facilities effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having
jurisdiction over discharge to the receiving waters.
   (d)   (1)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Superintendent, acting for and in behalf of the city, they are
necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing grease in excess
of amount provided in subsection (c) above, or any flammable wastes, sand and
other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be required
for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a
type and capacity approved by the Superintendent acting for and in behalf of
the city, and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for
cleaning and inspection.
      (2)   Grease and oil interceptors shall be constructed of impervious
materials capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature.
They shall be of substantial construction, watertight, and equipped with easily
removable covers which when bolted in place shall be gastight and watertight.
      (3)   Where installed, all grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be
maintained by the owner, at his or her expense, in continuously efficient
operation at all times.
   (e)   No statement contained in this article shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between Council and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the city for treatment.
§ 925.12 ADMISSION OF INDUSTRIAL WASTES.
   (a)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged into the sewer
system any industrial wastes except upon application to the city and upon
receipt of a written permit therefor. An industrial waste permit shall be in
addition to any other permit required for connection to the sewer system. There
is no fee required for an industrial waste permit.
   (b)   Any person desiring to make or use a connection to the sewer system
through which industrial waste will be discharged into the sewer system shall
file with the city an industrial wastes questionnaire, to be furnished by the
city, which shall supply pertinent data, including estimated quantity, flow
characteristics and constituents, with respect to the industrial wastes.
   (c)   Any person who shall discharge industrial wastes into the sewer
system, when required by the city, shall construct and thereafter properly
maintain at his or her own expense, a suitable and accessible control manhole
and other devices as may be approved by the Superintendent to facilitate
observation, accurate measurement and sampling by the city of industrial waste
discharges.
   (d)   Any improved property discharging industrial wastes into the sewer
system and contemplating a change in the method of operation which will alter
the characteristics and/or volumes of wastes at the time being discharged into
the sewer system shall notify the city, in writing, at least 60 days prior to
consummation of such change. The city reserves the right to require improved
properties having large variations in rates of waste discharge to install
suitable regulating devices for equalizing waste flows to the sewer system.
   (e)   Council reserves the right to impose surcharges on sewer user charges
and/or impose other requirements in connection with any high strength or
industrial waste discharged into the sewer system by agreement with the owner
of the improved property, in accordance with the methods described in this
article, or by modification or alterations to this article as may be acceptable
to the West Virginia Department of Natural Resources and the United States
Environmental Protection Agency, and/or require the pretreatment of such
industrial waste at the expense of such owner.
§ 925.13 CHANGE IN CUSTOMER.
   Each sewer service permit applicant must give written notice to the city
upon any change in ownership of any improved property. The applicant must give
written notice also of any change in tenancy and the applicant shall be liable
for any sewer user charges that may accrue prior to the notice of vacation of
premises.
§ 925.14 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   Any customer desiring discontinuance of sewer service due to the vacancy of
his or her premises shall make application therefor directly to the
Superintendent. Only premises which are both vacant and have had the water
supply shut off for one or more complete monthly billing periods are eligible
for exoneration from sewer user charges. No exoneration will be granted for
less than one full month. In the case of premises with private water supply
facilities, such application shall be supported by an affidavit to the effect
that such water supply has been shut off. Application for exoneration must be
made at least five days in advance of the beginning of discontinuance of
service. In all cases involving water service from the city, such service shall
not be restored until the owner of the improved property has paid the necessary
charge for the reinstallation of the water meter and opening of the water
service line.
§ 925.15 REFUND AGREEMENTS.
   In cases where extensions to the sewer system are constructed by a builder
or developer at his or her own expense, or by a group of applicants at their
own volition and expense, as outlined in the Public Service Commission of West
Virginia Rules and Regulations for the operation of sewer utilities, a refund
of a portion of the sewer user charges paid by customers occupying dwellings
served may be made to the builder, developer or other applicants under the
terms of a refund agreement, entered into between Council and the builder,
developer or other applicants. Such agreement will provide for refunds not
exceeding such amounts and for such periods as may be authorized by Council.
Each refund agreement shall be an individual agreement between the interested
parties, and shall not be construed as outlining a definite procedure as to
percentage of refund or the duration thereof. Each and every separate refund
agreement shall be negotiated independently of any other existing similar
agreement. In no event shall the terms of any refund agreement exceed ten years
in duration.
§ 925.16 PROTECTION FROM DAMAGE.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or
equipment which is a part of the city wastewater facilities. Any person
violating this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of
disorderly conduct.
§ 925.17 SCHEDULE OF RATES.
   (a)   Step one.
      (1)   Schedule I.
         A.   Applicability. Applicable within the entire territory served.
         B.   Availability. Available for domestic, commercial, industrial
(except unusual industrial wastes) and resale sewer service.
         C.   Rates.
 
First 4,000 gallons used per month      $8.35 per 1,000 gallons
Next 6,000 gallons used per month       $8.05 per l,000 gallons
Next 80,000 gallons used per month      $7.20 per 1,000 gallons
All over 100,000 gallons used per month $6.80 per 1,000 gallons
 
         D.   Minimum charge (customers with a metered water supply). Each
customer shall pay a minimum charge of $20.85 per month (equivalent to 2,500
gallons of water usage).
         E.   Flat-rate charge (customers with a non-metered water supply).
Each customer shall pay a minimum charge of $37.40 per month (equivalent to
4,000 gallons of water usage).
         F.   Delayed payment penalty. The above schedule is net. On all
accounts not paid in full when due, 10% will be added to the net current amount
unpaid. This delayed payment penalty is not interest and is to be collected
only once for each bill where it is appropriate.
         G.   Sewer service connection charge.
            1.   Three hundred fifty dollars.
            2.   The following charges are to be made whenever the utility
installs a new tap to serve an applicant:
               a.   A tap fee of $150 will be charged to customers applying for
service before construction is completed adjacent to the customer’s premises in
connection with a certificate proceeding before the Commission. This pre-
construction tap fee will be invalid after the completion of construction
adjacent to an applicant’s premises that is associated with a certificate
proceeding;
               b.   A tap fee of $350, or the actual cost of the connection
(solely determined by the Utility), whichever is greater, will be charged to
all customers who apply for service outside of a certificate proceeding before
the Commission for each new tap to the system.
         H.   Returned check charge. Twenty-five dollars. A service charge of
$25 will be imposed upon any customer whose check for payment of charges is
returned by the bank for any reason.
         I.   Disconnect charge/reconnection charge/administrative fee.
            1.   Water service will not be restored until all past sewer bills
have been paid in full and all accrued penalties plus a disconnection charge of
$25 have been paid.
            2.   There shall be a $25 reconnection charge paid prior to
restoration of water service which has been previously disconnected for any
reason. In the event that utility staff or agents collect money at the
customer’s residence in order to stop disconnection, an administrative fee of
$25 shall be paid in addition to other charges to prevent disconnection.
         J.   Incremental costs. An amount not to exceed $5 per 1,000 gallons
is to be used when a bill reflects unusual consumption which can be attributed
to eligible leakage on the customer’s side of the meter. This rate shall be
applied to all such consumption above the customer’s historical average usage.
The utility shall establish a non-discriminatory policy regarding this
provision for leak adjustments.
         K.   EFT, ACH, credit card and drop box payments. A service charge
will be imposed on EFT, ACH, credit card or drop box payments. The amount shall
be equal to the actual charges to the Utility from the financial institution
for processing payment.
         L.   Customer deposits.
            1.   As of the date of passage, the applicable provision of W.Va.
Code § 16-13-16(e):
               “The governing body may collect from all new applicants for
service a deposit of $50 or two-twelfths of the average annual usage of the
applicant’s specific customer class, whichever is greater, to secure the
payment of service rates, fees and charges in the event they become delinquent
as provided in this section. In any case where a deposit is forfeited to pay
service rates, fees and charges which were delinquent at the time of
disconnection or termination of service, service may not be reconnected or
reinstated by the governing body until another deposit equal to $50 or a sum
equal to two twelfths of the average usage for the applicant’s specific
customer class, whichever is greater, is remitted to the governing body. After
12 months of prompt payment history, the governing body shall return the
deposit to the customer or credit the customer’s account with interest at a
rate as the Public Service Commission may prescribe; provided, that where the
customer is a tenant, the governing body is not required to return the deposit
until the time the tenant discontinues service with the governing body.
Whenever any rates, fees, rentals or charges for services or facilities
furnished remain unpaid for a period of twenty days after they become due, the
user of the services and facilities provided is delinquent The user is liable
until all rates, fees and charges are fully paid. The governing body may, under
reasonable rules promulgated by the Public Service Commission, shut off and
discontinue water services to a delinquent user of sewer facilities ten days
after the sewer services become delinquent regardless of whether the governing
body utilizes the security deposit to satisfy any delinquent payments;
provided, however, that nothing contained within the rules of the Public
Service Commission shall be deemed to require any agents or employees of the
governing body to accept payment at the customer’s premises in lieu of
discontinuing service for a delinquent bill.”
            2.   a.   As of the date of passage, the applicable provision of
the PSC Sewer Rules, Rule 4.2.a.1:
               “... For a municipal sewer system only, the deposit shall not be
more than either fifty dollars ($50) or two-twelfths (2/12) of the average
annual usage of the applicant’s specific customer class, whichever is greater.
..”
               b.   This tariff in accordance with the above cited statutory
language and PSC sewer rules produces a security deposit of $74.80 (based an
average residential usage of 4,000 gpm x two months) for residential customers.
All other classes of customers will have their require deposit calculated in
accordance with the above language in regards to average usage.
      (2)   Schedule II: surcharge formula to be applied in cases where surface
drainage is connected to the utility’s sanitary sewer system.
         A.   1.   Wherever the Utility has discovered that a customer’s roof
drain, down spouts, storm sewer or other similar facilities conducting surface
water have been connected to the Utility’s sewer system, and such customer has
failed to take appropriate action within 30 days of receipt of a demand by the
Utility, in accordance with the rules and regulations of the Public Service
Commission, to eliminate such connection, a surcharge will be imposed upon the
customer calculated on the basis of the following formula:
   S = A x R x .0006233 x C
            S   =   The surcharge in dollars;
            A   =   The area under roof and/or the area of any other water
collection surface connected to the sanitary sewer, in square feet;
            R   =   The measured monthly rainfall in inches
            .0006233   =   The conversion factor to change inches of rain x
square feet of surface to thousand gallon of water; and
            C   =   The Utility’s approved rate per thousand gallons of metered
water usage.
            2.   The Utility shall not impose the surcharge unless and until
the customer has been notified by certified mail, return receipt requested, or
by hand delivery, that it has been established by smoke testing, dye testing or
on-site inspection that rain or other surface water is being introduced into
the sanitary sewer system at the customer’s location, and that the customer has
not acted within 30 days from receipt of such notice to divert the water from
the sanitary sewer system.
            3.   Said surcharge shall be calculated and imposed for each month
that said condition continues to exist. Failure to pay the surcharge and/or
correct the situation shall give rise to the possible termination of water
service in accordance with the Rules and Regulations of the Public Service
Commission of the state.
      (3)   Schedule III: surcharge formula to be applied in the cases of users
producing unusual waste.
         A.   The charge for the treatment of industrial waste will be
calculated on the basis of the following formula:
            Ci   =   VoVi + BoBi + SoSi
            Ci   =   Charge to unusual users per year;
            Vo   =   Average unit cost of transport and treatment chargeable to
volume, in dollars per gallon;
            Vi   =   Volume of wastewater from unusual users in gallons per
year;
            Bo   =   Average unit cost of treatment, chargeable to biochemical
oxygen demand (BOD) in dollars per pound;
            Bi   =   Weight of BOD from unusual users in pounds per year;
            So   =   Average unit cost of treatment (including sludge
treatment) chargeable to total solids in dollars per pound; and
            Si   =   Weight of total solids from unusual users in pounds per
year.
         B.   When an unusual user is to be served, a preliminary study of its
wastes, and the cost of transport and treatment thereof, will be made. Waste
containing materials which, in the judgment of the city, should not be
introduced into the sewer system need not be handled by it. The results of this
preliminary study will be used to determine the feasibility of the proposed
sewer service and the charge therefor, based upon the formula set out above.
         C.   Thereafter, unusual sewage will be monitored on a regular basis
and at the conclusion of each fiscal year, based on the investigation aforesaid
and audit of the city records, new cost figures will be calculated for use in
the above formula.
         D.   The cost of establishing the monitoring facilities shall be paid
by the unusual user. Based on these audited figures, additional billings
covering the past fiscal year will be made for payment by each unusual user, or
refund given by the city, as the case may be.
         E.   Such audited figures will then be used for the preliminary
billing for the next fiscal year, at the end of which an adjustment will be
made as aforesaid.
      (4)   Schedule IV: Applicable inside and outside of the limits of the
utility. Where the amount of sanitary sewage discharged into the Utility’s
wastewater collection and/or transmission and/or treatment system by certain
industrial plant or plants cannot be accurately determined by the use of the
plant’s water meter or meters, and the said plant cannot install a flow meter
to measure such waste, a special formula will be used whereby such plant or
plants will pay to the Utility a sewer charge calculated et 50 gallons of water
per each employee at the plant each working day.
      (5)   Schedule V.
         A.   Applicability. Applicable within the entire territory served.
         B.   Availability. Available for wastewater and leachate haulers.
         C.   Septic tank cleaning service registration permit fee. For each
septic tank cleaning business which uses the city’s sanitation system there
will be an annual registration/permit fee of $125. In addition, the dumping fee
will be the commodity charge below due to the concentrated nature of the
haulings.
         D.   Rates: commodity charge. Each customer shall pay a commodity
charge of $40 per 1,000 gallons per load. Load will be the actual capacity of
the truck or other transport method delivering wastewater and leachate. Actual
capacity shall be determined, or verified solely, by the Utility.
         E.   Delayed payment penalty. The above schedule is net. On all
current usage billings not paid in full when due, 10% will be added to the net
current amount unpaid. This delayed payment penalty is not interest and is to
be collected only once for each bill where it is appropriate.
         F.   Returned check charge. A service charge of $25 will be imposed
upon any customer whose check for payment of charges is returned by the bank
for any reason.
   (b)   Step 2: effective one year from the date of implementation of Step 1
rates set forth above.
      (1)   Schedule I.
         A.   Applicability. Applicable within the entire territory served.
         B.   Availability. Available for domestic, commercial, industrial
(except unusual industrial waste) and resale sewer service.
         C.   Rates.
 
First 4,000 gallons used per month      $10.40 per 1,000 gallons
Next 6,000 gallons used per month       $9.80 per 1,000 gallons
Next 90,000 gallons used per month      $8.75 per 1,000 gallons
All over 100,000 gallons used per month $8.40 per 1,000 gallons
 
         D.   Minimum charge (customers with a metered water supply). Each
customer shall pay a minimum charge of $26 per month (equivalent to 2,500
gallons of water usage).
         E.   Flat-rate charge (customers with a non-metered water supply).
Each customer shall pay a minimum charge of $41.60 per month (equivalent to
4,000 gallons of water usage).
         F.   Delayed payment penalty. The above schedule is net. On all
accounts not paid in full when due, 10% will be added to the net current amount
unpaid. This delayed payment penalty is not interest and is to be collected
only once for each bill where it Is appropriate.
         G.   Sewer service connection charge.
            1.   Three hundred fifty dollars.
            2.   The following charges are to be made whenever the Utility
installs a new tap to serve an applicant:
               a.   A tap fee of $150 will be charged to customers applying for
service before construction is completed adjacent to the customer’s premises in
connection with a certificate proceeding before the Commission. This pre-
construction tap fee will be invalid after the completion of construction
adjacent to an applicant’s premises that is associated with a certificate
proceeding; and
               b.   A tap fee of $350, or the actual cost of the connection
(solely determined by the Utility), whichever is greater, will be charged to
all customers who apply for service outside of a certificate proceeding before
the Commission for each new tap to the system.
         H.   Returned check charge. $25. A service charge of $25 will be
imposed upon any customer whose check for payment of charges is returned by the
bank for any reason.
         I.   Disconnect charge/reconnection charge/administrative fee.
            1.   Water service will not be restored until all past sewer bills
have been paid in full and all accrued penalties plus a disconnection charge of
$25 have been paid.
            2.   There shall be a $25 reconnection charge paid prior to
restoration of water service which has been previously disconnected for any
reason. In the event that Utility staff or agents collect money at the
customer’s residence in order to stop disconnection, an administrative fee of
$25 shall be paid in addition to other charges to prevent disconnection.
         J.   Incremental costs. An amount not to exceed $5 per 1,000 gallons
is to be used when a bill reflects unusual consumption which can be attributed
to eligible leakage on the customer’s side of the meter. This rate shall be
applied to all such consumption above the customer’s historical average usage.
The Utility shall establish a non-discriminatory policy regarding this
provision for leak adjustments.
         K.   EFT, ACH, credit card and drop box payments. A service charge
will be imposed on EFT, ACH, credit card or drop box payments. The amount shall
be equal to the actual charges to the Utility from the financial institution
for processing payment.
         L.   Customer deposits.
            1.   As of the date of passage, the applicable provision of W.Va.
Code § 16-13-16(e):
               “The governing body may collect from all new applicants for
service a deposit of $50 or two-twelfths of the average annual usage of the
applicant’s specific customer class, whichever is greater, to secure the
payment of service rates, fees and charges in the event they become delinquent
as provided in this section, in any case where a deposit is forfeited to pay
service rates, fees and charges which were delinquent at the time of
disconnection or termination of service, service may not be reconnected or
reinstated by the governing body until another deposit equal to $50 or a sum
equal to two- twelfths of the average usage for the applicant’s specific
customer class, whichever is greater, is remitted to the governing body. After
twelve months of prompt payment history, the governing body shall return the
deposit to the customer or credit the customer’s account with interest at a
rate as the Public Service Commission may prescribe; provided, that where the
customer is a tenant, the governing body Is not required to return the deposit
until the time the tenant discontinues service with the. governing body.
Whenever any rates, fees, rentals or charges for services or facilities
furnished remain unpaid for a period of twenty days after they become due, the
user of the services and facilities provided is delinquent The user is liable
until all rates, fees and charges are fully paid. The governing body may, under
reasonable rules promulgated by the Public Service Commission, shut off and
discontinue water services to a delinquent user of sewer facilities ten days
after the sewer services become delinquent regardless of whether the governing
body utilizes the security deposit to satisfy any delinquent payments;
provided, however, that nothing contained within the rules of the Public
Service Commission shall be deemed to require any agents or employees of the
governing body to accept payment at the customer’s premises in lieu of
discontinuing service for a delinquent bill.”
            2.   As of the date of passage, the applicable provision of the PSC
Sewer Rules, Rule 4.2.8.1:
               “. . For a municipal sewer system only, the deposit shall not be
more than either fifty dollars ($50) or two-twelfths (2/12) of the average
annual usage of the applicant’s specific customer class, whichever is greater.
..”
            3.   This tariff in accordance with the above cited statutory
language and PSC sewer rules produces a security deposit of $83.20 (based on
average residential usage of 4,000 gpm x two months) for residential customers.
All other classes of customers will have their require deposit calculated in
accordance with the above language In regards to average usage.
      (2)   Schedule II: surcharge formula to be applied in cases where surface
drainage is connected to the utility’s sanitary sewer system.
         A.   Wherever the Utility has discovered that a customer’s roof drain,
down spouts, storm sewer or other similar facilities conducting surface water
have been connected to the Utility’s sewer system, and such customer has failed
to take appropriate action within 30 days of receipt of a demand by the
Utility, in accordance with the rules and regulations of the Public Service
Commission, to eliminate such connection, a surcharge will be imposed upon the
customer calculated on the basis of the following formula:
            S = A x R x .0006233 x C
            S   =   The surcharge in dollars;
            A   =   The area under roof and/or the area of any other water
collection surface connected to the sanitary sewer, in square feet;
            R   =   The measured monthly rainfall in inches;
            .0006233   =   The conversion factor to change inches of rain x
square feet of surface to thousand gallon of water; and
            C   =   The Utility’s approved rate per thousand gallons of metered
water usage.
         B.   The Utility shall not impose the surcharge unless and until the
customer has been notified by certified mail, return receipt requested, or by
hand delivery, that it has been established by smoke testing, dye testing or
on-site inspection that rain or other surface water is being introduced into
the sanitary sewer system at the customer’s location, and that the customer has
not acted within 30 days from receipt of such notice to divert the water from
the sanitary sewer system.
         C.   Said surcharge shall be calculated and imposed for each month
that said condition continues to exist. Failure to pay the surcharge and/or
correct the situation shall give rise to the possible termination of water
service in accordance with the Rules and Regulations of the Public Service
Commission of the state.
      (3)   Schedule III: surcharge formula to be applied in the cases of users
producing unusual waste.
         A.   The charge for the treatment of industrial waste will be
calculated on the basis of the following formula:
            Ci = VoVi + BoBi + SoSi
            Ci   =   Charge to unusual users per year;
            Vo   =   Average unit cost of transport and treatment chargeable to
volume, in dollars per gallon;
            Vi   =   Volume of wastewater from unusual users in gallons per
year;
            Bo   =   Average unit cost of treatment, chargeable to biochemical
oxygen demand (BOD) in dollars per pound;
            Bi   =   Weight of BOD from unusual users in pounds per year;
            So   =   Average unit cost of treatment (including sludge
treatment) chargeable to total solids in dollars per pound; and
            Si   =   Weight of total solids from unusual users In pounds per
year.
         B.   When an unusual user is to be served, a preliminary study of its
wastes, and the cost of transport and treatment thereof, will be made. Waste
containing materials which, in the judgment of the city, should not be
introduced into the sewer system need not be handled by it. The results of this
preliminary study will be used to determine the feasibility of the proposed
sewer service and the charge therefor, based upon the formula set out above.
         C.   Thereafter, unusual sewage will be monitored on a regular basis
and at the conclusion of each fiscal year, based on the investigation aforesaid
and audit of the city records, new cost figures will be calculated for use in
the above formula. The cost of establishing the monitoring facilities shall be
paid by the unusual user. Based on these audited figures, additional billings
covering the past fiscal year will be made for payment by each unusual user, or
refund given by the city, as the case may be. Such audited figures will then be
used for the preliminary billing for the next fiscal year, at the end of which
an adjustment will be made as aforesaid.
      (4)   Schedule IV: applicable inside and outside of the limits of the
utility. Where the amount of sanitary sewage discharged into the Utility’s
wastewater collection and/or transmission and/or treatment system by certain
industrial plant or plants cannot be accurately determined by the use of the
plant’s water meter or meters, and the said plant cannot install a flow meter
to measure such waste, a special formula will be used whereby such plant or
plants will pay to the Utility a sewer charge calculated at 50 gallons of water
per each employee at the plant each working day.
      (5)   Schedule V.
         A.   Applicability. Applicable within the entire territory served.
         B.   Availability. Available for wastewater and leachate haulers.
         C.   Septic tank cleaning service registration permit fee. For each
septic tank cleaning business which uses the city’s sanitation system there
will be an annual registration/permit fee of $125. In addition, the dumping fee
will be the commodity charge below due to the concentrated nature of the
haulings.
         D.   Rates: commodity charge. Each customer shall pay a commodity
charge of $40 per 1,000 gallons per load. Load will be the actual capacity of
the truck or other transport method delivering wastewater and leachate. Actual
capacity shall be determined, or verified solely, by the Utility.
         E.   Delayed payment penalty. The above schedule is net on all current
usage billings not paid in full when due, 10% will be added to the net current
amount unpaid. This delayed payment penalty is not interest and is to be
collected only once for each bill where it is appropriate.
         F.   Returned check charge. A service charge of $25 will be imposed
upon any customer whose check for payment of charges is returned by the bank
for any reason.
(Ord. passed 8-7-2012)
§ 925.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this article except
§
925.16 shall be served by the city with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall within the period of time stated in such
notice, permanently cease all violations.
   (b)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in subsection (a) above shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon
conviction thereof shall be fined in an amount not exceeding $200 for each
violation. Each day in which any such violation shall continue shall be deemed
a separate offense.
   (c)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall
become liable to the city for any expense, loss, or damage occasioned by
Council by reason of such violation.
   (d)   Fines and costs imposed under provision of this article shall be
enforceable and recoverable in the manner provided by applicable law.
ARTICLE 929: ELECTRICITY
Section
   
929.01   Definitions
   
929.02   Character of electric service
   
929.03   Application for service
   
929.04   Deposits
   
929.05   Right-of-way
   
929.06   Service connections
   
929.07   Meter connections
   
929.08   Customer’s responsibilities
   
929.09   Resale
   
929.10   Billing and payments
   
929.11   Suspension of minimum monthly payment
   
929.12   Failure to pay
   
929.13   Emergencies
   
929.14   Discontinuance of service
   
929.15   Cancellation of contract
   
929.16   Extension of company’s facilities
   
929.17   Promises
   
929.18   Service for periods less than those specified in rate schedules
   
929.19   Local tax adjustment
   
929.20   Imposed relocations or undergrounding
   
929.21   Purchases from co-generation/small power production for non-generating
utility
   
929.22   Economic development rate
   
929.23   Schedule of rates
Editor’s note:
   The rules and regulations for electric service set forth hereinafter and the
qualifications thereto by certain rate schedules are supplementary to the
“Rules and Regulations for the Government of Electric Utilities” established by
the Public Service Commission of West Virginia, effective January 1, 1959, and
all amendments thereto and modifications thereof hereafter made by such
Commission. Nothing in this article, if in violation of any law or rule made by
the Commission, shall be deemed effective, and if any part thereof should be so
adjudged, only that particular part shall be ineffective without in any way
affecting any other portion thereof.
§ 929.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Certain words when used in contracts, schedules and rules and regulations
for electric service of the city shall be understood to have the following
meanings.
   (a)   “Company” means the City of Philippi.
   (b)   “Customer” means any person, firm, corporation or municipality
receiving and using electric service supplied by the Company through a service
connection or owning the premises so supplied through such service connection.
   (c)   “Service” means any electric energy or service which the Company may
supply, or any duty or obligation which may be performed by it.
   (d)   “Month” means approximately one-twelfth of a year and may be any
period of 25 to 35 consecutive days.
   (e)   “Service connection” means each connection through which the company
furnishes any electric service to the customer.
   (f)   “Operation” means a single enterprise conducted by a customer where
all of such enterprise is prosecuted as one unit.
§ 929.02 CHARACTER OF ELECTRIC SERVICE.
   Unless otherwise specially agreed upon, the Company will furnish single or
three-phase, 60 cycle alternating current.
§ 929.03 APPLICATION FOR SERVICE.
   (a)   A copy of the rates, and Rules and Regulations under which service is
to be rendered to the customer will be furnished upon application at offices of
the Company and the customer shall have the responsibility for selecting the
applicable rate schedule upon which his or her service shall be furnished. The
Company shall, at the request of the customer, assist in selecting an
applicable rate.
   (b)   A written application may be required from each customer under the
rates so selected by him or her which application, when duly accepted by the
Company, shall constitute a contract between the customer and the Company. Use
of electric service shall obligate the consumer to pay for the service used
regardless of whether an application has been made and signed.
   (c)   An electric service agreement when properly executed on the part of
the Company and customer will constitute a contract between the customer and
the Company.
   (d)   Contracts are not transferable without written consent of the Company.
The customer shall give five days’ written notice unless otherwise provided
for, of intended discontinuance of service and/or removal from the premises,
and in the event of failure to do so will be liable for payment for all service
rendered up to the time the Company receives notice of the customer’s
discontinuance. New customers should make application at the office of the
Company before or as soon as practicable after commencing the use of the
service, and will be charged for all service registered from and including the
day of commencing such use.
§ 929.04 DEPOSITS.
   (a)   A deposit or a suitable guarantee may be required of the customer
before service will be supplied and from time to time as a guarantee of payment
for electricity used. The Company shall not be obligated to supply service
until such condition is fulfilled and may discontinue service if the guarantee
or increased guarantee is not given when required. The Company shall pay
interest on deposits so made in accordance with statutory or regulatory
requirements. Upon discontinuance of service the Company shall have reasonable
time in which to read and remove its meters and to ascertain that the
obligations of the customer have been fully performed before refunding any
deposit.
   (b)   Where temporary service is furnished, customers shall, before service
is supplied, deposit with the Company or make suitable guarantee for payment of
an amount equal to the estimated bill as determined from the available rate
schedule and the estimated cost of making and removing the connection including
poles, lines, transformer, meters, other necessary equipment, and all labor and
expense incurred less than the salvage value of all materials to be recovered.
§ 929.05 RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   The facilities of the Company by which service shall be furnished to the
customer shall be located on over easements which shall provide a route deemed
by the Company to be the most suitable for the furnishing of such service. In
consideration of the furnishing of service by the Company, the customer shall
cause such rights and easements to be provided the Company on or within
property to be served as the Company shall deem necessary and convenient to
permit the construction, operation and maintenance of the Company’s facilities
to serve the customer. It shall not be the obligation of the Company to acquire
any right or easement on or over property of another necessary for the
furnishing of service to the customer for which acquisition the Company does
not have the right of eminent domain.
§ 929.06 SERVICE CONNECTIONS.
   The Company will make the necessary overhead connection from its lines to
the wire entrance of the customer’s building, which connection is to be placed
at a location harmless to the public and convenient to the lines of the
Company. When other than overhead service wires are required, the applicant for
service shall be responsible for the additional cost attributable to such
facilities or as otherwise provided by applicable regulatory rules of this
state. The Company shall not be obligated to connect service to be used in or
in connection with a building or structure located in whole or in part on any
property or easement of the Company.
§ 929.07 METER CONNECTIONS.
   The Company will furnish and connect the necessary metering apparatus for
measuring service to the customer. The customer is to provide a suitable meter
location so the meter may be conveniently read, inspected and tested. Prior to
connection of service by the Company the customer shall furnish and install,
and shall thereafter maintain at all times, a ground connection in compliance
with the requirements of the National Electrical Code as the same may be
amended from time to time.
§ 929.08 CUSTOMER’S RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (a)   The Company is in no way responsible for damages arising from any
error or defect in the wiring of the customer. All wiring is to be in
accordance with the regulations of the National Board of Fire Underwriters, the
National Electrical Safety Code or municipal authority having jurisdiction.
   (b)   The Company shall have the right at all reasonable hours to enter the
premises of the customer for the purpose of installing, removing, reading,
testing, replacing or otherwise disposing of its apparatus and property, and
the right of entire removal of the Company’s property in the event of the
termination of the contract for any cause.
   (c)   (1)   The customer is to install only such motors or other apparatus
or appliances as are suitable for operation with the specific character of
service supplied by the Company, and which will not be detrimental to same and
the electric service is not to be used in such a manner as to cause unprovided
for voltage fluctuations or disturbances in the Company’s distributing system.
      (2)   The Company will be the judge as to the suitability of apparatus or
appliances to be connected to its lines, and as to whether the operation of
such apparatus or appliances will be detrimental to its general service;
subject to determination by the Public Service Commission of the state in case
of controversy.
§ 929.09 RESALE.
   (a)   It is expressly understood and agreed that the electric service to be
delivered by the Company to the customer is not to be resold for any purpose
except by written consent to the Company.
   (b)   The Company does not undertake to furnish service for any electric
light or power companies other than those it owns, controls or operates.
§ 929.10 BILLING AND PAYMENTS.
   (a)   Bills for service will be rendered by the Company to the customer in
accordance with the rate selected applicable to the customer’s service. Bills
are payable at the main office or any of the collection offices of the Company
or other places designated by the Company. Customers not receiving their
monthly or bi-monthly bills at the usual time should make inquiry of the
Company in order to preserve their rights to discounts for prompt payment, as
the Company does not permit an extension of the discount period because of the
failure to receive the bill. When payment of a bill is sent by United States
mail, the applicable prompt payment discount will be allowed if it is evidenced
by legible postmark that such payment was mailed on or previous to the last day
of the discount period. In the absence of such postmark, a bill will be
considered paid on the date of its receipt by the Company.
   (b)   In the event of the stoppage of or the failure by any meter to
register the full amount of current consumed, the customer will be billed for
such period on an estimated consumption based on his or her use of current in a
similar period of like use.
   (c)   Where service is rendered under the rate schedule provisions which do
not require monthly demand measurements, meters may be read and bills rendered
either monthly or bi-monthly, at the Company’s option. When bills are rendered
bi-monthly, the minimum bill and the number of kilowatt-hours included in each
energy block of the rate shall be twice the amount specified for monthly
billing.
   (d)   Residential customers using electric service as the primary source for
house heating and commercial customers whose principal energy requirements,
including all space heating and any air conditioning are furnished by electric
service, shall have the option of paying bills under the Company’s budget plan.
The total service for the eleven-month period following the customer’s
acceptance of the budget billing plan will be estimated in advance and budget
bills will be rendered monthly on the basis of one-eleventh of the 11-month
estimate. The bill for the twelfth month shall be computed as provided in the
appropriate rate schedule and also shall include as a charge or credit, any
difference between bills based on actual use of service during the budget
period and budget bills paid during such period. If a customer fails to pay
budget bills as rendered, the Company shall have the right of withdrawing the
budget plan with respect to such customer and restoring the customer to billing
as provided for in applicable rate schedule.
   (e)   The Company may, at its option read meters and compute bills in units
of ten kilowatt-hours for residential and small commercial customers, and in
units of ten kilowatt-hours or larger where required by meter design or use of
instrument transformers.
   (f)   The Company may, through the use of a dial card or other device
supplied by it to a customer, require such customer to furnish promptly to the
Company for billing purposes a current reading of such customer’s meter. If
such dial card or device is not promptly returned by a customer, or if
inclement weather or any other cause prevents the reading of a customer’s meter
by the Company, the Company shall have the right to estimate a customer’s bill
and to make any necessary billing adjustments, without interest, on a
subsequent bill based upon a reading of such meter.
   (g)   All rates of the Company for electric service are subject to the
approval of the West Virginia Public Service Commission and may be changed from
time to time as approved by such Commission.
§ 929.11 SUSPENSION OF MINIMUM MONTHLY PAYMENT.
   Should the customer be prevented from receiving during any period all or any
portion of the electric service contracted to be furnished, by reason of fire
explosion, flood, riot, war or failure or inability of the Company to deliver
such service, then the applicable minimum monthly payment required for such
period, may upon written application by the customer, be suspended, but such
suspension shall not exceed three months during any contract year.
§ 929.12 FAILURE TO PAY.
   If the customer shall fail to make payment for any service rendered by the
Company after payment is due, the Company shall have the right either to cancel
the service contract in which event the minimum payments as provided in the
schedule for the unexpired term of the contract shall thereon become payable to
the Company as liquidated damages or, at the Company’s option, to discontinue
service until all payments due from the customer shall have been made.
§ 929.13 EMERGENCIES.
   (a)   The company will use reasonable diligence in furnishing electric
service, but the Company shall not be liable for any loss, damage or expense
sustained caused by interruption, deficiency, variation or other failure of
electric services caused by any acts of God, public enemies, accidents, fuel
shortages, labor disputes, riots, wars, orders or acts of civil or military
authority, breakdowns of or damage to equipment or facilities of the Company,
or any cause other than gross negligence or willful neglect on the part of the
Company.
   (b)   The Company may, without liability therefor, interrupt or suspend
service to any or all of its customers whenever, in its sole judgment, such
action is required to limit or prevent any actual or threatened disturbance or
instability on the electric system of the Company or any interconnected system.
§ 929.14 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   (a)   The Company reserves the right to shut off the supply of electric
service for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Repair, alteration or extension of Company facilities;
      (2)   Enforcement of air quality, water quality or other environmental
standards;
      (3)   Fraudulent act or representation by customer in the procurement or
use of electric service;
      (4)   Any disapproval by Company of the customer’s equipment or
installation by virtue of its being or becoming defective or otherwise unsafe
or objectionable;
      (5)   Customer’s premises have been abandoned or are in such condition as
to create a hazard to service facilities or to persons on or about such
premises;
      (6)   Placement or maintenance by customer of any building or structure
which in the opinion of the Company constitutes a hazard to service facilities
or to persons on or about the premises;
      (7)   Customer’s premises become flooded or are threatened with flooding;
      (8)   Failure by customer to maintain effective ground connection in
compliance with requirements of National Electrical Code;
      (9)   Non-payment of any bill, as herein provided;
      (10)   Violation or noncompliance by customer with any rule or regulation
herein set forth;
      (11)   Whenever such action is necessary to protect the Company from
fraud or abuse; or
      (12)   Upon cancellation of contract.
   (b)   When the service has been discontinued for any reason other than
subsections (a)(1) and (a)(2) above, a charge to the customer equivalent to the
cost to the Company of making the disconnection and reconnection, payable
before reconnection, will be made. If service has been discontinued for the
reason in subsection (a)(9) the customer must pay all past due charges prior to
reconnection of service. Prior to discontinuance of service the Company will
notify the customer thereof in accordance with then current requirements of the
West Virginia Public Service Commission.
§ 929.15 CANCELLATION OF CONTRACT.
   The contract shall, at the option of the Company, cease and terminate, and
all claims for service previously delivered shall become forthwith due and
payable in case of any act of receivership or bankruptcy by or against the
customer.
§ 929.16 EXTENSION OF COMPANY’S FACILITIES.
   The extension of Company’s facilities for the supply of electric service to
a customer or group of customers will be made under one of the following plans
applicable thereto, except that Plans A and B shall not apply to expansions
originating from extensions on which Plan C is in effect. Plans B and C apply
only to extensions of distribution facilities to serve installations where, in
the Company’s judgment, the use of service may reasonably be expected to
continue for the normal life of the facilities.
   (a)   Plan A. No financing of distribution facilities will be required of
customers, other than by contracting to use and pay for service under an
appropriate rate schedule of the Company, under the following conditions:
      (1)   For service delivered at voltages higher than 15,000 volts, when
the required extension of distribution facilities does not exceed that
specified in an appropriate rate schedule to be the responsibility of the
Company;
      (2)   For service delivered at voltages lower than 15,000 volts, when the
estimated cost of the extension does not exceed the Company’s estimate of the
amount of base rate revenue exclusive of fuel cost adjustment to be derived
therefrom during the first two years following completion of the extension; or
      (3)   When in the case of residential customers, the length of the
extension is not greater than one span of primary or secondary line per
customer, excluding service drops which shall not exceed 125 feet per customer.
   (b)   Plan B.
      (1)   Financing will be required of customers, other than residential
customers, either in the form of customer advances for construction or
guaranteed monthly minimum charges, when the estimated construction cost of the
extension exceeds the Company’s estimate of the amount of the revenue from base
rates, exclusive of fuel cost adjustment revenue, to be derived therefrom
during the first two years following its completion.
      (2)   Such financing will be determined under the terms of either of the
following plans at the customer’s option:
         A.   That part of the estimated construction cost which is in excess
of the estimated two years base rate revenue shall be advanced by the customer
(s) before work is started. At the end of two years after completion of an
extension thus financed, the Company will prepare a statement showing the
actual construction cost and the actual base rate revenue received therefrom,
and will refund to the customer(s) if appropriate, any amount by which the
advance made exceeds the amount which would have been made had the estimated
construction cost and the estimated base rate revenue for the two years been
equal to the actual cost and the actual base rate revenue obtained. Any such
refund shall be in proportion to the advance made by each customer, unless
otherwise agreed upon by the customer. When additional customer(s) are
connected to an extension financed under this plan during the initial two-year
period of the contract the amount of the construction deposit per customer will
be adjusted to the amount which would have been required if the extension,
including the addition(s) were considered as a single project, provided that
such recalculation results in lower construction deposit(s) of the original
customer(s). Otherwise such addition(s) to the extension will be treated as a
separate extension(s). No interest will be payable upon either total advances
or any amounts refunded; and
         B.   The customer(s) will guarantee a monthly minimum bill exclusive
of fuel cost adjustment of not less than one twenty-fourth of the construction
cost of the extension, such one twenty-fourth to be divided equally among
customers served from the extension, unless otherwise agreed upon, under
contracts to take service for a period of not less than two years, such minimum
monthly bills to continue in effect during any and all renewals or extensions
of such contracts. When additional customer(s) are connected to an extension
financed under this plan during the initial two-year contract period, the
minimum charge requirements per customer will be adjusted to the amount which
would have been required if the extension, including the addition(s) were
considered as a single project, provided that such recalculation results in
lower minimum charge(s) to the original customer(s). Otherwise such addition(s)
to the extension will be treated as a separate extension(s).
   (c)   Plan C. Financing will be required of permanent residential customers
requiring extensions of greater length than one span of primary or secondary
line per customer, in accordance with the provisions of Schedule “H”, of this
tariff.
   (d)   Plan D. If the Company is requested to extend or add to its facilities
for the purpose of supplying temporary service, or service to an operation
which may have a limited life, or to meet special or unusual conditions, the
Company may make such arrangements for financing the Company’s facilities as
may be mutually agreed, provided that such arrangements are without preference
to or discrimination against such customer or other customers of the Company.
Any extension financed in whole or in part by customers will become the
property of the Company and every customer participating in such financing will
agree that the ownership of such line extension is vested in the Company. The
Company reserves the right to refuse to make an extension of its facilities, or
to take title to and assume responsibility for the future maintenance and
replacement of facilities built by another and offered to the Company, when so
doing the Company is required to assume unusual risk or to incur extraordinary
losses in electric energy or excessive operating, maintenance and replacement
costs.
§ 929.17 PROMISES.
   No inspector, agent or other employee of the Company has authority to make
any promises, agreements or representations not included in the rate schedules,
Rules and Regulations, and form of contract on file with the Public Service
Commission, and the Company shall not be bound by, nor responsible for, any act
done in violation of this provision.
§ 929.18 SERVICE FOR PERIODS LESS THAN THOSE SPECIFIED IN RATE SCHEDULES.
   (a)   Temporary service.
      (1)   Temporary service is defined as service supplied for less than 12
consecutive months at one point of delivery and measured through one meter.
Service will be furnished only when and where the Company has available
sufficient capacity in lines, transformer and generating equipment and at the
voltage and phase of the Company’s distribution system most available.
      (2)   Temporary service customers will be required to pay all costs of
installation and removal of Company facilities, including overheads, with
credit being allowed for material salvage value. Payment of such cost and of
the estimated bill for service may be required in advance.
      (3)   The rate shall be the rate and charges of the applicable schedule
plus a 10% temporary service charge based on the net bill before fuel cost
adjustment or tax surcharge.
      (4)   The temporary service provision as set forth herein is available in
connection with any otherwise applicable rate schedule. The customer may at any
time terminate service under the temporary provision and contract to receive
future service under any applicable rate schedule.
   (b)   Governmental bodies and agencies. When a governmental body or agency
is prohibited by law from entering into an agreement for the term specified by
an otherwise applicable rate schedule, the Company will accept an agreement
with such governmental body or agency under such rate schedule for less than
the term specified therein, but in no case less than one year, provided that
such agreement shall continue in force thereafter for successive periods of
like term until written notice of cancellation has been given by either party
to the other 12 months prior to any expiration date and such time has expired,
and further provided, in the Company’s opinion, the use of service under such
agreement can be expected to continue for not less than the minimum term
specified by the applicable rate schedule.
§ 929.19 LOCAL TAX ADJUSTMENT.
   When the Company is or becomes liable to any municipal corporation, other
tax levying corporation, or political subdivision of the state, for any license
tax, excise tax, privilege tax, use tax, franchise fee or tax, or other like
tax, based upon the amount of electric service sold or revenues received by the
Company within the territorial limits of such corporation or political
subdivision, or based upon the number of poles, meters or other utility
property units owned or used by the Company within such territorial limits; or
for any other tax, fee or service charge, which other tax, fee or service
charge is not imposed upon all other businesses at substantially the same rate;
then the amount of such tax, fee or charge shall be added, pro rata, to the
bills to customers of the Company for electric service rendered within such
territorial limits, including compensation for the additional State gross
receipts tax resulting therefrom; provided, however, that a franchise fee or
franchise tax based upon the number of poles owned or used by the Company
within such territorial limits shall not be so added to the bills of customers
when such fee or tax is not in excess of $1 per pole per year. Adjustments in
bills will be made by adding to each bill, as determined by application of the
appropriate rate schedule, a local tax surcharge computed as a fraction of such
bill. The fraction to be added shall be calculated by dividing the local tax
rate, expressed as a decimal, by one minus the sum of the local and state tax
rates, both expressed as decimals.
§ 929.20 IMPOSED RELOCATIONS OR UNDERGROUNDING.
   (a)   When the Company is required by any political subdivision of the state
or the United States, or any agency thereof, to place new facilities
underground or to relocate existing facilities underground, or to otherwise
relocate existing facilities, the cost of such placement or relocation shall be
recovered by the Company in the manner hereinafter provided.
   (b)   The political subdivision or agency which imposes the requirement for
relocation or undergrounding should pay the adjusted cost thereof in advance.
In the absence of such payment the Company may recover, within a period of five
years, such adjusted cost by means of a surcharge applied upon the bills of all
customers whose electric service delivery points are situated within the
political subdivision.
§ 929.21 PURCHASES FROM CO-GENERATION/SMALL POWER PRODUCTION FOR NON-GENERATING
UTILITY.
   (a)   Availability. This schedule is available to consumers with small power
production facilities which qualify under § 210 of the Public Utility
Regulatory Policies Act of 1978, being 16 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq., and which
have a total design capacity of 100 kilowatts or less. Power generated by the
consumer’s facilities will be purchased by the city under this schedule. Power
will be sold to the consumer under the terms of the applicable rate schedule.
   (b)   Type of service. Type of service is 60 hertz, alternating current.
Installations of 10 kW capacity shall be 240 volt, single phase. Installations
with greater than 10 kW capacity shall be three phase at the city’s standard
voltages unless otherwise specified by the city.
   (c)   Monthly rate.
      (1)   Energy.
         A.   Energy shall be purchased from the consumer at a rate equal to
the energy and energy-related adjustment charges that would have been applied
by the city’s wholesale power supplier if it had supplied the energy which was
purchased from the consumer. This rate is: $.02504 per kWh plus fuel
adjustment.
         B.   The above rate will be increased or decreased for price changes
in the energy component of the rate with which the city purchases wholesale
power.
      (2)   Demand.
         A.   From any consumer who chooses to install and maintain, solely at
its expense, the necessary metering equipment to verify that the consumer-
supplied capacity has reduced the city’s wholesale billing demand units, demand
shall be purchased at a rate equal to that which would have been used by the
city’s wholesale power supplier if it had supplied the capacity. Such charge
shall be applied to the reduction in the wholesale billing demand units. This
rate is: $9,993 per kW per month.
         B.   The above rate will be increased or decreased for price changes
in the demand component of the rate with which the city purchases wholesale
power.
   (d)   Interconnection charge. Interconnection costs shall be paid by the
consumer. Interconnection costs are defined as the reasonable costs of
connection, switching, metering, transmission, distribution, safety provisions
and administrative costs incurred by the city directly related to the
installation and maintenance of the physical facilities necessary to permit
interconnected operation with the consumer’s facilities to the extent such
costs are in excess of the corresponding costs which the city would have
incurred if it had not engaged interconnected operations but instead, purchased
an equivalent amount of energy or capacity from other sources. Payment of the
one-time interconnection charges shall be made by either of the following
methods:
      (1)   The estimated full amount to be paid in advance of construction.
Adjustments to correct for the difference between the actual and estimated
costs shall be billed or credited immediately following completion of the
construction job closeout; or
      (2)   The amortized total cost, payable in equal monthly or annual
installments over a three-year period, or such other period as may be mutually
agreeable plus interest on the unpaid balance. Under this method, the consumer
may be required to purchase a surety bond with the city as beneficiary to
guarantee payment of the total cost. Interest on the unpaid balance shall be
the prime rate at June 30 of each year plus 1%.
   (e)   Terms of payment. The city shall make payments to the consumer
quarterly within 30 days of the end of each period.
   (f)   Terms of connection. Interconnection of the consumer’s generation
facilities with the city’s system will be permitted only under the terms of a
contract between the consumer and the city. The minimum contract term shall be
five years.
(Ord. 96-03, passed 4-23-1996)
§ 929.22 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT RATE.
   (a)   Availability. Available to industrial consumers within the entire
territory served by the city, subject to the established Rules and Regulations
for Electric Service.
   (b)   Applicability. Applicable to new customers with a minimum load of 200
kW or to existing customers that increase existing load as of January 1, 1999
by 200 kW or more.
   (c)   Character of service. Single-phase or multi-phase service at the
city’s standard available voltages delivered through one meter.
   (d)   Monthly rate.
Facilities charge                                         $100 ($102 gross)
Demand charge
   First 500 kW @ 1.00                                 ($1.02 gross)
   Next250 kW @ 0.50                                   ($0.51 gross)
   Over 750 kW                                         No charge
Energy charge
   Monthly load factor equal to or less than 55%
      All kW @ $0.0455 per kWh                      ($0.0464 gross)
   Monthly load factor greater than 55% and less than 70%
      All kW @ $0.0445 per kWh                      ($0.0454 gross)
   Monthly load factor equal to or greater than 70%
      All kW @ $0.0435 per kWh                      ($0.0444 gross)
 
   (e)   Fuel-adjustment provision. Each month the charges calculated in
accordance with the above rate will be increased or decreased by an amount
equal to the wholesale fuel adjustment per kWh billed the city by the city’s
wholesale supplier divided by 0.97. If information of the wholesale fuel cost
is not available in time for billing each month, the city may charge an
estimated amount to be corrected in the next billing period.
   (f)   Minimum monthly bill. The minimum monthly bill shall be the higher of
the following:
      (1)   $500; or
      (2)   The minimum monthly charge specified in the contract for service.
   (g)   Delayed payment penalty. The above rates are net, the gross rates
being approximately 2% higher. In the event the bill is not paid in full on or
before the twentieth day after the date the bill is rendered, the gross rates
shall apply.
   (h)   Terms. Service on this schedule is not available for less than one
year. Temporary service is available on the city’s applicable rate.
(Ord. passed 11-2-1999)
§ 929.23 SCHEDULE OF RATES.
   (a)   Phase 1 (effective 45 days after passage).
      (1)   Residential service rate Schedule R.
         A.   Availability. Available to consumers within the entire territory
served by the city, subject to the established Rules and Regulations for
Electric Service.
         B.   Applicability. Applicable to residential consumers for energy
supplied through a single meter.
         C.   Character of service. Single-phase, 60 cycles, at available
secondary voltages.
         D.   Monthly rate.
 
Facilities charge $5.22
All kWh           $.0943
 
         E.   Minimum monthly bill. The minimum monthly bill for service shall
be equal to the facilities charge.
         F.   Power cost adjustment. The above charges have been designed to
recover a base power cost of $0.0752 per kWh sold. To the extent actual
wholesale power cost varies from the base power cost, the city may apply a PCA
factor as described in Schedule PCA to correct the over or under collection of
wholesale power costs through the base rates.
         G.   Discounts. The difference between the gross and net rates above
specified shall constitute a discount for prompt payment if the bill is paid in
full on or before the twentieth day after that on which the bill is rendered.
         H.   Customer deposits. Deposits shall not exceed two-twelfths of the
estimated annual charge to the customer for service.
         I.   Reconnection charge. When service is terminated to a customer for
nonpayment of bills, $25 shall be charged for reconnection.
         J.   Returned check charge. A service charge equal to the actual bank
fee assessed to the city or a maximum of $25 will be imposed upon any customer
whose check for payment of charges is returned by their bank due to
insufficient funds.
         K.   Metering for multiple residences. Where two or more residences
located on one premises are supplied through a single meter, each shall be
classified as a single residence. Residences which have been converted into two
or more separate living quarters will be supplied with service through separate
meters; provided, however, that in instances where this is impracticable such
residence may be supplied with service through a single meter and the
contracting party will be billed under this Schedule, with the above stated
facilities charge and kilowatt-hour billing blocks increased in proportion to
the number of living quarters served.
         L.   Term. Not less than one year. Temporary service will be supplied
at the net rate for energy upon the advance payment by the consumer of the
estimated monthly bill and the estimated cost of installing and removing the
connection, including poles, lines, transformers, meters, other necessary
equipment and all labor and expense incurred, less the salvage value of all
materials to be recovered.
      (2)   General service rate Schedule GS.
         A.   Availability. Available to consumers for single-phase service
within the entire territory served by the city. Multi-phase service is
available to consumers located in the service area adjacent to or near the
city’s multi-phase lines. All service provided hereunder is subject to the
city’s established Rules and Regulations for Electric Service.
         B.   Applicability.
            1.   Applicable to consumers at a single location for commercial
lighting, general heating and power purposes when all service is combined for
billing under this Schedule, except that loads of character necessitating
special transformer provisions or service required by law to be delivered
through a separate circuit will be billed separately under this Schedule.
            2.   Standby or auxiliary service is available under this Schedule
subject to the provisions stated herein and the city’s established Rules and
Regulations for Electric Service.
         C.   Character of service. Single-phase, or multi-phase where
available, 60 cycles, at available secondary voltages.
         D.   Monthly rate.
Facilities charge                         $10.17
Demand charges
   First 30 kW or less of billing deman$1.10
   Over 30 kW of Billing Demand        $2.75
Energy charges
   First 200 kWh per kW of billing demand
      First 750 kWh                 $0.1154
      Over 750 kWh                  $0.1033
   Over 200 kWh per kW of billing demand
      All kWh                       $0.0753
 
         E.   Minimum monthly bill. The minimum monthly bill for service shall
be the higher of the following:
            1.   $10.17 net ($11.30 gross) per meter, plus $2.75 net ($3.06
gross) per kilowatt of maximum billing demand, such demand not being less than
50% of the kilowatt capacity necessary to serve the consumer; or
            2.   The minimum monthly charge specified in the contract for
service.
         F.   Power cost adjustment. The above charges have been designed to
recover a base power cost of $0.0752 per kWh sold. To the extent actual
wholesale power cost varies from the base power cost, the city may apply a PCA
factor as described in Schedule PCA to correct the over or under collection of
wholesale power costs through the base rates.
         G.   Determination of billing demand. When a consumer’s estimated
monthly load is in excess of 30 kilowatts, the city may install a demand meter
suitable for measuring the maximum demand. The billing demand shall be the
maximum kilowatt demand established by the consumer for any period of 15
consecutive minutes during the month for which the bill is rendered, provided
however, that the billing demand shall not be less than 65% of the highest
metered demand established during the preceding 11 months.
         H.   Discounts.
            1.   The difference between the gross and net rates above specified
shall constitute a discount for prompt payment if the bill is paid in full on
or before the twentieth day after that on which the bill is rendered.
            2.   a.   When service is furnished at primary distribution system
voltage and the consumer owns and maintains the transformer installation, the
following discount will be allowed on the monthly bill, but in no case will the
amount of the minimum bill be reduced.
               b.   All kilowatts of demand - $0.16 net per kilowatt.
         I.   Customer deposits. Deposits shall not exceed two-twelfths of the
estimated annual charge to the customer for service.
         J.   Reconnection charge. When service is terminated to a customer for
nonpayment of bills, $25 shall be charged for reconnection.
         K.   Returned check charge. A service charge equal to the actual bank
fee assessed to the city or a maximum of $25 will be imposed upon any customer
whose check for payment of charges is returned by their bank due to
insufficient funds.
         L.   Term. Not less than one year. Temporary service will be supplied
at the net rate for the first energy block only and upon the advance payment by
the consumer of the estimated monthly bill and the estimated cost of installing
and removing the connection, including poles, lines, transformers, meters,
other necessary equipment and all labor and expense incurred, less the salvage
value of all materials to be recovered.
      (3)   Large power service rate Schedule LP.
         A.   Availability. Available to consumers for single-phase service
within the entire territory served by the city. Multi-phase service is
available to consumers located in the service area adjacent to or near the
city’s multi-phase lines. All service provided hereunder is subject to the
city’s established Rules and Regulations for Electric Service.
         B.   Applicability. Applicable to consumers whose monthly load
requirements are in excess of 150 kilowatts.
         C.   Character of service. Single-phase, or multi-phase where
available, 60 cycles, at available primary distribution voltages. The delivery
point shall be the point of attachment of the city’s primary line to the
consumer’s transformer structure unless otherwise specified in the contract for
service. All wiring, pole lines and other electric equipment on the load side
of the delivery point shall be owned and maintained by the consumer.
         D.   Monthly rate.
Facilities charge                         $324.35
Demand charges
   First 50 kW or less of billing deman$2.20
   Over 50 kW of billing demand        $4.40
Energy charges
   First 200 kWh per kW of billing dema$0.0808
   Next 200 kWh per kW of billing deman$0.0780
   Over 400 kWh per kW of billing deman$0.0725
 
         E.   Minimum monthly bill. The minimum monthly bill for service shall
be the higher of the following:
            1.   $1.10 per kVA of installed transformer capacity; or
            2.   The minimum monthly charge specified in the contract for
service.
         F.   Power cost adjustment. The above charges have been designed to
recover a base power cost of $0.0752 per kWh sold. To the extent actual
wholesale power cost varies from the base power cost, the city may apply a PCA
factor as described in Schedule PCA to correct the over or under collection of
wholesale power costs through the base rates.
         G.   Determination of billing demand. The billing demand shall be the
maximum kilowatt demand established by the consumer for any period of 15
consecutive minutes during the month for which the bill is rendered, provided
however, that the billing demand shall not be less than 65% of the highest
metered demand established during the preceding 11 months.
         H.   Delayed payment penalty. The above rates are net, the gross rate
being 2% higher. In the event the bill is not paid in full on or before the
twentieth day after that on which the bill is rendered, the gross rates shall
apply.
         I.   Customer deposits. Deposits shall not exceed two-twelfths of the
estimated annual charge to the customer for service.
         J.   Reconnection charge. When service is terminated to a customer for
nonpayment of bills, $25 shall be charged for reconnection.
         K.   Returned check charge. A service charge equal to the actual bank
fee assessed to the city or a maximum of $25 will be imposed upon any customer
whose check for payment of charges is returned by their bank due to
insufficient funds.
         L.   Term. Not less than one year. Temporary service will be supplied
at the net rate for the first energy block only and upon the advance payment by
the consumer of the estimated monthly bill and the estimated cost of installing
and removing the connection, including poles, lines, transformers, meters,
other necessary equipment and all labor and expense incurred, less the salvage
value of all materials to be recovered.
      (4)   Economic development rate Schedule ED.
         A.   Availability. Available to industrial consumers within the entire
territory served by the city, subject to the city’s established Rules and
Regulations for Electric Service.
         B.   Applicability. Applicable to new consumers with a minimum load of
200 kW or to existing consumers that increase existing load as of January 1,
1999 by 200 kW or more and to city departments providing infrastructure
necessary to support economic development.
         C.   Character of service. Single-phase, or multi-phase where
available, at the city’s standard available voltages delivered through one
meter.
         D.   Monthly rate.
Facilities charge                                  $137.44
Demand charges
   First 500 kW of billing demand               $1.10
   Next 250 kW of billing demand                $0.55
   Over 750 kW of billing demand                $0.00
Energy charges
   Monthly load equal to or less than 55%       $0.0813
   Monthly load greater than 55% and less than 7$0.0797
   Monthly load equal to 70% or greater         $0.0786
 
         E.   Fuel adjustment provision. Each month the charges calculated in
accordance with the above rate will be increased or decreased by an amount
equal to the wholesale fuel adjustment per kWh billed the city by the city’s
wholesale supplier divided by 0.97. If information of the wholesale fuel cost
is not available in time for billing each month, the city may charge an
estimated amount to be corrected in the next billing period.
         F.   Minimum monthly bill. The minimum monthly bill for service shall
be the higher of the following:
            1.   $500; or
            2.   The minimum monthly charge specified in the contract for
service.
         G.   Power cost adjustment. The above charges have been designed to
recover a base power cost of $0.0752 per kWh sold. To the extent actual
wholesale power cost varies from the base power cost, the city may apply a PCA
factor as described in Schedule PCA to correct the over or under collection of
wholesale power costs through the base rates.
         H.   Delayed payment penalty. The above rates are net, the gross rates
being approximately 2% higher. In the event the bill is not paid in full on or
before the twentieth day after that on which the bill is rendered, the gross
rates shall apply.
         I.   Customer deposits. Deposits shall not exceed two-twelfths of the
estimated annual charge to the customer for service.
         J.   Reconnection charge. When service is terminated to a customer for
nonpayment of bills, $25 shall be charged for reconnection.
         K.   Returned check charge. A service charge equal to the actual bank
fee assessed to the city or a maximum of $25 will be imposed upon any customer
whose check for payment of charges is returned by their bank due to
insufficient funds.
         L.   Term. Service on this Schedule is not available for less than one
year. Temporary service is available at the city’s applicable rate.
      (5)   Outdoor lighting service rate Schedule SL.
         A.   Availability. Available to consumers within the entire territory
served by the city, subject to the established Rules and Regulations for
Electric Service.
         B.   Applicability. Applicable to outdoor lighting by ballast operated
vapor lamp fixtures attached to poles conforming to the city’s specification.
Service will be rendered only at locations that, solely in the opinion of the
city, are readily accessible for maintenance. Also applicable for street
lighting service by means of mercury vapor lamps.
         C.   Character of service. 175 watt, high pressure sodium lamps.
         D.   Monthly rate. Outdoor lighting monthly service charge per lamp is
$11.60.
         E.   Power cost adjustment. The above charges have been designed to
recover a base power cost of $0.0752 per kWh sold. To the extent actual
wholesale power cost varies from the base power cost, the city may apply a PCA
factor as described in Schedule PCA to correct the over or under collection of
wholesale power costs through the base rates.
         F.   Additional facilities charge. The above rate is based upon
service provided on an existing pole. If the consumer requires the city to
install additional facilities in order to provide service exclusively for
outdoor lighting, then the consumer will be required to make a nonrefundable
contribution in aide of construction for such additional facilities in an
amount not to exceed the cost incurred by the city to add the facilities.
         G.   Hours of lighting. All lamps burn from approximately one-half
hour after sunset until approximately one-half hour before sunrise, burning
approximately 4,000 hours per annum. Based upon the hours of lighting and the
total wattage of lamp and ballast, it is estimated that each light consumes
approximately 65 kilowatt-hours per month.
         H.   Metering for multiple residences. Where two or more residences
located on one premises are supplied through a single meter, each shall be
classified as a single residence. Residences which have been converted into two
or more separate living quarters will be supplied with service through separate
meters; provided, however, that in instances where this is impracticable such
residence may be supplied with service through a single meter and the
contracting party will be billed under this Schedule, with the above stated
facilities charge and kilowatt-hour billing blocks increased in proportion to
the number of living quarters served.
         I.   Ownership of facilities. All facilities necessary for service,
including fixtures, controls, poles, transformers, secondaries, lamps, and
other appurtenances shall be owned and maintained by the city. All service and
necessary maintenance will be performed only during the regularly scheduled
working hours of the city’s Electric Department. The Electric Department will
replace burned-out lamps and otherwise maintain the fixtures as soon as
practicable following notification by the consumer of such necessity.
         J.   Term. Not less than one year.
      (6)   Net metering service Schedule NMS.
         A.   Availability of service. Available to residential and general
service customers who own and operate an eligible electric generating facility
designed to operate in parallel with the city system. Customers served under
this tariff must also take service from the city under the applicable standard
service tariff. The total rated generating capacity of all customers served
under this tariff shall be limited to 3% of the city single hour peak load
during the previous year, of which 0.5% is reserved for residential customer-
generators.
         B.   Conditions of service.
            1.   For the purposes of this tariff, an eligible customer-
generator must meet the definition of “customer-generator” as set forth in the
Commission Rules Governing Electric Utility Net Metering Arrangements and
Interconnections, 150 C.S.R. 33 (“Net Metering Rules”).
            2.   A customer-generator seeking to interconnect an eligible
electric generating facility to the city system must submit to designated city
personnel a completed interconnection application, and a one-line diagram
showing the configuration of the proposed net metering facility. The city will
provide copies of all applicable forms upon request.
            3.   An interconnection agreement between the city and the
customer-generator must be executed before the customer-generator facility may
be interconnected with the city system.
            4.   All generator equipment and installations must comply with the
city’s technical requirements. All generator equipment shall be installed in
accordance with the manufacturer specifications as well as all applicable
provisions of the National Electrical Code and state and local codes.
            5.   All generator equipment and installations shall comply with
all applicable safety, performance and power quality standards, established by
the National Electrical Code, the Institute of Electrical and Electronic
Engineers and accredited testing laboratories.
            6.   The customer-generator shall provide the city proof of
qualified installation of the customer-generated facility. Certification by a
licensed electrician shall constitute acceptable proof.
            7.   The customer-generator shall install, operate and maintain the
customer-generator facility in accordance with the manufacturer’s suggested
practices for safe, efficient and reliable operation in parallel with the city
system.
            8.   The city may, at its own discretion, isolate any customer-
generator facility if the city has reason to believe that continued
interconnection with the electric generating facility creates or contributes to
a system of emergency.
            9.   The city may perform reasonable on-site inspections to verify
the proper installation and continuing safe operation of the customer-generator
facility and the interconnection facilities, at reasonable times and upon
reasonable advance notice to the customer-generator.
            10.   A customer-generator shall maintain general liability
insurance providing the following coverage:
               a.   A customer-generator with a customer-generator facility
with a nameplate capacity of up to 50kW shall maintain general liability
insurance in the amount of $100,000;
               b.   A customer-generator with a nameplate capacity of greater
than 50kW and up to 500 kW shall maintain general liability insurance in the
amount of $500,000; and
               c.   A customer-generator with a customer-generator facility
with a nameplate capacity of greater than 500 kW shall maintain general
liability coverage in the amount of $1,000,000. The customer-generator must
submit evidence of such insurance to the city with the interconnection
application. The city’s receipt of evidence of liability insurance does not
imply an endorsement of the terms and conditions of the coverage.
            11.   An eligible customer-generator facility is transferable to
other persons or service locations only upon written notification by the
customer-generator to the city and verification by a licensed electrician that
the facility is in compliance with all applicable safety and power quality
standards. All other conditions of service apply.
         C.   Metering.
            1.   Net energy metering shall be accomplished by: using a standard
meter capable of measuring the flow of electricity in two directions; or two
separate meters. If offered to other customers in the same class as the
customer-generator, net energy flows may also be measured by time-of-day at the
customer-generator’s option by: using a standard meter capable of measuring the
flow of electricity in two directions by time-of-day; or two separate meters
capable of measuring flows by time-of-day.
            2.   If the existing electrical meter installed at the customer-
generator facility is not capable of measuring the flow of electricity in two
directions and by time-of-day as required above, the city shall install new
metering equipment for the customer-generator at city expense. Any subsequent
metering equipment change necessitated by the customer-generator shall be paid
for by the customer-generator.
            3.   If two meters are used to measure energy flows, for each
applicable billing period including time-of-day billing periods, the reading of
the meter measuring the flow of energy from the customer-generator to the city
shall be subtracted from the reading of the meter measuring the flow of energy
from the city to the customer-generator to obtain a measurement of net kW hours
for billing purposes.
         D.   Monthly charges.
            1.   Generally. Monthly charges shall be calculated using an
identical rate structure to the structure that would apply to the customer if
it were not a customer-generator.
            2.   Measurement and charges. The measurement of net electrical
energy supplied or generated will be calculated as follows.
               a.   The net electrical energy produced or consumed during the
billing period shall be measured in accordance with normal metering practices.
               b.   The city shall credit a customer-generator for each kW hour
produced by an alternative or renewable energy resource installed on the
customer-generator side of the electric meter and delivered to the utility’s
electric distribution system through the customer-generator’s electric revenue
meter, up to the total amount of electricity delivered by the utility to that
customer during the billing period.
               c.   If a customer-generator supplies more electricity to the
electric distribution system than the city delivers to the customer-generator
in a given billing period, the excess kW hours shall be carried forward and
credited against the customer-generator usage in subsequent billing periods at
the full retail rate; provided that, if a customer-generator terminates service
with the electric utility, the utility is not required to provide compensation
to the customer-generator for any outstanding kW hour credits.
               d.   Rate credits shall not be applied to reduce any fixed
monthly minimum bill, customer charge, demand charges or other charges not
related to energy consumption.
               e.   For customer-generators involved in virtual meter
aggregation programs, a credit shall be applied first to the meter through
which the customer-generator facility supplies electricity to the distribution
system, and then prorated equally to the remaining meters for the customer-
generator’s accounts.
         E.   Equipment design requirements.
            1.   Data for all major equipment proposed by the customer to
satisfy the technical requirements must be submitted for review and approval by
the city with a completed interconnection application. To facilitate review and
approval, the city will maintain a list of pre-certified equipment.
            2.   The city list of pre-certified equipment is available upon
request and contains pre-certified equipment types, makes, and models of
manufactured generating equipment and interconnection system components.
            3.   This listing is based upon equipment certified by recognized
national testing laboratories as suitable for interconnection with a
distribution system based upon compliance with IEEE 1547.
            4.   The use of equipment that is not pre-certified may delay the
city review and approval of the customer’s design. All interconnection
equipment must be approved by the city prior to being connected to the city
distribution system and before parallel operation is allowed.
            5.   The interconnection system hardware and software design
requirements in the technical requirements are intended to assure protection of
the city’s distribution system.
      (7)   Power cost adjustment “PCA”.
         A.   Applicability. Applicable to all customers receiving service
under Schedule RS, Schedule SCS or Schedule LPS.
         B.   Calculation of monthly factor.
            1.   The schedules subject to this rider recover $0.0752 per kWh
sold of purchased power cost. The city will track the monthly cost of purchased
power and the total kWh sales to determine the amount of over or under recovery
from the base rates. Power cost includes, but not limited to, all charges from
the all-requirements contract with American Municipal Power-Ohio and any other
charges passed through from the PJM Interconnection.
            2.   The city will review the over/under collection of power costs
periodically and, if necessary, bill a power cost adjustment factor, either
positive or negative, to retail customer bills to make up for the over or under
recovery of power cost. The power cost adjustment and charge applied to kWh
sales will be shown as a separate item on the customer bill.
   (b)   Phase 2 (effective November 15, 2020).
      (1)   Residential service rate Schedule R.
         A.   Availability. Available to consumers within the entire territory
served by the city, subject to the established Rules and Regulations for
Electric Service.
         B.   Applicability. Applicable to residential consumers for energy
supplied through a single meter.
         C.   Character of service. Single-phase, 60 cycles, at available
secondary voltages.
         D.   Monthly rate.
 
Facilities charge $5.30
All kWh           $0.0957
 
         E.   Minimum monthly bill. The minimum monthly bill for service shall
be equal to the facilities charge.
         F.   Power cost adjustment. The above charges have been designed to
recover a base power cost of $0.0752 per kWh sold. To the extent actual
wholesale power cost varies from the base power cost, the city may apply a PCA
factor as described in Schedule PCA to correct the over or under collection of
wholesale power costs through the base rates.
         G.   Discounts. The difference between the gross and net rates above
specified shall constitute a discount for prompt payment if the bill is paid in
full on or before the twentieth day after that on which the bill is rendered.
         H.   Customer deposits. Deposits shall not exceed two-twelfths of the
estimated annual charge to the customer for service.
         I.   Reconnection charge. When service is terminated to a customer for
nonpayment of bills, $25 shall be charged for reconnection.
         J.   Returned check charge. A service charge equal to the actual bank
fee assessed to the city or a maximum of $25 will be imposed upon any customer
whose check for payment of charges is returned by their bank due to
insufficient funds.
         K.   Metering for multiple residences. Where two or more residences
located on one premises are supplied through a single meter, each shall be
classified as a single residence. Residences which have been converted into two
or more separate living quarters will be supplied with service through separate
meters; provided, however, that in instances where this is impracticable such
residence may be supplied with service through a single meter and the
contracting party will be billed under this Schedule, with the above stated
facilities charge and kilowatt-hour billing blocks increased in proportion to
the number of living quarters served.
         L.   Term. Not less than one year. Temporary service will be supplied
at the net rate for energy upon the advance payment by the consumer of the
estimated monthly bill and the estimated cost of installing and removing the
connection, including poles, lines, transformers, meters, other necessary
equipment and all labor and expense incurred, less the salvage value of all
materials to be recovered.
      (2)   General service rate Schedule GS.
         A.   Availability. Available to consumers for single-phase service
within the entire territory served by the city. Multi-phase service is
available to consumers located in the service area adjacent to or near the
city’s multi-phase lines. All service provided hereunder is subject to the
city’s established Rules and Regulations for Electric Service.
         B.   Applicability.
            1.   Applicable to consumers at a single location for commercial
lighting, general heating and power purposes when all service is combined for
billing under this Schedule, except that loads of character necessitating
special transformer provisions or service required by law to be delivered
through a separate circuit will be billed separately under this Schedule.
            2.   Standby or auxiliary service is available under this Schedule
subject to the provisions stated herein and the city’s established Rules and
Regulations for Electric Service.
         C.   Character of service. Single-phase, or multi-phase where
available, 60 cycles, at available secondary voltages.
         D.   Monthly rate.
Facilities charge                         $10.32
Demand charges
   First 30 kW or less of billing deman$1.12
   Over 30 kW of billing demand        $2.79
Energy charges
   First 200 kWh per kW of billing demand
      First 750 kWh                 $0.1171
      Over 750 kWh                  $0.1048
   Over 200 kWh per kW of billing demand
      All kWh                       $0.0764
 
         E.   Minimum monthly bill. The minimum monthly bill for service shall
be the higher of the following:
            1.   $10.32 net ($11.47 gross) per meter, plus $2.79 net ($3.11
gross) per kilowatt of maximum billing demand, such demand not being less than
50% of the kilowatt capacity necessary to serve the consumer; or
            2.   The minimum monthly charge specified in the contract for
service.
         F.   Power cost adjustment. The above charges have been designed to
recover a base power cost of $0.0752 per kWh sold. To the extent actual
wholesale power cost varies from the base power cost, the city may apply a PCA
factor as described in Schedule PCA to correct the over or under collection of
wholesale power costs through the base rates.
         G.   Determination of billing demand. When a consumer’s estimated
monthly load is in excess of 30 kilowatts, the city may install a demand meter
suitable for measuring the maximum demand. The billing demand shall be the
maximum kilowatt demand established by the consumer for any period of 15
consecutive minutes during the month for which the bill is rendered, provided
however, that the billing demand shall not be less than 65% of the highest
metered demand established during the preceding 11 months.
         H.   Discounts.
            1.   The difference between the gross and net rates above specified
shall constitute a discount for prompt payment if the bill is paid in full on
or before the twentieth day after that on which the bill is rendered.
            2.   a.   When service is furnished at primary distribution system
voltage and the consumer owns and maintains the transformer installation, the
following discount will be allowed on the monthly bill, but in no case will the
amount of the minimum bill be reduced.
               b.   All kilowatts of demand - $0.17 net per kilowatt.
         I.   Customer deposits. Deposits shall not exceed two-twelfths of the
estimated annual charge to the customer for service.
         J.   Reconnection charge. When service is terminated to a customer for
nonpayment of bills, $25 shall be charged for reconnection.
         K.   Returned check charge. A service charge equal to the actual bank
fee assessed to the city or a maximum of $25 will be imposed upon any customer
whose check for payment of charges is returned by their bank due to
insufficient funds.
         L.   Term. Not less than one year. Temporary service will be supplied
at the net rate for the first energy block only and upon the advance payment by
the consumer of the estimated monthly bill and the estimated cost of installing
and removing the connection, including poles, lines, transformers, meters,
other necessary equipment and all labor and expense incurred, less the salvage
value of all materials to be recovered.
      (3)   Large power service rate Schedule LP.
         A.   Availability. Available to consumers for single-phase service
within the entire territory served by the city. Multi-phase service is
available to consumers located in the service area adjacent to or near the
city’s multi-phase lines. All service provided hereunder is subject to the
city’s established Rules and Regulations for Electric Service.
         B.   Applicability. Applicable to consumers whose monthly load
requirements are in excess of 150 kilowatts.
         C.   Character of service. Single-phase, or multi-phase where
available, 60 cycles, at available primary distribution voltages. The delivery
point shall be the point of attachment of the city’s primary line to the
consumer’s transformer structure unless otherwise specified in the contract for
service. All wiring, pole lines and other electric equipment on the load side
of the delivery point shall be owned and maintained by the consumer.
         D.   Monthly rate.
Facilities charge                         $329.22
Demand charges
   First 50 kW or less of billing deman$2.23
   Over 50 kW of billing demand        $4.47
Energy charges
   First 200 kWh per kW of billing dema$0.0820
   Next 200 kWh per kW of billing deman$0.0792
   Over 400 kWh per kW of billing deman$0.0736
 
         E.   Minimum monthly bill. The minimum monthly bill for service shall
be the higher of the following:
            1.   $1.12 per kVA of installed transformer capacity; or
            2.   The minimum monthly charge specified in the contract for
service.
         F.   Power cost adjustment. The above charges have been designed to
recover a base power cost of $0.0752 per kWh sold. To the extent actual
wholesale power cost varies from the base power cost, the city may apply a PCA
factor as described in Schedule PCA to correct the over or under collection of
wholesale power costs through the base rates.
         G.   Determination of billing demand. The billing demand shall be the
maximum kilowatt demand established by the consumer for any period of 15
consecutive minutes during the month for which the bill is rendered, provided
however, that the billing demand shall not be less than 65% of the highest
metered demand established during the preceding 11 months.
         H.   Delayed payment penalty. The above rates are net, the gross rate
being 2% higher. In the event the bill is not paid in full on or before the
twentieth day after that on which the bill is rendered, the gross rates shall
apply.
         I.   Customer deposits. Deposits shall not exceed two-twelfths of the
estimated annual charge to the customer for service.
         J.   Reconnection charge. When service is terminated to a customer for
nonpayment of bills, $25 shall be charged for reconnection.
         K.   Returned check charge. A service charge equal to the actual bank
fee assessed to the city or a maximum of $25 will be imposed upon any customer
whose check for payment of charges is returned by their bank due to
insufficient funds.
         L.   Term. Not less than one year. Temporary service will be supplied
at the net rate for the first energy block only and upon the advance payment by
the consumer of the estimated monthly bill and the estimated cost of installing
and removing the connection, including poles, lines, transformers, meters,
other necessary equipment and all labor and expense incurred, less the salvage
value of all materials to be recovered.
      (4)   Economic development rate Schedule ED.
         A.   Availability. Available to industrial consumers within the entire
territory served by the city, subject to the city’s established Rules and
Regulations for Electric Service.
         B.   Applicability. Applicable to new consumers with a minimum load of
200 kW or to existing consumers that increase existing load as of January 1,
1999 by 200 kW or more and to city departments providing infrastructure
necessary to support Economic Development.
         C.   Character of service. Single-phase, or multi-phase where
available, at the city’s standard available voltages delivered through one
meter.
         D.   Monthly rate.
Facilities charge                                  $139.50
Demand charges
   First 500 kW of billing demand               $1.12
   Next 250 kW of billing demand                $0.56
   Over 750 kW of billing demand                $0.00
Energy charges
   Monthly load equal to or less than 55%       $0.0825
   Monthly load greater than 55% and less than 7$0.0809
   Monthly load equal to 70% or greater         $0.0798
 
         E.   Fuel adjustment provision. Each month the charges calculated in
accordance with the above rate will be increased or decreased by an amount
equal to the wholesale fuel adjustment per kWh billed the city by the city’s
wholesale supplier divided by 0.97. If information of the wholesale fuel cost
is not available in time for billing each month, the city may charge an
estimated amount to be corrected in the next billing period.
         F.   Minimum monthly bill. The minimum monthly bill for service shall
be the higher of the following:
            1.   $500; or
            2.   The minimum monthly charge specified in the contract for
service.
         G.   Power cost adjustment. The above charges have been designed to
recover a base power cost of $0.0752 per kWh sold. To the extent actual
wholesale power cost varies from the base power cost, the city may apply a PCA
factor as described in Schedule PCA to correct the over or under collection of
wholesale power costs through the base rates.
         H.   Delayed payment penalty. The above rates are net, the gross rates
being approximately 2% higher. In the event the bill is not paid in full on or
before the twentieth day after that on which the bill is rendered, the gross
rates shall apply.
         I.   Customer deposits. Deposits shall not exceed two-twelfths of the
estimated annual charge to the customer for service.
         J.   Reconnection charge. When service is terminated to a customer for
nonpayment of bills, $25 shall be charged for reconnection.
         K.   Returned check charge. A service charge equal to the actual bank
fee assessed to the city or a maximum of $25 will be imposed upon any customer
whose check for payment of charges is returned by their bank due to
insufficient funds.
         L.   Term. Service on this Schedule is not available for less than one
year. Temporary service is available at the city’s applicable rate.
      (5)   Outdoor lighting service rate Schedule SL.
         A.   Availability. Available to consumers within the entire territory
served by the city, subject to the established Rules and Regulations for
Electric Service.
         B.   Applicability. Applicable to outdoor lighting by ballast operated
vapor lamp fixtures attached to poles conforming to the city’s specification.
Service will be rendered only at locations that, solely in the opinion of the
city, are readily accessible for maintenance. Also applicable for street
lighting service by means of mercury vapor lamps.
         C.   Character of service. 175 watt, high pressure sodium lamps.
         D.   Monthly rate. Outdoor lighting monthly service charge per lamp
$11.77.
         E.   Power cost adjustment. The above charges have been designed to
recover a base power cost of $0.0752 per kWh sold. To the extent actual
wholesale power cost varies from the base power cost, the city may apply a PCA
factor as described in Schedule PCA to correct the over or under collection of
wholesale power costs through the base rates.
         F.   Additional facilities charge. The above rate is based upon
service provided on an existing pole. If the consumer requires the city to
install additional facilities in order to provide service exclusively for
outdoor lighting, then the consumer will be required to make a nonrefundable
contribution in aide of construction for such additional facilities in an
amount not to exceed the cost incurred by the city to add the facilities.
         G.   Hours of lighting. All lamps burn from approximately one-half
hour after sunset until approximately one-half hour before sunrise, burning
approximately 4,000 hours per annum. Based upon the hours of lighting and the
total wattage of lamp and ballast, it is estimated that each light consumes
approximately 65 kilowatt-hours per month.
         H.   Metering for multiple residences. Where two or more residences
located on one premises are supplied through a single meter, each shall be
classified as a single residence. Residences which have been converted into two
or more separate living quarters will be supplied with service through separate
meters; provided, however, that in instances where this is impracticable such
residence may be supplied with service through a single meter and the
contracting party will be billed under this Schedule, with the above stated
facilities charge and kilowatt-hour billing blocks increased in proportion to
the number of living quarters served.
         I.   Ownership of facilities. All facilities necessary for service,
including fixtures, controls, poles, transformers, secondaries, lamps, and
other appurtenances shall be owned and maintained by the city.
            a.   All service and necessary maintenance will be performed only
during the regularly scheduled working hours of the city’s Electric Department.
            b.   The Electric Department will replace burned-out lamps and
otherwise maintain the fixtures as soon as practicable following notification
by the consumer of such necessity.
         J.   Term. Not less than one year.
      (6)   Net metering service Schedule NMS. Remains the same as set forth in
Phase 1, subsection (a)(6).
      (7)   Power cost adjustment “PCA”. Remains the same as set forth in Phase
1, subsection (a)(7).
   (c)   Phase 3 (effective November 15, 2021).
      (1)   Residential service rate Schedule R.
         A.   Availability. Available to consumers within the entire territory
served by the city, subject to the established Rules and Regulations for
Electric Service.
         B.   Applicability. Applicable to residential consumers for energy
supplied through a single meter.
         C.   Character of service. Single-phase, 60 cycles, at available
secondary voltages.
         D.   Monthly rate.
 
Facilities charge $5.38
All kWh           $0.0971
 
         E.   Minimum monthly bill. The minimum monthly bill for service shall
be equal to the facilities charge.
         F.   Power cost adjustment. The above charges have been designed to
recover a base power cost of $0.0752 per kWh sold. To the extent actual
wholesale power cost varies from the base power cost, the city may apply a PCA
factor as described in Schedule PCA to correct the over or under collection of
wholesale power costs through the base rates.
         G.   Discounts. The difference between the gross and net rates above
specified shall constitute a discount for prompt payment if the bill is paid in
full on or before the twentieth day after that on which the bill is rendered.
         H.   Customer deposits. Deposits shall not exceed two-twelfths of the
estimated annual charge to the customer for service.
         I.   Reconnection charge. When service is terminated to a customer for
nonpayment of bills, $25 shall be charged for reconnection.
         J.   Returned check charge. A service charge equal to the actual bank
fee assessed to the city or a maximum of $25 will be imposed upon any customer
whose check for payment of charges is returned by their bank due to
insufficient funds.
         K.   Metering for multiple residences. Where two or more residences
located on one premises are supplied through a single meter, each shall be
classified as a single residence. Residences which have been converted into two
or more separate living quarters will be supplied with service through separate
meters; provided, however, that in instances where this is impracticable such
residence may be supplied with service through a single meter and the
contracting party will be billed under this Schedule, with the above stated
facilities charge and kilowatt-hour billing blocks increased in proportion to
the number of living quarters served.
         L.   Term. Not less than one year. Temporary service will be supplied
at the net rate for energy upon the advance payment by the consumer of the
estimated monthly bill and the estimated cost of installing and removing the
connection, including poles, lines, transformers, meters, other necessary
equipment and all labor and expense incurred, less the salvage value of all
materials to be recovered.
      (2)   General service rate Schedule GS.
         A.   Availability. Available to consumers for single-phase service
within the entire territory served by the city. Multi-phase service is
available to consumers located in the service area adjacent to or near the
city’s multi-phase lines. All service provided hereunder is subject to the
city’s established Rules and Regulations for Electric Service.
         B.   Applicability.
            1.   Applicable to consumers at a single location for commercial
lighting, general heating and power purposes when all service is combined for
billing under this Schedule, except that loads of character necessitating
special transformer provisions or service required by law to be delivered
through a separate circuit will be billed separately under this Schedule.
            2.   Standby or auxiliary service is available under this Schedule
subject to the provisions stated herein and the city’s established Rules and
Regulations for Electric Service.
         C.   Character of service. Single-phase, or multi-phase where
available, 60 cycles, at available secondary voltages.
         D.   Monthly rate.
Facilities charge                         $10.47
Demand charges
   First 30 kW or less of billing deman$1.14
   Over 30 kW of billing demand        $2.83
Energy charges
   First 200 kWh per kW of billing demand
      First 750 kWh                 $0.1189
   Over 750 kWh                        $0.1064
Over 200 kWh per kW of billing demand
   All kWh                             $0.0775
 
         E.   Minimum monthly bill. The minimum monthly bill for service shall
be the higher of the following:
            1.   $10.47 net ($11.64 gross) per meter, plus $2.83 net ($3.16
gross) per kilowatt of maximum billing demand, such demand not being less than
50% of the kilowatt capacity necessary to serve the consumer; or
            2.   The minimum monthly charge specified in the contract for
service.
         F.   Power cost adjustment. The above charges have been designed to
recover a base power cost of $0.0752 per kWh sold. To the extent actual
wholesale power cost varies from the base power cost, the City may apply a PCA
factor as described in Schedule PCA to correct the over or under collection of
wholesale power costs through the base rates.
         G.   Determination of billing demand. When a consumer’s estimated
monthly load is in excess of 30 kilowatts, the city may install a demand meter
suitable for measuring the maximum demand. The billing demand shall be the
maximum kilowatt demand established by the consumer for any period of 15
consecutive minutes during the month for which the bill is rendered, provided
however, that the billing demand shall not be less than 65% of the highest
metered demand established during the preceding 11 months.
         H.   Discounts.
            1.   The difference between the gross and net rates above specified
shall constitute a discount for prompt payment if the bill is paid in full on
or before the twentieth day after that on which the bill is rendered.
            2.   a.   When service is furnished at primary distribution system
voltage and the consumer owns and maintains the transformer installation, the
following discount will be allowed on the monthly bill, but in no case will the
amount of the minimum bill be reduced.
               b.   All kilowatts of demand - $0.18 net per kilowatt.
         I.   Customer deposits. Deposits shall not exceed two-twelfths of the
estimated annual charge to the customer for service.
         J.   Reconnection charge. When service is terminated to a customer for
nonpayment of bills, $25 shall be charged for reconnection.
         K.   Returned check charge. A service charge equal to the actual bank
fee assessed to the city or a maximum of $25 will be imposed upon any customer
whose check for payment of charges is returned by their bank due to
insufficient funds.
         L.   Term. Not less than one year. Temporary service will be supplied
at the net rate for the first energy block only and upon the advance payment by
the consumer of the estimated monthly bill and the estimated cost of installing
and removing the connection, including poles, lines, transformers, meters,
other necessary equipment and all labor and expense incurred, less the salvage
value of all materials to be recovered.
      (3)   Large power service rate Schedule LP.
         A.   Availability. Available to consumers for single-phase service
within the entire territory served by the city. Multi-phase service is
available to consumers located in the service area adjacent to or near the
city’s multi-phase lines. All service provided hereunder is subject to the
city’s established Rules and Regulations for Electric Service.
         B.   Applicability. Applicable to consumers whose monthly load
requirements are in excess of 150 kilowatts.
         C.   Character of service. Single-phase, or multi-phase where
available, 60 cycles, at available primary distribution voltages. The delivery
point shall be the point of attachment of the city’s primary line to the
consumer’s transformer structure unless otherwise specified in the contract for
service. All wiring, pole lines and other electric equipment on the load side
of the delivery point shall be owned and maintained by the consumer.
         D.   Monthly rate.
Facilities charge                         $334.16
Demand charges
   First 50 kW or less of billing deman$2.26
   Over 50 kW of billing demand        $4.54
Energy charges
   First 200 kWh per kW of billing dema$0.0832
   Next 200 kWh per kW of billing deman$0.0804
   Over 400 kWh per kW of billing deman$0.0747
 
         E.   Minimum monthly bill. The minimum monthly bill for service shall
be the higher of the following:
            1.   $1.14 per kVA of installed transformer capacity; or
            2.   The minimum monthly charge specified in the contract for
service.
         F.   Power cost adjustment. The above charges have been designed to
recover a base power cost of $0.0752 per kWh sold. To the extent actual
wholesale power cost varies from the base power cost, the city may apply a PCA
factor as described in Schedule PCA to correct the over or under collection of
wholesale power costs through the base rates.
         G.   Determination of billing demand. The billing demand shall be the
maximum kilowatt demand established by the consumer for any period of 15
consecutive minutes during the month for which the bill is rendered, provided
however, that the billing demand shall not be less than 65% of the highest
metered demand established during the preceding 11 months.
         H.   Delayed payment penalty. The above rates are net, the gross rate
being 2% higher. In the event the bill is not paid in full on or before the
twentieth day after that on which the bill is rendered, the gross rates shall
apply.
         I.   Customer deposits. Deposits shall not exceed two-twelfths of the
estimated annual charge to the customer for service.
         J.   Reconnection charge. When service is terminated to a customer for
nonpayment of bills, $25 shall be charged for reconnection.
         K.   Returned check charge. A service charge equal to the actual bank
fee assessed to the city or a maximum of $25 will be imposed upon any customer
whose check for payment of charges is returned by their bank due to
insufficient funds.
         L.   Term. Not less than one year. Temporary service will be supplied
at the net rate for the first energy block only and upon the advance payment by
the consumer of the estimated monthly bill and the estimated cost of installing
and removing the connection, including poles, lines, transformers, meters,
other necessary equipment and all labor and expense incurred, less the salvage
value of all materials to be recovered.
      (4)   Economic development rate Schedule ED.
         A.   Availability. Available to industrial consumers within the entire
territory served by the city, subject to the city’s established Rules and
Regulations for Electric Service.
         B.   Applicability. Applicable to new consumers with a minimum load of
200 kW or to existing consumers that increase existing load as of January 1,
1999 by 200 kW or more and to city departments providing infrastructure
necessary to support economic development.
         C.   Character of service. Single-phase, or multi-phase where
available, at the city’s standard available voltages delivered through one
meter.
         D.   Monthly rate.
Facilities charge                                  $141.59
Demand charges
   First 500 kW of billing demand               $1.14
   Next 250 kW of billing demand                $0.57
   Over 750 kW of billing demand                $0.00
Energy charges
   Monthly load equal to or less than 55%       $0.0837
   Monthly load greater than 55% and less than 7$0.0821
   Monthly load equal to 70% or greater         $0.0810
 
         E.   Fuel adjustment provision. Each month the charges calculated in
accordance with the above rate will be increased or decreased by an amount
equal to the wholesale fuel adjustment per kWh billed the city by the city’s
wholesale supplier divided by 0.97. If information of the wholesale fuel cost
is not available in time for billing each month, the city may charge an
estimated amount to be corrected in the next billing period.
         F.   Minimum monthly bill. The minimum monthly bill for service shall
be the higher of the following:
            1.   $500; or
            2.   The minimum monthly charge specified in the contract for
service.
         G.   Power cost adjustment. The above charges have been designed to
recover a base power cost of $0.0752 per kWh sold. To the extent actual
wholesale power cost varies from the base power cost, the city may apply a PCA
factor as described in Schedule PCA to correct the over or under collection of
wholesale power costs through the base rates.
         H.   Delayed payment penalty. The above rates are net, the gross rates
being approximately 2% higher. In the event the bill is not paid in full on or
before the twentieth day after that on which the bill is rendered, the gross
rates shall apply.
         I.   Customer deposits. Deposits shall not exceed two-twelfths of the
estimated annual charge to the customer for service.
         J.   Reconnection charge. When service is terminated to a customer for
nonpayment of bills, $25 shall be charged for reconnection.
         K.   Returned check charge. A service charge equal to the actual bank
fee assessed to the city or a maximum of $25 will be imposed upon any customer
whose check for payment of charges is returned by their bank due to
insufficient funds.
         L.   Term. Service on this Schedule is not available for less than one
year. Temporary service is available at the city’s applicable rate.
      (5)   Outdoor lighting service rate Schedule SL.
         A.   Availability. Available to consumers within the entire territory
served by the city, subject to the established Rules and Regulations for
Electric Service.
         B.   Applicability. Applicable to outdoor lighting by ballast operated
vapor lamp fixtures attached to poles conforming to the city’s specification.
Service will be rendered only at locations that, solely in the opinion of the
city, are readily accessible for maintenance. Also applicable for street
lighting service by means of mercury vapor lamps.
         C.   Character of service. 175 watt, high pressure sodium lamps
         D.   Monthly rate. Outdoor lighting monthly service charge per lamp is
$11.95.
         E.   Power cost adjustment. The above charges have been designed to
recover a base power cost of $0.0752 per kWh sold. To the extent actual
wholesale power cost varies from the base power cost, the city may apply a PCA
factor as described in Schedule PCA to correct the over or under collection of
wholesale power costs through the base rates.
         F.   Additional facilities charge. The above rate is based upon
service provided on an existing pole. If the consumer requires the city to
install additional facilities in order to provide service exclusively for
outdoor lighting, then the consumer will be required to make a nonrefundable
contribution in aide of construction for such additional facilities in an
amount not to exceed the cost incurred by the city to add the facilities.
         G.   Hours of lighting. All lamps burn from approximately one-half
hour after sunset until approximately one-half hour before sunrise, burning
approximately 4,000 hours per annum. Based upon the hours of lighting and the
total wattage of lamp and ballast, it is estimated that each light consumes
approximately 65 kilowatt-hours per month.
         H.   Metering for multiple residences. Where two or more residences
located on one premises are supplied through a single meter, each shall be
classified as a single residence. Residences which have been converted into two
or more separate living quarters will be supplied with service through separate
meters; provided, however, that in instances where this is impracticable such
residence may be supplied with service through a single meter and the
contracting party will be billed under this Schedule, with the above stated
facilities charge and kilowatt-hour billing blocks increased in proportion to
the number of living quarters served.
         I.   Ownership of facilities. All facilities necessary for service,
including fixtures, controls, poles, transformers, secondaries, lamps and other
appurtenances shall be owned and maintained by the city.
            a.   All service and necessary maintenance will be performed only
during the regularly scheduled working hours of the city’s Electric Department.
            b.   The Electric Department will replace burned-out lamps and
otherwise maintain the fixtures as soon as practicable following notification
by the consumer of such necessity.
         J.   Term. Not less than one year.
      (6)   Net metering service Schedule NMS. Remains the same as set forth in
Phase 1, subsection (a)(6).
      (7)   Power cost adjustment “PCA”. Remains the same as set forth in Phase
1, subsection (a)(7).
   (d)   Phase 4 (effective November 15, 2022).
      (1)   Residential service rate Schedule R.
         A.   Availability. Available to consumers within the entire territory
served by the city, subject to the established Rules and Regulations for
Electric Service.
         B.   Applicability. Applicable to residential consumers for energy
supplied through a single meter.
         C.   Character of service. Single-phase, 60 cycles, at available
secondary voltages.
         D.   Monthly rate.
 
Facilities charge $5.46
All kWh           $0.0986
 
         E.   Minimum monthly bill. The minimum monthly bill for service shall
be equal to the facilities charge.
         F.   Power cost adjustment. The above charges have been designed to
recover a base power cost of $0.0752 per kWh sold. To the extent actual
wholesale power cost varies from the base power cost, the city may apply a PCA
factor as described in Schedule PCA to correct the over or under collection of
wholesale power costs through the base rates.
         G.   Discounts. The difference between the gross and net rates above
specified shall constitute a discount for prompt payment if the bill is paid in
full on or before the twentieth day after that on which the bill is rendered.
         H.   Customer deposits. Deposits shall not exceed two-twelfths of the
estimated annual charge to the customer for service.
         I.   Reconnection charge. When service is terminated to a customer for
nonpayment of bills, $25 shall be charged for reconnection.
         J.   Returned check charge. A service charge equal to the actual bank
fee assessed to the city or a maximum of $25 will be imposed upon any customer
whose check for payment of charges is returned by their bank due to
insufficient funds.
         K.   Metering for multiple residences. Where two or more residences
located on one premises are supplied through a single meter, each shall be
classified as a single residence. Residences which have been converted into two
or more separate living quarters will be supplied with service through separate
meters; provided, however, that in instances where this is impracticable such
residence may be supplied with service through a single meter and the
contracting party will be billed under this Schedule, with the above stated
facilities charge and kilowatt-hour billing blocks increased in proportion to
the number of living quarters served.
         L.   Term. Not less than one year. Temporary service will be supplied
at the net rate for energy upon the advance payment by the consumer of the
estimated monthly bill and the estimated cost of installing and removing the
connection, including poles, lines, transformers, meters, other necessary
equipment and all labor and expense incurred, less the salvage value of all
materials to be recovered.
      (2)   General service rate Schedule GS.
         A.   Availability. Available to consumers for single-phase service
within the entire territory served by the city. Multi-phase service is
available to consumers located in the service area adjacent to or near the
city’s multi-phase lines. All service provided hereunder is subject to the
city’s established Rules and Regulations for Electric Service.
         B.   Applicability.
            1.   Applicable to consumers at a single location for commercial
lighting, general heating and power purposes when all service is combined for
billing under this Schedule, except that loads of character necessitating
special transformer provisions or service required by law to be delivered
through a separate circuit will be billed separately under this Schedule.
            2.   Standby or auxiliary service is available under this Schedule
subject to the provisions stated herein and the city’s established Rules and
Regulations for Electric Service.
         C.   Character of service. Single-phase, or multi-phase where
available, 60 cycles, at available secondary voltages.
         D.   Monthly rate.
Facilities charge                         $10.63
Demand charges
   First 30 kW or less of billing deman$1.16
   Over 30 kW of billing demand        $2.87
Energy charges
   First 200 kWh per kW of billing demand
      First 750 kWh                 $0.1207
      Over 750 kWh                  $0.1080
   Over 200 kWh per kW of billing demand
      All kWh                       $0.0787
 
         E.   Minimum monthly bill. The minimum monthly bill for service shall
be the higher of the following:
            1.   $10.63 net ($11.81 gross) per meter, plus $2.87 net ($3.21
gross) per kilowatt of maximum billing demand, such demand not being less than
50% of the kilowatt capacity necessary to serve the consumer; or
            2.   The minimum monthly charge specified in the contract for
service.
         F.   Power cost adjustment. The above charges have been designed to
recover a base power cost of $0.0752 per kWh sold. To the extent actual
wholesale power cost varies from the base power cost, the city may apply a PCA
factor as described in Schedule PCA to correct the over or under collection of
wholesale power costs through the base rates.
         G.   Determination of billing demand. When a consumer’s estimated
monthly load is in excess of 30 kilowatts, the city may install a demand meter
suitable for measuring the maximum demand. The billing demand shall be the
maximum kilowatt demand established by the consumer for any period of 15
consecutive minutes during the month for which the bill is rendered, provided
however, that the billing demand shall not be less than 65% of the highest
metered demand established during the preceding 11 months.
         H.   Discounts.
            1.   The difference between the gross and net rates above specified
shall constitute a discount for prompt payment if the bill is paid in full on
or before the twentieth day after that on which the bill is rendered.
            2.   a.   When service is furnished at primary distribution system
voltage and the consumer owns and maintains the transformer installation, the
following discount will be allowed on the monthly bill, but in no case will the
amount of the minimum bill be reduced.
               b.   All kilowatts of demand - $0.19 net per kilowatt.
         I.   Customer deposits. Deposits shall not exceed two-twelfths of the
estimated annual charge to the customer for service.
         J.   Reconnection charge. When service is terminated to a customer for
nonpayment of bills, $25 shall be charged for reconnection.
         K.   Returned check charge. A service charge equal to the actual bank
fee assessed to the city or a maximum of $25 will be imposed upon any customer
whose check for payment of charges is returned by their bank due to
insufficient funds.
         L.   Term. Not less than one year. Temporary service will be supplied
at the net rate for the first energy block only and upon the advance payment by
the consumer of the estimated monthly bill and the estimated cost of installing
and removing the connection, including poles, lines, transformers, meters,
other necessary equipment and all labor and expense incurred, less the salvage
value of all materials to be recovered.
      (3)   Large power service rate Schedule LP.
         A.   Availability. Available to consumers for single-phase service
within the entire territory served by the city. Multi-phase service is
available to consumers located in the service area adjacent to or near the
city’s multi-phase lines. All service provided hereunder is subject to the
city’s established Rules and Regulations for Electric Service.
         B.   Applicability. Applicable to consumers whose monthly load
requirements are in excess of 150 kilowatts.
         C.   Character of service. Single-phase, or multi-phase where
available, 60 cycles, at available primary distribution voltages. The delivery
point shall be the point of attachment of the city’s primary line to the
consumer’s transformer structure unless otherwise specified in the contract for
service. All wiring, pole lines and other electric equipment on the load side
of the delivery point shall be owned and maintained by the consumer.
         D.   Monthly rate.
Facilities charge                         $339.17
Demand charges
   First 50 kW or less of billing deman$2.29
   Over 50 kW of billing demand        $4.61
Energy charges
   First 200 kWh per kW of billing dema$0.0844
   Next 200 kWh per kW of billing deman$0.0816
   Over 400 kWh per kW of billing deman$0.0758
 
         E.   Minimum monthly bill. The minimum monthly bill for service shall
be the higher of the following:
            1.   $1.16 per kVA of installed transformer capacity; or
            2.   The minimum monthly charge specified in the contract for
service.
         F.   Power cost adjustment. The above charges have been designed to
recover a base power cost of $0.0752 per kWh sold. To the extent actual
wholesale power cost varies from the base power cost, the city may apply a PCA
factor as described in Schedule PCA to correct the over or under collection of
wholesale power costs through the base rates.
         G.   Determination of billing demand. The billing demand shall be the
maximum kilowatt demand established by the consumer for any period of 15
consecutive minutes during the month for which the bill is rendered, provided
however, that the billing demand shall not be less than 65% of the highest
metered demand established during the preceding 11 months.
         H.   Delayed payment penalty. The above rates are net, the gross rate
being 2% higher. In the event the bill is not paid in full on or before the
twentieth day after that on which the bill is rendered, the gross rates shall
apply.
         I.   Customer deposits. Deposits shall not exceed two-twelfths of the
estimated annual charge to the customer for service.
         J.   Reconnection charge. When service is terminated to a customer for
nonpayment of bills, $25 shall be charged for reconnection.
         K.   Returned check charge. A service charge equal to the actual bank
fee assessed to the city or a maximum of $25 will be imposed upon any customer
whose check for payment of charges is returned by their bank due to
insufficient funds.
         L.   Term. Not less than one year. Temporary service will be supplied
at the net rate for the first energy block only and upon the advance payment by
the consumer of the estimated monthly bill and the estimated cost of installing
and removing the connection, including poles, lines, transformers, meters,
other necessary equipment and all labor and expense incurred, less the salvage
value of all materials to be recovered.
      (4)   Economic development rate Schedule ED.
         A.   Availability. Available to industrial consumers within the entire
territory served by the city, subject to the city’s established Rules and
Regulations for Electric Service.
         B.   Applicability. Applicable to new consumers with a minimum load of
200 kW or to existing consumers that increase existing load as of January 1,
1999 by 200 kW or more and to city departments providing infrastructure
necessary to support economic development.
         C.   Character of service. Single-phase, or multi-phase where
available, at the city’s standard available voltages delivered through one
meter.
         D.   Monthly rate.
Facilities charge                                  $143.71
Demand charges
   First 500 kW of billing demand               $1.16
   Next 250 kW of billing demand                $0.58
   Over 750 kW of billing demand                $0.00
Energy charges
   Monthly load equal to or less than 55%       $0.0850
   Monthly load greater than 55% and less than 7$0.0833
   Monthly load equal to 70% or greater         $0.0822
 
         E.   Fuel adjustment provision. Each month the charges calculated in
accordance with the above rate will be increased or decreased by an amount
equal to the wholesale fuel adjustment per kWh billed the city by the city’s
wholesale supplier divided by 0.97. If information of the wholesale fuel cost
is not available in time for billing each month, the city may charge an
estimated amount to be corrected in the next billing period.
         F.   Minimum monthly bill. The minimum monthly bill for service shall
be the higher of the following:
            1.   $500; or
            2.   The minimum monthly charge specified in the contract for
service.
         G.   Power cost adjustment. The above charges have been designed to
recover a base power cost of $0.0752 per kWh sold. To the extent actual
wholesale power cost varies from the base power cost, the city may apply a PCA
factor as described in Schedule PCA to correct the over or under collection of
wholesale power costs through the base rates.
         H.   Delayed payment penalty. The above rates are net, the gross rates
being approximately 2% higher. In the event the bill is not paid in full on or
before the twentieth day after that on which the bill is rendered, the gross
rates shall apply.
         I.   Customer deposits. Deposits shall not exceed two-twelfths of the
estimated annual charge to the customer for service.
         J.   Reconnection charge. When service is terminated to a customer for
nonpayment of bills, $25 shall be charged for reconnection.
         K.   Returned check charge. A service charge equal to the actual bank
fee assessed to the city or a maximum of $25 will be imposed upon any customer
whose check for payment of charges is returned by their bank due to
insufficient funds.
         L.   Term. Service on this Schedule is not available for less than one
year. Temporary service is available at the city’s applicable rate.
      (5)   Outdoor lighting service rate Schedule SL.
         A.   Availability. Available to consumers within the entire territory
served by the city, subject to the established Rules and Regulations for
Electric Service.
         B.   Applicability. Applicable to outdoor lighting by ballast operated
vapor lamp fixtures attached to poles conforming to the city’s specification.
Service will be rendered only at locations that, solely in the opinion of the
city, are readily accessible for maintenance. Also applicable for street
lighting service by means of mercury vapor lamps.
         C.   Character of service. 175 watt, high pressure sodium lamps.
         D.   Monthly rate. Outdoor lighting monthly service charge per lamp is
$12.13.
         E.   Power cost adjustment. The above charges have been designed to
recover a base power cost of $0.0752 per kWh sold. To the extent actual
wholesale power cost varies from the base power cost, the city may apply a PCA
factor as described in Schedule PCA to correct the over or under collection of
wholesale power costs through the base rates.
         F.   Additional facilities charge. The above rate is based upon
service provided on an existing pole. If the consumer requires the city to
install additional facilities in order to provide service exclusively for
outdoor lighting, then the consumer will be required to make a nonrefundable
contribution in aide of construction for such additional facilities in an
amount not to exceed the cost incurred by the city to add the facilities.
         G.   Hours of lighting. All lamps burn from approximately one-half
hour after sunset until approximately one-half hour before sunrise, burning
approximately 4,000 hours per annum. Based upon the hours of lighting and the
total wattage of lamp and ballast, it is estimated that each light consumes
approximately 65 kilowatt-hours per month.
         H.   Metering for multiple residences. Where two or more residences
located on one premises are supplied through a single meter, each shall be
classified as a single residence. Residences which have been converted into two
or more separate living quarters will be supplied with service through separate
meters; provided, however, that in instances where this is impracticable such
residence may be supplied with service through a single meter and the
contracting party will be billed under this Schedule, with the above stated
facilities charge and kilowatt-hour billing blocks increased in proportion to
the number of living quarters served.
         I.   Ownership of facilities. All facilities necessary for service,
including fixtures, controls, poles, transformers, secondaries, lamps, and
other appurtenances shall be owned and maintained by the city.
            a.   All service and necessary maintenance will be performed only
during the regularly scheduled working hours of the city’s Electric Department.
            b.   The Electric Department will replace burned-out lamps and
otherwise maintain the fixtures as soon as practicable following notification
by the consumer of such necessity.
         J.   Term. Not less than one year.
      (6)   Net metering service Schedule NMS. Remains the same as set forth in
Phase 1, subsection (a)(6).
      (7)   Power cost adjustment “PCA”. Remains the same as set forth in Phase
1, subsection (a)(7).
   (e)   Phase 5 (effective November 15, 2023).
      (1)   Residential service rate Schedule R.
         A.   Availability. Available to consumers within the entire territory
served by the city, subject to the established Rules and Regulations for
Electric Service.
         B.   Applicability. Applicable to residential consumers for energy
supplied through a single meter.
         C.   Character of service. Single-phase, 60 cycles, at available
secondary voltages.
         D.   Monthly rate.
 
Facilities charge $5.54
All kWh           $0.1001
 
         E.   Minimum monthly bill. The minimum monthly bill for service shall
be equal to the facilities charge.
         F.   Power cost adjustment. The above charges have been designed to
recover a base power cost of $0.0752 per kWh sold. To the extent actual
wholesale power cost varies from the base power cost, the city may apply a PCA
factor as described in Schedule PCA to correct the over or under collection of
wholesale power costs through the base rates.
         G.   Discounts. The difference between the gross and net rates above
specified shall constitute a discount for prompt payment if the bill is paid in
full on or before the twentieth day after that on which the bill is rendered.
         H.   Customer deposits. Deposits shall not exceed two-twelfths of the
estimated annual charge to the customer for service.
         I.   Reconnection charge. When service is terminated to a customer for
nonpayment of bills, $25 shall be charged for reconnection.
         J.   Returned check charge. A service charge equal to the actual bank
fee assessed to the city or a maximum of $25 will be imposed upon any customer
whose check for payment of charges is returned by their bank due to
insufficient funds.
         K.   Metering for multiple residences. Where two or more residences
located on one premises are supplied through a single meter, each shall be
classified as a single residence. Residences which have been converted into two
or more separate living quarters will be supplied with service through separate
meters; provided, however, that in instances where this is impracticable such
residence may be supplied with service through a single meter and the
contracting party will be billed under this Schedule, with the above stated
facilities charge and kilowatt-hour billing blocks increased in proportion to
the number of living quarters served.
         L.   Term. Not less than one year. Temporary service will be supplied
at the net rate for energy upon the advance payment by the consumer of the
estimated monthly bill and the estimated cost of installing and removing the
connection, including poles, lines, transformers, meters, other necessary
equipment and all labor and expense incurred, less the salvage value of all
materials to be recovered.
      (2)   General service rate Schedule GS.
         A.   Availability. Available to consumers for single-phase service
within the entire territory served by the city. Multi-phase service is
available to consumers located in the service area adjacent to or near the
city’s multi-phase lines. All service provided hereunder is subject to the
city’s established Rules and Regulations for Electric Service.
         B.   Applicability.
            1.   Applicable to consumers at a single location for commercial
lighting, general heating and power purposes when all service is combined for
billing under this Schedule, except that loads of character necessitating
special transformer provisions or service required by law to be delivered
through a separate circuit will be billed separately under this Schedule.
            2.   Standby or auxiliary service is available under this Schedule
subject to the provisions stated herein and the city’s established Rules and
Regulations for Electric Service.
         C.   Character of service. Single-phase, or multi-phase where
available, 60 cycles, at available secondary voltages.
         D.   Monthly rate.
Facilities charge                         $10.79
Demand charges
   First 30 kW or less of billing deman$1.18
   Over 30 kW of billing demand        $2.91
Energy charges
   First 200 kWh per kW of billing demand
      First 750 kWh                 $0.1225
      Over 750 kWh                  $0.1096
   Over 200 kWh per kW of billing demand
      All kWh                       $0.0799
 
         E.   Minimum monthly bill. The minimum monthly bill for service shall
be the higher of the following:
            1.   $10.79 net ($11.99 gross) per meter, plus $2.91 net ($3.26
gross) per kilowatt of maximum billing demand, such demand not being less than
50% of the kilowatt capacity necessary to serve the consumer; or
            2.   The minimum monthly charge specified in the contract for
service.
         F.   Power cost adjustment. The above charges have been designed to
recover a base power cost of $0.0752 per kWh sold. To the extent actual
wholesale power cost varies from the base power cost, the City may apply a PCA
factor as described in Schedule PCA to correct the over or under collection of
wholesale power costs through the base rates.
         G.   Determination of billing demand. When a consumer’s estimated
monthly load is in excess of 30 kilowatts, the city may install a demand meter
suitable for measuring the maximum demand. The billing demand shall be the
maximum kilowatt demand established by the consumer for any period of 15
consecutive minutes during the month for which the bill is rendered, provided
however, that the billing demand shall not be less than 65% of the highest
metered demand established during the preceding 11 months.
         H.   Discounts.
            1.   The difference between the gross and net rates above specified
shall constitute a discount for prompt payment if the bill is paid in full on
or before the twentieth day after that on which the bill is rendered.
            2.   a.   When service is furnished at primary distribution system
voltage and the consumer owns and maintains the transformer installation, the
following discount will be allowed on the monthly bill, but in no case will the
amount of the minimum bill be reduced.
               b.   All kilowatts of demand - $0.20 net per kilowatt.
         I.   Customer deposits. Deposits shall not exceed two-twelfths of the
estimated annual charge to the customer for service.
         J.   Reconnection charge. When service is terminated to a customer for
nonpayment of bills, $25 shall be charged for reconnection.
         K.   Returned check charge. A service charge equal to the actual bank
fee assessed to the city or a maximum of $25 will be imposed upon any customer
whose check for payment of charges is returned by their bank due to
insufficient funds.
         L.   Term. Not less than one year. Temporary service will be supplied
at the net rate for the first energy block only and upon the advance payment by
the consumer of the estimated monthly bill and the estimated cost of installing
and removing the connection, including poles, lines, transformers, meters,
other necessary equipment and all labor and expense incurred, less the salvage
value of all materials to be recovered.
      (3)   Large power service rate Schedule LP.
         A.   Availability. Available to consumers for single-phase service
within the entire territory served by the city. Multi-phase service is
available to consumers located in the service area adjacent to or near the
city’s multi-phase lines. All service provided hereunder is subject to the
city’s established Rules and Regulations for Electric Service.
         B.   Applicability. Applicable to consumers whose monthly load
requirements are in excess of 150 kilowatts.
         C.   Character of service. Single-phase, or multi-phase where
available, 60 cycles, at available primary distribution voltages. The delivery
point shall be the point of attachment of the city’s primary line to the
consumer’s transformer structure unless otherwise specified in the contract for
service. All wiring, pole lines and other electric equipment on the load side
of the delivery point shall be owned and maintained by the consumer.
         D.   Monthly rate.
Facilities charge                         $344.26
Demand charges
   First 50 kW or less of billing deman$2.32
   Over 50 kW of billing demand        $4.68
Energy charges
   First 200 kWh per kW of billing dema$0.0857
   Next 200 kWh per kW of billing deman$0.0828
   Over 400 kWh per kW of billing deman$0.0769
 
         E.   Minimum monthly bill. The minimum monthly bill for service shall
be the higher of the following:
            1.   $1.18 per kVA of installed transformer capacity; or
            2.   The minimum monthly charge specified in the contract for
service.
         F.   Power cost adjustment. The above charges have been designed to
recover a base power cost of $0.0752 per kWh sold. To the extent actual
wholesale power cost varies from the base power cost, the city may apply a PCA
factor as described in Schedule PCA to correct the over or under collection of
wholesale power costs through the base rates.
         G.   Determination of billing demand. The billing demand shall be the
maximum kilowatt demand established by the consumer for any period of 15
consecutive minutes during the month for which the bill is rendered, provided
however, that the billing demand shall not be less than 65% of the highest
metered demand established during the preceding 11 months.
         H.   Delayed payment penalty. The above rates are net, the gross rate
being 2% higher. In the event the bill is not paid in full on or before the
twentieth day after that on which the bill is rendered, the gross rates shall
apply.
         I.   Customer deposits. Deposits shall not exceed two-twelfths of the
estimated annual charge to the customer for service.
         J.   Reconnection charge. When service is terminated to a customer for
nonpayment of bills, $25 shall be charged for reconnection.
         K.   Returned check charge. A service charge equal to the actual bank
fee assessed to the city or a maximum of $25 will be imposed upon any customer
whose check for payment of charges is returned by their bank due to
insufficient funds.
         L.   Term. Not less than one year. Temporary service will be supplied
at the net rate for the first energy block only and upon the advance payment by
the consumer of the estimated monthly bill and the estimated cost of installing
and removing the connection, including poles, lines, transformers, meters,
other necessary equipment and all labor and expense incurred, less the salvage
value of all materials to be recovered.
      (4)   Economic development rate Schedule ED.
         A.   Availability. Available to industrial consumers within the entire
territory served by the city, subject to the city’s established Rules and
Regulations for Electric Service.
         B.   Applicability. Applicable to new consumers with a minimum load of
200 kW or to existing consumers that increase existing load as of January 1,
1999 by 200 kW or more and to city departments providing infrastructure
necessary to support economic development.
         C.   Character of service. Single-phase, or multi-phase where
available, at the city’s standard available voltages delivered through one
meter.
         D.   Monthly rate.
Facilities charge                                  $145.87
Demand charges
   First 500 kW of billing demand               $1.18
   Next 250 kW of billing demand                $0.59
   Over 750 kW of billing demand                $0.00
Energy charges
   Monthly load equal to or less than 55%       $0.0863
   Monthly load greater than 55% and less than 7$0.0845
   Monthly load equal to 70% or greater         $0.0834
 
         E.   Fuel adjustment provision. Each month the charges calculated in
accordance with the above rate will be increased or decreased by an amount
equal to the wholesale fuel adjustment per kWh billed the city by the city’s
wholesale supplier divided by 0.97. If information of the wholesale fuel cost
is not available in time for billing each month, the city may charge an
estimated amount to be corrected in the next billing period.
         F.   Minimum monthly bill. The minimum monthly bill for service shall
be the higher of the following:
            1.   $500; or
            2.   The minimum monthly charge specified in the contract for
service.
         G.   Power cost adjustment. The above charges have been designed to
recover a base power cost of $0.0752 per kWh sold. To the extent actual
wholesale power cost varies from the base power cost, the city may apply a PCA
factor as described in Schedule PCA to correct the over or under collection of
wholesale power costs through the base rates.
         H.   Delayed payment penalty. The above rates are net, the gross rates
being approximately 2% higher. In the event the bill is not paid in full on or
before the twentieth day after that on which the bill is rendered, the gross
rates shall apply.
         I.   Customer deposits. Deposits shall not exceed two-twelfths of the
estimated annual charge to the customer for service.
         J.   Reconnection charge. When service is terminated to a customer for
nonpayment of bills, $25 shall be charged for reconnection.
         K.   Returned check charge. A service charge equal to the actual bank
fee assessed to the city or a maximum of $25 will be imposed upon any customer
whose check for payment of charges is returned by their bank due to
insufficient funds.
         L.   Term. Service on this Schedule is not available for less than one
year. Temporary service is available at the city’s applicable rate.
      (5)   Outdoor lighting service rate Schedule SL.
         A.   Availability. Available to consumers within the entire territory
served by the city, subject to the established Rules and Regulations for
Electric Service.
         B.   Applicability. Applicable to outdoor lighting by ballast operated
vapor lamp fixtures attached to poles conforming to the city’s specification.
Service will be rendered only at locations that, solely in the opinion of the
city, are readily accessible for maintenance. Also applicable for street
lighting service by means of mercury vapor lamps.
         C.   Character of service. 175 watt, high pressure sodium lamps.
         D.   Monthly rate. Outdoor lighting monthly service charge per lamp is
$12.31.
         E.   Power cost adjustment. The above charges have been designed to
recover a base power cost of $0.0752 per kWh sold. To the extent actual
wholesale power cost varies from the base power cost, the city may apply a PCA
factor as described in Schedule PCA to correct the over or under collection of
wholesale power costs through the base rates.
         F.   Additional facilities charge. The above rate is based upon
service provided on an existing pole. If the consumer requires the city to
install additional facilities in order to provide service exclusively for
outdoor lighting, then the consumer will be required to make a nonrefundable
contribution in aide of construction for such additional facilities in an
amount not to exceed the cost incurred by the city to add the facilities.
         G.   Hours of lighting. All lamps burn from approximately one-half
hour after sunset until approximately one-half hour before sunrise, burning
approximately 4,000 hours per annum. Based upon the hours of lighting and the
total wattage of lamp and ballast, it is estimated that each light consumes
approximately 65 kilowatt-hours per month.
         H.   Metering for multiple residences. Where two or more residences
located on one premises are supplied through a single meter, each shall be
classified as a single residence. Residences which have been converted into two
or more separate living quarters will be supplied with service through separate
meters; provided, however, that in instances where this is impracticable such
residence may be supplied with service through a single meter and the
contracting party will be billed under this Schedule, with the above stated
facilities charge and kilowatt-hour billing blocks increased in proportion to
the number of living quarters served.
         I.   Ownership of facilities. All facilities necessary for service,
including fixtures, controls, poles, transformers, secondaries, lamps, and
other appurtenances shall be owned and maintained by the city. All service and
necessary maintenance will be performed only during the regularly scheduled
working hours of the city’s Electric Department. The Electric Department will
replace burned-out lamps and otherwise maintain the fixtures as soon as
practicable following notification by the consumer of such necessity.
         J.   Term. Not less than one year.
      (6)   Net metering service Schedule NMS. Remains the same as set forth in
Phase 1, subsection (a)(6).
      (7)   Power cost adjustment “PCA”. Remains the same as set forth in Phase
1, subsection (a)(7).
   (f)   Effective date. The rates, fees and charges provided herein shall be
effective as follows:
      (1)   Phase 1 rates (subsection (a) above) effective as of November 15,
2019;
      (2)   Phase 2 rates (subsection (b) above) effective as of November 15,
2020;
      (3)   Phase 3 rates (subsection (c) above) effective as of November 15,
2021;
      (4)   Phase 4 rates (subsection (d) above) effective as of November 15,
2022; and
      (5)   Phase 5 rates (subsection (e) above) effective as of November 15,
2023.
(Ord. passed 10-1-2019)
CHAPTER FIVE - Other Public Services
         
951.   Garbage and Refuse Collection
ARTICLE 951: GARBAGE AND REFUSE COLLECTION
Section
   
951.01   Definitions
   
951.02   Collection by city only
   
951.03   Division of sanitation
   
951.04   Fees; rates and charges
   
951.05   Prohibition
   
951.06   Transfer station rates
 
   
951.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Loads dropping or leaking, see §
347.04
   Placing material in streets, see §
311.01
Statutory reference:
   Power to regulate, see W.Va. Code §§ 8-12-5(10) et seq.
§ 951.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (a)   “Refuse” means all sweepings, cleanings, trash, rubbish, litter,
garbage, industrial or domestic waste; organic waste or the residue of animals,
arising from the sale or use of meat, fruit or other vegetable matters from
kitchens, dining rooms, market places dealing in or handling meats, fruits,
vegetables or grain; offal, animal excreta, carcasses of animals, tree or shrub
trimmings, grass clippings, dirt, wood, stone, brick, plater or materials
resulting from the demolition, alteration or construction of buildings or
structures, accumulated waste materials or substances which may become
nuisances, some of which are more particularly classified as follows.
      (1)   “Prepared garbage” means waste materials from kitchen, dining rooms
and similar places from which liquids have been drained and solid matter
wrapped in paper.
      (2)   “Trash” means wastes materials contained in putrid matter or
organic waste.
      (3)   “Ashes” means residue resulting from the combustion of coal, coke
or wood in domestic, industrial or commercial stoves, furnaces or boilers,
unless properly spread upon a garden plot or used as hard fill.
   (b)   “Refuse collections” means the gathering of refuse containers and of
their contents from the premises of improved property and loading such contents
into removing vehicles and returning containers to the place where found after
contents have been emptied, for which charge is made as provided in §
951.04(a).
   (c)   “Refuse removal” means the hauling and transportation of refuse from
point of collection to point of disposal.
   (d)   “Refuse disposal” means the disposition of refuse in accordance with
rules and regulations promulgated by Council or as may set out in this article.
   (e)   “Refuse containers” or “trash and garbage containers” referred to in
this article shall meet the following specifications:
      (1)   “Trash and ash containers” means standard containers for the
storage of trash or ashes, which must be kept and contained in separate
containers, shall be substantially made of metal, shall have a capacity of no
more than 20 gallons, and shall be equipped with at least two carrying handles,
with a tight-fitting metal cover, or as may be otherwise prescribed by the
County Health Officer, or his or her authorized representative.
      (2)   “Garbage containers” means standard containers for the storage of
garbage shall be substantially made of metal, leakproof and watertight, shall
have a capacity of five gallons or more but not to exceed 30 gallons and shall
be equipped with adequate bails or handles for carrying same with a tight-
fitting metal cover, or as otherwise prescribed by the County Health Officer.
   (f)   “County Health Officer” means the County Health Officer of Barbour
County, West Virginia, or his or her authorized representative, a registered
professional sanitarian.
   (g)   “Person” means any individual, partnership, firm or corporation.
(Ord. passed 1-21-1992)
§ 951.02 COLLECTION BY CITY ONLY.
   After the effective date of this article, it shall be unlawful for any
person, except the city, to engage in or conduct the business of collection,
removal or disposal of refuse, ashes, raw garbage or prepared garbage within
the city.
(Ord. passed 1-21-1992)
§ 951.03 DIVISION OF SANITATION.
   On and after the effective date of this article there is hereby created a
Division of Sanitation for the city under the supervision and direction of
Council and the order, rules and regulation are to be carried out and enforced
by the Mayor and City Clerk as shall hereafter appear. It shall be the duty of
the Council to provide adequate equipment for the collection and disposition of
refuse as defined in this article. The City Clerk, with the approval of
Council, shall have authority, and is hereby given the authority, to prescribe,
publish, promulgate and enforce any and all reasonable rules and regulations
which are deemed necessary or proper consistent with this article, and
consistent with the laws of the state, to carry out the objects and purpose of
this article and to protect the safety and health of the residents of the city
in respect to the collection, removal and disposal of refuse as herein defined.
The County Health Officer, and his or her authorized representative, where
used, is hereby made, and shall be, ex officio Sanitary Inspector for the city,
whose duty it shall be to advise and consult with the City Clerk and with all
other duly authorized officers and employees with respect to enforcement of the
provisions of this article.
(Ord. passed 1-21-1992)
§ 951.04 FEES; RATES AND CHARGES.
   In order to make the service proposed in this article self-supporting and to
pay for the cost of acquisition, maintenance and replacement of any and all
equipment which may be required by the city and to pay for the cost of any and
which may be acquired by the city for any proper method of disposition of
refuse there is hereby established a schedule of fees, rates and charges for
standard type or types of refuse service as follows.
   (a)   Minimum charges for standard weekly service for residential customers
residing in the city.
      (1)   Prepared garbage and trash only. The minimum rates for weekly
collection of two 20-gallon containers is as follows: $285 per year, payable
monthly at a rate of $23.75 per month, or other such amounts set by Council
from time to time. Residential customers shall be a household of one or more
persons residing in a separate residence.
      (2)   Ashes. The minimum rate for a weekly collection of not more than
one 20-gallon container of ashes shall be the sum of $285 per year, payable
monthly at a rate of $23.75 per month, or other such amounts set by Council
from time to time, and if there is more than one can of ashes in any one week,
the charge shall be adjusted accordingly.
   (b)   Commercial rates for customers operating in the city.
      (1)   Container customers. Container costs (if applicable) plus current
cost/cu. yd. x frequency of pick-up. Surcharge fees may be applied for bulky or
unusual items that require extra handling.
      (2)   Non-containerized commercial customers. Non-containerized
commercial customers will be billed on a time/volume basis using past pick-up
history. But in no case will they be charged less than $23.75 per month, or
another amount set by Council from time to time, for one time per week pick-up.
   (c)   Mileage fee. Customers not residing or operating a business within the
corporate limits will pay the above rates plus 25% milage fee.
   (d)   Items city will not collect. Under the above schedule of rates, the
city shall not collect, remove or dispose of the following types of refuse:
offal; sewerage; animal excreta; the carcasses of animals; material resulting
from demolition, repair, alterations or erections of buildings or structures;
nor cuttings from trees and shrubs.
   (e)   Minimum charge. A minimum charge of $14.50, or another amount set by
Council from time to time, shall be collected for each special service call
made, and to the minimum charge shall be added such additional charge as will
compensate the city for extra refuse volume or weight involved in the type of
refuse specified under subsection (d) above as determined by the City Clerk or
Council. No regular service shall be extended to any person who has not
presently paid for same nor shall special service be extended to any person who
has unpaid any one charge for special service. When the payment for regular
service shall expire or payment for any special service shall not be made the
city may discontinue any further service without notice.
   (f)   Right to deny service. The city shall have the right to deny standard
refuse service to any person whose refuse requirements are sufficiently
abnormal or different to justify special handling in the option of the County
Health Officer or his or her authorized representative, in which case a special
charge will be made. This shall include buildings or dwellings which are not
readily accessible to collectors or where refuse is not readily accessible to
collectors or where refuse is not found in standard containers.
   (g)   Right for revision. Council shall have the right to revise the
foregoing schedule of rates, pro rata and on a scale and also adjust them so
that the costs of the service rendered will be distributed as equitably as
possible among all the residents of the city on the basis of benefits received
and at the same time ensure sufficient operating income to pay all costs,
expenses, salaries, wages and the purchase, maintenance, replacement of all
necessary machinery and equipment. The public shall receive notice of any
increases in rates by publication in a newspaper published in the city at least
ten days prior to the date that new rates shall take effect.
(Ord. passed 1-21-1992; Ord. 95-08, passed 10-19-1995; Ord. passed 2-4-2014)
§ 951.05 PROHIBITION.
   (a)   No person shall cause or permit the accumulation of refuse in, about
or upon premises owned, occupied or used by them, when and if in the judgment
of the County Health Officer or his or her authorized representative such
accumulation is unsightly, unsanitary or hazardous to the property, life,
health, safety or welfare of the public.
   (b)   No person shall dispose of refuse within the corporate limits of the
city except in standard incinerators constructed for that purpose which have
been inspected and approved as safe by authorized representatives of the Fire
Department of the city and the County Health Officer or his or her authorized
representative.
   (c)   No person shall throw, place or deposit, or cause to be placed,
deposited, dumped or thrown, any litter, garbage, refuse, trash, cans, bottles,
papers, ashes, cigarette or cigar butts, junk, carcasses of any dead animal,
offal, waste or any other offensive or unsightly matter in or upon any public
street, road or alleyway in the city or upon the surface of land owned by any
other party within 100 yards thereof either with or without the intent to later
remove and dispose of the same, or to suffer or permit the accumulation of any
refuse on any premises owned, occupied or controlled by such persons which may
become or remain offensive, unsanitary, unsightly, unsafe to public health or
hazardous from fire.
   (d)   No person shall store or permit the storage of refuse on or about
their premises, or the premises occupied by them, unless such refuse is kept
separately in standard trash and garbage containers as defined in this article.
   (e)   No person shall deposit or store garbage in refuse containers unless
such garbage has been prepared for collection, removal and disposal and
complies with the definition of prepared garbage as set out in this article, or
to deposit any garbage in the garbage receptacle owned and for which service
has been paid by some other persons.
(Ord. passed 1-21-1992)
§ 951.06 TRANSFER STATION RATES.
   (a)   The following shall be the minimum transfer station rates to be
charged to individuals or companies in connection with the usage in the city.
 Rate Per Ton
                                                           Rate Per Ton
Minimum charge                                             $7.50
Other individual and other consumer rates                  $100
Commercial packer                                          $100
City packer                                                $100
Tires
   Up to and including 15 inches                        $2
   16 inches                                            $3
   Over 16 inches                                       $6
Container rental fees for within the corporate limits only
   Rental including delivery set-up, pick-up and 3 days $200
   Each additional day                                  $40
Note: fees for disposal of wastes will follow the above schedule in addition
to rental fees
 
   (b)   Rates include all applicable state and county assessments.
(Ord. 95-01, passed 5-2-1995; Ord. passed 2-4-2014)
§ 951.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   Any person violating any provision of this article or who shall fail
or refuse to abide by or comply with the rules or regulations promulgated to
effectuate the provisions of this article, upon conviction, shall be fined not
less than $20 nor more than $500 and cost for each offense.
   (b)   Each separate day that a violation of this article shall exist, shall
constitute a new and separate offense.
(Ord. passed 1-21-1992)
PART ELEVEN: HEALTH AND SANITATION CODE
ARTICLE 1105: GARBAGE AND REFUSE
Section
   
1105.01   Refuse defined
   
1105.02   Premises to be kept clean
   
1105.03   Storage
   
1105.04   Location of containers
   
1105.05   Disturbing containers
   
1105.06   Collection
   
1105.07   Collection vehicles
 
   
1105.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Loads dropping or leaking, see §
347.04
   Placing material in streets, see §
311.01
Statutory reference:
   Power to regulate, see W.Va. Code §§ 8-12-5(10) et seq.
§ 1105.01 REFUSE DEFINED.
   “Refuse” means and includes garbage, rubbish and refuse as those terms are
generally defined except that dead animals and fowls, body wastes, hot ashes,
rocks, concrete, bricks and similar materials are expressly excluded therefrom
and shall not be stored therewith.
§ 1105.02 PREMISES TO BE KEPT CLEAN.
   All persons within the municipality are hereby required to keep their
premises in a clean and sanitary condition, free from accumulations of refuse
except when stored as provided in this article.
§ 1105.03 STORAGE.
   Each owner, occupant or other responsible person using or occupying any
building or other premises within this municipality where refuse accumulates or
is likely to accumulate, shall provide and keep covered an adequate number of
metal refuse containers. The refuse containers shall be strong, durable and
rodent- proof and insect-proof. They shall each have a capacity of not less
than 20 nor more than 32 gallons, except that this maximum capacity shall not
apply to larger containers which the municipality handles mechanically.
Furthermore, except for containers which the municipality handles mechanically,
the combined weight of any refuse container and its contents shall not exceed
75 pounds. No refuse shall be placed in a refuse container until such refuse
has been drained of all free liquids. Tree trimmings, hedge clippings and
similar materials shall be cut to a length not to exceed four feet and shall be
securely tied in individual bundles weighing not more than 75 pounds each and
being not more than two feet thick before being deposited for collection.
§ 1105.04 LOCATION OF CONTAINERS.
   Where alleys are used by the municipal refuse collectors, containers shall
be placed on or within six feet of the alley line in such a position as not to
intrude upon the traveled portion of the alley. Where streets are used by the
municipal refuse collectors, containers shall be placed adjacent to and back of
the curb, or adjacent to and back of the ditch or street line if there is no
curb, at such times as shall be scheduled by the municipality for the
collection of refuse therefrom. As soon as practicable after such containers
have been emptied they shall be removed by the owner within or to the rear of,
his or her premises and away from the street line until the next scheduled time
for collection.
§ 1105.05 DISTURBING CONTAINERS.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, ruffle, rifle, pilfer, dig into, turn
over or in any other manner disturb or use any refuse container belonging to
another. This selection shall not be construed to prohibit the use of public
refuse containers for their intended purposes.
§ 1105.06 COLLECTION.
   All refuse accumulated within the corporate limits shall be collected,
conveyed, and disposed of under the supervision of such officer as Council
shall designate. Collections shall be made regularly in accordance with an
announced schedule.
§ 1105.07 COLLECTION VEHICLES.
   The collection of refuse shall be by means of vehicles with beds constructed
of impervious materials which are easily cleanable and so constructed that
there will be no leakage of liquids draining from the refuse onto the streets
and alleys. Furthermore, all refuse collection interconnection, and service
shall not be restored until such cross-connection, auxiliary intake, by-pass or
interconnection has been discontinued.
§ 1105.99 PENALTY.
   See §
101.99 for general code penalty.
ARTICLE 1109: NUISANCES
Section
   
1109.01   Definitions and authority
   
1109.02   Animals
   
1109.03   Abandoned/derelict vehicles
   
1109.04   Weed, hedges, tall grass and other vegetation
   
1109.05   Rubbish, litter
   
1109.06   General health regulations
   
1109.07   Disorderly conduct
   
1109.08   Other general nuisances
Cross-reference:
   Mobile homes, see
Art. 1717
Statutory reference:
   Authority to abate public nuisances, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-5(13), (23)
   Authority to establish local health units, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-5(40)
§ 1109.01 DEFINITIONS AND AUTHORITY.
   (a)   Authority. This article is adopted pursuant to the authority granted
to West Virginia municipalities through W.Va. Code Chapter 8.
   (b)   Purposes. It is the intent of this article to encourage a clean,
healthy and satisfying environment for its citizens, one free from nuisances,
eyesores, unhealthy or devaluating conditions. To these ends, this article
seeks to regulate, identify and provide a means to enforce the regulations, to
protect the health, safety and welfare of residents and property owners.
   (c)   Enactment. For the purposes cited above and for the general purposes
of promoting the health, safety and general welfare of the city, Council does
hereby ordain, adopt and enact this article in its entirety, including text,
and all regulations, all of which shall be known as the city’s “Nuisance
Ordinance”. This article shall apply to all land within the corporate limits of
the city.
   (d)   Conflicting ordinances. All ordinances or parts of ordinances in
conflict with this article or inconsistent with its provisions, specifically
including previous ordinances of the city or amendments thereto, are hereby
repealed or superseded to the extent necessary to give this article full force
and effort.
   (e)   Separability. Should any provision of this article be declared invalid
or unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, such declaration
shall not affect this article as a whole or any part hereof except that
specific provision which was the subject of the declaration.
   (f)   Inclusions. Current sections in Part Three and Part Eleven of the
codified ordinances for the city, that will remain in effect and incorporated
into this article are as follows:
Article 505.00 through General Offense Code
545.00
Article 505.00         Articles —Animals and —Dogs,
Article 509.00         Disorderly conduct renumbered to Chapter — 1109.07
Article 537.00         General Health Regulations renumbered to Chapter — and
                       1107
Article 517.00         Other General Nuisances renumbered to Chapter 1109.08
Article 1105           Garbage and Refuse
Article 1109           Nuisance
Section 347.04         Loads Dropping or Leaking
Section 361.07(a), (b) Abandoned and Junk Vehicles
 
   (g)   Definitions. For the purposes of this article, the word “nuisance” is
hereby defined as any person doing an unlawful act, or omitting to perform a
duty, or suffering or permitting any condition or thing to be or exist, which
act, omission, condition or thing either:
      (1)   Injures or endangers the welfare, health or safety of others;
      (2)   Offends decency;
      (3)   Creates offensive odors;
      (4)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstruct or tends to obstruct or
renders dangerous for passage on any public or private street, highway,
sidewalk, stream, ditch or drainage;
      (5)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of
property; or
      (6)   Essentially interfaces with the comfortable enjoyment of life and
property, or tends to depreciate the value of property of others.
   (h)   Illustrative enumeration. The maintaining, using, placing, depositing,
leaving or permitting to be or remain on any public or private property of any
of the following items, conditions or actions are hereby declared to be and
constitute a nuisance; provided however, this enumeration shall not be deemed
or construed to be conclusive, limiting or restrictive:
      (1)   Weeds or vegetation allowed to grow to a height greater than 12
inches on the average, or any accumulation of dead weeds, grass or brush, on
any occupied or unoccupied lot or land, that may provide safe harborage for
rats, mice, snakes and other vermin;
      (2)   Accumulation of rubbish, trash, refuse junk, and other abandoned
materials, metals, lumber or other things;
      (3)   The carcasses of animals or fowl not disposed of within a
reasonable time after death;
      (4)   Any building or other structure which is in such a dilapidated
condition that it is unfit for human habitation, or kept in such an unsanitary
condition that it is a menace to the health of people residing in the vicinity
thereof, or presents a more than ordinarily dangerous fire hazard in the
vicinity where it is located;
      (5)   All noises which may annoy or permit others in their enjoyment of
the use of their property;
      (6)   All disagreeable or obnoxious odors and stenches, as well as the
conditions, substances or other cause which give rise to the emission or
generation of such odors and stenches, including smoke and fires;
      (7)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream, lake, canal or
body of water by sewage, dead animals, creamery, industrial wastes or other
substances;
      (8)   Any building, structure or other place or location where any
activity which is in violation of local or state law, or federal law is
conducted, performed or maintained;
      (9)   Any accumulation of stagnant water permitted or maintained on any
lot or piece of ground; and
      (10)   Any methods of human excreta disposal which does not conform to
the provisions of this code, state law or city ordinance, rule or regulation.
   (i)   Prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, permit,
maintain or allow the creation or maintenance of a nuisance.
   (j)   Notice to abate. Whenever a nuisance is found to exist within the city
or within the city’s extraterritorial jurisdiction, the City Manager or his or
her assigns shall give written notice to the owner or occupant of the property
upon which such nuisance exists or upon the person causing or maintaining the
nuisance.
   (k)   Contents of a notice. The notice to abate the nuisance issued under
the provisions of this article shall contain:
      (1)   An order to abate the nuisance or to request a hearing within a
stated time, which shall be reasonable under the circumstances;
      (2)   The location of the nuisance, if the same is stationary;
      (3)   A description of what constitutes the nuisance;
      (4)   A statement of acts necessary to abate the nuisance; and
      (5)   A statement that if the nuisance is not abated as directed and no
request for hearing is made within the prescribed time, the city will abate
such nuisance and assess the cost thereof against such person. The opportunity
for a hearing with the City Manager and/or City Attorney shall be granted upon
written request, properly delivered to the City Manager within the allotted
time.
   (l)   Service of notice. The notice to abate a nuisance shall be served as
any other legal process may be served pursuant to law.
   (m)   Abatement by city. Upon completion of the abatement of any nuisance by
the city under the provisions of this article, the Police Department shall
deliver to the City Clerk a statement including the costs of labor, hauling or
other necessary items of expense for such abatement. The City Clerk shall
thereupon mail to the owner of the lot a bill covering the cost. The amount of
the bill shall become a lien upon such property and if not paid within 30 days
shall be collected in the same manner as provided for the collection of
delinquent taxes.
   (n)   Criminal liability. Violations of this article shall constitute a
criminal liability. The procedure set forth in this article shall be in
addition to any other remedies that may now or hereafter exist under law for
the abatement of public nuisances and this article shall not prevent the city
from proceeding in a criminal action against any person. In addition, violators
shall be civilly liable for costs incurred by the city to abate said nuisances.
   (o)   The sections of this article and subsequent articles of Part 8 of this
code for the city will become effective as of the date of passage.
(Ord. passed 8-23-1989)
§ 1109.02 ANIMALS.
   (a)   In general.
      (1)   Animals at large. No animals shall be permitted to run at large
within the city limits. All animals caught running at large shall be reported
to the police, who shall in turn notify the county dog warden.
      (2)   Disposal of dead animals. No person shall deposit, or cause to be
deposited, the carcass of any dead animal in the streets, roads, alleys, woods
or water within the corporate limits of the city.
      (3)   Chicken fighting prohibited. No person shall incite or cause, any
dogs or other animals or any chicken to fight within the city.
      (4)   Bird sanctuary designated. The area embraced within the corporate
limits of the city, and all lands owned or leased by the city outside the
corporate limits, is hereby designated as a bird sanctuary.
      (5)   Weapons regulated. It shall be unlawful for any person, within the
area hereby established to shoot or project any stone, rock, shot or other hard
substance by means of sling shot, bean shooter, air rifle, pipegun, bow or
other similar contrivance, or to fire any pistol, gun or other firearm within
the area, except on archery ranges, firing ranges or in legally established
shooting galleries or ranges, or in the discharge of duty of law enforcement
officers; provided, that the use of firearms in the destruction of rodents or
similar animals or reptiles that are considered a menace to public health or
property may be permitted by special permission of the Chief of Police.
      (6)   Signs permitted. The bird clubs of the city are hereby granted
permission to erect such artistic signs, giving notice of the regulations
herein provided, at such places and of such design as may be approved by the
Board.
      (7)   Penalty. Any person violating the provisions of subsection (a)
above shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction shall be
fined in an amount not exceeding $50, or another such amount as set by Council
from time to time.
   (b)   Dogs.
      (1)   Definitions. As used in this section, the following words shall
have the meaning ascribed to them in this section unless the context otherwise
indicates.
         A.   “Dog” means both male and female, more than six months old.
         B.   “Dog having dangerous or destructive propensities” means a dog
which has been trained or taught to attack humans or other animals, or a dog
which habitually turns over garbage receptacles, habitually destroys shrubs,
flowers, grass and other plant growth, habitually kills other animals,
habitually attacks or attempts to attack persons, or habitually performs other
similar acts.
         C.   “Owner” means any person, firm or corporation owning, keeping or
harboring a dog. The head of a household shall be deemed to be the owner in
respect to any dog or dogs, owned, kept or harbored by any person residing in
such household and kept on the premises.
         D.   “Proper enclosure” means a structure from which a dog cannot
escape, or an outside area enclosed by a fence at least six feet high secured
to the ground in a manner that the dog cannot escape.
      (2)   Number of dogs allowed.
         A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep on any lot or
premises within the corporate limits more than three dogs. This limitation
shall not apply to dogs less than six months of age.
         B.   Any person wishing to keep more than three dogs shall apply to
the city for a license to operate a dog kennel. Prior to the issuing of such
license it shall be determined that the kennel would be in compliance with all
city and state regulations.
         C.   Upon written and signed complaint being made to the Police
Department by a person specifying the location where more than three dogs are
being kept in other than a licensed kennel, the Police Department shall
investigate and, if it is determined that this subsection (b)(2) is being
violated, the Police Department shall notify the person or persons responsible
for keeping such dogs and upon such notice from the Police Department, the
responsible person or persons shall remove from the premises the number of dogs
in excess of three within 48 hours from the time of notification.
      (3)   Dogs running at large.
         A.   It shall be unlawful for any dogs to be running at large on the
streets or sidewalks of the city, unless under the control of the owner or a
member of his or her immediate family, either by leash, collar or chain.
         B.   A fee in an amount set by Council from time to time will be
charged per day for the impoundment and keeping of any dog impounded by the
Police Department. The owner or owners of any dogs impounded hereunder may
redeem the same by paying all of the costs, charges and penalties assessed, if
any, that have accrued up to the time of making the redemption. When they are
paid to the Police Department to release the dog from said pound to the owner.
         C.   Impounded dogs shall be kept for not less than seven days unless
reclaimed sooner by their owners. If the dog has a registration tag or collar
and may be identified therefrom, the impounding officer shall notify the owner
of the dog within 48 hours of the dog’
         D.   The owner of any dog which is found running at large in violation
of this section shall pay a civil penalty in an amount set by Council from time
to time within 72 hours after receipt of a citation for violation.
      (4)   Public nuisances.
         A.   The keeping or maintenance outside a proper enclosure of any dog
or dogs having dangerous propensities is hereby declared to be a public
nuisance and shall be abated as provided herein.
         B.   The keeping or maintenance of any dog or dogs which by prolonged
and habitual barking, howling or whining cause annoyance to neighboring
residents and interferes with the reasonable use and enjoyment of the premises
occupied by such residents, or with the reasonable enjoyment of the public
streets, sidewalks or other public areas, is hereby declared to be a public
nuisance, and shall be abated as provided herein.
         C.   Upon the receipt of a detailed written and signed complaint being
made to the Police Department by any resident or residents that any person is
maintaining a public nuisance as described in this section, the Chief of Police
shall cause the owner or keeper of the dog or dogs in question to be notified
that a complaint has been received, and shall cause the situation complained of
to be investigated, a report and findings thereon to be reduced to writing by
the investigating officer.
         D.   If the written findings of the investigating officer indicate
that the complaint is justified the Chief of Police shall cause the owner or
keeper of the dog or dogs in question to be so notified in writing, ordered to
abate such nuisance within 48 hours. In the event the owner or keeper of the
dog or dogs is unknown or cannot be ascertained, such notice and order, along
with a general description of the dog or dogs, shall be posted for 48 hours at
the municipal building.
         E.   If any person being the owner or keeper of a dog or dogs
described in this section shall fail or refuse to abate such nuisance upon
order of the Chief of Police within the specified time, the Chief shall cause
the dog or dogs in question to be apprehended or impound in a suitable place,
and the owner or keeper shall be notified in writing of such impoundment. If
the owner or keeper shall so request, the dog or dogs shall be released to him
or her upon his or her execution of a written agreement to comply with the
abatement order, and payment of any penalties incurred in accordance with this
section. If no such request and execution is made by the owner or keeper within
seven days after written notice is sent, the Chief of Police shall cause such
dog or dogs to be destroyed. In the event of a dog or dogs, the owner or keeper
of which was unknown, the Chief shall cause apprehension and impoundment to be
carried out if no one claims such dog within 48 hours after the notice, order
and description were posted, and shall cause a notice of impoundment, along
with a general description of the dog or dogs to be posted at the Municipal
Building. If no request for release of such dog or dogs and execution or
agreement to comply with the order of abatement is made within such seven day
period, the Chief shall cause such dog or dogs to be destroyed.
      (5)   Teasing or molesting. It shall be unlawful for any person to tease,
molest, bait or in any way bother any dog not belonging to him or her or
legally under his or her control.
      (6)   Penalties.
         A.   If any person, being the owner or keeper of a dog or dogs for
which an order is given under this section, shall fail or refuse to comply as
ordered, he or she shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable upon conviction
by a fine not exceeding $50, or another such amount as set by Council from time
to time.
         B.   Enforcement of this article may be by injunction, restraining
order or order of abatement in a court of competent jurisdiction.
      (7)   Conflict. Any section or part of any section in conflict with this
article is hereby repealed.
      (8)   Cats. The words of this article apply to cats over six months of
age.
   (c)   Livestock.
      (1)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, “livestock” shall be
defined as any animals (excluding rabbits, dogs and cats), including farm
animals, wild animals, and exotic or unusual animals; or any animal used for
breeding purpose.
      (2)   Keeping livestock.
         A.   Except as herein provided, it shall be unlawful for any person,
firm or corporation to possess or harbor any livestock within the corporate
limits of the city.
         B.   This section shall not apply to traveling zoos, circuses or other
traveling commercial animal exhibitions, bona fide farms, horses, not for
breeding purposes, or small native wildlife species where possession has been
specifically permitted by the state’s Wildlife Resources Commission.
      (3)   Limit on number, area requirements. It shall be unlawful for any
person to locate, keep or maintain on any lot or parcel of land within the
corporate limits more than one horse or animal per acre of land in excess of
the land to gain the required distances from dwellings as defined in subsection
(c)(2) above.
      (4)   Distance to dwelling. It shall be unlawful for any person to
locate, keep, tie or stake any animal, except cats or dogs, within 200 feet of
any dwelling or other structure used for human habitation or to suffer or
permit any such animal at any time to be within such distance of such dwelling
or other structure.
      (5)   Cleanliness. All animal enclosures or yards shall at all times be
kept in a clean condition by taking such other action as is deemed necessary by
the State Board of Health to prevent any condition detrimental to the public
health of the city.
      (6)   Hog slaughtering. This section shall not be deemed to prohibit
unloading of a shipment of swine, as for the slaughtered within 72 hours.
      (7)   Enforcement.
         A.   Upon receipt of a complaint, the City Manager or his or her
assigns will investigate the complaint.
         B.   If a complaint is, in his or her discretion warranted, he or she
will notify the person against whom the complaint is derived, and there upon
such person shall abate the nuisance within 15 days of notification.
      (8)   Penalties. Person(s) found guilty of violating this section shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable upon conviction, by a fine not exceeding
$50, or another such amount as set by Council from time to time.
(Ord. passed 8-23-1989; Ord. passed 8-8-2017)
§ 1109.03 ABANDONED/DERELICT VEHICLES.
   (a)   Definitions.
      (1)   “Abandoned motor vehicles” means a motor vehicle shall be deemed to
have been abandoned for the purpose of this section in the following
circumstances:
         A.   It has been left unattended upon a street or highway in violation
of a statutory law or ordinance regulating or prohibiting parking for a period
of 24 hours;
         B.   It is left unaccompanied on property owned or operated by the
city or on any street or highway for a period of not less than 48 hours; or
         C.   It is left unaccompanied on private property for a period of not
less than 30 days, in derelict condition.
      (2)   “Derelict vehicle” means a motor vehicle shall be deemed derelict
for the purposes of this section if the vehicle is: inoperable, partially
wholly dismantled, wrecked, junked or of similar condition, for a period
exceeding 30 days.
   (b)   Declared a health hazard. For the purposes of this section, the Board
of Commissioners authorizes the City Manager or his or her assigns, to declare
any abandoned or derelict motor vehicle remaining on private property for in
excess of 30 days a health hazard.
   (c)   Duty of owner to remove from private property. No person in charge or
control of any property within the city, whether as owner, tenant, occupant,
lessee or otherwise, shall allow any wrecked, junked, discarded, partially
dismantled non-operable motor vehicle to remain on such property for more than
30 days. This section shall not apply to a vehicle in an enclosed building,
garage or carport; a vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise operated
in a lawful place and manner, when necessary to the operation of such business
enterprise or a vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository
maintained in a lawful place and manner by the city.
   (d)   Duty of owner to remove from public property. If a motor vehicle is
abandoned or derelict on a public street or highway, it shall be the duty and
responsibility of the owner of such motor vehicle to cause the removal thereof
immediately.
   (e)   Notification.
      (1)   Upon receipt of a complaint concerning abandoned/derelict vehicles,
as defined in this section, the City Manager or his or her assign, will
investigate such complaint. If, in his or her judgment a violation has
occurred, the City Manager or his or her assign, shall cause to be delivered or
mailed to the owner of the property upon which the conditions exist a notice
stating the reasons why the conditions may constitute a violation and that a
hearing will be held before the City Manager at a place therein fixed, not less
than ten nor more than 30 days after the delivery or mailing of the notice.
         A.   The owner or any party in interest shall have the right to file
an answer to the notice and to appear in person, or otherwise, and give
evidence at the place and time fixed in the notice.
         B.   Any person desiring to do so may attend such hearing and give
evidence relevant to the matter being heard.
         C.   The rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity shall
not be controlling in such hearings.
      (2)   If a determination is made that such conditions, constituting a
public nuisance exist, the City Manager shall notify, in writing the owner of
the premises in question of the conditions constituting such public nuisance
and shall order the prompt abatement thereof within 30 days from the receipt of
such written notice.
      (3)   Exceptions to this procedure are abandoned or unlicensed vehicles
on public property where action shall be taken within 48 hours of notification
of the nuisance and unidentified vehicles when corrective action shall be taken
by the Police Department immediately.
   (f)   Removal of derelict vehicles on private property. The Chief of the
Police Department or City Manager or their assigns, upon notice of violation,
may cause a written notice of such violation to be served upon the owner,
tenant, occupant, lessee and/or owner of the motor vehicle, that such motor
vehicle shall be removed within 30 days after receipt of notice. Any motor
vehicle not removed after such notice shall be removed from such land to an
impounding area heretofore designated by the Board of Commissioners and therein
impounded.
   (g)   Removal of vehicles from public property. Whenever any motor vehicle
is abandoned on a public street or highway, or on property owned or operated by
the city, any such vehicle may be removed and impounded under the direction of
the Chief of Police or his or her assigns, after 48 hours to a storage garage
or area as designated by the Board of Commissioners.
   (h)   Reclamation. Upon notification by the Police Department, the owner of
an impounded motor vehicle may, upon furnishing satisfactory evidence of his or
her identity and of his or her ownership of the vehicle, obtain a release from
the Police Department, and upon payment of towing and storing charges, and any
fines or penalties, remove such motor vehicle from the impounding area.
   (i)   Sale of impounded vehicle. Should the owner of an impounded motor
vehicle fail or refuse to pay the costs above mentioned or should the identity
or where-abouts of such owner be unknown and unascertainable after a diligent
search, and after written notice to him or her at his or her last known address
if his or her identity is known, and to the holder of any lien on record in the
office of the state’s Department of Motor Vehicles against such vehicle, the
Chief of Police or his or her designee may, after holding such vehicle for 30
days and after having the value thereof determined by three disinterested
automobile dealers or garage and after giving 20 days’ notice to the state’s
Department of Motor Vehicles, such notice to include all information which can
be reasonably ascertained to identify such vehicle, dispose of the same by
private or public sale and shall forward the proceeds of such sale to the City
Treasurer.
   (j)   Disposition of unsold vehicles. Whenever any motor vehicle which has
been removed pursuant to this article shall remain unsold for a period of 60
days from and including the day of its removal, such vehicle may be destroyed
or otherwise disposed of by the city official charged with its safekeeping.
Notice of any such destruction or disposition shall be given the state’s
Department of Motor Vehicles, such notice to include all information on which
can be reasonably ascertain to identify such vehicle.
   (k)   Disposition of proceeds of sale. The proceeds of the sale of a motor
vehicle covered in this section, after all costs of removal, storage,
investigation and sale, and satisfaction of any liens on record on the vehicle
have been deducted therefrom and after any fines or penalties have been paid,
shall be held by the City Treasurer for up to 30 days and paid to the
registered owner, after providing satisfactory evidence of his or her identify
upon demand. If the owner does not appear to claim the remainder of the
proceeds within 30 days after disposal of the vehicle, the funds shall be
deposited into the city’s General Fund and the owner’s rights therein shall be
forever extinguished.
   (l)   Unlicensed motor vehicles. No person shall park, store or leave or
permit the parking or storage of any unlicensed motor vehicle of any kind, for
a period in excess of 48 hours, whether attended or not, upon any private
property within the city, unless the vehicle is enclosed within a building,
garage, carport, or further, is connected with and essential to the operation
of a business enterprise conducted in a lawful place and manner and properly
licensed. The Chief of Police, upon notice of a violation, may cause either
personal or written notice of such violation to be served upon the owner,
tenant, occupant, lessee and/or the owner of the motor vehicle.
   (m)   Trailers. The provisions of this section shall be applicable to
trailers or wagons in a wrecked, junked, discarded, abandoned, partially
dismantled, non-operable or otherwise derelict condition.
   (n)   Penalties. Any person violating any section of this article shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor. For every day such violation shall thereafter exist,
it shall be deemed to constitute a separate offense; and if found guilty of
such misdemeanor, be punishable upon conviction by a fine not exceeding $50,
for each violation.
   (o)   Immunity. Neither the city nor any person shall be held to answer in
any civil or criminal action to any owner or other person legally entitled to
the possession of any abandoned, lost, or stolen vehicle for disposing of such
vehicle as contemplated by this section, so long as the city complies with the
requirements set forth in this article.
(Ord. passed 8-23-1989; Ord. passed 8-8-2017)
§ 1109.04 WEED, HEDGES, TALL GRASS AND OTHER VEGETATION.
   (a)   Definitions. Weeds and nuisance vegetation under this section shall
include the following which may occur on any lot within the corporate limits of
the city:
      (1)   Weeds or tall grass exceeding an average of 12 inches in height, or
vegetation providing safe harborage for rats, mice, snakes and other vermin;
      (2)   Vegetation which obstructs the safe view of traffic at an
intersection or driveway;
      (3)   Vegetation which creates a nuisance by its existence (i.e. poison
ivy, kudzu); and
      (4)   Dead or dying trees or plants which may cause a hazardous situation
if they fall.
   (b)   Weeds or vegetative nuisance unlawful. It shall be unlawful for
property owners to permit a weed or vegetative nuisance condition to exist on
their property.
   (c)   Enforcement.
      (1)   The City Manager, or his or her assigns upon notice from any person
of the possible existence of any of the conditions described in subsection (a)
above shall cause an investigation to be made to determine whether conditions
exist which may constitute a public nuisance described in subsection (b) above.
      (2)   If it appears that such condition exist, the City Manager or his or
her assign, shall cause to be delivered or mailed to the owner of the property
upon which the conditions exist a notice stating the reasons why the conditions
may constitute a violation and that a hearing will be held before the City
Manager or his or her assign, at a place therein fixed, not less than ten nor
more than 30 days after the delivery or mailing of the notice. The owner or any
party in interest shall have the right to file an answer to the notice and to
appear in person, or otherwise, and give evidence at the place and time fixed
in the notice. Any person desiring to do so may attend such hearing and give
evidence prevailing in sorts of law or equity shall not be controlling in such
hearings.
      (3)   If a determination is made that such conditions constituting a
public nuisance exist, the City Manager shall notify, in writing, the owner of
the premises in question of the conditions constituting such public nuisance
and shall order the prompt abatement thereof within 15 days from the receipt of
such written notice.
   (d)   Abatement by city. If the owner, having been notified to abate such a
public nuisance, fails, neglects, or refuses to abate or remove the condition
constituting the nuisance within 15 days from receipt of such order, the City
Manager shall cause the condition to be removed or otherwise remedied by having
employees of the city to go upon such premises and remove or otherwise abate
such nuisance under the supervision of an officer or employee designated by the
City Manager. Any person who has been ordered to abate a public nuisance may
within the time allowed by this section request the city in writing to remove
such condition, the cost of which shall be paid by the person making such
request.
   (e)   Trimming plants at intersections. The owner or occupant of any lot or
lands lying and abutting on any intersection of two streets or any combination
thereof in the city and having shrubs or bushes on such lot or lands, shall
trim or cause to be trimmed all shrubs and bushes located within 20 feet of the
intersection of the property lines nearest to the street intersection and
abutting the sidewalk or the normal sidewalk location, so that no bush or shrub
shall exceed three feet in height above the surface of either the sidewalk or
the normal sidewalk location.
   (f)   Destruction of trees or bushes. No person, except by direction or
authority of the Director of Public Works, shall box, bore, cut, break down,
deface, injure or destroy any trees, shrubs or bushes on any street or right-
of-way.
   (g)   Trimming plants extending over streets. The owner or occupant of any
lot or lands lying and abutting on any street in the city and having trees,
shrubs or bushes on his or her lot or lands extending over the property line
onto such street shall trim or cause to be trimmed such trees to the clear
height of not less than nine feet above the surface of the sidewalk or street.
   (h)   Removal of unsafe trees by owner. The Director of Public Works shall
have the authority, and it shall be his or her duty to order trimming,
preservation or removal of trees or plants upon private property when he or she
finds such an act necessary to public safety or to prevent the spread of
disease or insects in public trees or places. The owner shall not fail to trim,
remove or take steps to preserve such tree within 30 days of the order to trim,
remove or preserve the tree.
   (i)   Assessment of costs by city. Whenever any tree, plant or shrubbery, or
part thereof, or weeds and grass are growing in any street, public place or
upon private property contiguous to a street or sidewalk or public place and
such is trimmed or removed by the city, then after the work is done, the City
Clerk shall give notice, by regular mail, to the owner of such lot or parcel of
land at his or her last known address or best obtainable address, to pay the
cost of such trimming or removal of trees, plants, shrubbery, grass or weeds,
or parts thereof. Such notice shall be accompanied by a statement of the amount
of cost incurred, and in the event the same is not paid within days 30 days
after the mailing of such notice, then the amount shall be certified to the
City Attorney for collection the same as other taxes and assessments are
collected.
   (j)   Penalty. Whoever violates any provision of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction of such misdemeanor, is punishable by a fine
not to exceed $50 or the city may carry out the provisions of subsection (d)
above. Each day a violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. passed 8-23-1989; Ord. passed 8-8-2017)
§ 1109.05 RUBBISH, LITTER.
   (a)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following terms,
phrases, words and their derivatives shall be defined as follows.
      (1)   “Garbage” means putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting
from the handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
      (2)   “Litter” means garbage, refuse and rubbish as defined herein and
all other waste material which, if thrown or deposited as herein prohibited,
tends to create a danger to public health, safety and welfare.
      (3)   “Park” means any park, reservation, playground, beach, recreation
center or any other public area in the city owned or used by the city and
devoted to active or passive recreation.
      (4)   “Person” means any person, firm, partnership, association,
corporation, company or organization of any kind.
      (5)   “Private premises” means any dwelling, house, building or other
structure, designed or used either wholly or in part for private residential
purposes whether inhabited or temporarily or continuously uninhabited or
vacant, and shall include any yard, grounds, walk, driveway, porch, steps,
vestibule or mailbox belonging or apparent to such dwelling, house, building or
other structure.
      (6)   “Public place” means any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards,
alleys or other public ways and any and all public parks, squares, spaces,
grounds and buildings.
      (7)   “Refuse” means all putrescible and nonputrescible solid wastes
(except body wastes), including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead
animals, abandoned automobiles and solid market and industrial wastes.
      (8)   “Rubbish” means nonputrescible solid wastes consisting of both
combustible and noncombustible wastes, such as paper, wrappings, cigarettes,
cardboard, tin cans, yard clippings, wood, glass, bedding, crockery, leaves,
weeds, brush, shrubbery and similar materials.
      (9)   “Vehicle” means every device in, upon or by which any person or
property is or may be transported or drawn upon a highway, including devices
used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
   (b)   Litter in public places. No person shall throw or deposit litter in or
upon any street, sidewalk or other public place within the city except in
public receptacles or in private receptacles for collection.
   (c)   Polluting rivers. No person shall deposit any rubbish, paper, paper
waste, rags or waste material of any kind in any river, stream or natural
waterway or upon the banks of same.
   (d)   Scattering rubbish. No person shall deposit in or upon, or scatter
over or upon any of the streets, parks or public grounds within the city any
paper, paper waste, rags or waste material of any kind. No person who is the
owner or lessee of any lot or land within the city shall deposit upon any such
lot or land, or allow to be deposited thereon.
   (e)   Placement of litter in receptacle so as to prevent scattering. Person
placing litter in public receptacles or in authorized private receptacles shall
do so in such a manner as to prevent it from being carried or deposited by the
elements upon any street, sidewalk or other grounds within the city.
   (f)   Sweeping litter into gutters prohibited.
      (1)   No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, ditch, street
or other public place within the city the accumulating of litter from any
building or lot or from the public sidewalks.
      (2)   Nor shall any owner or tenant abutting a public thoroughfare allow
or suffer to remain litter upon the adjacent public sidewalk including medians,
so that litter rubbish and refuse shall not be allowed to pile up or accumulate
on such public right-of-way.
   (g)   Merchants’ duty to keep sidewalks free of litter. No merchant or
business within the city shall allow litter to accumulate, and shall clean and
otherwise rid his or her premises, including sidewalks, of waste matter and
litter although the same may not have been deposited by him or her, his or her
agents or his or her patrons.
   (h)   Litter thrown by persons in vehicles. No operator or passenger in any
motor vehicle shall throw or deposit litter on any public street, right-of-way,
sidewalk or upon private premises while such vehicle is either stopped or in
motion.
   (i)   Truck loads causing litter. No operator of any truck or hauling motor
vehicle shall cause to be scattered on or about public or private premises or
streets while in motion or stopped, any litter, refuse, mud, dirt, sticky
substances or rubbish. All loads shall be secured in such a manner so as to
effect compliance with this subsection.
   (j)   Litter in parks; lakes and fountains. No camper, spectator,
participant, pedestrian, person engaged in recreational pursuit, or other
person shall cause litter, rubbish or refuse to be cast, thrown, deposited or
scattered in or around public parks, lakes, waterways or other public lands,
except in containers and receptacles designed for such use.
   (k)   Litter on occupied and vacant private property; owner’s duty. Litter,
rubbish or refuse shall not be cast, scattered, thrown or deposited on or about
private property within the corporate limits to the detriment of public health,
safety and welfare. The owner, lessees, agents or others in charge of premises
within the city shall rid such lands and abutting sidewalks and medians of such
nuisance or place it in an authorized receptacle. It shall likewise be unlawful
for any person to dump, place or scatter litter, refuse or rubbish on or about
private premises, whether such premises are vacant or inhabited.
   (l)   Clearing of litter from private property by city.
      (1)   If it appears that such conditions exist, the City Manager shall
cause to be delivered or mailed to the owner of the property upon which the
conditions exist a notice stating the reasons why the conditions may constitute
a violation and that a hearing will be held before the City Manager at a place
therein fixed, not less than ten nor more than 30 days after the delivery or
mailing of the notice. The owner or any party in interest shall have the right
to give evidence at the place and time fixed in the notice. Any person desiring
to do so may attend such hearing and give evidence relevant to the matter being
heard. The rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity shall not be
controlling in such hearings.
      (2)   If a determination is made that such conditions constituting a
public nuisance exist, the City Manager shall notify, in writing, the owner of
the premises in question of the conditions constituting such public nuisance
and shall order the prompt abatement thereof within seven days from the receipt
of such written notice.
   (m)   Penalties. Any person violating this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and if found guilty of such misdemeanor, is punishable upon
conviction by a fine not exceeding $50.
(Ord. passed 8-23-1989; Ord. passed 8-8-2017)
§ 1109.06 GENERAL HEALTH REGULATIONS.
   (a)   Unlawful to hinder health officer or assistants. It shall be unlawful
for any person to hinder, obstruct or delay the health officer or any of his or
her assistants in the lawful discharge of their duties.
   (b)   Right to enter. The health officer of any of his or her assistants
shall have the right to enter at any reasonable time any premises for the
purpose of making the inspection or investigations as required by this article.
   (c)   Property kept clean. Owners or occupants of premises are required to
keep the same clean. Every person owning or occupying any premises in the
corporate limits shall keep the premises free from weeds, trash and all other
forms of animal or vegetable refuse which may be dangerous or prejudicial to
the public health, or which may constitute a public nuisance. No owner or
occupant of any premises shall bury therein any animal or vegetable matter
which, upon decaying, may become dangerous or prejudicial to the public health,
or may constitute a nuisance.
   (d)   Human waste. No person shall urinate or deposit any human waste of any
kind on any street, lot or premises except in approved sanitary facilities.
   (e)   Stagnant water. No person or occupant of any property shall allow
stagnant water to accumulate or remain in cellars or anywhere on their
property.
   (f)   Sale of food, eating establishments. All persons, firms or
corporations selling food of any kind of serving prepared meals shall comply
with all requirements pertaining thereto of the State Board of Health.
   (g)   Debris from construction. All refuse and debris, remaining both as a
result of any repair of any building, or of the erection and completion of any
buildings, shall be removed by the property owner within 30 days from the
completion of the aforesaid work.
   (h)   Spitting on sidewalks. No person shall spit upon or throw hulls,
peelings or other litter upon any of the sidewalks of the city, nor upon the
floor of any church, public hall, theater or other public place.
   (i)   Penalties. Any person violating this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and if found guilty of such misdemeanor, is punishable upon
conviction by a fine not exceeding $50.
(Ord. passed 8-23-1989; Ord. passed - -)
§ 1109.07 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (a)   General. No occupant of any house whether residence or business shall
permit same to be kept in an indecent and offensive or disorderly manner or
permit loafers or idle persons to congregate therein or in front of same to the
annoyance of persons passing by or living in the vicinity.
   (b)   House of ill fame. No persons shall keep a house or other place of ill
fame in the city and no person shall knowingly rent any house to be used as a
house of ill fame. All adult persons living in such house shall be considered
keepers thereof and be subject of the penalties of this code
   (c)   Profanity and boisterous conduct. It shall be unlawful for any person
to use loud and boisterous language so as to become a nuisance or use any form
of profanity or indecent language on the street or in a gathering or audience
or assembly, or in any public place whatsoever, or to indecently expose
themselves within the corporate limits.
   (d)   Public drunkenness. It shall be unlawful for any intoxicated person to
be on or upon any public street or other public place.
   (e)   Drinking in public. It shall be unlawful for any person to consume or
sell beer, unfortified wine, whiskey, or alcoholic beverages of any kind on any
property owned or occupied by the city.
   (f)   Appearing shirtless. Appearing shirtless in public in the downtown
area is offensive and unsightly to the public, and constitutes a nuisance
offending public decency. Therefore, it shall be unlawful for any person to
appear shirtless in public in downtown Philippi and such conduct shall
constitute a nuisance. “Downtown Philippi” shall include all of Main Street
from the covered bridge to Byrer Street, and shall further include the Court
House Square, the Vietnam Veterans Park and the Blue and Gray Park.
   (g)   Penalties. Any person violating this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and if found guilty of such misdemeanor, is punishable upon
conviction by a fine not exceeding 100, or another such amount as set by
Council from time to time.
(Ord. passed 8-23-1989; Ord. passed 8-8-2017)
§ 1109.08 OTHER GENERAL NUISANCES.
   (a)   Unreasonable loud noise prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any
person, firm or corporation to create or assist in creating, permit, continue,
or permit the continuance of any unreasonably loud, disturbing and unnecessary
noise in the city. Noise of such character, intensity and duration as to be
detrimental to the life or health of any individual is prohibited.
   (b)   Noises expressly prohibited. The following acts, among others, are
declared to be loud disturbing and unnecessary noises in violation of this
section, but such enumeration shall not be deemed to exclusive, namely:
      (1)   The sounding of any horn or signal device or any device on any
automobile, motorcycle, bus, or other vehicle while not in motion, except as a
danger signal if another vehicle is approaching apparently out of control, or
if in motion only as a danger signal after or as brakes are being applied and
declaration of the vehicle is intended; the creation by means of any such
signal device of any unreasonable loud or harsh sound; and the sounding of such
device for an unnecessary and unreasonable period of time;
      (2)   The use of any gong or siren upon any vehicle, other than police,
fire or other emergency vehicle;
      (3)   The keeping of any animal or bird which by causing frequent or long
continued noise shall disturb the comfort and repose of any person in the
vicinity;
      (4)   The use or operation of any piano, manual or automatic, phonograph,
radio, loud speaker, or any other instrument, or sound amplifying devices so
loudly as to disturb persons in the vicinity thereof, or in such a manner as
renders the same a public nuisance;
      (5)   The use of any automobile, motorcycle or other vehicle so out of
repair, so loaded or in such manner as to create loud or unnecessary grating,
grinding, rattling or other noise;
      (6)   The blowing of any steam whistle attached to any stationary boiler
except to give notice of the time to begin or stop work or as a warning of
danger;
      (7)   The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any steam engine,
stationary internal combustion engine, motor vehicle except through a muffler
or other device which will effectively prevent loud or explosive noises
therefrom;
      (8)   The use of any mechanical device operated by compressed air unless
the noise created thereby is effectively muffled or reduced;
      (9)   The erection (including excavation), demolition, alteration or
repair of any building in a residential or business district other than between
the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m., except in the case of urgent necessity in
the interest of public safety and then only with a permit from the City Clerk,
which permit may be renewed for a period of three days or less while the
emergency continues;
      (10)   The creation for any excessive noise on any street adjacent to any
school, institution of learning, or court while the same are in session, or
within 150 feet of any hospital, which unreasonably interferes with the working
of such institution, provided, conspicuous signs are displayed in such streets
indicating that the same is a school, court or hospital street, without
receiving a permit for the same, and notification of the city;
      (11)   The creation of any excessive noise on Sundays on any street
adjacent to any church provided conspicuous signs are displayed in such streets
adjacent to churches indicating that the same is a church street;
      (12)   The creation of loud and excessive noise in connection with
loading or unloading any vehicle, of the opening and destruction of bales,
boxes, crates and containers;
      (13)   The sounding of any bell or gong attached to any building or
premises which disturbs the quiet peace of the neighborhood;
      (14)   The use of any drum, loud speaker or other instrument or device
for the purpose of attracting attention by creation of noise to any
performance, show or sale or display of merchandise;
      (15)   The use of any mechanical loud speakers or amplifiers on trucks or
other moving vehicles for advertising purposes or other purposes except where
specific license is received from the Board;
      (16)   The conducting, operating or maintaining of any garage or filling
station in any residential district so as to cause loud or offensive noises to
be emitted therefrom between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.; and
      (17)   The firing or discharging of squibs, crackers, gunpowder or other
combustible substance in the streets or elsewhere for the purpose of making
noise or disturbance.
   (c)   Firearms regulated. It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge
any firearm of any type within the corporate limits except a peace officer in
the performance of his or her duty, or other persons in self-defense or in the
protection of property.
   (d)   Posting bills: other advertising. No person shall stick, paint, brand,
stamp, write, or put upon any house, fence, wall, pavement, post or upon any
property, owned by any person, firm, or corporation, or owned by the city, any
printed, written, painted or other advertisement, bill, notice, sign or poster,
without first having obtained the permission of the owner of such property.
   (e)   Firebombs and “Molotov cocktails” prohibited.
      (1)   For the purpose of this section, the following terms shall have the
meanings herein ascribed.
         A.   “Molotov cocktail” is defined as any breakable container or any
container which is designed in such a manner that upon being propelled it will
at impact empty its contents, which is filled with a flammable fluid or
substance, and which is fitted with a fuse or wick.
         B.   “Firebomb” is defined as any type of object designed or
constructed so that upon being propelled it will explode or ignite its area of
impact.
      (2)   Prohibited acts. It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to
manufacture, possess, transport or use any Molotov cocktail or other firebomb.
      (3)   Possession of materials restricted. It shall be unlawful for any
person or group of persons to possess all the items or materials needed to
manufacture Molotov cocktails or other firebombs, other than on his, her or
their premises.
   (f)   Quiet zones. The creation of any excessive noise on any street
adjacent to any school, institution of learning, library or sanitarium, or
court while the same is in session, or within 150 feet of any hospital, which
unreasonably interferes with the working of such institutions; provided, that
conspicuous signs are displayed in such streets indicating that the same is a
school, court or hospital street, shall be deemed a violation of this article.
   (g)   Penalties. Any person violating this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and if found guilty of such misdemeanor, is punishable upon
conviction by a fine not exceeding $100, or another such amount as set by
Council from time to time.
(Ord. passed 8-23-1989; Ord. passed 8-8-2017)
CHAPTER 1111: CROSS-CONNECTION AND BACKFLOW PREVENTION
Section
   
1111.01   Purpose
   
1111.02   Authority
   
1111.03   Responsibility
   
1111.04   Definitions
   
1111.05   Administration
   
1111.06   Requirements
   
1111.07   Degree of hazard
   
1111.08   Existing in-use backflow prevention devices
   
1111.09   Periodic testing
   
1111.10   Records
   
1111.11   Conflicts of law
Statutory reference:
   City of Wheeling Backflow Ordinance, Ord. 15129, passed 7-3-18
§ 1111.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this article is as follows:
   (a)   To protect the public potable water supply served by the city from the
possibility of contamination or pollution by isolating, within its customers
internal distribution system, such contaminants or pollutants which could
backflow or back-siphon into the public water system;
   (b)   To promote the elimination or control of existing cross-connections,
actual or potential, health hazards between its customers in-plant potable
water system, and non-potable systems; and
   (c)   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross-
connection control, as this will effectively prevent the contamination or
pollution of all potable water systems by cross-connection.
§ 1111.02 AUTHORITY.
   (a)   By the Federal Safe Drinking Water Act of 1974, and the Code of W. Va.
Code Chapter 16, Article I and Public Health Laws, State Bureau for Public
Health Chapter I, Article SB, the water purveyor has the primary responsibility
for preventing water from unapproved sources, or any other substances, from
entering the public potable water system.
   (b)   The city’s Water Department rules and regulations are adopted by the
city.
§ 1111.03 RESPONSIBILITY.
   (a)   The Water Department shall be responsible for the protection of the
public potable water distribution system from contamination or pollution due to
the backflow or back-siphonage of contaminants or pollutants through the water
service connection.
   (b)   If, in the judgment of the Water Department, an approved backflow
assembly is required at the water service connection to any customer’s
premises, the Water Department, or its delegated agent, shall give notice in
writing to said customer to install an approved backflow prevention assembly at
each service connection to his or her premises.
   (c)   The customer shall, within 90 days install such approved assembly or
assemblies, at his or her own expense, and failure or refusal, or inability on
the part of the customer to install said assembly or assemblies within 90 days,
shall constitute a ground for discontinuing water service to the premises until
such assembly or assemblies have been properly installed.
(64 C.S.R. 15-4,8)
§ 1111.04 DEFINITIONS.
   (a)   “Approved” means accepted by the city’s Water Department as meeting an
applicable specification stated or cited in this regulation, or as suitable for
the proposed purpose.
   (b)   “Auxiliary water supply” means any water supply, on or available, to
the premises other than the purveyor’s approved public potable water supply.
   (c)   “Backflow” means the flow of water or other liquids, mixtures or
substances, under positive or reduced pressure in the distribution pipes of a
potable water supply from any source other than its intended source.
   (d)   “Backflow preventer” means an assembly, device or means designed to
prevent backflow or back-siphonage; most commonly categorized as air gap,
reduced pressure principle, double check valve assembly, pressure vacuum
breaker, atmospheric vacuum breaker, hose bib vacuum breaker, residential dual
check, double check with intermediate atmospheric vent and barometric loop.
      (1)   “Air gap” means a physical separation sufficient to prevent
backflow between the free-flowing discharge end of a potable water system and
any other system; physically defined as a distance equal to twice the diameter
of the supply side pipe diameter but never less than one inch.
      (2)   “Atmospheric vacuum breaker” means a device which prevents back-
siphonage by creating an atmospheric vent when there is either a negative
pressure or sub-atmospheric pressure in a water system.
      (3)   “Barometric loop” means a fabricated piping arrangement rising at
least 35 feet at its topmost point above the highest fixture it supplies. It is
utilized in water supply systems to protect against back-siphonage.
      (4)   “Double check valve assembly” means an assembly of two
independently operating spring-loaded check valves with tightly closing shutoff
valves on each side of the check valves, and properly located test cocks for
the testing of each check valve.
      (5)   “Double check valve with intermediate atmospheric vent” means a
device having two spring loaded check valves separated by an atmospheric vent
chamber.
      (6)   “Hose bib vacuum breaker” means a device that is permanently
attached to a hose bib and acts as an atmospheric vacuum breaker.
      (7)   “Pressure vacuum breaker assembly” means an assembly containing one
or two independently operated spring-loaded check valves and an independently
operated spring-loaded air inlet valve located on the discharge side of the
check or checks. The assembly includes tightly closing shut-off valves on each
side of the check valves and properly located test cocks for the testing of the
check valve(s).
      (8)   “Reduced pressure principle backflow preventer” means an assembly
consisting of two independently operating approved check valves with an
automatically operating differential relief valve located between the two check
valves, tightly closing shut-off valves on each side of the check valves, plus
properly located test cocks for the testing of the check valves and the relief
valve.
      (9)   “Residential dual check” means an device consisting of two spring-
loaded, independently operating check valves; generally employed immediately
downstream of the water meter to act as an isolation device.
   (e)   “Backpressure” means a condition in which the owner’s system pressure
is greater than the suppliers’ system pressure.
   (f)   “Back-siphonage” means the flow of water or other liquids, mixtures or
substances into the distribution pipes of a potable water supply system from
any source other than its intended source caused by the sudden reduction of
pressure in the potable water supply system.
   (g)   “Containment” means a method of backflow prevention which requires a
backflow prevention assembly at the water service entrance.
   (h)   “Contaminant” means a substance that will impair the quality of the
water to a degree that it creates a serious health hazard to the public leading
to poisoning or the spread of disease.
   (i)   “Cross-connection” means any actual or potential connection between
the public water supply and a source of contamination or pollution.
   (j)   “Fixture isolation” means a method of backflow prevention in which a
backflow preventer is located to correct a cross connection at an in-plant
location rather than at a water service entrance.
   (k)   “Owner” means any person who has legal title to, or license to operate
or reside in, a property upon which a cross-connection inspection is to be made
or upon which a cross-connection is present.
   (l)   “Person” means any individual, partnership, company, public or private
corporation, political subdivision or agency of the state or agency or
instrumentality of the United States or any other legal entity.
   (m)   “Pollutant” means a foreign substance, which if permitted to get into
the public water system, will degrade its quality so as to constitute a hazard,
or impair the usefulness or quality of the water to a degree which does not
create an actual hazard to the public health, but which does adversely and
unreasonably affect such water for domestic use.
   (n)   “Water purveyor” means the city’s Water Department or other
administrative authority invested with the authority and responsibility for the
implementation of a cross-connection control program and for the enforcement of
the provisions of the ordinance.
   (o)   “Water service entrance” means the point in the owner’s water system
beyond the control of The city’s Water Department; generally considered to be
the outlet end of the water meter and always before any unprotected branch.
   (p)   “West Virginia Bureau for Public Health (WVBPH)” means the State of
West Virginia Bureau for Public Health.
§ 1111.05 ADMINISTRATION.
   (a)   The Water Department shall operate a cross-connection control program,
to include the keeping of necessary records that, at a minimum, protects the
public water supply and meets the requirements of the statutes and regulations
of the State of West Virginia.
(64 C.S.R. 15-4,8)
   (b)   The owner of any property served by and connected to the public water
supply shall allow that property to be inspected by the Water Department for
possible cross-connections. If a cross-connection is permitted, the owner
shall, at all times, comply with the provisions of this article and ancillary
regulations of the Water Department.
(64 C.S.R. 15-8)
   (c)   If the Water Department requires that the public supply be protected
by containment, the owner shall be responsible for water quality beyond the
outlet end of the containment assembly and should utilize fixture outlet
protection for that purpose. He or she may utilize local public health
officials, or personnel from the Water Department, or their designated
representatives, to assist him or her in the survey of his or her facilities
and to assist him or her in the selection of proper fixture outlet devices, and
the proper installation of these devices.
(64 C.S.R. 15-6)
§ 1111.06 REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   Water Department (Water Purveyor).
      (1)   The Water Department shall, for all new cross-connection
installations, provide on-site evaluation and/or inspections of plans in order
to determine the type of backflow preventer, if any, that will be required. At
the time of the new installation, the Water Department shall perform inspection
and testing of the installed facilities.
(64 C.S.R. 15-4,8)
      (2)   For premises existing prior to the start of this program, the Water
Department will perform initial evaluations and inspections of plans and/or
premises and inform the owner by letter of any corrective action deemed
necessary, the method of achieving the correction, and the time allowed for the
correction to be made. Ordinarily, 90 days will be allowed; however, this time
period may be shortened depending upon the degree of hazard involved and the
history of the backflow preventer(s) in questions.
(64 C.S.R. 15-4,8)
      (3)   The Water Department will not allow any cross-connection to remain
unless it is protected by an approved backflow preventer which will be
regularly tested to ensure satisfactory operation.
(64 C.S.R. 15-5)
      (4)   A.   The Water Department shall inform the owner by letter, of any
failure to comply, by the time of the first re-inspection. The Water Department
shall allow an additional 15 days for the completion of the correction.
         B.   In the event the owner fails to comply with the necessary
correction by the time of the second re-inspection, the Water Department will
inform the owner, by letter, that the water service to the owner’s premises
will be terminated within a period not to exceed five days.
         C.   In the event that the owner informs the Water Department of
extenuating circumstances as to why the correction has not been made, a time
extension may be granted by the Water Department, but in no case will exceed an
additional 30 days from the time of the second re-inspection.
(64 C.S.R. 15-4)
      (5)   If the Water Department determines at any time that a serious
threat to the public health exists as a result of an actual or suspected cross-
connection, the subject water service will be terminated immediately.
(64 C.S.R. 15-4)
      (6)   The Water Department will begin initial premises inspections to
determine the nature of existing or potential health hazards. Initial focus
will be on severe health hazard industries and commercial premises.
(64 C.S.R. 15-5,8)
   (b)   Owner.
      (1)   The owner shall be responsible for the elimination or protection of
all cross-connections on his or her premises.
(64 C.S.R. 15-7,8)
      (2)   The owner, after having been informed by a letter from the Water
Department, shall at his or her expense, install, maintain and test, or have
tested, any and all backflow preventer assemblies on his or her premises.
(64 C.S.R. 15-7,8)
      (3)   The owner shall immediately correct any malfunction of the backflow
preventer assemblies which is revealed by periodic testing.
(64 C.S.R. 15-4)
      (4)   The owner shall inform the Water Department of any proposed or
modified cross-connections and also any existing cross-connections of which the
owner is aware but have not been found by the Water Department.
(64 C.S.R. 15-8)
      (5)   The owner shall not install a by-pass around any backflow preventer
unless there is a backflow preventer of the same type on the bypass. Owners who
cannot shut down operation for testing of the assembly(s) must supply
additional assemblies necessary to allow testing to take place.
(64 C.S.R. 15-6)
      (6)   The owner shall install backflow preventers in a manner approved by
the Water Department.
(64 C.S.R. 15-7)
      (7)   The owner shall install only backflow preventers approved by the
Water Department or the WVBPH. Generally, see the definition section of this
article at 1111.04(d), entitled “backflow preventer”, for general descriptions
thereof.
(64 C.S.R. 15-7)
      (8)   Any owner having a private well or other private water source must
have the approval of the Water Department if the well or source is cross-
connected to the Water Department’s system. Permission to cross-connect may be
denied. The owner may be required to install a backflow preventer at the
service entrance if a private water source is maintained, even if it is not
cross-connected to the Water Department’s system.
(64 C.S.R. 15-6)
      (9)   In the event the owner installs plumbing to provide potable water
for domestic purposes which is on the Water Department’s side of the backflow
preventer, such plumbing must have its own backflow preventer installed.
(64 C.S.R. 15-6)
      (10)   The owner shall be responsible for the payment of all fees for
permits, annual or semi- annual assembly testing, retesting in the case that
the assembly fails to operate correctly, and second re-inspections for non-
compliance with this article or the regulations of the Water Department and/or
West Virginia Bureau for Public Health (WVBPH) requirements.
(64 C.S.R. 15-8)
§ 1111.07 DEGREE OF HAZARD.
   The Water Department recognizes the threat to the public water system
arising from cross-connections. All threats will be classified by degree of
hazard and will require the installation of approved backflow prevention
assemblies in a manner and within a time period appropriate for said degree of
hazard.
(64 C.S.R. 15-5,6)
§ 1111.08 EXISTING IN-USE BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES.
   Any existing backflow preventer shall be allowed by the Water Department to
continue in service unless the degree of hazard is such as to supersede the
effectiveness of the present backflow preventer, or otherwise results in an
unreasonable risk to the public health. Where the degree of hazard has
increased, as in the case of a residential installation converting to a
business establishment, any existing backflow preventer must be upgraded to a
reduced pressure principle assembly, or a reduced pressure principle assembly
must be installed in the event that no backflow assembly is present.
(64 C.S.R. 15-4,5,6)
§ 1111.09 PERIODIC TESTING.
   (a)   The owner is responsible to assure that backflow prevention assemblies
shall be tested upon installation and at least every 12 months thereafter. This
periodic testing shall be performed by a WVBPH certified tester. This testing
will be done at the owner’s expense. All reports of such shall be sent to the
Water Department.
   (b)   Any backflow preventer assembly that fails during a periodic test will
be repaired or replaced. When repairs are necessary, upon completion of the
repair, the backflow preventer assembly will be retested at owner’s expense to
ensure correct operation. High-hazard situations will not be allowed to
continue unprotected if the backflow preventer assembly fails the test and
cannot be repaired immediately. In other situations, a compliance date of not
more than 30 days after the test date will be established. The owner is
responsible for spare parts, repair tools or a replacement device. Parallel
installation of two devices is an effective means of the owner insuring that
uninterrupted water service during testing or repair of devices and is strongly
recommended when the owner desires such continuity.
   (c)   Backflow prevention assemblies will be tested more frequently than
specified in division (a) above, in cases where there is a history of test
failures and the Water Department feels that due to the degree of hazard
involved, additional testing is warranted. Cost of the additional tests will be
borne by the owner.
(64 C.S.R. 15-4,8)
§ 1111.10 RECORDS.
   (a)   The Water Department will initiate and maintain the following:
      (1)   Master files on customer cross-connections;
      (2)   Master files on customer cross-connection tests and/or inspections;
and
      (3)   Copies of lists and summaries supplied to the WVBPH.
   (b)   Upon request, the Water Department will submit records of inspection,
surveys, tests or corrective actions to the State Bureau for Public Health.
(64 C.S.R. 15-8)
§ 1111.11 CONFLICTS OF LAW.
   In the event of a conflict between the interpretation of a provision of West
Virginia Code and the interpretation of a similar provision contained in any
part of this municipal ordinance, the interpretation of the provision in West
Virginia Code shall apply to this article.
PART THIRTEEN: PLANNING AND ZONING CODE
ARTICLE 1301: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
1301.01   Title
   
1301.02   Authority
   
1301.03   Purpose
   
1301.04   Jurisdiction
   
1301.05   Application
   
1301.06   Interpretation
   
1301.07   Relationship to the Comprehensive Plan
   
1301.08   Severability
Statutory reference:
   Comprehensive plan, see W.Va. Code §§ 8-24-16 et seq.
   Conflict with other laws, see W.Va. Code § 8-24-70
§ 1301.01 TITLE.
   This Part Thirteen of the Codified Ordinances shall be known as and referred
to as the Zoning Ordinance for the City of Philippi, West Virginia, hereinafter
also referred to as “this ordinance”.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1301.02 AUTHORITY.
   This ordinance shall become effective on the date of adoption by the City
Council pursuant to the West Virginia Urban and Rural Planning and Zoning Act,
as amended, W.Va. Code Chapter 8, Article 24.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1301.03 PURPOSE.
   The zoning regulations and districts herein described have been established
for the purpose:
   (a)   To protect and encourage the health, safety and general welfare of the
citizens of the city;
   (b)   To guide and provide for the future growth and development of the city
in accordance with the adopted comprehensive plan for the city;
   (c)   To classify, regulate and provide for the needs of residential,
commercial, industrial and associated land uses;
   (d)   To protect against developments or changes that are overly dense in
relation to existing land uses and community facilities and that adequate
public facilities are planned and provided;
   (e)   To secure adequate light, air, convenience of access, and safety from
fire, flood and other danger and that congestion of traffic or population be
avoided;
   (f)   To classify, regulate and limit the height, area, use, and bulk of
buildings; and to regulate and determine the area of front, rear, side yards,
and open spaces about such buildings;
   (g)   To provide for the reservation of adequate areas for future
development of residential, commercial and industrial zones at appropriate
locations;
   (h)   To protect the unique natural, visual, historic and scenic resources
of the city;
   (i)   To prevent unsafe and congested public streets through the control of
the density and location of parking;
   (j)   To regulate the size, scale, brightness, intensity, type and location
of signs; and
   (k)   To provide for a Board of Appeals and prescribe its powers and duties.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1301.04 JURISDICTION.
   These regulations shall apply to all properties within the corporate limits
of the city.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1301.05 APPLICATION.
   (a)   The terms of this ordinance shall be applied to support the intent set
forth in §
1301.03 and the comprehensive plan.
   (b)   This ordinance shall apply to all lands, buildings, properties and
their uses within the corporate limits of the city.
   (c)   All territory annexed into the city after the effective date of this
ordinance shall have a zoning classification recommended made by the Planning
Commission to the City Council. The Council shall then designate the zoning for
the territory. If a district is not recommended by the Commission, then the
City Council will designate the district.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1301.06 INTERPRETATION.
   (a)   The regulations set forth within this ordinance are designed to be
uniform for each class or kind of building for use throughout the entire
district.
   (b)   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this ordinance, they
shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the protection of the public
health, safety and general welfare.
   (c)   Where the provisions of this ordinance place greater restrictions than
those of any other ordinance or regulations, the provisions of this ordinance
shall be controlling. Where the provisions of any statute, other ordinance or
regulation impose greater restrictions than this ordinance, the provisions of
such statute, ordinance or regulation shall be controlling.
   (d)   If there is a conflict between provisions of this ordinance, the
stricter regulation shall apply.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1301.07 RELATIONSHIP TO THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   It is the intention of the City Council that this ordinance implement the
planning policies adopted by the Council for the city as reflected in the
official comprehensive plan and other planning documents.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1301.08 SEVERABILITY.
   The provisions of this ordinance shall be considered severable. If any
provision is found to be unconstitutional or unlawful, it is intended that the
remainder of the ordinance remains in full force and effect.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
ARTICLE 1305: DEFINITIONS
Section
   
1305.01   General
   
1305.02   Definitions
Cross-reference:
   Interpretation and construction generally, see
Art. 101
Statutory reference:
   State law definitions, see W.Va. Code § 8-24-3
§ 1305.01 GENERAL.
   Unless a contrary intention clearly appears, the following words and phrases
shall have for the purpose of this ordinance the meanings given in the
following clauses and shall be interpreted as follows.
   (a)   Words used or defined in one tense or form shall include other tenses
and derivative forms.
   (b)   All words in the singular shall include the plural, and all words in
the plural shall include the singular.
   (c)   The masculine gender shall include the feminine and the feminine
gender shall include the masculine.
   (d)   The term “shall” is always mandatory.
   (e)   The term “may” is permissive.
   (f)   The word “lot” includes plot or parcel.
   (g)   The word “building” includes the word structure and shall be construed
as if followed by the phase “or part thereof”.
   (h)   The words “used for” shall include “arranged for”, “designed for”,
“intended for”, “maintained for”, “constructed for” or “occupied for”.
   (i)   The word “person” includes individuals, firms, corporations,
associations, trusts and any other similar entities.
   (j)   The word “city” means Philippi, West Virginia.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1305.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words and phrases, when used in this ordinance, shall for the
purpose of this ordinance, have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in
this article, except where the context requires otherwise.
   (1)   “Abandonment” means the relinquishment of property, or a cessation of
the use of the property, by the owner or lessee for a continuous period of at
least six months, without any intention of transferring rights to the property
to another owner or of resuming the use of the property
   (2)   “Accessory structure” means a minor structure that is detached from
but located on the same lot as the principal building, the use of which is
incidental to the principal structure or houses an accessory use and may not be
used for residential purposes unless such structure was originally designed for
residential use, as in conjunction with an institution.
   (3)   “Accessory use” means a use conducted on the same lot as the principal
use which is clearly incidental to and customarily found in connection with a
principal building or use, and which is subordinate in extent or purpose to the
principal building or use.
   (4)   “Addition” means a structure added to the original structure at some
time after the completion of the original; an extension or increase in floor
area or height of a building or structure.
   (5)   “Adult entertainment use” means an establishment consisting of,
including, or having the characteristics of an adult bookstore and/or theater
in which a substantial or significant portion of its stock-in-trade books,
magazines, publications, tapes, films available and movies presented are
characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to
sexual activities or anatomical genital areas.
   (6)   “Apartment” See “Dwelling, multiple”.
   (7)   “Animal hospital” means a place where animals or pets are given
medical or surgical treatment and the boarding of animals is limited to short-
term care incidental to the hospital use.
   (8)   “Animal kennel” means any structure or premises in which animals are
boarded, groomed, bred or trained for commercial gain.
   (9)   “Antenna” means a device used to transmit and/or receive radio or
electromagnetic waves between terrestrially and/or orbitally based structures.
For the purposes of this ordinance, freestanding antennas are considered
accessory structures.
   (10)   “Automatic car wash” means a structure containing facilities for
washing automobiles and automatic or semiautomatic application of cleaner,
brushes, rinse water and heat for drying.
   (11)   “Automobile sales” means the use of any building, land area or other
premises for the display and sale of new or used automobiles generally but may
include light trucks or vans, trailers, or recreation vehicles and including
any vehicle preparation or repair work conducted as an accessory use.
   (12)   “Automobile service station” means any building, land area or other
premises, or portion thereof, used for the retail dispensing or sales of
vehicular fuels; servicing and repair of automobiles; and including as an
accessory use the sale and installation of lubricants, tires, batteries and
similar vehicle accessories.
   (13)   “Automobile repair services and garages” means establishments
primarily engaged in furnishing automobile repair, rental, leasing and parking
services to the general public.
   (14)   “Bar” means premises used primarily for the sale or dispensing of
liquor by the drink for on-site consumption and where food is available for
consumption as accessory to the principal use.
   (15)   “Bed and breakfast” means any owner-occupied residential dwelling in
which rooms are rented to paying guests on an overnight basis with not more
than one meal served daily. Bed and breakfast establishments are considered
home occupations when offering no more than two bedrooms per night for public
accommodation. Also, known as “tourist home”.
   (16)   “Boarding or rooming house” means a dwelling or part thereof in
which, for compensation, lodging or meals, or both, are furnished by the owner
or operator to three or more guests (boarders). A “boarding or rooming house”
shall not be deemed a home occupation.
   (17)   “Building” means a structure with a roof support by columns or walls
and intended for the shelter, housing or enclosure of any individual, animal,
process, equipment, goods, or materials of any kind.
   (18)   “Building, principal” means the primary building on a lot, or a
building that houses a principal use. See
Figure 1.
   (19)   “Building area” means the ground area utilized by the buildings on a
lot, excluding cornices, eaves, gutters or chimneys projecting not more than 18
inches from the walls of the buildings; steps, one-story open porches, bay
windows and balconies not extending five feet from the walls of the buildings;
terraces and decks with a height not more than three feet off the finished
grade.
   (20)   “Building, accessory” means a minor structure that is detached from
but located on the same lot as the principal building, the use of which is
incidental to the principal structure or houses an accessory use.
   (21)   “Building and Housing Code” means Part Seventeen of the codified
ordinances of the city as from time to time adopted, readopted and amended.
   (22)   “Building coverage” means the ratio of the horizontal area measured
from the exterior surface of the exterior walls of the ground floor of all
principal and accessory buildings on a lot to the total lot area.
   (23)   “Building height” means the vertical distance from finished grade to
the top of the highest roof beams on a flat or shed roof, the deck level on a
mansard roof, and the average distance between the eaves and the ridge level
for a gable, hip and gambrel roofs.
   (24)   “Building line” means the line which establishes the minimum depth of
the front yard for the particular district as measured from the right-of-way
line.
   (25)   “Bulk regulations” means standards and controls that establish the
maximum size of buildings and structures on a lot and the buildable area within
which the building can be located, including coverage, setbacks, height, floor
area ratio and yard requirements.
   (26)   “Business services” means establishments primarily engaged in
rendering services to business establishments on a fee or contract basis, such
as advertising and mailing; building maintenance, employment services;
management and consulting services; protective services; equipment rental and
leasing; commercial research; development and testing; photo finishing; and
personal supply services.
   (27)   “Cemetery” means property used for the interring of the dead.
   (28)   “Certificate of appropriateness” means a certificate issued by the
city’s Historic Landmark Commission indicating its approval of plans for
alterations to the exterior architectural features of a landmark, building,
structure or site; additions to a landmark, building, structure or site;
removal or demolition of a landmark building, structure or site; or new
construction within a designated historic zone.
   (29)   “Certificate of compliance” means a certificate issued by the
authority designated by Philippi City Council that the plans for a proposed use
meet all applicable codes and regulations.
   (30)   “Child care home” means a private residence where care, protection
and supervision are provided, for a fee, at least twice a week to no more than
six children at one time, including children of the adult provider.
   (31)   “Child care center” means a building or home where care, protection
and supervision are provided for more than six children on a regular schedule.
Also known as a “day care center” in W.Va. Code Chapter 49, Article 2B, § 2.
   (32)   “Church” means a building or structure, or groups of buildings or
structures, that by design and construction are primarily intended for
conducting organized religious services and associated accessory uses.
   (33)   “Clinic” means an establishment where patients are admitted for
examination and treatment on an outpatient basis by one or more physicians,
dentists, other medical personnel, psychologists or social workers and patients
are not usually lodged overnight.
   (34)   “Club” means a group of people organized for a common purpose to
pursue common goals, interests or activities and usually characterized by
certain membership qualifications, payment of fees and dues, regular meetings
and constitution and bylaws.
   (35)   “Commission” means the Planning Commission for the City of Philippi.
   (36)   “Community center” means a building used for recreational, social,
educational and cultural activities, open to the public or a designated part of
the public, usually owned and operated by a public or nonprofit group or
agency.
   (37)   “Conditional use” means a use permitted in a particular zoning
district after review by the Planning Commission and upon showing that such a
use in a specified location will comply with all the conditions and standards
for the location or operation of the use as specified in this ordinance and
authorized by Council.
   (38)   “Conditional use permit” means a permit issued by the Council that
authorizes the recipient to make use of the property in accordance with
requirements of this ordinance as well as other requirements recommended by the
Planning Commission and imposed by the Council.
   (39)   “Council” means the City Council of the City of Philippi.
   (40)   “Convenience store” means any retail establishment offering for sale
prepackaged food products, household items, newspapers and magazines, and
sandwiches and other freshly prepared foods such as salads, for off-site
consumption.
   (41)   “Deck” means a structure, with a height over three feet off the
finished grade and not covered by a permanent roof, attached to and considered
part of a building. Decks are included in gross floor area for the purposes of
calculating lot coverage. See Porch, see Terrace.
   (42)   “Double-wide unit” means two manufactured housing components,
attached side by side, to make one complete housing unit.
   (43)   “Drive-in use” means an establishment that by design, physical
facilities, service or by packaging procedures, encourages or permits customers
to receive services, obtain goods, or be entertained while remaining in their
vehicles.
   (44)   “Duplex” means a building containing two single-family dwelling units
totally separated from each other by an unpierced wall extending from ground to
roof.
   (45)   “Dwelling, medium-rise” means an apartment building containing three
to eight stories. Also includes garden apartments.
   (46)   “Dwelling, modular” means a dwelling unit constructed in accordance
with standards set forth in the city and state building codes applicable to
site-built homes, comprised of components substantially assembled in a
manufacturing plant and transported to the site for final assembly on a
permanent foundation.
   (47)   “Dwelling, multifamily” means a building containing three or more
dwelling units.
   (48)   “Dwelling, single-family attached” means a building containing
dwelling units, each of which has a primary ground floor access to the outside
and which are attached to each other by party or common walls without openings.
The term is intended primarily for dwelling types such as townhouses and row
housing.
   (49)   “Dwelling, single-family detached” means a building containing one
dwelling unit and not attached to any other dwelling by any means and is
surrounded by open space or yards.
   (50)   “Dwelling, two-family” means a building on a single lot containing
two dwelling units, and not occupied by more than two families. Also called a
duplex.
   (51)   “Dwelling unit” means one or more rooms, designed, occupied or
intended for occupancy as a separate living quarter, with cooking, sleeping and
sanitary facilities provided within the dwelling unit for the exclusive use of
a single family maintaining a household.
   (52)   “Enlargement” means an addition to the floor area of an existing
structure, an increase in the size of any other existing structure, or an
increase in that portion of a tract of land occupied by an existing use.
   (53)   “Establishment” means an economic unit, generally at a single
physical location, where business is conducted or services or industrial
operations performed.
   (54)   “Existing use” means the use of a lot or structure at the time of the
enactment of this ordinance.
   (55)   “Extension” means an increase in the amount of floor area used for an
existing use within an existing building.
   (56)   “Factory” means a building in which raw material and semifinished or
finished materials are converted to a different form or state or where goods
are manufactured, assembled, treated or processed.
   (57)   “Family” means two or more persons related by blood, marriage or
legal adoption, or not more than three unrelated persons, occupying a dwelling
unit and maintaining a common household.
   (58)   “Farm stand” means a structure for the display and sale of farm
products.
   (59)   “Fast-food restaurant” means an establishment whose principal
business is the sale of prepared or rapidly prepared food directly to the
customer in a ready-to-consume state for consumption either within the
restaurant building, in cars on the premises, of off the premises.
   (60)   “Fence” means an artificially constructed barrier of any material or
combination of materials erected to enclose, screen, or separate areas of land.
   (61)   “Flood plain, one-hundred (100) year” means those areas of the city
which are subject to the 100-year flood, as shown on the Floodway Map or Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) and described in the Flood Insurance Study prepared
for the City of Philippi by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA)
dated September 4, 1986, or the most recent revision thereof.
   (62)   “Frontage” means the length of the front lot line abutting a public
street, road or highway; the front lot line.
   (63)   “Floor area, gross” means the sum of the gross horizontal areas of
the floor or floors of a building measured from the exterior face of exterior
walls, or from the centerline of a wall separating two buildings, but excluding
any space where the floor-to-ceiling height is less than six feet.
   (64)   “Floor area ratio” means the gross floor area of all buildings or
structures on a lot divided by the total lot area.
   (65)   “Forestry” means establishments primarily engaged in the operation of
timber tracts, tree farms, forest nurseries, the gathering of forest products
or in performing forest services.
   (66)   “Glare” means the effect produced by brightness sufficient to cause
annoyance, discomfort or loss in visual performance and visibility.
   (67)   “Group residential facility” means a dwelling shared by four or more
handicapped persons, and resident staff, who live together as a single
housekeeping unit. As used herein, the term “handicapped” means having a
physical or mental condition that substantially limits one or more of such
persons major life activities so that such a person is incapable of living
independently; a record of having such impairment or being regarded as having
such impairment. The term group home does not include any housing serving as an
alternative to incarceration.
   (68)   “Height” means the vertical distance to the highest point of the roof
for flat roofs; to the deck line of mansard roofs; and to the average height
between eaves and the ridge for gable, hip and similar roofs as measured from
the average surrounding grade, but not including chimneys, spires and similar
projections.
   (69)   “Historic District” means that area of the city designated and under
the jurisdiction of the city’s Historic Landmarks Commission.
   (70)   “Home occupation” means an accessory use which is clearly incidental
to the residential use of a dwelling unit; and is customarily and traditionally
carried on within a dwelling unit by one or more occupants of such dwelling
unit; and is limited to members of the resident family and one outside
employee.
      A.   A home occupation shall be conducted wholly within the principal or
accessory structure. It shall not be permitted to sell upon the premises
articles produced elsewhere; or have exterior displays of a display of goods
visible from the outside; or store materials or products outside a principal or
accessory structure; or make external structural alterations which are not
customary in residential buildings; or display signs (except for one non-
illuminated sign not exceeding a total area of two square feet) that will
indicate from the exterior that the building is being utilized in part for
purposes other than that of a dwelling. A home occupation shall not generate
vehicular parking or nonresidential traffic to a greater extent than would
nominally result from residential occupancy. Parking shall be met off the
street and other than in a required front yard.
      B.   Home occupations include fine arts studios, professional offices,
teaching of not more than two pupils simultaneously, seamstresses, real estate
or insurance agents, bed and breakfast establishment/ tourist home with two or
fewer bedrooms for public occupancy, and door-to-door sales of home or cosmetic
products (excluding warehousing activity).
      C.   Home occupations shall not include dance studios, barber and/or
beauty shops, commercial repair or storage of automobiles, boarding or rooming
houses or tourist homes, antique shops or commercial kennels.
   (71)   “Junkyard” means any area of land, building, structure or part
thereof used for the storage, collection, processing, purchase or sale of
waste, scrap or discarded goods including more than two inoperable vehicles.
   (72)   “Kennel” means a facility housing dogs, cats or other household pets
where keeping, grooming, breeding, boarding, selling or training of animals is
conducted as a business. A lot on which five or more dogs and/or cats, six
months or older are kept.
   (73)   “Landscape” and “landscape strip” means an area devoted to materials
such as, but not limited to grass, ground covers, shrubs, hedges, vines or
trees, and durable material nominally used in landscaping such as rocks,
pebbles, decorative paving and walls.
   (74)   “Lot” means a parcel of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a
principal building and its accessory buildings and uses, including all open
spaces required by this ordinance, and having a frontage on an improved public
street or right-of-way, but not divided by any public street or right-of-way.
      A.   “Corner lot” means a lot abutting upon two or more streets at their
intersection or upon two parts of the same street following an interior angle
of less than 135 degrees.
      B.   “Through lot” means a lot that fronts upon two parallel streets or
that fronts upon two streets that do not intersect at the boundaries of the
lot.
   (75)   “Lot area” means the total area within the lot lines of a lot,
including any portion which may be reserved for easements.
   (76)   “Lot coverage” means that portion of the lot, a percentage, that is
covered by buildings.
   (77)   “Lot line” means a line of record bounding a lot that divides one lot
from another lot or from a public or private street or any other public space.
   (78)   “Lot measurements” means:
      A.   “Width” means the distance between the side lot lines of a lot
measured at the front setback line; and
      B.   “Depth” means the average distance between the front lot line and
the rear lot line.
   (79)   “Lot of record” means a lot which is part of a legal subdivision
recorded in the office of the County Clerk, or a lot or parcel described by
metes and bounds, the description of which has been so recorded and legally
subdivided.
   (80)   “Lot of record, pre-existing nonconforming” means a parcel of land
existing prior to the adoption of this ordinance that has less than the minimum
area or minimum dimensions required in the zone in which the lot is located.
   (81)   “Manufactured home” means a structure, transportable in one or more
sections, which in the traveling mode is eight body feet or more in width or 40
body feet or more in length or, when erected on a site, is 320 or more square
feet, and which is built on a permanent chassis and design to be used as a
dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required
utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air-conditioning and electrical
systems contained therein, except that such term shall include any structure
which meets all the requirements of this definition except size requirements
and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntary files a certificate which
complies with the applicable federal standards. Calculations used to determine
the number of square feet in a structure will be based on the structure’s
exterior dimensions measured at the largest horizontal projections when erected
on site.
(W.Va. Code Chapter 21, Article 9, § 2)
   (82)   “Manufactured home rental community” means a site containing spaces
with required improvements and utilities that are leased for the long-term
placement of manufactured homes and that may include services and facilities
for the residents.
   (83)   “Mobile home” means a transportable structure that is wholly, or in
substantial part, made, fabricated, formed or assembled in manufacturing
facilities for installation on a building site and designed for long term
residential use and built prior to the enactment of the Federal Manufactured
Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et
seq.), effective on June 15, 1976. that has a roof and roof pitch and shingle
type commonly used in standard residential construction; is set on a permanent
foundation, has an exterior siding comparable in composition, durability and
appearance to standard residential construction and has the tongue, axles,
transport lights and other transportation means removed after placement on the
lot and before occupancy. (Manufactured housing units built prior to 1976 are
referred to as “mobile homes”.)
   (84)   “Modular home” means a structure that is wholly, or in substantial
part, made, fabricated, formed or assembled in manufacturing facilities for
installation or assembly and installation on a building site and designed for
long-term residential use and is certified as meeting the standards contained
in the state fire code encompassed in the legislative rule promulgated by the
state fire commission pursuant to W.Va. Code Chapter 15A, Article 11, § 3.
   (85)   “Mobile home subdivision” means a subdivision approved in accordance
with city requirements where mobile homes as defined by this ordinance are the
designated housing type.
   (86)   “Motel” means a building or group of buildings containing guest rooms
intended or designed to be occupied for sleeping purposes by primarily
transient guests.
   (87)   “Nonconforming situation” means a situation that occurs when, on the
effective date of this ordinance, any existing lot, or structure, or use of an
existing lot or structure does not conform to any one or more of the
regulations applicable to the district in which the lot or structure is
located, including nonconforming signs.
   (88)   “Nonconforming use” means any legally established or created use
which does not conform to the applicable regulations of the district in which
it is located, either on the effective date of this ordinance or as a result of
any subsequent amendment thereto.
   (89)   “Nursing home” means an institution, residence or place maintained
for the purpose of providing accommodations and care, for a period of more than
24 hours, for four or more persons who are ill or otherwise incapacitated and
in need of extensive, on-going nursing care due to physical or mental
impairment, or which provides services for the rehabilitation of persons who
are convalescing from illness or incapacitation. Institutions primarily for the
treatment and care of mental patients, alcoholics, or drug addicts shall not be
considered nursing homes.
(W.Va. Code Chapter 16, Article 5C, § 2)
   (90)   “Open space” means part of a lot which may include lawns, decorative
plantings, walkways, active and passive recreation areas and water courses, but
does not include parking spaces, driveways or similar surfaces.
   (91)   “Parking area” means an off-street area devoted to vehicular parking
containing one or more parking spaces and including on-site roadways, aisles,
stalls, islands, features and maneuvering areas. For the purpose of this
definition, the term “off-street” shall mean off a road right-of-way.
   (92)   “Parking space” means a space for the temporary parking of a motor
vehicle and which shall have a means of access to a public street.
   (93)   “Permitted use” means any use allowed in a zoning district and
subject to the restrictions applicable to that zoning district.
   (94)   “Personal care home” means an institution, residence or place
maintained for the purpose of providing accommodations and personal assistance
and supervision, for a period of more than 24 hours, to four or more persons
who are dependent upon the services of others by reason of physical or mental
impairment who may require limited and intermittent nursing care, including
those individuals who qualify for and are receiving services coordinated by a
licensed hospice. Institutions primarily for the treatment and care of mental
patients, alcoholics or drug addicts shall not be considered personal care
homes.
   (95)   “Porch” means a roofed open area, which may be screened, usually
attached to or part of and with direct access to or from a building. Porches
are included in gross floor area for the purposes of calculating lot coverage.
   (96)   “Professional office” means the office of a member of a recognized
profession maintained for the conduct of that profession.
   (97)   “Recycling center” means a lot or parcel of land, with or without
buildings, upon which used materials are separated and processed for shipment
for eventual reuse in new products. Salvage yards are not considered recycling
centers.
   (98)   “Recycling plant” means a facility in which products are recycled,
reprocessed, and treated to return such products to a condition in which they
may again be used in new products.
   (99)   “Restaurant” means an establishment where food is available to the
general public, primarily for consumption on the premises. Alcoholic beverages
may or may not be served, but only incidental to the serving of food.
   (100)   “Retail sales” means establishments engaged in selling goods or
merchandise to the general public for personal or household consumption and
rendering services incidental to the sale of such goods.
   (101)   “Right-of-way” means a strip of land occupied or intended to be
occupied by a road, street, railroad, electric transmission line, gas line,
water line, sanitary storm sewer or any other special public purpose.
   (102)   “Satellite earth station antenna” means a parabolic or dish-shaped
antenna no greater than three feet in diameter or any other apparatus or device
that is designed for the purpose of receiving radio waves. For the purposes of
this ordinance, a freestanding satellite antenna is considered an accessory
structure. See “Antenna”.
   (103)   “Screening” means a method of visually shielding or obscuring one
abutting nearby structure or use from another by fencing, walls, berms, dense
vegetation or other approved means.
   (104)   “Setback” means the required minimum distance between the building
line and the related front, side or rear property line.
   (105)   “Shopping center” means a group of two or more business
establishments each having its outside customer entrance to a shared parking
area, which has limited designated entrance points.
   (106)   “Sight triangle” means a triangular-shaped portion of land
established at street intersections in which nothing is erected, placed,
planted or allowed to grow in such a manner as to limit or obstruct the sight
distance of motorists entering or leaving the intersection. See
Figure 2.
   (107)   “Sign” means any visual communication device utilizing a letter,
word, number, picture, object, symbol, illumination color, (or motion) the
major function of such device being to convey information or attract visual
attention. See
Figure 3.
   (108)   “Sign, abandoned” means a sign or sign structure which no longer
correctly specifies any activity conducted or product available on the premises
where such sign is displayed.
   (109)   “Sign, awning” means a sign painted, stamped, perforated, stitched
or otherwise applied on the valance of an awning that is attached to the wall
of a building with the face of the sign approximately parallel to the wall.
   (110)   “Sign, ground” means any sign, other than a pole sign, in which the
entire bottom is in contact with or is close to the ground and is independent
of any other structure.
   (111)   “Sign, hanging” See “Sign, projecting”.
   (112)   “Sign, permanent” means any sign permitted by this ordinance to be
located on a premises for an unlimited period of time.
   (113)   “Sign, pole” means a sign that is mounted on a freestanding pole or
other support so that the bottom edge of the sign is six feet or more above
grade.
   (114)   “Sign, portable” means a freestanding sign that is not permanent,
affixed to a building, structure or the ground.
   (115)   “Sign, projecting” means a sign that is wholly or partially
dependent on a building for support and which projects from the face of the
building at right angles.
   (116)   “Sign, roof” means a sign that is mounted on the roof of a building.
   (117)   “Sign, temporary” means a sign permitted by this ordinance to be
located on a premises for a limited period of time.
   (118)   “Sign, wall” means a sign attached to and erected parallel to the
face of a building.
   (119)   “Sign area” means the entire display area of a sign including the
advertising surface located on one or more sign faces and any framing, molding
or trim, but not including the supporting structure. An irregularly shaped sign
surface area shall be calculated by measuring the surface area of a simple
geometric shape which approximates the size and shape of the sign’s surface.
   (120)   “Sign face” means the area or display surface for the message.
   (121)   “Sign height” means the maximum vertical height in feet that the
highest part of the ground sign extends above the surface of the ground
underneath the sign. Any visible material whose major function is providing
structural support for the sign shall be considered part of the sign.
   (122)   “Steep slope” means land areas where the slope exceeds 20%.
   (123)   “Street” means any public or private right-of-way which provides a
means of access to abutting properties.
   (124)   “Structure” means a combination of materials to form a construction
for use, occupancy or ornamentation whether installed on, above or below the
surface of the land, and includes fences, swimming pools and satellite dishes.
   (125)   “Swimming pool” means a water-filled enclosure, permanently
constructed or portable, having a depth of more than 18 inches below the level
of the surrounding land, or an above-surface pool, having a depth of more than
30 inches, designed, used and maintained for swimming and bathing.
   (126)   “Terrace” means a level surfaced area, also referred to as a patio,
directly adjacent to a principal building at or within three feet of the
finished grade and not covered by a permanent roof. Terraces are not used in
the calculation of lot coverage.
   (127)   “Use” means the purpose or activity for which land or buildings are
designed, arranged or intended or for which land or buildings are occupied or
maintained.
   (128)   “Variance” means a grant of permission by the Board of Zoning
Appeals that authorizes the recipient to depart from the strict requirements of
the applicable district relative to area regulations, but does not include
variation from permitted or conditional uses
   (129)   “Yard” means a required open space on a lot adjoining a lot line
containing only landscaping or other uses as provided by this ordinance. See
Figure 4.
   (130)   “Yard, front” means a yard extending along the full width of a front
lot line between the side lot lines and from the front lot line to the front
building or setback line in depth.
   (131)   “Yard, rear” means a yard extending along the full width of a lot
along the rear lot line, and not less in depth, measured from the rear lot
line, than the minimum required in each district.
   (132)   “Yard, side” means a yard lying between the side line of the lot and
the nearest line of the building and extending from the front yard to the rear
yard.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
   Figure 1: Principal Building
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8d0d7396cfd400446b185f07eb2adcb88c4d058f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-23.png]
   Figure 2: Sight Triangle
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8d0d7396cfd400446b185f07eb2adcb88c4d058f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-25.png]
   Figure 3: Sign Types
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8d0d7396cfd400446b185f07eb2adcb88c4d058f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-27.png]
   Figure 4: Yards
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8d0d7396cfd400446b185f07eb2adcb88c4d058f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-29.png]
ARTICLE 1309: DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED; ZONING MAP
Section
   
1309.01   Establishment of Zoning Districts
   
1309.02   Zoning Map
   
1309.03   Interpretation of Zoning District boundaries
   
1309.04   Annexation
   
1309.05   Application of District Regulations
Statutory reference:
   Standards for zoning districts, see W.Va. Code § 8-24-31
   Zoning districts, see W.Va. Code § 8-24-40
§ 1309.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS.
   The area illustrated in the “Zoning Map for Philippi” is hereby divided into
the following zoning districts:
   (a)   Residential Districts.
      (1)   R-1 Single-Family Residential;
      (2)   R-2 Multifamily Residential;
      (3)   R-3 Mid-Rise Apartment Residential; and
      (4)   HR-O Historic Residential-Office.
   (b)   Commercial Districts.
      (1)   C-1 Neighborhood Commercial;
      (2)   C-2 Community Commercial; and
      (3)   C-3 Highway Commercial.
   (c)   Industrial District. I-1 Industrial District; and
   (d)   Conservation and Open Space District. COS Conservation and Open Space
District.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1309.02 ZONING MAP.
   (a)   The city is hereby divided into districts as shown on the Official
Zoning Map of Philippi which together with all explanatory matter thereon, is
hereby adopted by reference and declared to be part of this ordinance.
   (b)   The zoning map may be for convenience of use or readily identifying
locations, subdivided into units.
   (c)   The Official Zoning Map shall be identified by the signature of the
Mayor and attested by the City Clerk, and bearing the seal of the city.
   (d)   No changes of any nature shall be made to the Official Zoning Map
except in strict conformity with procedures set forth in this ordinance.
   (e)   The Official Zoning Map shall be located in the office of the City
Clerk and shall be the final authority on the current zoning classification of
all lands within the city.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1309.03 INTERPRETATION OF ZONING DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   Where uncertainties exist as to the boundaries of districts as shown on the
Official Zoning Map, the following rules shall apply.
   (a)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerlines of
streets, highways or alleys shall be construed to follow such centerlines.
   (b)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot lines
shall be construed as following such lot lines.
   (c)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following city limits shall be
construed as following city limits.
   (d)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following unplatted property
lines shall be construed as following unplatted property lines.
   (e)   Boundaries indicated as parallel to or extensions of features
indicated in subsections (a) through (d) above shall be so construed. Distances
not specifically indicated on the Official Zoning Map shall be determined by
the scale of the map.
   (f)   All property lines and dimensions shown on the Official Zoning Map
shall be construed to be those property lines and dimensions described in the
proper deeds of record for the subject property or specifically described by
measurements on the map.
   (g)   Where physical or other features existing on the ground are in
variance with those shown on the Official Zoning Map, or in circumstances not
covered in subsections (a) through (e) above, the Board of Zoning Appeals shall
interpret the district boundaries.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1309.04 ANNEXATION.
   During the annexation process by City Council, the Planning Commission shall
study the area proposed for annexation to provide recommendations for the most
appropriate zoning district(s) which will carry out the objectives of this
ordinance and the community plan. Should annexation procedures be completed
prior to receiving recommendations from the Planning Commission, the newly
annexed territory shall be classified under the zoning district of the area
within the corporate limits immediately adjacent to it. As soon as practically
possible after said annexation, but no later than six months from the date of
said annexation, the Planning Commission shall complete its study and forward
its recommendation to the City Council.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1309.05 APPLICATION OF DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   The regulations set forth by this ordinance shall be minimum regulations and
shall apply uniformly to each class or kind of structure or land, and
particularly as follows.
   (a)   No building, structure or land shall hereafter be used or occupied,
and no building or structure or part thereof shall hereafter be erected,
constructed, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered unless in conformity
with all of the regulations herein specified for the district in which it is
located.
   (b)   No building or structure shall hereafter be erected or altered:
      (1)   To exceed the height;
      (2)   To accommodate or house a greater number of families;
      (3)   To occupy a greater percentage of lot area; or
      (4)   To have narrower or smaller yards or other open spaces; than herein
required; or in any manner contrary to the provisions of this ordinance.
   (c)   No part of a yard or other open space, required landscape area,
parking or loading area for any building or structure shall hereinafter be
included as part of the same requirements for any other building or structure,
except as specifically provided for in this ordinance.
   (d)   No yard or lot existing at the time of passage of this ordinance shall
be reduced in dimension or area below the minimum requirements set forth in
this ordinance. Yards and lots created after the effective date of this
ordinance shall meet at least the minimum requirements established by this
ordinance.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
ARTICLE 1313: R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
Section
   
1313.01   Statement of legislative intent
   
1313.02   Permitted principal uses
   
1313.03   Permitted accessory uses
   
1313.04   Conditional uses
   
1313.05   R-1 space, bulk, and yard regulations
   
1313.06   Parking and loading
   
1313.07   Signs
Cross-reference:
   Conditional uses, see
Art. 1349
   Parking and loading requirements, see
Art. 1353
   Landscaping and screening, see
Art. 1357
   Signs, see
Art. 1361
§ 1313.01 STATEMENT OF LEGISLATIVE INTENT.
   The R-1 Single-Family Residential District is established to provide for
detached single-family dwellings in areas in the city where this type of
housing has traditionally prevailed and developed as well as other areas
suitable for such development.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1313.02 PERMITTED PRINCIPAL USES.
   (a)   Principal uses shall be limited to the following:
      (1)   Single-family detached dwellings;
      (2)   Parks, playgrounds and play fields; and
      (3)   Structures, monuments or sites for the interpretation of the city’s
heritage.
   (b)   Only one principal residential structure shall be permitted per lot of
record.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1313.03 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES.
   Accessory uses shall be limited to the following:
   (a)   Detached garage, carport, storage building, private greenhouse, or
other accessory building or use customarily accessory to the principal use;
   (b)   Private swimming pool, provided that the pool area is enclosed by a
fence or wall with entrances and exits which can be locked while the pool is
not in use; and
   (c)   Antenna, satellite earth station antenna.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1313.04 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following uses shall be permitted as regulated by Article 1349,
Conditional Uses:
   (a)   Churches and other places of worship;
   (b)   Home occupations;
   (c)   Schools - nursery, kindergarten, elementary, middle or senior high;
   (d)   Colleges;
   (e)   Bed and breakfasts/tourist homes;
   (f)   Child care homes; and
   (g)   Hospitals.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1313.05 R-1 SPACE, BULK, AND YARD REGULATIONS.
Maximum height
   Accessory structure                       15 feet
   Principal building                        35 feet
Lot requirements
   Maximum lot coverage                      30%
   Minimum lot area per unit                 7,500 square feet
   Minimum lot width                         60 feet
   Minimum total lot area                    7,500 square feet
Minimum yard requirements - principal building
   Front yard                                30 feet
   Rear yard                                 40 feet
   Side yards - each side                    10 feet
Minimum yard requirements - accessory structure
   Rear yard - abutting street               5 feet
      Abutting an adjacent property line  10 feet
   Side yards - each                         10 feet
When a new dwelling is located on a lot, the face of the dwelling shall face
the main street associated with the lot on which the dwelling is located. In
the event the dwelling is located on a corner lot where two streets converge
the house may face either street; variances to this will be considered by the
Zoning Board
 
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995; Ord. passed 9-1-1998)
§ 1313.06 PARKING AND LOADING.
   Off-street parking shall be provided as required in Article 1353, Parking
and Loading.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1313.07 SIGNS.
   Signs shall be regulated as provided in Article 1361, Signs.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
ARTICLE 1317: R-2 MULTIFAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
Section
   
1317.01   Statement of legislative intent
   
1317.02   Permitted principal uses
   
1317.03   Permitted accessory uses
   
1317.04   Conditional uses
   
1317.05   R-2 space, bulk and yard regulations
   
1317.06   Parking and loading
   
1317.07   Signs
Cross-reference:
   Conditional uses, see
Art. 1349
   Parking and loading requirements, see
Art. 1353
   Landscaping and screening, see
Art. 1357
   Signs, see
Art. 1361
§ 1317.01 STATEMENT OF LEGISLATIVE INTENT.
   The R-2 Multifamily Residential District is established to provide single
family residential use as well as duplex and apartment development in an
attractive, affordable, pleasant living environment at a sufficient density to
optimum utilization of land appropriate for residential use.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1317.02 PERMITTED PRINCIPAL USES.
   (a)   Principal uses shall be limited to the following:
      (1)   Single-family detached dwellings;
      (2)   Single-family attached dwellings (townhouses);
      (3)   Two-family dwellings (duplexes);
      (4)   Multifamily dwellings (apartments);
      (5)   Manufactured homes;
      (6)   Group residential facilities;
      (7)   Parks, playgrounds and play fields; and
      (8)   Structures, monuments or sites for the interpretation of the city’s
heritage.
   (b)   Only one principal residential structure shall be permitted per lot of
record except for multifamily dwellings.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1317.03 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES.
   Accessory uses shall be limited to the following:
   (a)   Detached garage, carport, storage building, private greenhouse or
other accessory building or use customarily accessory to the principal use;
   (b)   Private swimming pool, provided that the pool area is enclosed by a
fence or wall with entrances and exits which can be locked while the pool is
not in use; and
   (c)   Antenna, satellite earth station antenna.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1317.04 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following uses shall be permitted as regulated by Article 1349,
Conditional Uses:
   (a)   Churches and other places of worship;
   (b)   Home occupations;
   (c)   Schools - nursery, kindergarten, elementary, middle or senior high;
   (d)   Bed and breakfasts;
   (e)   Child care centers;
   (f)   Manufactured home rental community;
   (g)   Nursing homes, personal care homes; and
   (h)   Funeral homes and mortuaries.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995; Ord. passed 9-15-2020)
§ 1317.05 R-2 SPACE, BULK AND YARD REGULATIONS.
Maximum height
   Accessory structure                       15 feet
   Principal building                        35 feet
Lot requirements
   Minimum total lot area
      Multifamily                         9,000 square feet
      Single-family                       7,200 square feet
      Two-family                          8,000 square feet
Minimum lot area per unit
      Multifamily                         3,000 square feet
      Single-family                       7,200 square feet
      Two-family                          4,000 square feet
Minimum lot width                               60 feet
Maximum lot coverage                            40%
Minimum yard requirements - principal building
      Front yard                          20 feet
      Rear yard                           30 feet
      Side yards - each side              10 feet
Minimum yard requirements - accessory structure
   Rear yard - abutting street               5 feet
      Abutting an adjacent property line  10 feet
   Side yards - each                         10 feet
 
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1317.06 PARKING AND LOADING.
   Off-street parking shall be provided as required in Article 1353, Parking
and Loading.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1317.07 SIGNS.
   Signs shall be regulated as provided in Article 1361, Signs.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
ARTICLE 1321: R-3 MEDIUM-RISE APARTMENT RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
Section
   
1321.01   Statement of legislative intent
   
1321.02   Permitted principal uses
   
1321.03   Permitted accessory uses
   
1321.04   Conditional uses
   
1321.05   R-3 space, bulk, and yard regulations
   
1321.06   Parking and loading
   
1321.07   Signs
Cross-reference:
   Conditional uses, see
Art. 1349
   Parking and loading requirements, see
Art. 1353
   Landscaping and screening, see
Art. 1357
   Signs, see
Art. 1361
§ 1321.01 STATEMENT OF LEGISLATIVE INTENT.
   The R-3 Medium-Rise Apartment Residential District is established to provide
high density development at selected sites adjacent to the downtown commercial
core allowing easy access to employment sources, community amenities, private
and public services.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1321.02 PERMITTED PRINCIPAL USES.
   Principal uses shall be limited to the following:
   (a)   Multifamily dwellings; and
   (b)   Structures, monuments or sites for the interpretation of the city’s
heritage.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1321.03 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES.
   Accessory uses shall be limited to the following:
   (a)   Detached garage, carport, storage building or other accessory building
or use customarily accessory to the principal use;
   (b)   Private swimming pool, provided that the pool area is enclosed by a
fence or wall with entrances and exits which can be locked while the pool is
not in use; and
   (c)   Private recreation facility.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1321.04 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following uses shall be permitted as regulated by Article 1349,
Conditional Uses:
   (a)   Home occupations; and
   (b)   Clinics.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1321.05 R-3 SPACE, BULK, AND YARD REGULATIONS.
Maximum height
   Accessory structure                15 feet
   Principal building                 80 feet
Lot requirements
   Maximum lot coverage               35%
   Minimum total lot area             20,000 square feet
Minimum yard requirements - principal
building
   Front yard                         20 feet
   Rear yard                          25 feet
   Side yards
      Buildings 35 feet or less    10 feet - each side
                                         10 feet, 1 side and 10 feet plus 2
      Buildings 36 feet or more    feet for every 10 feet over 35 feet,
                                         other side
Minimum yard requirements - accessory
structure
   Rear yard - abutting street        5 feet
      Abutting an adjacent property10 feet
   Side yards - each                  10 feet
Maximum floor area ratio                 2.0
 
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1321.06 PARKING AND LOADING.
   Off-street parking and loading facilities shall be provided as required in
Article 1353, Parking and Loading.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1321.07 SIGNS.
   Signs shall be regulated as provided in Article 1361, Signs.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
ARTICLE 1325: HR-O HISTORIC RESIDENTIAL-OFFICE DISTRICT
Section
   
1325.01   Statement of legislative intent
   
1325.02   Permitted principal uses
   
1325.03   Permitted accessory uses
   
1325.04   Conditional uses
   
1325.05   HR-O space, bulk, and yard regulations
   
1325.06   Parking and loading
   
1325.07   Signs
Cross-reference:
   Conditional uses, see
Art. 1349
   Parking and loading requirements, see
Art. 1353
   Landscaping and screening, see
Art. 1357
   Signs, see
Art. 1361
§ 1325.01 STATEMENT OF LEGISLATIVE INTENT.
   The HR-O Historic Residential-Office District is established to protect
particular residential areas of the city that are listed on the National
Register for Historic Places. It is recognized that there are many large
single-family structures that can be sympathetically converted to accommodate
apartments and professional offices, thereby providing an alternative to
demolition. It is the intent of this article to promote high quality adaptive
reuse of these properties, encourage the provision of professional services at
the neighborhood level without disturbing the residential character of the
district, and provide opportunities for the interpretation and conservation of
the rich heritage of the city.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1325.02 PERMITTED PRINCIPAL USES.
   (a)   Principal uses shall be limited to the following:
      (1)   Single-family dwellings;
      (2)   Multifamily dwellings containing no more than four dwelling units;
      (3)   Professional offices, may have multifamily dwellings at second
floor and above;
      (4)   Museums, tour houses, historic displays for the interpretation of
the city’s heritage; and
      (5)   Structures, monuments or sites for the interpretation of the city’s
heritage.
   (b)   Only one principal residential structure shall be permitted per lot of
record.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1325.03 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES.
   Accessory uses shall be limited to the following:
   (a)   Detached garage, carport, storage building, private greenhouse or
other accessory building or use customarily accessory to the principal use; and
   (b)   Private swimming pool, provided that the pool area is enclosed by a
fence or wall with entrances and exits which can be locked while the pool is
not in use.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1325.04 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following uses shall be permitted as regulated by Article 1349,
Conditional Uses:
   (a)   Churches and other places of worship;
   (b)   Home occupations;
   (c)   Bed and breakfasts; and
   (d)   Child care homes.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1325.05 HR-O SPACE, BULK, AND YARD REGULATIONS.
Maximum height
   Accessory structure                15 feet
   Principal building                 35
Lot requirements
   Maximum lot coverage               30%
   Minimum lot area per unit          3,000 square feet
   Minimum total lot area             7,200 square feet
Minimum yard requirements - principal
building
   Front yard                         20 inches or existing setback of
                                         adjacent structures
   Rear yard                          30 feet
   Side yards - each side             10 feet
Minimum yard requirements - accessory
structure
   Rear yard - abutting street        5 feet
      Abutting an adjacent property10 feet
   Side yard                          10 feet
 
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1325.06 PARKING AND LOADING.
   Off-street parking and loading facilities shall be provided as required in
Article 1353, Parking and Loading. Parking in this district shall be
accommodated in the side and rear yards.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1325.07 SIGNS.
   Signs shall be regulated as provided in Article 1361, Signs.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
ARTICLE 1329: C-1 NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
Section
   
1329.01   Statement of legislative intent
   
1329.02   Permitted principal uses
   
1329.03   Permitted accessory uses
   
1329.04   C-1 space, bulk, and yard regulations
   
1329.05   Parking and loading
   
1329.06   Signs
Cross-reference:
   Conditional uses, see
Art. 1349
   Parking and loading requirements, see
Art. 1353
   Landscaping and screening, see
Art. 1357
   Signs, see
Art. 1361
§ 1329.01 STATEMENT OF LEGISLATIVE INTENT.
   The C-1 Neighborhood Commercial District is established to provide for
groups of small business establishments located to serve frequent retail and
personal service needs of residents of the immediate residential area. By
limiting the number of uses and the intensity of development, the surrounding
residential districts shall be protected from excessive level of noise and
other nuisances. This district is not intended to permit major commercial or
service establishments which would attract substantial amounts of trade from
outside the neighborhood.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1329.02 PERMITTED PRINCIPAL USES.
   Principal uses shall be limited to the following:
   (a)   Multifamily dwellings at second floor or above;
   (b)   Barber/beauty shops, massage or similar personal service shops,
provided that no more than four employees are employed;
   (c)   Laundromats and shops for the delivery or picking up of laundry and
dry cleaning;
   (d)   Retail stores provided the total floor area is less than 1,500 square
feet;
   (e)   Restaurants, coffee shops, delicatessens less than 1,500 square feet,
no drive-through except with a conditional use permit;
   (f)   Professional and business offices, provided the total floor area is
less than 1,500 square feet;
   (g)   ATM banking facilities;
   (h)   Child care centers; and
   (i)   Structures, monuments or sites for the interpretation of the city’s
heritage.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1329.03 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES.
   Accessory uses shall be limited to a detached garage, carport, storage
building or other accessory building or use customarily accessory to the
principal use.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1329.04 C-1 SPACE, BULK, AND YARD REGULATIONS.
Maximum height
   Accessory structure        15 feet
   Principal building         35 feet
Lot requirements
   Maximum lot coverage       50%
Minimum yard requirements
   Front yard                 20 feet
   Rear yard                  None
      When abutting a R Dis30 feet
   Side yards                 None
      When abutting a R Dis20 feet
 
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1329.05 PARKING AND LOADING.
   Off-street parking and loading facilities shall be provided as required in
Article 1353, Parking and Loading.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1329.06 SIGNS.
   Signs shall be regulated as provided in Article 1361, Signs.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
ARTICLE 1333: C-2 COMMUNITY COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
Section
   
1333.01   Statement of legislative intent
   
1333.02   Permitted principal uses
   
1333.03   Permitted accessory uses
   
1333.04   C-2 space, bulk and yard regulations
   
1333.05   Parking and loading
   
1333.06   Signs
   
1333.07   Downtown Design Guidelines
   
1333.08   Conditional uses
   
1333.09   Definitions
Cross-reference:
   Conditional uses, see
Art. 1349
   Parking and loading requirements, see
Art. 1353
   Landscaping and screening, see
Art. 1357
   Signs, see
Art. 1361
§ 1333.01 STATEMENT OF LEGISLATIVE INTENT.
   The C-2 Community Commercial District is established to preserve and enhance
commercial financial, retail and solar activities and services of importance to
the existing Central Business District and the community. Higher land values,
space limitations and public convenience justify greater intensity of use.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1333.02 PERMITTED PRINCIPAL USES.
   Principal uses shall be limited to the following:
   (a)   All uses permitted in the C-1 Neighborhood Commercial Districts except
that limitations on floor area and number of employees need not apply;
   (b)   Associations or organizations, including charitable agencies, labor
unions or professional, civic, social or fraternal organizations;
   (c)   Bakeries;
   (d)   Banks, savings and loan institutions with drive-in facilities;
   (e)   Churches and other places of worship;
   (f)   Community and recreation centers;
   (g)   Convenient markets with the sale of gasoline;
   (h)   Department, dry goods, clothing, shoe stores;
   (i)   Florist shops;
   (j)   Funeral homes and mortuaries;
   (k)   Furniture, home decorating, floor covering, appliance stores;
   (l)   General business, service and professional offices;
   (m)   General retail sales and related service uses, specialty shops;
   (n)   Hardware sales;
   (o)   Libraries, museums, art galleries;
   (p)   Liquor stores;
   (q)   Medical and dental offices, may include incidental retail sales;
   (r)   Medical and office supply stores;
   (s)   Photographic, dance, music, art, martial arts studios and related
sales;
   (t)   Restaurants and bars; and
   (u)   Theaters, auditoriums.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1333.03 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES.
   Accessory uses shall be limited to a detached garage, carport, storage
building or other accessory building or use customarily accessory to the
principal use.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1333.04 C-2 SPACE, BULK AND YARD REGULATIONS.
Maximum height
   Accessory structure        15 feet
   Principal building         50 feet
Lot requirements
   Maximum lot coverage       100%
Minimum yard requirements
   Front yard in CBD          None
   Front yard outside CBD     20 feet
   Rear yard                  None
      When abutting a R Dis20 feet
   Side yards                 None
      When abutting a R Dis20 feet
 
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1333.05 PARKING AND LOADING.
   Off-street parking and loading facilities shall be provided as required in
Article 1353, Parking and Loading.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1333.06 SIGNS.
   Signs shall be regulated as provided in Article 1361, Signs.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1333.07 DOWNTOWN DESIGN GUIDELINES.
   The portion of C-2 Community Commercial District which lies within the area
designated by City Council for purposes of the Philippi Main Street Program
shall be additionally regulated by Article 1743, Downtown Design Guidelines as
found in these codified ordinances of the city. Should there be a conflict
between this ordinance and Article 1743, the latter shall prevail.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1333.08 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following uses shall be permitted as regulated by Article 1349,
“Conditional Uses”: small hotels.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1333.09 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words and phrases, when used in this article, shall for the
purpose of this article, have the meaning respectively ascribed to them in this
article, except where the context requires otherwise.
   (a)   “Small hotel” means a building containing less than or equal to two
stories, with not more than 30 rooms (including rooms for rent by travelers,
and rooms used as the motel/hotel office, lobby, laundry, utility, small
conference room and the like, but not including bathrooms.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
ARTICLE 1337: C-3 HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
Section
   
1337.01   Statement of legislative intent
   
1337.02   Permitted principal uses
   
1337.03   Permitted accessory uses
   
1337.04   Conditional uses
   
1337.05   C-3 space, bulk and yard regulations
   
1337.06   Parking and loading
   
1337.07   Signs
Cross-reference:
   Conditional uses, see
Art. 1349
   Parking and loading requirements, see
Art. 1353
   Landscaping and screening, see
Art. 1357
   Signs, see
Art. 1361
§ 1337.01 STATEMENT OF LEGISLATIVE INTENT.
   The C-3 Highway Commercial District is primarily intended to provide for
commercial uses and services which, because of their heavy traffic impact or
single purpose trade, must be located adjacent to the major roadways. Uses in
this district include facilities related predominantly to the traveler or
highway user, as well as commercial uses which require large land areas, do not
depend on adjoining uses for their operation and do not compete with similar
activities in other districts in the city.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1337.02 PERMITTED PRINCIPAL USES.
   Principal uses shall be limited to the following:
   (a)   All uses permitted in the C-2 Community Commercial Districts;
   (b)   Appliance repair and sales;
   (c)   Animal hospital, grooming and boarding;
   (d)   Automobile sales, service and washing;
   (e)   Automotive, farm implement or trailer repair or servicing;
   (f)   Building materials;
   (g)   Dry cleaning plants;
   (h)   Florist shops and greenhouses;
   (i)   Furniture, home decorating, floor covering;
   (j)   General contracting, electrical sales and contracting, plumbing sales
and contracting;
   (k)   Grocery stores;
   (l)   Laundries;
   (m)   Lawn, garden and farm supplies;
   (n)   Machine repair;
   (o)   Manufactured housing, mobile homes, and trailers sales;
   (p)   Motels;
   (q)   Rentals, including heavy equipment and machinery; and
   (r)   Restaurants and bars, restaurants with drive-through and delivery
service.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1337.03 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES.
   Accessory uses shall be limited to a detached garage, carport, storage
building or other accessory building or use customarily accessory to the
principal use.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1337.04 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following uses shall be permitted as regulated by Article 1349,
Conditional Uses:
   (a)   Adult entertainment uses;
   (b)   Automobile service stations; and
   (c)   Automobile salvage, outdoor storage and junk yards.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1337.05 C-3 SPACE, BULK AND YARD REGULATIONS.
Maximum height
   Accessory structure        15 feet
   Principal building         35 feet
Lot requirements
   Maximum lot coverage       60%
Minimum yard requirements
   Front yard                 40 feet
   Rear yard                  30 feet
      When abutting a R Dis40 feet
   Side yards                 10 feet
   When abutting a R District 25 feet
 
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1337.06 PARKING AND LOADING.
   Off-street parking and loading facilities shall be provided as required in
Article 1353, Parking and Loading.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1337.07 SIGNS.
   Signs shall be regulated as provided in Article 1361, Signs.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
ARTICLE 1341: I-1 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
Section
   
1341.01   Statement of legislative intent
   
1341.02   Permitted principal uses
   
1341.03   Permitted accessory uses
   
1341.04   Required conditions
   
1341.05   I-1 space, bulk and yard regulations
   
1341.06   Parking and loading
   
1341.07   Signs
Cross-reference:
   Conditional uses, see
Art. 1349
   Parking and loading requirements, see
Art. 1353
   Landscaping and screening, see
Art. 1357
   Signs, see
Art. 1361
§ 1341.01 STATEMENT OF LEGISLATIVE INTENT.
   The I-1 Industrial District is established to provide for light
manufacturing, processing, large storage, wholesaling and distribution
operations providing for growth of the economic base of the city. This district
shall provide for operations which are relatively free of objectionable and
dangerous influences or ones whose obnoxious features are capable of being
readily and adequately controlled by appropriate devices, thus safeguarding
surrounding areas.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1341.02 PERMITTED PRINCIPAL USES.
   Principal uses shall be limited to the following:
   (a)   Airports;
   (b)   Apparel or other finished products from fabrics and similar materials
manufacturing;
   (c)   Blacksmith, welding, machine and similar shops;
   (d)   Laboratories, chemical, physical and biological (no manufacturing);
   (e)   Manufacturing and assembly of small products, machine parts or
electronic equipment;
   (f)   Public utility;
   (g)   Recycling centers and plants;
   (h)   Research and development activities;
   (i)   Truck terminals; and
   (j)   Warehouses and distribution centers.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1341.03 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES.
   Accessory uses shall be limited to a garage, storage building or other
accessory building or use customarily accessory to the principal use.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1341.04 REQUIRED CONDITIONS.
   (a)   No use shall be permitted which is noxious or offensive in the
immediately surrounding area by reason of odor, dust, smoke, gas, vibration,
illumination or noise, or which constitutes a public hazard whether by fire,
explosion or otherwise. In determining whether a proposed use is noxious,
hazardous or offensive, the following standards shall apply.
   (b)   The proposed operation shall not:
      (1)   Constitute any nuisance whatsoever beyond the boundary of the site
on which the use is located by reason of dissemination of noxious, toxic or
corrosive fumes, smoke, odor or dust;
      (2)   Result in noise or vibration exceeding the average intensity of
noise or vibration occurring from other causes at the boundary line;
      (3)   Endanger surrounding areas by reason of fire or explosion;
      (4)   Produce objectionable heat, glare or radiation beyond the property
line;
      (5)   Result in electrical disturbance in nearby residences, or adversely
affect the operation of equipment other than on the property on which the
disturbance is located;
      (6)   Discharge any untreated sewage or industrial waste into any stream,
or otherwise contribute to the pollution of surface or underground waters; and
      (7)   Create any other objectionable condition in an adjoining area which
will endanger public health and safety or be detrimental to the proper use of
the surrounding area.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1341.05 I-1 SPACE, BULK AND YARD REGULATIONS.
Maximum height
   Accessory structure 35 feet
   Principal building  50 feet
Lot requirements
   Maximum lot coverage50%
   Minimum lot size    2 acres
Minimum yard requirements
   Front yard          40 feet
   Rear yard           40 feet
   Side yards          40 feet
 
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1341.06 PARKING AND LOADING.
   Off-street parking and loading facilities shall be provided as required in
Article 1353, Parking and Loading.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1341.07 SIGNS.
   Signs shall be regulated as provided in Article 1361, Signs.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
ARTICLE 1345: CONSERVATION OPEN SPACE DISTRICT
Section
   
1345.01   Statement of legislative intent
   
1345.02   Conditional uses
Cross-reference:
   Conditional uses, see
Art. 1349
   Parking and loading requirements, see
Art. 1353
   Landscaping and screening, see
Art. 1357
   Signs, see
Art. 1361
§ 1345.01 STATEMENT OF LEGISLATIVE INTENT.
   The purpose of this district is to regulate land use and development in
areas that are considered environmentally sensitive which may include 100-Year
Flood Plain Districts, river fronts, public recreation areas, steep slopes,
landslide-prone areas, undermined areas, and views requiring protection. The
intent of this district lies in the concern for safety and the need to protect
the natural beauty of the city’s physical environment.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1345.02 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following uses shall be permitted as regulated by Article 1349,
Conditional Uses of this ordinance and Part Seventeen, Building and Housing
Code of the codified ordinances of the city:
   (a)   Parks, playgrounds, golf courses, public and private recreational
uses;
   (b)   Marinas;
   (c)   Cemeteries;
   (d)   Game, wildlife, and nature study preserves and reservations;
   (e)   Flood control, water treatment facilities, municipal public works; and
   (f)   Structures, monuments or sites for the interpretation of Philippi’s
heritage.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
ARTICLE 1349: CONDITIONAL USES
Section
   
1349.01   Statement of legislative intent
   
1349.02   General provisions
   
1349.03   Specific additional standards
Cross-reference:
   Nonconforming situations, see
Art. 1373
Statutory reference:
   Existing uses safeguarded, see W.Va. Code § 8-24-50
§ 1349.01 STATEMENT OF LEGISLATIVE INTENT.
   It is the intent of conditional uses to provide certain uses which shall be
permitted only if adequate conditions exist or can be imposed that will make
such uses compatible with the purposes of this ordinance and the city’s
Comprehensive Plan. The conditional use permit procedure shall provide for some
measure of individualized judgment and the imposing of conditions on certain
uses in order to make them compatible with uses in the surrounding area, and
not harmful to the natural environment.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1349.02 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals may authorize the issuance of a conditional use
permit for conditional uses only in accordance with the following provisions.
   (a)   Conditional uses for which conditional use permits may be issued shall
be deemed permitted uses, subject to meeting the conditions contained in this
article.
   (b)   Each conditional use shall be considered an individual case and such
use shall conform to the standards of this article. In addition to the specific
requirements for each of the conditional uses, the Board shall find that:
      (1)   The conditional use is in general conformance to the comprehensive
plan;
      (2)   The conditional use fully complies with all applicable regulations
of this or other city ordinances;
      (3)   The use will be of such location, size and character that,
generally, it will be in harmony with the appropriate and orderly development
of the zone in which the use is situated and will not be detrimental to
adjacent properties; and
      (4)   The use will maintain a high quality of life, including reasonable
privacy, quiet, physical attractiveness, orderliness, safety and other such
factors through suitable screening of outdoor lighting and parking, truck
loading, refuse disposal and outdoor storage areas from adjacent properties.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1349.03 SPECIFIC ADDITIONAL STANDARDS.
   When a conditional use permit is required, the following uses shall be
subject to their respective restrictions and conditions presented below, in
addition to compliance with applicable district regulations.
   (a)   Adult entertainment uses. Adult book store, adult videotape store,
adult motion picture theater, adult entertainment establishment:
      (1)   Such uses shall not be located within 1,000 feet of each other;
      (2)   No adult entertainment use shall be located within 1,000 feet of a
residential residence, school, park, library, public building or place of
worship;
      (3)   Advertisements, displays or other promotional materials depicting,
describing or relating to sexual activities or anatomical areas shall not be
visible from a public road;
      (4)   All doors, windows and other apertures shall be located, covered or
screened in such a manner as to prevent viewing the interior of such an
establishment from a public street or sidewalk; and
      (5)   In the event that the adult entertainment use is abandoned, it
shall be required to obtain a new conditional use permit before it can be
reestablished.
   (b)   Automotive service stations. Freestanding automotive service stations
and other permitted uses that also provide for the sale of gasoline:
      (1)   Minimum lot size shall be 7,500 square feet; and
      (2)   A site plan shall be filed with the application showing the
location of all buildings, tanks, service pumps and driveways, together with
all measurements necessary to show compliance with the following standards:
         A.   Service pumps shall not be located within 25 feet of any building
occupied as a residence or for church, school or other institutional purposes;
and
         B.   Service pumps shall not be located within 15 feet of the right-
of-way line of any street.
   (c)   Automobile salvage, outdoor storage and junk yards. May not be located
nearer than 200 feet to any residential zone; must be enclosed by a solid fence
at least eight feet in height; no advertisement shall be permitted thereon and
must be kept in good order and repair at all times.
   (d)   Bed and breakfasts. When three or more rooms are offered per night for
public accommodation, the establishment shall be owner-occupied and refuse
collection and storage areas shall be screened and should be accessible by
trucks, yet located where they will not disturb adjacent properties.
   (e)   Child care center. The County Health Department shall approve the
proposed plans; the use shall not constitute a nuisance because of traffic,
number of children being cared for, noise or types of physical activity.
   (f)   Home occupations.
      (1)   Home occupations shall occupy less than 50% of the total floor area
of the dwelling unit and in no event occupy more than 700 square feet of floor
area.
      (2)   Home occupations shall only be permitted to sell on the premises
articles incidental to the home occupation. There shall be no exterior displays
nor shall any materials or products be stored outside of a principal or
accessory building.
      (3)   No home occupation is permitted to produce offensive noise,
vibration, dust, odors, heat, glare or other objectionable effects.
   (g)   Manufactured home rental community. The standards shall comply with
the standards of the zoning district and the mobile home park regulations of
the State Board of Health.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
ARTICLE 1353: PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS
Section
   
1353.01   Number of parking spaces required
   
1353.02   Flexibility in administration required
   
1353.03   Table of Parking Requirements
   
1353.04   Parking space dimensions
   
1353.05   General design requirements
   
1353.06   Parking and vehicle circulation area surfaces
   
1353.07   Joint use of required parking spaces
   
1353.08   Satellite parking
   
1353.09   Loading and unloading areas
   
1353.10   Parking requirements in the central business core of the C-2 and
Historic Residential-Office District
   
1353.11   Accessibility standards
Cross-reference:
   General parking requirements, see
Art. 361
§ 1353.01 NUMBER OF PARKING SPACES REQUIRED.
   (a)   All developments in all zoning districts, except for the central
business core of the C-2 Community Commercial District as shown on the Zoning
Map, shall provide a sufficient number of parking spaces to accommodate the
number of vehicles that ordinarily are likely to be attracted to the
development under consideration. The basis for determining the required number
of parking spaces shall be the Table of Parking Requirements of this ordinance.
   (b)   The number of spaces required shall also include accessible spaces
adjacent to accessible routes in compliance with the Uniform Federal
Accessibility Standards and further outlined in §
1353.11.
   (c)   It is recognized by Council that the Table of Parking Requirements as
set forth cannot cover every possible situation that may arise, and therefore
in cases not specifically covered the permit-issuing authority is authorized to
determine the parking requirement using the table as a guide.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1353.02 FLEXIBILITY IN ADMINISTRATION REQUIRED.
   (a)   The Council recognizes that due to the particularities of any given
development, inflexible application of the parking requirement set forth in the
table may result with either inadequate parking space or parking space far in
excess of its needs. Therefore, the permit-issuing authority may deviate from
the requirements in the Table of Parking Requirements and may require more or
less parking whenever it finds that such deviations are more likely to satisfy
the standards set forth in the table.
   (b)   Whenever the permit issuing authority allows or requires a deviation
from the Table of Parking Requirements, the reasons for such deviation shall be
noted on the building permit.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1353.03 TABLE OF PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
Use Parking Requirement
Use                                                                             Parking
                                                                                Requirement
Commercial Uses
                                                                                1 space for
                                                                                every 4 seats;
   Auditorium, theater                                                       20 inches of
                                                                                bench or pew
                                                                                is considered
                                                                                1 seat
                                                                                1 space per
   Automobile repair or servicing                                            200 square
                                                                                feet of GFA
                                                                                1 space for
                                                                                each 800
   Automobile sales and service                                              square feet of
                                                                                gross floor
                                                                                area (GFA)
                                                                                2 spaces for
                                                                                each service
   Automobile service station                                                bay plus 1
                                                                                space per
                                                                                employee
                                                                                1 space per
   Bank                                                                      250 square
                                                                                feet of GFA
                                                                                1 space per 50
                                                                                square feet of
                                                                                customer floor
                                                                                space or
                                                                                number of
   Bar                                                                       spaces equal
                                                                                to 30% of
                                                                                maximum
                                                                                occupancy,
                                                                                whichever is
                                                                                greater
                                                                                1 space for
   Child care center and home                                                each
                                                                                nonresident
                                                                                employee
                                                                                1 space for
                                                                                every 5 seats;
                                                                                up to 50% of
                                                                                required
                                                                                parking may be
   Churches and other places of worship                                      provided on
                                                                                public or
                                                                                commercial lot
                                                                                within 500
                                                                                feet of the
                                                                                place of
                                                                                worship
                                                                                1 space for
                                                                                every 4 seats
                                                                                or 1 space per
   Club, lodge                                                               300 square
                                                                                feet of GFA,
                                                                                whichever is
                                                                                needed by the
                                                                                facility
                                                                                1 space per
   Community center, museum, library                                         400 square
                                                                                feet of GFA
                                                                                1 space per
   Convenience store                                                         150 square
                                                                                feet of GFA
                                                                                1 space per 75
                                                                                square feet of
                                                                                public rooms,
   Funeral home                                                              plus 1 space
                                                                                for each
                                                                                employee, 20
                                                                                spaces minimum
                                                                                1 space per
   Greenhouse, commercial                                                    200 square
                                                                                feet GFA
                                                                                2 spaces per
                                                                                bed or 1 space
   Hospitals, medical treatment facilities in excess of 10,000 square feet   per 150 GFA
                                                                                which ever is
                                                                                greater
                                                                                1 space for
   Industrial establishment                                                  each employee
                                                                                on maximum
                                                                                shift
                                                                                1 space per
   Laundromat                                                                200 square
                                                                                feet GFA
                                                                                4 spaces for
   Medical or dental offices/clinics                                         each
                                                                                practitioner
                                                                                1 space per
   Motels - hotels                                                           guestroom plus
                                                                                1 per each 2
                                                                                employees
                                                                                1 space per 6
                                                                                patient beds
   Nursing home                                                              plus 1 space
                                                                                for each
                                                                                employee on
                                                                                maximum shift
                                                                                1 space per
   Office with visiting clients                                              200 square
                                                                                feet of GFA
                                                                                1 space per
   Office without visiting clients                                           300 square
                                                                                feet of GFA
                                                                                1 space per
                                                                                100 square
                                                                                feet of GFA,
   Recreation centers, bowling alleys, roller rinks, dance halls             plus 1 space
                                                                                for every two
                                                                                full-time
                                                                                employees
                                                                                1 space per
                                                                                100 square
                                                                                feet of GFA,
                                                                                plus reservoir
   Restaurant, drive-through, delivery service                               lane capacity
                                                                                equal to five
                                                                                spaces per
                                                                                drive-through
                                                                                window
                                                                                1 space per
   Restaurant, no substantial carry-out, drive-through or delivery service   100 square
                                                                                feet of GFA
   Retail store, service or repair shop that handles bulky merchandise, such 1 space per
furniture, large appliances                                                     800 square
                                                                                feet of GFA
                                                                                1 space for
                                                                                each student
                                                                                based on
   School - business, technical, trade                                       capacity of
                                                                                building, 1
                                                                                space for each
                                                                                staff member
                                                                                1 space for
                                                                                each
   School - kindergarten, elementary, middle                                 classroom, 1
                                                                                space for each
                                                                                staff member
                                                                                1 space for
                                                                                each 10
                                                                                students based
                                                                                on capacity of
   School - senior high                                                      building, 1
                                                                                space for each
                                                                                classroom and
                                                                                administrative
                                                                                office
                                                                                1 space per
                                                                                100 square
   Swimming pool                                                             feet of pool,
                                                                                sunbathing and
                                                                                picnic area
                                                                                1 space per
   Veterinarian/kennel                                                       200 square
                                                                                feet of GFA
                                                                                1 space for
   Warehouses or wholesale establishments                                    every two
                                                                                employees
                                                                                maximum shift
Residential Uses
                                                                                2 spaces plus
   Bed and breakfasts                                                        1 for each
                                                                                guestroom
                                                                                1 space per
   Group residential facilities                                              full-time
                                                                                employee
   Multifamily                                                               1.5 spaces per
                                                                                dwelling unit
   Multifamily for the elderly                                               1 space per
                                                                                dwelling unit
   Single-family attached                                                    2 spaces per
                                                                                dwelling unit
   Single-family detached                                                    2 spaces per
                                                                                dwelling unit
   Two-family                                                                2 spaces per
                                                                                dwelling unit
 
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1353.04 PARKING SPACE DIMENSIONS.
   (a)   Each parking space shall contain a rectangular area at least 19 feet
long and nine feet wide. Parking spaces for disabled people shall have an
adjacent access aisle 60 inches wide minimum. Two accessible parking spaces may
share a common access aisle.
   (b)   Whenever parking areas consist of spaces set aside for parallel
parking, the dimensions of such parking spaces shall be not less than 22 feet
by nine feet.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1353.05 GENERAL DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   Parking lot driveways shall be not less than ten feet in width for
one-way traffic and 18 feet in width for two-way traffic except that ten-foot
driveways are permitted for two-way traffic when the driveway is not longer
than 50 feet and serves no more than six spaces and sufficient turning space is
provided so that vehicles need not back into a public street.
   (b)   Unless no other practical alternative is available, vehicle parking
areas shall be designed so that vehicles may exit an area without backing onto
a public street. This requirement does not apply to one- and two-family
dwelling units.
   (c)   Vehicle circulation areas of all developments shall be designed so
that sanitation, emergency and public service vehicles can serve such
developments without having to make hazardous or dangerous turning movements.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1353.06 PARKING AND VEHICLE CIRCULATION AREA SURFACES.
   (a)   Parking and vehicle circulation areas including lanes for drive-
through windows shall be graded and surfaced with asphalt, concrete or other
material that will provide equivalent protection against potholes, erosion and
dust, and shall be properly maintained in all respects including free from
potholes.
   (b)   Parking lots surfaced in accordance with subsection (a) above shall be
appropriately marked with painted lines or other markings.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1353.07 JOINT USE OF REQUIRED PARKING SPACES.
   (a)   One parking area may contain required spaces for several different
uses, but except as provided for in this section, the required space assigned
to one use may not be assigned to any other use.
   (b)   To the extent that developments that wish to make joint use of the
same parking spaces operate at different times, the same space may be credited
to both uses. For example, if a church parking lot is only occupied to 50% of
capacity on days other than Sunday, another development could make use of 50%
of the church lot’s spaces on those other days.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1353.08 SATELLITE PARKING.
   (a)   If the number of off-street parking spaces required by this ordinance
cannot be reasonably provided on the same lot where the principal use
associated with the parking spaces is located, then spaces may be provided on
adjacent or nearby lots in accordance with provisions of this section. These
off-site spaces are referred to as satellite parking spaces.
   (b)   All satellite parking spaces (except spaces intended for employee use)
must be located within 400 feet of a public entrance of a principal building.
Satellite parking for employee parking may be located within any reasonable
distance.
   (c)   The developer wishing to take advantage of the provisions of this
section must present satisfactory written evidence that they have the
permission of the owner or other person in charge to use such spaces. The
developer must also sign an acknowledgment that the continued validity of the
permit depends on their continuing ability to provide the required number of
parking spaces.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1353.09 LOADING AND UNLOADING AREAS.
   In all zoning districts, in connection with every building hereafter erected
to be occupied by uses requiring the receipt or shipment by motor vehicles of
materials or merchandise, there shall be provided and maintained on the same
premises off-street loading and unloading space accessible from an alley or
easement of access, or when there is no such alley or easement of access, from
a street.
   (a)   One loading space with a minimum dimension of 12 feet by 55 feet with
14 foot overhead clearance shall be required for each 10,000 square feet of
gross floor area. If less than 10,000 square feet exists, 5,000 or more square
feet shall require one loading space.
   (b)   Loading and unloading areas shall be located and designed to complete
the loading and unloading without obstructing or interfering with any public
right-of-way, or any parking space or parking lot aisle.
   (c)   No area allocated to loading and unloading facilities may be used to
satisfy the area requirements for off-street parking, nor shall any portion of
any off-street parking area be used to satisfy the area requirements for
loading and unloading facilities.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1353.10 PARKING REQUIREMENTS IN THE CENTRAL BUSINESS CORE OF THE C-2 AND
HISTORIC RESIDENTIAL-OFFICE DISTRICT.
   It is the intent of this ordinance to ensure that each development provides
off-street parking in amounts sufficient to meet the anticipated parking
demand. The Council recognizes, however, that physical limitations of
properties in the Central Business District of the C-2 Community Commercial
District and the Historic Residential-Office District may prohibit strict
compliance with established parking requirements. Therefore, required parking
in these said districts shall be determined during site plan review and
approved by the City Council based upon the characteristics of the specific
site and the availability of nearby on- or off-street public parking.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1353.11 ACCESSIBILITY STANDARDS.
   The provision of accessible parking spaces shall be in compliance with the
Americans with Disabilities Act and the Uniform Federal Accessibility Standards
of April 1, 1988, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq., as may be amended from time
to time. The following table is to be used as a minimum guideline. Complete
requirements are to be found in the Standards.
Total Parking in Lot Required Minimum Number of Accessible Spaces
Total Parking in Lot Required Minimum Number of Accessible Spaces
1 to 25              1
26 to 50             2
51 to 75             3
76 to 100            4
101 to 150           5
151 to 200           6
201 to 300           7
301 to 400           8
401 to 500           9
501 to 1,000         2% of total
1,001 and over       20 plus 1 for each 100 over 1,000
 
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
ARTICLE 1357: LANDSCAPING AND SCREENING
Section
   
1357.01   Applicability
   
1357.02   Landscape plan requirements
   
1357.03   Parking lot landscaping design criteria
   
1357.04   Planting materials
   
1357.05   Peripheral coverage requirements
   
1357.06   Street frontage planting requirements
   
1357.07   Maintenance
   
1357.08   Screening
   
1357.09   Sight distance protection
   
1357.10   Lighting
Cross-reference:
   Defined, see §
1305.02(73)
§ 1357.01 APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this article shall apply to all parking lots constructed
within the city.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1357.02 LANDSCAPE PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   No parking lot of 20 or more spaces shall be constructed, enlarged or
reconstructed until a landscaping plan for that parking lot has been approved.
Landscape plans submitted pursuant to this article shall be reviewed under the
site plan review requirements of this ordinance.
   (b)   In the case where a proposed parking lot has fewer than 20 spaces, the
permit issuing authority shall authorize a landscaping plan which best meets
the spirit and intent of this article.
   (c)   Landscape plans shall be drawn to scale, including dimensions and
distances, and clearly show the existing and proposed parking spaces and other
vehicle use areas, access aisles, driveways and the location, size and
description of all landscape materials.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1357.03 PARKING LOT LANDSCAPING DESIGN CRITERIA.
   (a)   Approved landscaping materials used in parking lots shall include
trees, shrubbery, hedges and other live planting materials. Trees used shall be
of a type that provides shade at maturity. Effective use of earth berms and
existing topography is also encouraged as a component of the landscape plan.
   (b)   The landscaping and planting areas shall be dispersed throughout the
parking lot.
   (c)   The interior dimensions of any planting area or planting medium shall
be sufficient to protect the landscaping materials planted herein and to allow
proper growth.
   (d)   In those instances where plant material exists on a parking lot site
prior to its development, such landscape materials may be used if approved as
meeting the requirements of this article.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1357.04 PLANTING MATERIALS.
   (a)   No materials shall be approved for use in any parking lot landscaping
plan that are judged by the permit-issuing authority as unsuitable for such use
in the city.
   (b)   All landscaping trees to be used shall be a minimum of six feet in
overall height upon planting and consist of a species that normally grow to an
overall height of a minimum of 15 feet.
   (c)   Other landscaping material as required by this ordinance shall be
materially and aesthetically complimentary to the required tree plantings.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1357.05 PERIPHERAL COVERAGE REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   In addition to the requirements of §
1357.06, peripheral landscaping shall be required along the side of a parking
lot that abuts adjoining property that is not a right-of-way.
   (b)   A landscaping strip at least four feet in width shall be located
between the parking area and the abutting property lines, except where
driveways or other openings may be required.
   (c)   At least one tree for each 50 linear feet shall be planted in the
landscaping strip in addition to other planting materials.
   (d)   The requirements of this section shall not apply where planting is
provided for screening along the side of a parking lot abutting adjoining
property as provided elsewhere in this ordinance.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1357.06 STREET FRONTAGE PLANTING REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   In addition to the requirements of §
1357.05, landscaping shall be provided along any side of a parking lot that
abuts the right-of-way of any street.
   (b)   A landscaping strip ten feet in width shall be located along the side
of any parking lot abutting the right-of-way except where driveway or other
openings may be required.
   (c)   One tree shall be planted for each 40 linear feet of the landscaping
strip in addition to other planting materials.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1357.07 MAINTENANCE.
   The owner and their agencies shall be responsible for providing, protecting
and maintaining all landscaping in healthy and growing conditions, replacing it
when necessary, and keeping it free from refuse and debris.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1357.08 SCREENING.
   (a)   The building, parking or loading areas for multifamily residential,
office, commercial, industrial and recreational uses shall be visually screened
from any adjoining premises used or zoned for single-family residential
purposes.
   (b)   Screening may include any of the following means:
      (1)   A solid board fence at least six feet in height;
      (2)   An opaque evergreen trimmed hedge the thickness of which shall not
be less that 30% of its required height of six feet;
      (3)   An earth berm may be used in combination with any of the above
types of screening, but not more than two-thirds of the required height of such
screening may be provided by the berm;
      (4)   All screening shall follow the lot line of the lot to be screened
or be so arranged within the boundaries of the lot as to substantially hide
from adjoining properties the building, parking, loading areas or other
activity required to be screened;
      (5)   Screening as permitted in this subsection (b) shall be installed to
screen and reduce the visual impact of garbage and waste disposal containers,
storage areas, on and above grade mechanical and electrical equipment. The
height of this required screening shall be determined during site plan review
of the proposed development by the permit-issuing authority; and
      (6)   In all districts, garbage cans and trash receptacles must be
suitably screened from view from adjacent streets or properties prior to
pickup.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1357.09 SIGHT DISTANCE PROTECTION.
   No landscaping, tree, fence, wall or similar item shall be maintained in the
vicinity of any corner, street, intersection or access way intersecting a
public right-of-way that the Code Enforcement Officer is an obstruction,
extends into necessary sight-lines or constitutes a traffic hazard. See §
1369.04.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1357.10 LIGHTING.
   Lighting plans for signs, building and structures shall be shown on the site
plan for the proposed development. Generally, lighting and illumination shall
be designed as to not be visible from any point off the lot on which the sign,
building or structure is being illuminated.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
ARTICLE 1361: SIGNS
Section
   
1361.01   Purpose
   
1361.02   Objectives
   
1361.03   Exempt signs
   
1361.04   Prohibited permanent and temporary signs
   
1361.05   General provisions
   
1361.06   Permitted sign standards
   
1361.07   Landscaping requirements
   
1361.08   Temporary signs
   
1361.09   Signs allowed in the R-1, R-2 and R-3 Districts
   
1361.10   Signs allowed in the HR-O District
   
1361.11   Signs allowed in the C-1 District
   
1361.12   Signs allowed in the C-2 District
   
1361.13   Signs allowed in the C-3 and 1-1 Districts
   
1361.14   Signs allowed in the COS District
Cross-reference:
   Definitions, see §
1305.02(107) to (121)
§ 1361.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the sign article of the ordinance is to:
   (a)   Protect each person’s Constitutional right to freedom of speech; and
   (b)   Protect the public health, safety, convenience, comfort and general
welfare.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1361.02 OBJECTIVES.
   This article regulates the time, place and manner in which signs are
displayed to achieve the following:
   (a)   Permit noncommercial signs on any private property within the city,
subject to the provisions of this article;
   (b)   Permit signs without unconstitutionally regulating the information
displayed by each sign;
   (c)   Permit signs that do not constitute a hazard to the public safety;
   (d)   Permit commercial signs appropriate to the land use and/or zoning
classification of each property within the city;
   (e)   Create a more aesthetically-pleasing city; and
   (f)   Eliminate visual clutter within the city.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1361.03 EXEMPT SIGNS.
   The following signs shall be exempt on the basis that they implement a
compelling government interest in protecting the health and safety of persons
and property in the city, and shall not require permits:
   (a)   Temporary or permanent signs, including banners, erected and
maintained by the city, county, state or federal government for traffic
direction, or for direction to or identification of an historic site or
structure, government facility or event as declared by the Mayor;
   (b)   Directional ground signs not to exceed two signs per driveway
indicating entrance and exit locations with size not to exceed three square
feet per sign face and feet in height;
   (c)   Flag, emblems and insignias of national, state or local political
subdivisions;
   (d)   Name and/or address descriptions mounted to the front wall of a
building, lamp post or similar post in the front yard not to exceed two square
feet in area;
   (e)   Any window sign located inside or behind a window shall not be subject
to the provisions of this ordinance, except to comply with §
1361.04, provided that the window sign is located in a building where a
commercial or industrial use is permitted as a principal use and provided that
it is not more than 25% of any window area; and
   (f)   Flags which are considered to be home flags that are placed to show
spirit, pride or some type of season or activity.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1361.04 PROHIBITED PERMANENT AND TEMPORARY SIGNS.
   All signs not expressly permitted under this article or exempt from these
regulations under the previous section are prohibited in the city; such signs
include, but are not limited to:
   (a)   Abandoned signs;
   (b)   Beacons and searchlights, except for emergency health or safety
purposes;
   (c)   Billboards and other off-premise signs, except as may be permitted by
§
1361.05(j);
   (d)   Blinking, flashing or intermittent lighting signs, including message
center signs;
   (e)   Moving, animated or rotating signs;
   (f)   Pennants, streamers and similar devices;
   (g)   All helium, gas and air balloons located on or anchored to structures,
vehicles, the ground or anything connected to the ground;
   (h)   Roof signs which extend above the roof line;
   (i)   Signs attached to any tree, utility pole or fence and signs painted
directly on buildings, rocks, tree and other natural features;
   (j)   Signs attached to the face of accessory buildings, except those
attached to automatic teller machines or similar structures;
   (k)   Any sign which constitutes a traffic hazard or a detriment to public
safety or may be confused with a traffic control signal or device or the light
of an emergency or road equipment vehicle;
   (l)   Signs which make use of words, symbols, phrases or characters in such
a manner as to interfere with, mislead or confuse traffic;
   (m)   Signs or parts thereof which are erected within or above a public
right-of-way, except as may be permitted on a temporary basis by the Mayor;
   (n)   Spinning devices or strings of spinning devices;
   (o)   Electronic copy signs; and
   (p)   Window signs, including approved temporary signs in any district which
cover more than 25% of the total window area.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1361.05 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   A sign shall be designed, erected, altered, reconstructed, moved and
maintained in accordance in the provisions of this article unless specifically
modified by another section of this ordinance.
   (a)   Permits required. A sign permit shall be required for the
construction, erection, relocation or alteration of any sign, unless as
specifically exempted by this ordinance. A sign shall comply with all city
zoning, building, electrical and fire codes.
   (b)   Nonconforming signs. See Nonconforming Situations, Article 1373.
   (c)   Maintenance of signs. Every sign, whether requiring a permit or not,
shall be maintained in a safe, presentable and good structural condition at all
times, including replacement of defective parts and painting and cleaning of
said sign.
   (d)   Removal of dangerous or defective signs. The Mayor or an appointed
designee may immediately remove or cause to be removed any sign deemed to be a
danger or defective or which in the opinion of the Mayor may be dangerous to
persons or property.
   (e)   Removal of unlawful signs in the public right-of-way. The Mayor may
remove, or cause to be removed, any unlawful sign in the public right-of-way.
   (f)   Sign location with respect to frontages. Sign area permitted by virtue
of a premises having lot frontage or building frontage shall be located only
along that frontage which generates the permitted sign area.
   (g)   Commercial messages. All commercial information conveyed by any sign
permitted under this ordinance must pertain to the premises on which the sign
is located, except as specifically approved under subsection (j) below.
   (h)   Sign spacing requirements. No ground, pole or freestanding sign shall
be located within 50 feet of another ground, pole or freestanding sign.
   (i)   Duration of temporary signs. Temporary signs as permitted by this
ordinance may be erected for a period not to exceed 60 days, except as
otherwise dictated in this article. Extensions to the 60-day limitation may be
permitted by the Mayor upon application and demonstration of reasonable
justification by the agent or owner of the temporary sign.
   (j)   Exception to off-premises sign prohibitions. Upon application and
approval by the Board of Zoning Appeals, an off-premise sign(s) may be
permitted for a specified period of limited duration and subject to renewal or
removal at the discretion of the Board of Zoning Appeals.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1361.06 PERMITTED SIGN STANDARDS.
   In addition to any other requirement that may be contained within this
article, the following standards and requirements shall apply to all allowed
signs.
   (a)   Ground signs shall not be allowed on any lot with less than 50 foot of
frontage on a public right-of-way.
   (b)   Projecting signs shall be mounted or installed a minimum of nine feet
in height above the ground and shall not exceed 15 in height above the ground.
   (c)   A wall sign shall not extend more than 12 inches from the wall on the
building on which it is mounted, shall not extend above the top of the wall to
which it is attached, shall not extend beyond the limits of any wall to which
it is attached and shall have hidden structural supports.
   (d)   Awning signs may be used in lieu of, but not in addition to wall signs
for an individual establishment. If illuminated, such awning sign shall have
lighting concealed from view.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1361.07 LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS.
   A permanent ground sign shall require a single continuous landscaped area to
be maintained beneath the sign in accordance with the following standards.
   (a)   The minimum landscaped area shall be equal to the area of the sign
face.
   (b)   The landscaped area shall include all points where sign structural
supports attach to the ground.
   (c)   Where the required landscaping area is adjacent to a paved surface
accessible to vehicular traffic, a raised non-mountable curb to prevent the
encroachment of vehicles shall be required.
   (d)   The landscape area shall contain living plantings aesthetically
located and maintained.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1361.08 TEMPORARY SIGNS.
   Temporary sign(s) allowed by this ordinance are listed below. Up to two
temporary signs shall be permitted per lot frontage subject to the following
requirements:
   (a)   Contains information which pertains only to the “for sale”, “for rent”
or “for lease” status of the premises on which the sign is located, and
conforms to size and height requirements to the zoning district in which it is
located. No permit shall be required for these signs;
   (b)   Pertains to future use status of property under construction and which
conforms to height and size requirements for the zoning district in which it is
located. Temporary sign of this type shall not be displayed for a duration
longer than six months;
   (c)   Political advocacy or local activity advertising of a temporary nature
(e.g., yard sales, reunions) that comply with posting time limits and must be
promptly removed. No permit shall be required for these signs; and
   (d)   Portable signs are permitted to announce special events and shall be
considered temporary signs, require a permit, and must comply to §
1361.05(i). Portable signs must be located on the premises of the sponsoring
organization.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1361.09 SIGNS ALLOWED IN THE R-1, R-2 AND R-3 DISTRICTS.
   (a)   A sign permit for any permanent sign in this section shall not be
required, except as required in subsection (f) below.
   (b)   No sign may be illuminated.
   (c)   Projecting signs shall be prohibited, except as allowed in §
1361.03(d).
   (d)   Ground signs shall be allowed only as follows.
      (1)   Only temporary ground signs are allowed. Permanent ground signs
shall be prohibited, except as allowed in §
1361.03(d).
      (2)   A temporary ground sign advertising a garage sale to be held on the
premises shall be displayed for a period of time not to exceed three days
maximum.
      (3)   The sign face shall not exceed six square feet in area and the sign
area shall not exceed 12 square feet.
      (4)   The sign height shall not exceed four feet.
   (e)   One wall sign may be allowed on each dwelling unit and each sign shall
not exceed two square feet in area.
   (f)   Permanent subdivision sign(s) may be erected subject to the following
requirements.
      (1)   One ground sign may be erected at each major entrance to a
subdivision.
      (2)   The sign face shall not exceed 16 square feet in sign area and six
feet in height.
      (3)   Each sign base shall be landscaped in an amount equal to the total
sign area.
      (4)   Each sign may be illuminated, provided that the illumination does
not shine directly onto any adjoining residential zoned property.
      (5)   A permit shall be required for each approved sign allowed under
this subsection (f).
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1361.10 SIGNS ALLOWED IN THE HR-O DISTRICT.
   (a)   Except as allowed in §
1361.03, a sign permit for any permanent sign in this section shall be
required.
   (b)   Signs may be externally illuminated with a white light. No temporary
sign may be illuminated.
   (c)   Projecting signs shall be prohibited, except as allowed in §
1361.03(d).
   (d)   Ground signs shall be allowed only as follows.
      (1)   The sign face shall not exceed six square feet in area and the sign
area shall not exceed 12 square feet.
      (2)   The sign height shall not exceed four feet.
      (3)   A temporary ground sign advertising a garage sale to be held on the
premises shall be displayed for a period of time not to exceed three days
maximum.
   (e)   One wall sign may be allowed on each dwelling unit and each sign shall
not exceed two square feet in area.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1361.11 SIGNS ALLOWED IN THE C-1 DISTRICT.
   (a)   Ground signs shall be allowed as follows.
      (1)   Only one sign shall be permitted on each premises. However, the two
sign faces of a ground sign may be split into two signs and situated at the
main entrances of a development, provided that each sign shall have only one
sign face that does not exceed the maximum allowed by this ordinance.
      (2)   The sign height shall not exceed six feet.
      (3)   The allowed sign area shall not exceed one square foot of sign area
per ten linear feet of lot frontage and not exceed 32 square feet in sign face
area and 64 square feet in sign area.
   (b)   Wall signs shall be allowed as follows.
      (1)   There is no restriction on the number of wall signs reasonably
necessary to adequately identify buildings and related facilities.
      (2)   Wall signs shall not exceed eight square feet in sign area.
      (3)   The aggregate area of signs on any single building shall not exceed
40 square feet.
   (c)   Temporary signs may be allowed in accordance with §
1361.08.
   (d)   Each sign may externally illuminated with white light. No temporary
sign may be illuminated.
   (e)   All permanent signs require permits.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1361.12 SIGNS ALLOWED IN THE C-2 DISTRICT.
   The portion of C-2 Community Commercial District which lies within the area
designated by City Council for purposes of the Philippi Main Street Program
shall be additionally regulated by Article 1743, Downtown Design Guidelines as
found in the codified ordinances of the city. Should there be a conflict
between this ordinance and Article 1743, the latter shall prevail.
   (a)   One ground sign may be allowed per entrance not to exceed 15 feet in
height. If a ground sign is erected, it shall be in lieu of, not in addition
to, any allowed wall or projecting signs.
   (b)   Wall and projecting signs may be permitted as follows.
      (1)   Each principal building entrance may display wall or projecting
signs not to exceed 12 square feet in sign face. Projecting signs, where used,
shall be mounted or installed a minimum of nine feet above the surrounding
ground and shall not extend within 18 inches of the curb line of the adjoining
street.
      (2)   On a premises where tenants occupy upper floors, business plaques
may be displayed at each major building entrance, up to a maximum of 12 square
feet per entrance, identifying said tenants.
      (3)   Window signs are permitted so long as the limitation of no more
than 25% of any window may be covered by a window sign is met.
   (c)   Any sign, when illuminated, shall be externally illuminated with white
light only.
   (d)   All permanent signs require permits.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1361.13 SIGNS ALLOWED IN THE C-3 AND 1-1 DISTRICTS.
   (a)   All permanent signs may be illuminated. Temporary signs shall not be
illuminated.
   (b)   No sign shall be located in such a manner as to be primarily viewed
from residential used or zoned property.
   (c)   Permanent pole signs shall be permitted as follows.
      (1)   Only one pole sign shall be allowed on a premises.
      (2)   The pole sign shall not exceed one-half square foot of sign area
per one linear foot of lot frontage not to exceed 64 square feet in sign face.
      (3)   Pole signs shall be a maximum height of 20 feet at the street
right-of-way line and for each additional five feet of sign setback one foot
may be added in sign height not to exceed total sign height of 30 feet.
   (d)   Permanent wall or projecting signs shall be permitted as follows.
      (1)   There is no restriction on the number of wall signs permitted per
premises, however, the total area of all wall signs shall not exceed one and
one-half square feet of sign area per one linear foot of building frontage.
      (2)   Projecting signs shall not exceed 12 square feet in total sign
face.
   (e)   Temporary signs shall be allowed in accordance with §
1361.08.
   (f)   All permanent signs require permits.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1361.14 SIGNS ALLOWED IN THE COS DISTRICT.
   Signs within this district shall be limited to those which direct, explain,
interpret or regulate facilities, uses and activities permitted upon COS zoned
lands. A permit is required.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
ARTICLE 1365: SITE PLAN REVIEW
Section
   
1365.01   Statement of legislative intent
   
1365.02   Authorization of Planning Commission to review site plans
   
1365.03   Applicability of review requirements
   
1365.04   Effect on existing uses
   
1365.05   Site plan review-procedures
   
1365.06   Sketch plan
   
1365.07   Site plan application requirements
   
1365.08   Review standards for site plans
   
1365.09   Planning Commission hearing
   
1365.10   Planning Commission action
   
1365.11   Modifications to site plan
Cross-reference:
   Administration and enforcement, see
Art. 1377
§ 1365.01 STATEMENT OF LEGISLATIVE INTENT.
   Through site plan review, it is the intent of these regulations to promote
the general health, safety and welfare of the city. It is the further intent of
these regulations to ensure the optimum conservation, protection, preservation,
development and use of the natural and human-made resources of the city by
regulating land use activity throughout the city through review and approval of
site plans.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1365.02 AUTHORIZATION OF PLANNING COMMISSION TO REVIEW SITE PLANS.
   The Planning Commission is hereby authorized to review and approve or
disapprove site plans for land uses within the city in accordance with
standards set forth in this article.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1365.03 APPLICABILITY OF REVIEW REQUIREMENTS.
   All new land use activities on two acres or more within the city shall
require site plan review and approval before the issuance of building permits
except the following:
   (a)   Construction of an individual one- or two-family dwelling on
previously platted land or on land not subject to the city’s subdivision
regulations, and approved accessory structures and related activities;
   (b)   Landscaping and grading which is not intended to be used in connection
with a land use reviewable under the provisions of this article;
   (c)   Ordinary repair and maintenance or interior alterations to existing
uses or structures;
   (d)   Exterior alterations or additions to existing structures, which will
not increase the square footage of the existing structure by more than 50%; and
   (e)   Signs which meet all other requirements of this ordinance.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1365.04 EFFECT ON EXISTING USES.
   This article shall not apply to uses and structures which are lawfully in
existence at the effective date of this ordinance except as may be required by
§
1365.03(d).
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1365.05 SITE PLAN REVIEW-PROCEDURES.
   Prior to undertaking any new land use activity, except as specifically
excluded in §
1365.03, site plan approval by the Planning Commission is required. Applicants
for site plan approval are recommended to follow procedures for a sketch plan
conference as hereinafter set forth. Applicants must comply with all other
procedures and standards set forth in this article.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1365.06 SKETCH PLAN.
   (a)   A sketch plan conference should be held between the Planning
Commission or its representative and the applicant prior to the preparation and
submission of a formal site plan. The intent of the sketch plan conference is
to enable the applicant to inform the Planning Commission of his or her
proposal prior to preparing a formal submission, for the Planning Commission to
review the basic site design concept, advise the applicant as to potential
problems or concerns and to generally determine the information to be included
on the site plan.
   (b)   In order to accomplish these objectives, the applicant shall provide
the following:
      (1)   A rough sketch showing locations and dimensions of principal and
accessory structures, parking areas, signs, existing and planned vegetation or
landscaping and anticipated change in the site’s natural features;
      (2)   An area map showing the parcel under consideration for site plan
review, all streets, easements and rights-of-way within 200 feet;
      (3)   A topographic map of adequate scale to show site topography; and
      (4)   Other additional information as may be deemed necessary by the
Planning Commission or its representative.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1365.07 SITE PLAN APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   At least 20 days before the Planning Commission meeting at which this
application will be considered, the applicant shall submit an application for
site plan review.
   (b)   No site plan review application shall be considered by the Planning
Commission that does not fully comply with application requirements as listed
below:
      (1)   Title of drawing, including name and address of applicant and
person responsible for preparation of the drawing;
      (2)   North arrow, scale and date;
      (3)   Boundaries of the property drawn to scale;
      (4)   Existing buildings, if any;
      (5)   Grading and drainage plan, including proposed contours;
      (6)   Location, design, construction type and proposed use of all
buildings;
      (7)   Location and design of all parking and loading areas;
      (8)   Location of outdoor storage, if any;
      (9)   Location of existing and/or proposed extensions of public water,
sanitary sewer and streets;
      (10)   Location, size and design of all proposed signs;
      (11)   Location and proposed development of all landscaping and screening
requirements;
      (12)   Outdoor lighting plan;
      (13)   Estimated project construction schedule; and
      (14)   Other elements integral to the project’s execution as may be
considered necessary in the particular case by the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1365.08 REVIEW STANDARDS FOR SITE PLANS.
   The Planning Commission’s review of the site plan shall include, but is not
limited to, the following general considerations:
   (a)   Location, arrangement, size and design of buildings, lighting and
signs;
   (b)   Adequacy and arrangement of vehicular traffic access and circulation
including road widths, paving surfaces, traffic controls and similar vehicle
related items;
   (c)   Adequacy and arrangement of pedestrian-related facilities;
   (d)   Adequacy of water, sanitary sewer, storm drainage and runoff disposal
facilities;
   (e)   Adequacy, type and arrangement of landscaping and screening
requirements;
   (f)   Adequacy of fire lanes and fire hydrants; and
   (g)   Overall impact on the surrounding area including compatibility of
design considerations.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1365.09 PLANNING COMMISSION HEARING.
   If all submission deadline and site plan application content requirements
are met, then the Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing on the
proposed site plan. Notification of the public hearing shall be given.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1365.10 PLANNING COMMISSION ACTION.
   The Planning Commission may approve, approve with modifications or
disapprove the site plan as provided below.
   (a)   Approval. Upon approval of the site plan, the Planning Commission
shall endorse its approval on a copy of the site plan and file it with the City
Clerk. A written notice of approval shall be provided to the applicant who then
may apply for a building permit as required by the city.
   (b)   Approval with modifications. The Planning Commission may conditionally
approve a site plan. A copy of the written statement containing modifications
required by the conditional approval shall be provided to the applicant. After
adequate demonstration to the Planning Commission that all required
modifications have been met, the Planning Commission shall endorse its approval
on a copy of the site plan and file it with the City Clerk. A written notice of
approval shall be provided to the applicant.
   (c)   Disapproval. Upon disapproval of the site plan, the decision of the
Planning Commission shall be filed with the City Clerk and a copy thereof
provided to the applicant citing the Planning Commissions reasons for
disapproval.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1365.11 MODIFICATIONS TO SITE PLAN.
   No building permit shall be issued for any development that deviates from
the approved site plan in areas including, but not limited to, change of land
use, change in the location or number of buildings, substantial change in
vehicle access or parking lot design, substantial change in water, sanitary
sewer or wastewater disposal plans or other changes determined by the permit-
issuing authority to require a re-review of the site plan by the Planning
Commission.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
ARTICLE 1369: SUPPLEMENTARY PROVISIONS
Section
   
1369.01   Statement of legislative intent
   
1369.02   Flood plain development
   
1369.03   Projections into setbacks
   
1369.04   Exceptions to height limitations
   
1369.05   Sight distance protection
   
1369.06   Drive-through service facilities
   
1369.07   Single-family detached dwelling standards
   
1369.08   Manufactured home standards
   
1369.09   Maintenance of property
   
1369.10   Video lottery and gaming establishments
Statutory reference:
   Flood control projects, see W.Va. Code § 8-30-1
   Flood plain area management, see W.Va. Code § 7-1-3(v)
§ 1369.01 STATEMENT OF LEGISLATIVE INTENT.
   It is the intent of the supplementary provisions to:
   (a)   Provide for special situations that are recognized as valid yet
necessarily have to be regulated in such a manner as to promote orderly
development and to protect the public health, safety and general welfare; and
   (b)   Supplement district regulations where necessary to clarify and carry
out the overall intent of this ordinance.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1369.02 FLOOD PLAIN DEVELOPMENT.
   All development, activities and uses, existing and future, located within
the boundaries of the designated flood plain districts on the National Flood
Insurance Program maps and which are considered as a part of the official
Zoning Map shall be subject to the regulations found in Article 1705, Flood
Damage Control of the codified ordinances of the city.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1369.03 PROJECTIONS INTO SETBACKS.
   (a)   Architectural features may project into a required setback as provided
below:
      (1)   Fire escapes, chimneys, cornices, awnings, canopies, eaves, sills,
pilasters, lintels, gutters or other similar features must not extend closer
than five feet from the property line; and
      (2)   Uncovered stairs, landings, and porches, none of which shall be
more than five above ground level, a distance not to exceed three feet into the
required setback.
   (b)   No permitted projection noted in subsection (a) above shall extend
within three feet of an accessory building.
   (c)   Fences, walls, terraces, steps or other similar features may project
into a required setback but shall not exceed eight feet in height, except that,
however, in residential districts the height shall not exceed four feet in
height in the required front yard setback area. Retaining walls and fences in
Highway Commercial and Industrial Districts may exceed eight feet in height,
provided they do not violate the following provisions of §
1369.04.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1369.04 EXCEPTIONS TO HEIGHT LIMITATIONS.
   The district height limitations shall not apply to the following:
   (a)   Church spires, belfries, cupolas or domes, not for human occupancy;
   (b)   Chimneys, elevator penthouses, water tanks or flagpoles; and
   (c)   A parapet wall not extending more than four feet above the limited
height of the building.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1369.05 SIGHT DISTANCE PROTECTION.
   For sight distance protection, a sight triangle shall be provided at every
street intersection. A sight triangle shall be a triangular area at the street
intersection of a corner lot, the space being defined by a line across the
corner of the lot, the ends of which are on the street lines 20 feet from the
corner and containing no building, structure, landscaping or other obstruction
to sight shall be located more than two and one-half feet above grade and less
than nine feet above the grade at the curb. Tree trunks, poles and posts may
penetrate the vision field. See Figure 2 in §
1305.02.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1369.06 DRIVE-THROUGH SERVICE FACILITIES.
   (a)   Drive-through service facilities are a supplementary part of a
principal facility or operation such as a bank, dry cleaning establishment,
photo developing center, restaurant, carwash or any facility in which goods or
services are delivered to the driver or a passenger of a motor vehicle who
remains in the motor vehicle.
   (b)   A site plan for a proposed drive-through facility shall be approved by
the Code Enforcement Officer. Approval shall be granted if the officer
determines that the facility and its associated operational characteristics
will not create a traffic hazard with either respect to automobile stacking and
traffic congestion, the adequacy and safety of entry and exit points or the on-
site vehicle circulation pattern.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1369.07 SINGLE-FAMILY DETACHED DWELLING STANDARDS.
   (a)   A single-family detached dwelling shall have a minimum width of 14
feet at the narrowest point of its first story for a depth of 20 feet.
   (b)   The owner of a single-family detached dwelling shall also be the owner
of the property that the home is placed on.
   (c)   Single-family detached dwellings shall be placed on a permanent
foundation.
   (d)   The main structure shall have a pitched roof with a surface of
asphalt, composition, metal or wood shingles.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1369.08 MANUFACTURED HOME STANDARDS.
   (a)   The owner of a manufactured home shall also be the owner of the
property that the home is placed on.
   (b)   Manufactured homes shall be installed pursuant to the manufacturer’s
installation instructions and in compliance with rules and regulations of the
West Virginia Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Board established by
W.Va. Code § 21-9 and regulations provided thereunder. The perimeter fascia
enclosure shall be constructed of compatible masonry, vinyl, metal or similar
materials that encloses the perimeter of the home.
   (c)   All tow bars, wheels and axles shall be removed or skirted according
to subsection (b) above.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1369.09 MAINTENANCE OF PROPERTY.
   Property shall be maintained to protect the public health, safety and
welfare. Upon a citizen’s request for a piece of property to be maintained to
protect the public, the Code Enforcement Officer may prepare a finding of facts
of the condition of the property and submit it to the Planning Commission who
may conduct a public hearing and take appropriate action that shall protect the
public health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1369.10 VIDEO LOTTERY AND GAMING ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (a)   “Video lottery or gaming establishment” means an establishment at
which any form of gambling of chance is permitted or played, including “video
lottery” machines licensed by the West Virginia Lottery Commission pursuant to
W.Va. Code § 29-22B, but excluding establishments that only sell lottery
tickets.
   (b)   Such establishments shall not be permitted in the historical area of
the city and in all areas of the city zoned residential.
   (c)   All establishments located in the city shall be subject to the same
parking requirements as a food service establishment.
   (d)   No establishment shall locate closer than 1,000 feet to another such
establishment, a place of worship or school, measured as the shortest distance
between any portion(s) of both buildings. For purposes of this section, a place
of worship shall be defined as an institution which qualifies as tax exempt
under the provisions of 26 U.S.C. § 501(c)(3), wherein weekly religious
services are offered to the congregation and/or the general public.
   (e)   This section shall not apply to all establishments that are in
operation in the city on the date of the adoption of this section.
(Ord. passed 10-4-2001; Ord. passed 3-7-2006)
ARTICLE 1373: NONCONFORMING SITUATIONS
Section
   
1373.01   Continuation of nonconforming structures
   
1373.02   Abandonment and discontinuance of nonconforming situations
   
1373.03   Nonconforming lots of record
   
1373.04   Extensions or enlargements to nonconforming situations
   
1373.05   Repair, maintenance and reconstruction
Cross-reference:
   Definitions, see §
1305.02(87), (88)
Statutory reference:
   Existing uses safeguarded, see W.Va. Code § 8-24-50
§ 1373.01 CONTINUATION OF NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   Unless otherwise specifically provided for in this article, and subject to
restrictions and qualifications therein, nonconforming situations that were
otherwise lawful at the effective date of this ordinance may be continued.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1373.02 ABANDONMENT AND DISCONTINUANCE OF NONCONFORMING SITUATIONS.
   (a)   When a nonconforming use is discontinued for a consecutive period of
180 days, or discontinued for any period of time without a present intention to
reinstate the nonconforming use, the property involved may only be used for
conforming purposes.
   (b)   When a structure or operation made nonconforming by this article is
vacant or discontinued at the effective date of this ordinance, the 180-day
period for purposes of this section shall begin at the effective date of this
ordinance.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1373.03 NONCONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD.
   In any district where a specified use is permitted, permitted buildings and
customary accessory structures may be erected on any single lot of record as
defined by this ordinance, notwithstanding limitations imposed by other
provisions of this ordinance. Such lot must be of separate ownership and not of
continuous frontage with other lots in the same ownership. If two or more lots
or combinations of lots and portions of lots with continuous frontage in a
single ownership are of record at the time of passage of this ordinance, and if
all or part of the lots do not meet the requirements established for lot width
and lot area, the lands involved shall be considered an undivided parcel for
the purpose of this ordinance.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1373.04 EXTENSIONS OR ENLARGEMENTS TO NONCONFORMING SITUATIONS.
   (a)   Except if specifically provided for in this section, no person may
engage in any activity that causes an increase in the extent of nonconformity
in a nonconforming situation. In particular, it shall be unlawful to:
      (1)   Increase the total amount of space devoted to a nonconforming use;
or
      (2)   Increase nonconformity with respect to density restrictions,
dimensional requirements such as setbacks and other requirements such as
parking.
   (b)   A nonconforming use may be extended throughout any portion of a
completed building that when the use was made nonconforming by this ordinance,
was manifestly designed or arranged to accommodate such use.
   (c)   Notwithstanding other limitations of this article, any structure used
for single-family residential purposes and maintained as a nonconforming use
may be enlarged or replaced with a similar structure of a larger size, so long
as replacement or enlargement does not create new nonconformities with respect
to such matters as setback and parking requirements.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1373.05 REPAIR, MAINTENANCE AND RECONSTRUCTION.
   (a)   Minor repairs and routine maintenance of property where nonconforming
situations exist are permitted and encouraged.
   (b)   Should any nonconforming structure or nonconforming portion of any
structure be destroyed by any means to an extent of more than 50% of its
replacement cost at the time of destruction, it shall not be reconstructed
except in conformance with provisions of this ordinance.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
ARTICLE 1377: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
Section
   
1377.01   Duties of the Code Enforcement Officer
   
1377.02   Requirements for permits
   
1377.03   Application for permits
   
1377.04   Issuance of permits
   
1377.05   Fees
   
1377.06   Violations
   
1377.07   Injunctions
   
1377.08   Penalties
   
1377.09   Validity
Cross-reference:
   Appeals, see
Art. 1385
Statutory reference:
   Appeals, see W.Va. Code §§ 8-24-56 et seq.
   Injunction, see W.Va. Code § 8-24-67
   Penalty, see W.Va. Code § 8-24-68
   Zoning enforcement, see W.Va. Code §§ 8-24-66 et seq.
§ 1377.01 DUTIES OF THE CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   This ordinance shall be enforced by the Code Enforcement Officer, or a duly
authorized designee as designated by the City Council. It shall be the duty of
the Code Enforcement Officer to:
   (a)   Upon the finding that any of the provisions of this ordinance are
being violated, notify in writing the person or party responsible for such
violations, order the action necessary to correct such violation, and if such
order of correction is not completed within the time specified in the notice of
violation, begin legal actions as necessary to compel correction of the
violation;
   (b)   Order discontinuance of illegal uses of land, buildings or structures;
   (c)   Order removal of illegal buildings, structures and signs or illegal
additions or alterations;
   (d)   Order discontinuance of any illegal work being done; and
   (e)   Accept application for permits as provided in this ordinance and issue
permits when all requirements of this ordinance have been met.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1377.02 REQUIREMENTS FOR PERMITS.
   A permit shall be required prior to the erection or alteration of any
building, structure, sign or portion thereof. It is the responsibility of the
property owner or lease holder to apply for a permit, which responsibility they
retain even when the actual preparation of the application was undertaken by
someone other than the property owner or leaseholder. No permit shall be issued
prior to receiving site plan approval as required in Article 1365.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1377.03 APPLICATION FOR PERMITS.
   Applications for permits shall be made to the Code Enforcement Officer on
such forms as may be provided by the City. Each application shall contain
information deemed necessary by the Code Enforcement Officer to ensure that the
proposed activity is in full compliance with all requirements of this
ordinance.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1377.04 ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   No permit shall be issued until the Code Enforcement Officer or an
authorized designee has certified that the proposed activity has complied with
all provisions of this ordinance.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1377.05 FEES.
   Fees required in the administration of this ordinance shall be paid in
accordance with the approved fee schedule and shall be paid in full to the city
prior to the issuance of any permit.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1377.06 VIOLATIONS.
   Failure to secure a certificate of zoning compliance, a building, sign or
conditional use permit when required, previous to the erection, construction,
extension, alteration or addition to a building, sign or any other structure
shall be a violation of this ordinance.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1377.07 INJUNCTIONS.
   The City Council, the Planning Commission and the Board of Zoning Appeals or
any other designated enforcement official may institute a suit for injunction
in the Circuit Court of the county to restrain an individual or a governmental
unit from violating the provisions of this ordinance, or of any ordinance
enacted pursuant to its terms. The City Council, the Planning Commission or the
Board of Zoning Appeals may also institute a suit for a mandatory injunction
directing an individual or a governmental unit to remove a structure or
discontinue a land use or activity erected or conducted in violation of the
provisions of this ordinance. If the City Council, the Planning Commission or
the Board of Zoning Appeals is successful in its suit, the respondent shall
bear the cost of the action.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1377.08 PENALTIES.
   A person who violates any provision of the zoning ordinance for the city
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined not less
than $10 and not more than $300, or other such amounts set by Council from time
to time, for each and every offense, and each day that they shall continue such
violation after notification shall constitute a separate offense punishable by
a separate fine or penalty.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1377.09 VALIDITY.
   If any article, section, subsection, paragraph, clause or provision of this
ordinance shall be declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid,
such decision shall not affect the validity of the ordinance as a whole or any
other part thereof.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
ARTICLE 1381: AMENDMENTS
Section
   
1381.01   Amendments to the zoning ordinance by City Council
   
1381.02   Amendments to the zoning ordinance by petition
   
1381.03   Planning Commission referral
Cross-reference:
   Board of Zoning Appeals, see
Art. 1385
Statutory reference:
   Amending, supplementing or changing zoning, see W.Va. Code §§ 8-24-45 et
seq.
§ 1381.01 AMENDMENTS TO THE ZONING ORDINANCE BY CITY COUNCIL.
   (a)   City Council by ordinance may, from time to time, amend, supplement or
change zoning ordinances of the city consistent with this article.
   (b)   Before amending any zoning ordinance, City Council with the advice of
the Planning Commission, must find that the amendment is consistent with the
adopted comprehensive plan. If the amendment is inconsistent, then City Council
with the advice of the Planning Commission, must find that there have been
major changes of an economic, physical or social nature within the area
involved which were not anticipated when the comprehensive plan was adopted and
those changes have substantially altered the basic characteristics of the area.
   (c)   When a proposed amendment to the zoning ordinance involves a change in
the zoning map classification of any parcel of land, or a change to the
applicable zoning ordinance text regulations that changes the allowed dwelling
unit density of any parcel of land, City Council shall, at least 30 days prior
to the enactment of the proposed amendment:
      (1)   Give written notice by certified mail to the landowner(s) whose
property is directly involved in the proposed amendment to the zoning
ordinance; and
      (2)   Publish notice of the proposed amendment to the zoning ordinance in
a local newspaper of general circulation in the area affected by the zoning
ordinance, as a Class II-O legal advertisement, in accordance with the
provisions of W.Va. Code Chapter 59, Article 3.
(Ord. passed 8-18-2020)
§ 1381.02 AMENDMENTS TO THE ZONING ORDINANCE BY PETITION.
   (a)   After the enactment of the zoning ordinance, the Planning Commission
or the owners of 50% or more of the real property in the area to which the
petition relates may petition to amend the zoning ordinance. The petition must
be signed and be presented to the Planning Commission or the City Clerk.
   (b)   Within 60 days after a petition to amend the zoning ordinance is
received by the Planning Commission or City Clerk, then the Planning Commission
or City Council must hold a public hearing after giving public notice. The
public notice of the date, time and place of the public hearing must be
published in a local newspaper of general circulation in the area affected by
the proposed zoning ordinance, as a Class I legal advertisement, at least 15
days prior to the public hearing and shall identify the nature of the matters
to be considered.
   (c)   (1)   If the petition to amend the zoning ordinance is from the owners
of 50% or more of the real property in the area, then before amending the
zoning ordinance, City Council with the advice of the Planning Commission, must
find that the amendment is consistent with the adopted comprehensive plan.
      (2)   If the amendment is inconsistent, then City Council with the advice
of the Planning Commission, must find that there have been major changes of an
economic, physical or social nature within the area involved which were not
anticipated when the comprehensive plan was adopted and those changes have
substantially altered the basic characteristics of the area.
(Ord. passed 8-18-2020)
§ 1381.03 PLANNING COMMISSION REFERRAL.
   (a)   Any proposed amendment, supplement, change or repeal of a zoning
ordinance originating upon resolution of Council; or by petition of the owners
of 50% or more of the real property in the area subject to the proposed
amendment, shall be referred to the Planning Commission for consideration and
report before any action is taken by Council.
   (b)   (1)   Within 60 days of referral from City Council of a proposal or
petition to amend a zoning ordinance, then the Planning Commission must hold a
public hearing after giving public notice.
      (2)   The public notice of the date, time and place of the public hearing
must be published in a local newspaper of general circulation in the area
affected by the proposed zoning ordinance, as a Class I legal advertisement, at
least 15 days prior to the public hearing and shall identify the nature of the
matters to be considered.
   (c)   Within ten days of the conclusion of the public hearing provided for
in subsection (b) above, the Planning Commission shall submit to City Council
its findings in writing specifically addressing whether the proposed amendment
is consistent with the comprehensive plan and to the extent the proposed
amendment is inconsistent with the comprehensive plan, then determine whether
there have been major changes of an economic, physical or social nature within
the area involved which were not anticipated when the comprehensive plan was
adopted and those changes have substantially altered the basic characteristics
of the area thereby justifying the proposed amendment.
(Ord. passed 8-18-2020)
ARTICLE 1385: BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS
Section
   
1385.01   Establishment
   
1385.02   Membership and organization
   
1385.03   Quorum and official action
   
1385.04   Rules and procedures
   
1385.05   Powers and duties
   
1385.06   Application and standards for variances
   
1385.07   Notice of public hearing
   
1385.08   Notification by sign
   
1385.09   Notification by letter
   
1385.10   Public hearing of the Board of Zoning Appeals
   
1385.11   Staying of work on premises
   
1385.12   Appeal from the Board of Zoning Appeals
Statutory reference:
   Board powers, authority and duties, See W.Va. Code §§ 8-24-55 et seq.
§ 1385.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (a)   A Board of Zoning Appeals shall be established in accordance with
W.Va. Code §§ 8-24-51 et seq.
   (b)   The word “Board” in this article shall mean the Board of Zoning
Appeals.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1385.02 MEMBERSHIP AND ORGANIZATION.
   (a)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall consist of five members appointed by
the Mayor with Council approval.
   (b)   The members of the Board of Zoning Appeals shall be freeholders and
residents of the city. Three of the members shall have been residents of the
city for at least ten years preceding the date of their appointment. No member
of the Board of Zoning Appeals shall be a member of the Planning Commission nor
shall any member hold any other elected or appointed office in the city
government. Members of the Board shall serve without compensation, but shall be
reimbursed for actual expenses incurred in the performance of their official
duties.
   (c)   Upon creation of the Board of Zoning Appeals, the members shall be
appointed for the following terms: one for a term of one year; two for a term
of two years; and two for a term of three years. The terms shall expire on the
January 1 of the first, second or third year respectively. Following
appointments shall be for a period of three years.
   (d)   If a vacancy occurs, by resignation or otherwise, among the members of
the Board of Zoning Appeals, the Mayor with Council approval shall appoint a
member for the unexpired term.
   (e)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall elect a Chairperson and Secretary
from its members in July of each year. The Secretary shall have the authority
to act as Chairperson during the absence or disability of the Chairperson.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1385.03 QUORUM AND OFFICIAL ACTION.
   A majority of members of the Board of Zoning Appeals shall constitute a
quorum. No action of the Board shall be official unless authorized by a
majority of all members of the Board. Any action of the Board which constitutes
a reversal of the Administrative or Zoning Officer requires approval by four
Board members.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1385.04 RULES AND PROCEDURES.
   The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, keep records of its
examinations and other official actions, and shall record the vote of all
actions taken. All minutes and records shall be filed in the office of the City
Clerk and shall be a public record.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995; Ord. passed 2-2-2000)
§ 1385.05 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall:
   (a)   Hear and determine appeals from any order, requirement, decision or
determination made by Planning Commission or the Code Enforcement Officer
charged with enforcement of this ordinance;
   (b)   Permit and authorize conditional uses in specific districts as
specified in this ordinance.
      (1)   The Board shall decide such questions as are involved in
determining whether conditional uses should be granted; and grant conditional
uses with such conditions and safeguards as are appropriate under this
ordinance, or deny conditional uses when not in harmony with the purpose and
intent of this ordinance.
      (2)   A conditional use shall not be granted by the Board unless and
until a written application for a conditional use is submitted indicating the
section of this ordinance under which the conditional use is sought.
      (3)   In granting any conditional use, the Board may prescribe
appropriate conditions and safeguards in conformity of this ordinance.
Violation of such conditions and safeguards, when made a part of the terms
under which the conditional use is granted, shall be deemed a violation of the
ordinance and punishable under the provisions of Article 1373.
      (4)   The Board shall prescribe a time limit within which the action for
which the conditional use is required shall be begun or completed, or both.
Failure to begin or complete, or both, such action within the time limit set
shall void the conditional use.
   (c)   Permit and authorize exceptions to the terms of the ordinance upon
which the Board is required to act under the ordinance; and
   (d)   Authorize upon appeal in specific cases such variances from the terms
of this ordinance as will not be contrary to the public interest, where, by
owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of this
ordinance will result in unnecessary hardship, so that the spirit of this
ordinance shall be observed and substantial justice done.
      (1)   In granting any variance, the Board may prescribe appropriate
conditions and safeguards in conformity with this ordinance.
      (2)   Under no circumstances shall the Board grant a variance to allow a
use not permitted under the terms of this ordinance in the district involved,
or any use not expressly or by implication prohibited by the terms of this
ordinance in said district.
      (3)   In exercising it powers, the Board of Zoning Appeals may reverse or
affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision or
determination appealed from as in its opinion ought to be done in the premises,
and to that end shall have all the powers of the officer or board from whom the
appeal is taken.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1385.06 APPLICATION AND STANDARDS FOR VARIANCES.
   A variance from the terms of this ordinance shall not be granted by the
Board of Zoning Appeals unless and until a written application for a variance
is submitted to the Administrative officer or Board of Zoning Appeals
containing:
   (a)   Name, address and phone number of the applicant;
   (b)   Legal description of property;
   (c)   Descriptive nature of the variance requested;
   (d)   A narrative statement demonstrating that the requested variance
conforms to conditions outlined in §
1385.05(d) in which special conditions exist which are peculiar to the land,
structure or building in question and do not result from the actions of the
applicant; and
   (e)   Application fees as established by the City Council.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1385.07 NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING.
   (a)   Before a hearing is held by the Board of Zoning Appeals, notice of
such hearing shall be given in one newspaper of general circulation in the city
at least 30 days before said hearing, setting forth the time and place of the
public hearing and the nature of the requested appeal.
   (b)   Costs for required public notices shall be borne by the applicant.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1385.08 NOTIFICATION BY SIGN.
   (a)   In addition to the public hearing requirements of §
1385.07, a freestanding sign providing notification of the pending Board of
Zoning Appeals public hearing shall be posted on the subject property.
   (b)   The sign shall:
      (1)   Be available from the city and prominently displayed on the subject
property for a period of not less than 15 days prior to the scheduled hearing;
      (2)   Clearly identify that the subject property is proposed for a
conditional use or variance from the zoning ordinance or subdivision
regulations;
      (3)   Identify the nature of the requested conditional use or appeal for
the subject property;
      (4)   Identify the time, date and place of the Board of Zoning Appeals
action pending for the property; and
      (5)   State that additional information is available at the City Hall.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1385.09 NOTIFICATION BY LETTER.
   (a)   At least ten days prior to the hearing, the owners of all real
property located within 200 feet in all directions of the property which is
subject of the hearing shall be notified in writing by certified mail. The
notice of the public hearing shall include the date, time and place of the
hearing, the nature of the appeals to be considered, the identification of the
subject property by street address, if any, or by reference to lot numbers as
shown on the current county tax maps. The notice shall also contain the
location and times at which the application including maps, plans and
supporting documents for which appeal is sought is available for review. Costs
of notification by letter shall be borne by the applicant.
   (b)   Notice by mail shall be deemed to be complete upon mailing. The
failure to give personal notice to any property owner not shown on the latest
current tax records shall not invalidate any hearing or proceeding conducted
pursuant to this ordinance.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1385.10 PUBLIC HEARING OF THE BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   Meetings of the Board of Zoning Appeals shall be held at the call of the
Chairperson and at such other times as the Board may determine. The Board shall
meet and either approve or disapprove the request for appeal or variance. The
Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of each member
upon each question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and
shall keep records of its examinations and other actions which will be filed in
the office of the City Clerk.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1385.11 STAYING OF WORK ON PREMISES.
   When an appeal from the decision of any official or board has been taken and
filed with the Board of Zoning Appeals, all proceedings and work on the
premises in question shall be stayed (by written notice of the Board Secretary
sent to the property owner by certified mail) unless the official or Planning
Commission from whom or which the appeal was taken shall certify to the Board
of Zoning Appeals that by reasons of facts stated in the certificate a stay
would cause imminent peril to life or property. In such cases, proceedings or
work shall not be stayed except by a restraining order which may be granted by
the Circuit Court of the county.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
§ 1385.12 APPEAL FROM THE BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   Any person aggrieved by a decision of the Board of Zoning Appeals may
present to the Circuit Court of the county a petition, duly verified, setting
forth that such decision is illegal in whole or in part, and specifying the
grounds of the illegality. The petition shall be presented to the Court within
30 days of the entry of the order of the Board of Zoning Appeals.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 8-29-1995)
PART FIFTEEN: FIRE PREVENTION CODE
ARTICLE 1503: FIRE CODE
Section
   
1503.01   Fire Code adopted
   
1503.02   Enforcement
   
1503.03   Fire limits
   
1503.04   Municipality defined
   
1503.05   Gasoline trucks
   
1503.06   Modifications
 
   
1503.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority of fire department, see W.Va. Code Art. 29-3A
   Authority to regulate, see W.Va. Code §§ 8-12-5(14) et seq.
§ 1503.01 FIRE CODE ADOPTED.
   “Fire Code”, as used in this article means the entirety of the State Fire
Codes, being 87 C.S.R.I., as may be amended from time to time, and the
referenced standards and codes.
§ 1503.02 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Fire Prevention Code herein adopted by reference shall be enforced by
the Chief of the Fire Department.
§ 1503.03 FIRE LIMITS.
   The corporate fire zone of the city shall be as follows: all lots facing
Main Street and Walnut Street between Cross Street and Pike Street including
Railroad Alley and Walnut Alley.
§ 1503.04 MUNICIPALITY DEFINED.
   Whenever the word “municipality” is used in the Fire Prevention Code herein
adopted, it shall be held to mean the City of Philippi.
§ 1503.05 GASOLINE TRUCKS.
   No person shall operate or park any gasoline tank truck within the Central
Business District or within any residential area at any time except for the
purpose of and while actually engaged in the expeditious delivery of gasoline.
§ 1503.06 MODIFICATIONS.
   The Chief of the Fire Department may recommend to Council modifications of
the provisions of the Fire Prevention Code upon application in writing by any
property owner or lessee, or the duly authorized agent of either, when there
are practical difficulties in the way of carrying out the strict letter of the
Code, provided, that the spirit of the Code shall be observed, public safety
secured and substantial justice done. The particulars of such modifications
when granted or allowed shall be contained in an amendment to this Code or
resolution of Council.
§ 1503.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   No person shall violate any of the provisions of this article or the
Fire Prevention Code hereby adopted, or fail to comply therewith, or violate or
fail to comply with any order made thereunder; or build in violation of any
detailed statement of specifications or plans submitted and approved
thereunder, or any certificate or permit issued thereunder. Whoever commits any
such violation shall be fined not more than $200, or another such amount as set
by Council from time to time.
   (b)   The application of this penalty shall not be held to prevent the
enforced removal of prohibited conditions.
ARTICLE 1505: FIRE SERVICES FEE
Section
   
1505.01   Adoption
   
1505.02   Legislative purpose; maintenance
   
1505.03   Definitions
   
1505.04   Administration
   
1505.05   Rates; fees; charges established
   
1505.06   Billing and collection of fees
   
1505.07   Charge or fee debt due city
   
1505.08   Charges are responsibility of property owner; owner’s responsibility
   
1505.09   Protests
   
1505.10   Fire Services Appeal Board
   
1505.11   Exemptions
   
1505.12   Restricted use of revenues; future rates and charges
   
1505.13   Severability
 
   
1505.99   Penalty
§ 1505.01 ADOPTION.
   There is hereby adopted a fire services fee ordinance for the city.
(Ord. passed 7-11-2017)
§ 1505.02 LEGISLATIVE PURPOSE; MAINTENANCE.
   Fire services shall be continued, maintained and improved by the city, in
part, at the charge and expense of the owners of the buildings and structures
of every kind and nature located within the Fire Service District (First Due
Area) of the City Volunteer Fire Department as designated by the State Fire
Commission and State Fire Marshal, which owners are declared to be users and
beneficiaries of fire services as contemplated by W.Va. Code § 8-13-13. Fire
services shall be provided by the City Volunteer Fire Department as hereinafter
defined by the State Fire Commission as the First Due Area of the City
Volunteer Fire Department.
(Ord. passed 7-11-2017)
§ 1505.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this article, the following terms shall have the meaning
respectively designated unless it is clear from the context that a different
meaning is intended.
   (a)   “Residential unit structure” means any structure or unit which is used
or intended by the nature of its construction to be used as a single-family
dwelling by persons for living or sleeping quarters, but shall not include unit
structures intended primarily for transient lodging, including without
limitation, hotels, motels, rest homes and hospital rooms.
   (b)   “Dual residential unit structure” means any structure or unit which is
used or intended by the nature of its construction to be used as a two
(separate) family dwelling by persons for living or sleeping quarters, and
having only two units within such structure, but shall not include unit
structures intended primarily for transient lodging, including without
limitation, hotels, motels, rest homes and hospital rooms. Such structure shall
include, but not be limited to, duplexes.
   (c)   “Multiple-family residential unit structure” means a residential unit
structure having more than two family dwellings or units within such structure.
Such structure shall include, but not be limited to, apartment buildings,
condominiums, townhouses, dormitories or boarding houses. Such structure shall
exclude hotels, motels, tourist homes and the like.
   (d)   “Nonresidential unit structure” means all other buildings not included
within the definitions of “residential unit structure”. Such structures shall
include, but not be limited to, all commercial establishments, schools,
dormitories, government buildings and the like. If a structure has multiple
uses such as residential and commercial, it will be classified as a
nonresidential unit.
   (e)   “City Manager” means the Philippi City Manager.
   (f)   “Owner” means the owner of record of any tract or parcel of real
estate within the city, as reflected by the records maintained in the office of
the Clerk of the County Commission but may also include the grantee or
transferee of any interest in any real estate situated within the city by
unrecorded deed, or by an owner-financed sale evidenced by written agreement,
such as a “land contract”, provided that the parties to any such transaction
are required to notify the Director of Finance as to which party to any such
transaction shall be the responsible to pay any fire service fees due and
payable pursuant to this article, in accordance with the provisions of §
1505.07.
   (g)   “Finance Director” means the city’s Finance Director.
   (h)   “Fire Chief” means the Fire Chief of the City of Philippi Volunteer
Fire Department.
   (i)   “City of Philippi Volunteer Fire Department” means the Volunteer Fire
Department of the City of Philippi and all firefighters serving as volunteers
within said Department.
   (j)   “Fire calls” means calls for fire suppression or prevention and shall
not include calls for emergency service by paramedics or EMTs.
(Ord. passed 7-11-2017)
§ 1505.04 ADMINISTRATION.
   (a)   The City Manager or his or her duly authorized representative is
hereby empowered to make such rules and regulations not in conflict with the
provisions of this article relative to the offering and providing of fire
services as are necessary to protect the property or the safety or health of
the public, and no persons shall fail to comply with any such rule and
regulation so promulgated.
   (b)   The Finance Director shall administer all sections of this article
dealing with financing, billing, collection and the like, and is appointed to
carry out the provisions of all sections of this article with the same.
   (c)   The City Manager or the Finance Director, if so designated by the City
Manager, is hereby empowered to adjust, settle or cancel any charge or fee
required or made under this article or any controversy which may arise in the
administration of this article. However, such exercise of authority by the City
Manager or Finance Director shall be in a uniform manner, and not exercised in
a capricious or arbitrary fashion and a written or electronic record shall be
kept of any and all such adjustments, settlements or cancellations.
(Ord. passed 7-11-2017)
§ 1505.05 RATES; FEES; CHARGES ESTABLISHED.
   (a)   The fees or charges levied, imposed and assessed pursuant to this
article for the maintenance, continuance and improvement of fire services
inside the municipal corporate limits shall be as follows:
      (1)   Owner of single-family residential: $60 per year or $5 per month;
      (2)   Owner of dual residential unit: $120 per year or $10 per month;
      (3)   Owner of multiple family residential unit: $5 per month per unit;
and
      (4)   Owner of nonresidential unit: $60 per year or $5 per month.
   (b)   The fees or charges levied, imposed and assessed pursuant to this
article for the maintenance, continuance and improvement of fire services
outside the municipal corporate limits but within the City Volunteer Fire
Department’s First Due Area, as designated by the State Fire Commission and
West State Fire Marshal, shall be as follows:
      (1)   Owner of single-family residential: $60 per year or $5 per month;
      (2)   Owner of dual residential unit: $120 per year or $10 per month;
      (3)   Owner of multiple family residential unit: $5 per month per unit;
and
      (4)   Owner of nonresidential unit: $60 per year or $5 per month.
(Ord. passed 7-11-2017)
§ 1505.06 BILLING AND COLLECTION OF FEES.
   (a)   All fees and charges for fire services shall be billed and collected
by the Finance Director and shall not be pro-rated for less than 30 days.
   (b)   Charges for the fire services may be billed on a monthly, quarterly or
annual basis as determined by the Finance Director and all charges shall be
billed in advance of the services being rendered.
   (c)   To avoid the late payment penalty imposed by subsection (e) below,
payment for any fire services fee imposed by this article, shall be paid within
20 days of the date of the bill for services is mailed.
   (d)   For the purpose of nonresidential unit structures that are subject to
a written lease agreement, the fire services fee thereon shall be considered a
utility as may be defined in said lease agreement.
   (e)   Delinquent charges; penalty: any charge for service remaining unpaid
20 days after the billing date shall be deemed delinquent and a late payment
penalty of 10% of the unpaid charge for that billing shall be assessed, in the
event that any such delinquent charge remains unpaid for 12 months, an
additional penalty equal to interest at the rate of 10% per annum of the
billing shall be assessed.
(Ord. passed 7-11-2017)
§ 1505.07 CHARGE OR FEE DEBT DUE CITY.
   The fees or charges provided for by this article shall be a debt due the
city. The city may collect any such fee or charge and all accrued penalties by
action against the owner of property against whom the service charges have been
assessed by action before the Magistrate Court of the county or by appropriate
proceedings in the Circuit Court of the county.
(Ord. passed 7-11-2017)
§ 1505.08 CHARGES ARE RESPONSIBILITY OF PROPERTY OWNER; OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY.
   Each and every property owner of residential unit structures, dual
residential unit structures, multiple-family residential unit structures and
nonresidential unit structures shall be responsible for payment of the fire
services fee charges assessed, imposed and levied under this article. It shall
be the responsibility of the owner or owners of all buildings and structures
within the city to notify the Finance Director of any change in ownership and
other items requested by the Finance Director within 30 days of such change.
(Ord. passed 7-11-2017)
§ 1505.09 PROTESTS.
   The owner of any such building above feeling aggrieved by a charge or fee
for fire services may protest the same by giving written notice to the City
Clerk or anyone else that the City Manager designates setting forth his or her
objections on or before 35 days after the billing date. The Clerk shall forward
such protest to the Fire Services Appeals Boards which shall set a time for
hearing within 30 days of the filing of such protest. The Appeals Board shall
render its decision based on the record made at the hearing within a reasonable
time, giving notice in writing of its decision to all parties concerned. The
amount, if any due the city under such decisions shall be due and payable 30
days after service of the decision. Any person aggrieved by such administrative
decision may within 30 days from service of the decision file a petition duly
verified with the Circuit Court of the county, requesting review by certiorari;
otherwise, such decision becomes final and conclusive.
(Ord. passed 7-11-2017)
§ 1505.10 FIRE SERVICES APPEAL BOARD.
   There is hereby established a Fire Services Appeals Board consisting of five
members, one of whom shall be the City Manager or the City Manager’s designee,
one of whom shall be the Fire Chief or the Fire Chief’s designee, the third
shall be a Council member appointed by Council, the fourth shall be an attorney
appointed by Council and the fifth shall be a resident at large appointed by
Council. The Board will meet with city residents having any objections, and
shall interpret the ordinance and make final decisions based upon the
ordinance.
(Ord. passed 7-11-2017)
§ 1505.11 EXEMPTIONS.
   (a)   Residential property owners may apply for a fire services fee hardship
exemption if they meet the strict income and residence eligibility criteria set
forth in the residential hardship exemption application, as may from time to
time be amended. Copies of the residential hardship exemption applications will
be available at City Hall. Owners wishing to receive this exemption on an
annual basis will be required to file an application each year.
   (b)   Property owned by churches or synagogues will be exempt from the fire
services fees; provided, however, the property owned by churches or synagogues
which is used for residential purposes and rental property shall not be exempt
from the fire service fee.
(Ord. passed 7-11-2017)
§ 1505.12 RESTRICTED USE OF REVENUES; FUTURE RATES AND CHARGES.
   All revenues received from the collection of fire services fees provided in
this article shall be used only to defray the cost of and the continuance,
maintenance and improvement of fire services within the First Due Area of the
City Volunteer Fire Department as designated by the State Fire Commission and
the State Fire Marshal and no part of such revenues shall be used for any other
municipal purpose. Any future adjustment of the rates and charges imposed by
this article shall be determined by applying the same percentage adjustment
equally to all rates and charges imposed by this article.
(Ord. passed 7-11-2017)
§ 1505.13 SEVERABILITY.
   The provisions of this article are severable. If any part of this article is
held to be invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining
provisions of this article shall remain in full force and effect.
(Ord. passed 7-11-2017)
§ 1505.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this article, for which no other penalty
is provided, shall be fined not more than $500.
(Ord. passed 7-11-2017)
ARTICLE 1507: FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS
Section
   
1507.01   Storage of volatile flammable liquids
   
1507.02   Sale in glass or breakable containers
 
   
1507.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Gasoline trucks, see §
1503.05
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-5(14)
§ 1507.01 STORAGE OF VOLATILE FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS.
   The storage of volatile flammable liquids, with a flash point of 70°F or
less, shall comply with the following schedule; except, that the Chief of the
Fire Department may impose a quantity limitation or require greater protection
where unusual hazards to life or property are involved, or he or she may
authorize increase of these amounts where the type of construction, fire
protection provided or other factors substantially reduce the hazard.
   (a)   Single- and multiple-family dwellings and accompanying or detached
garages. No person shall store in any single-family or multiple-family dwelling
or accompanying or detached garage, gasoline or any other volatile flammable
liquid that has a flash point of 70°F or below in glass containers. Such
flammable liquid shall be stored only in closed metal containers and shall not
exceed five gallons for single family dwellings and ten gallons for multifamily
dwellings. Fuel oil is excepted from this subsection (a).
   (b)   Schools, hospitals, institutional buildings and laboratories. Storage
of volatile flammable liquids having a flash point of 70°F or under, shall be
limited to that required for maintenance, demonstration, treatment and
laboratory work and shall be in an inside storage room, preferably at ground
level, with at least one exterior wall. Flammable liquids in laboratories and
the like shall be in small containers not exceeding 1,000 cubic centimeters, or
in closed metal containers or in storage cabinets.
   (c)   Retail stores and department stores. In rooms or areas accessible to
the public in retail stores, storage of volatile flammable liquids having a
flash point of 70°F or less shall be closed in containers and limited to
quantities needed for display and normal merchandising purposes. Additional
stock shall be stored in rooms or portions of buildings that comply with the
construction requirements of the state fire law.
   (d)   Public assembly buildings, apartments, hotels, theaters and office
buildings. Storage of volatile flammable liquids having a flash point of 70°F
or less is prohibited, except that which is required for maintenance and
operation of building and operation of equipment. Such storage shall be only in
metal closed containers stored in a storage cabinet or in safety cans or in an
inside storage room not having a door that opens into that portion of the
building used by the public.
§ 1507.02 SALE IN GLASS OR BREAKABLE CONTAINERS.
   No person, filling station, garage or other retail or wholesale dealer in
gasoline or other volatile flammable liquids having a flash point of 70°F or
under shall sell, place for sale, distribute or prepare for sale, gasoline or
other volatile flammable liquids having a flash point of 70°F or under, in
glass or breakable containers of any kind.
§ 1507.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this article shall be fined not more than
$500.
(Ord. passed 8-8-2017)
ARTICLE 1509: WOODBURNING STOVES AND CHIMNEYS
Section
   
1509.01   Permit required
   
1509.02   Installation of stoves
   
1509.03   Chimney connections
   
1509.04   Chimneys and fireplaces
   
1509.05   Exceptions
   
1509.06   Repairs and alterations
   
1509.07   Applications
   
1509.08   Conflicts with other standards or ordinances
   
1509.09   Jurisdictional liability
 
   
1509.99   Penalty
§ 1509.01 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No owner, agent or tenant in the city shall commence with the installation
of any chimney, fireplace, stovepipe or wood- or coal-burning stove or
appliance unless such person first obtains a fire inspection permit from the
Fire Chief or his or her authorized representative. Following completion of the
installation and before putting the stove, appliance, chimney or fireplace into
use, the permittee shall notify the Fire Chief, who shall forthwith inspect the
installation to determine that is in compliance with the requirements of this
article. If found to be in compliance with the article, the Fire Chief or his
or her authorized representative shall countersign the permit and note the date
of his or her inspection. If found to be in noncompliance, the Fire Chief or
his or her authorized representative shall notify the permittee, in writing, of
the nature of the noncompliance, and the stove, chimney, fireplace or appliance
shall not be put into use until the condition has been corrected and
reinspected by the Fire Chief or his or her authorized representative and the
permit countersigned by him or her.
§ 1509.02 INSTALLATION OF STOVES.
   (a)   All wood- or coal-burning stoves or appliances shall be at least 36
inches from all combustible materials. Where clearance is less than 36 inches
but more than 18 inches, the combustible surface shall be protected by five-
eighths inch drywall or its equivalent spaced one inch or more from the
combustible surface. Adequate space shall be provided to permit air
circulation. If clearance is less than 18 inches but more than 12 inches, the
combustible wall shall be protected with a four-inch brick veneer wall
extending two feet above and two feet beyond each side.
   (b)   All other installation shall be as follows.
      (1)   All wood- or coal-burning stoves or appliances that have
circulating devices shall be at least 24 inches from a combustible surface
unless the appliance has a rating for lesser distance from the combustible
surface.
      (2)   If the distance of any circulating wood- or coal-burning stove or
appliance is 12 inches to 24 inches from the noncombustible surface, the
surface shall be protected by five-eighths inch drywal1 or its equivalent
spaced one inch or more from the walls.
      (3)   If the circulating wood- or coal-burning stove or appliance is
eight inches to 12 inches from the noncombustible surface, the surface shall be
protected by five-eighths inch drywal1 or its equivalent.
      (4)   Noncombustible floor material shall extend at least 18 inches
beyond the opening from which ashes are removed and at least six inches beyond
the side and rear.
      (5)   Where stove legs are at least 18 inches above the combustible
surface, a No. 24 gauge sheet metal or its equivalent shall be used.
      (6)   Where stove legs are between six and 18 inches above a combustible
surface, a No. 24 gauge sheet metal over five-eighths inch layer of drywall or
other approved noncombustible material shall be used.
      (7)   Where stove legs are six inches or less above a combustible
surface, a four-inch hollow masonry pad should be laid or an approved
noncombustible surface of an inch thickness shall be used.
§ 1509.03 CHIMNEY CONNECTIONS.
   (a)   All stovepipes shall be equal to or larger than the appliance flue
connector.
   (b)   All connector pipe shall be of a minimum of No. 26 gauge black pipe or
heavier.
   (c)   All connector pipe shall rise from the stove toward the chimney at
least one-fourth inch per foot or more.
   (d)   Crimped end of chimney connector pipe shall point toward stove.
Adapters may be used to permit crimped end to point toward stove.
   (e)   Single wall connector pipe shall not pass through the floor or wall.
However, when necessary, a connector may pass through a wall under the
following conditions:
      (1)   Where a ventilated-type metal thimble is used and is 12 inches
greater in diameter than the chimney connector;
      (2)   Where a metal or burned fireclay thimble is used and the thimble is
surrounded on all sides by not less than eight inches of brickwork or
equivalent fireproofing material;
      (3)   When all combustible material is removed for sufficient distance to
provide not less than 18 inches clearance on all sides of the connector. Any
materials used to close this opening must be noncombustible insulating
material; and
      (4)   When the section of connector pipe passing through the combustible
material is replaced by a properly installed section of factory-built insulated
triple wall or equivalent pipe for solid fuels.
   (f)   All stovepipe shall be a minimum of 18 inches from a combustible
surface.
   (g)   If stovepipe is 12 to 18 inches from combustible surface, the surface
shall be covered with five-eighths inch drywall or its equivalent.
   (h)   If stovepipe is nine to 12 inches from combustible surface, the
surface shall be covered with five-eighths inch drywall or its equivalent, with
a No. 28 gauge sheet metal spaced one inch from wall or ceiling.
§ 1509.04 CHIMNEYS AND FIREPLACES.
   (a)   Except as herein provided, all chimneys in every building hereafter
erected and all chimneys hereafter altered or rebuilt shall be constructed of
brick, stone or reinforced concrete or Underwriters’ Laboratories-listed
approved chimney. No masonry chimneys shall have walls less than four inches in
thickness, and all chimneys shall be lined on the inside with fireclay chimney
tile set in portland cement mortar or its equivalent. The lining shall be
continuous from the bottom of the flue to its extreme height. No chimney shall
be corbeled out more than six inches from a brick wall, and such corbeling
shall consist of not less than five courses of brick, unless the chimney
requires special construction, and then any specially constructed chimney shall
not be corbeled out to such extent that the center of gravity of the chimney
would be located so as to endanger the structure.
   (b)   All chimneys shall project at least three feet above the point of
contact with a flat roof or two feet above any roof surface within ten feet
horizontally of the chimney.
   (c)   The fireback of every fireplace hereafter erected shall not be less
than eight inches in thickness of solid brickwork or air cell construction, nor
less than 12 inches of stone lined with firebrick. When a grate is set in a
fireplace a lining of firebrick at least two inches in thickness shall be added
to the fireback, or soapstone, fireclay or cast iron may be used if solidly
backed with brick or concrete. All smokepipes shall enter the chimney through a
flue thimble or its equivalent such that the construction shall make a fire-
tight joint with the chimney tile flue liner.
   (d)   All flue holes when not in use shall be closed with tight-fitting
metal covers. No wooden beams or joists shall be placed within one inch of the
outside face of the chimney or flue, whether the same be for smoke, air or any
purpose, except for hot-air flues for heating purposes. No woodwork shall be
within four inches of the backwall of any fireplace except if a chimney is
built such that the thickness from the flueline is eight inches or more.
Necessary woodwork may be placed against the chimney by using drywall sheeting
or its equivalent between and around the wood so placed under the approval of
the Fire Chief or his or her authorized representative.
§ 1509.05 EXCEPTIONS.
   Technical requirements under this article may be waived or modified by the
Fire Chief or his or her authorized representative whenever manufacturer’s
recommendations provide for equally safe and fire-resistant methods of
installation, repair or alteration. Any such waiver or modification shall be at
the discretion of the Fire Chief or his or her authorized representative and
shall be in writing.
§ 1509.06 REPAIRS AND ALTERATIONS.
   Any repair, reinstallation or alteration made to a structure or appliance
previously installed under an approved permit authorized herein, shall continue
to conform to the requirements of this article. An additional permit, as
described in §
1509.01, shall be required for each repair, reinstallation or alteration,
except that the permit shall be for no fee.
§ 1509.07 APPLICATIONS.
   The Fire Chief is hereby authorized to design written applications for the
issuance of permits under this article and shall have the right to promulgate
reasonable rules and regulations for the implementation of such applications.
§ 1509.08 CONFLICTS WITH OTHER STANDARDS OR ORDINANCES.
   In any case where a provision or requirement of this article is found to be
in conflict with another provision or requirement of any other code, ordinance
or manufacturer’s recommended standard, that provision or requirement which
establishes the higher standard with regard to the same subject matter shall
prevail.
§ 1509.09 JURISDICTIONAL LIABILITY.
   The city and the Fire Department shall not assume risk, responsibility or
liability for any damage to persons or property, by reason of inspection
authorized herein, or failure to inspect, or by reason of approval or
disapproval of a permit authorized herein. The owner, those doing work at the
instance of any owner, or any other permittee, shall assume full and ultimate
responsibility for the workmanship, quality of construction materials, and
compliance with the technical standards for installations and repairs mandated
herein.
§ 1509.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   Whoever violates the terms of a permit issued under this article, or
submits a false application, shall be subject to the revocation of such permit
and/or the issuance of a stop work order. Stop work orders and revocation
notices shall be issued by and in the discretion of the Fire Chief or his or
her authorized representative upon proper investigation of facts and
circumstances.
   (b)   No person making application for a permit shall willfully make false
statements with the intent of evading the requirements of this article. No
person shall commence with the installation of any chimney, fireplace,
stovepipe or wood- or coal-burning stove or appliance without first obtaining a
permit from the Fire Chief or his or her authorized representative, or shall
proceed to make such installation when a stop work order is issued. Each day a
violation continues shall constitute a separate misdemeanor, punishable by a
fine of not more than $500.
ARTICLE 1513: COMBUSTIBLE UNDERGROUND TANKS
Section
   
1513.01   Notification of Fire Department
   
1513.02   Tanks placed temporarily out of service
   
1513.03   Abandoned tanks
   
1513.04   Tanks that are junked
   
1513.05   Tanks that are reused
   
1513.06   Record keeping
   
1513.07   Transfer of ownership
   
1513.08   Pre-existing abandonments
   
1513.09   Enforcement
 
   
1513.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Flammable liquids, see
Art. 1507
§ 1513.01 NOTIFICATION OF FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   No person, firm, partnership, association or any other entity, whether
public or private, as well as any agent, manager, employee or lessee, shall
abandon or temporarily place out of service an underground tank which has held
flammable or combustible liquids, unless done in a manner complying with this
article. It shall also be the duty of all such persons promptly to notify the
Fire Inspector of any intention to so abandon or temporarily place out of
service any underground tank which has held flammable or combustible liquids.
§ 1513.02 TANKS PLACED TEMPORARILY OUT OF SERVICE.
   (a)   No underground tank which has held flammable or combustible liquids
shall be rendered temporarily out of service, unless it is understood that the
tank will be returned to active service within 90 days, except that the Fire
Inspector may authorize additional temporary nonservice extensions of time not
to exceed a total of one year’s duration from the date a tank first becomes out
of service.
   (b)   Tanks temporarily out of service shall have the fill line, gauge
opening and pump connection secured against tampering. Vent lines shall remain
open and be maintained in accordance with standards for vent lines of the Fire
Codes, being 87 C.S.R.I., as may be amended from time to time, and the
referenced standards and codes.
   (c)   Compliance with this section shall be confirmed and made a matter of
record by the Fire Inspector.
§ 1513.03 ABANDONED TANKS.
   (a)   Any underground tank which has held flammable or combustible liquids,
being abandoned or not used for a period longer than 90 days (subject to the
maximum extension of time of one year as set forth in §
1513.02), shall be removed from the property at the owner’s expense in a manner
approved by the Fire Inspector.
   (b)   When underground tanks are removed:
      (1)   All flammable or combustible liquids in the tank and connecting
lines shall be removed;
      (2)   No cutting torch or other flame or spark producing equipment shall
be used until the tank has been completely purged or otherwise rendered safe;
      (3)   The suction, inlet, gauge and vent lines shall be disconnected.
Sections of connecting lines which are not to be used shall be removed. Inlets,
outlets and leaks, if any, shall be capped or plugged;
      (4)   After removal, the tank shall be gas freed, on the premises if it
can be done safely at that location, or transported to an area not accessible
to the public and the tank gas freed at that location; and
      (5)   After the removal, the site shall be restored in an acceptable
manner.
   (c)   Compliance with this section shall be confirmed and made a matter of
record by the Fire Inspector.
§ 1513.04 TANKS THAT ARE JUNKED.
   (a)   If a tank is to be disposed of as junk, it shall be retested for
flammable vapors, and if necessary, rendered gas free.
   (b)   After junking and before releasing to junk dealer, a sufficient number
of holes or openings shall be made in it to render it unfit for further use.
§ 1513.05 TANKS THAT ARE REUSED.
   After removal, used tanks which are to be reused for flammable or
combustible liquid service shall meet the standards for installation of
underground tanks as contained in the latest National Fire Codes, published by
the National Fire Protection Association, and the BOCA Fire Prevention Code.
§ 1513.06 RECORD KEEPING.
   (a)   In cases where tanks are rendered temporarily out of service or
required to be removed under this article, records shall be kept by the owner,
or by his or her agent, employee or lessee as follows:
      (1)   Tank size;
      (2)   Tank locations;
      (3)   Date of tank being placed out of service, abandoned and removed;
and
      (4)   All procedures used in compliance with this article.
   (b)   Upon request, copies of the above records shall be made available for
examination and possession by the Fire Inspector.
§ 1513.07 TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP.
   No owner of any property containing an underground tank which has held
flammable or combustible liquids shall sell, mortgage, transfer, lease or
otherwise dispose of the property to another until such time that the
provisions of this article are complied with, or until such owner shall first
furnish the Fire Inspector a signed and notarized statement from the buyer,
grantee, transferee, mortgagee or lessee acknowledging and fully accepting
responsibility without condition for all requirements under this article in
reference to the underground tank.
§ 1513.08 PRE-EXISTING ABANDONMENTS.
   Any underground tank having once held flammable or combustible liquids which
has been abandoned or placed temporarily out of service prior to the effective
date of this article shall comply with applicable provisions of the State Fire
Code, as published in the Rules and Regulations of the State Fire Commission.
§ 1513.09 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Inspector to enforce this article. For
purposes of enforcement, the office of Fire Inspector shall include the Fire
Chief and any member or members of the Fire Department appointed from time to
time by him or her to perform duties necessary and pertinent under this
article.
§ 1513.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   Whoever violates any provision of this article or fails to comply
therewith, or violates or fails to comply with orders of the Fire Department
pursuant thereto, or who fails to comply with any provision or order as
affirmed or modified by proper authority or by a court of competent
jurisdiction, shall, upon conviction, severally for each and every such
violation and noncompliance respectively, be fined not more than $500, or
another such amount as set by Council from time to time. Each ten days that
prohibited conditions are maintained shall constitute a separate offense.
   (b)   The application of the above penalty shall not be construed to prevent
an order removing prohibited conditions by a court or body of competent
jurisdiction, nor deemed to abolish or impair any other existing remedies at
law whatsoever.
(Ord. passed 8-8-2017)
ARTICLE 1517: OPEN BURNING
Section
   
1517.01   Definitions
   
1517.02   Open burning prohibited; general provisions
   
1517.03   Prohibition during atmospheric stagnation
   
1517.04   Permits
   
1517.05   Applications
   
1517.06   Fee
   
1517.07   Right of entry upon premises
   
1517.08   Special fire service charge for failure to extinguish
 
   
1517.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-5(15)
§ 1517.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (a)   “Open burning” means the combustion of refuse whereby the gaseous
products of combustion are not conveyed through human-made means from one point
to another and are discharged directly to the open air.
   (b)   “Refuse” means the useless and/or unwanted or discarded solid, liquid
and/or gaseous waste materials resulting from community, commercial, industrial
or residents’ activities.
   (c)   “Construction and demolition wastes” means combustible waste building
materials and rubble resulting from construction, remodeling, repair and
demolition operations on houses, commercial buildings, pavements and other
structures.
§ 1517.02 OPEN BURNING PROHIBITED; GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   The open burning of refuse for the purpose of volume reduction, elimination
or product recovery by any person, firm, corporation, association or public
agency is prohibited except for the following exemptions, subject to the
applicable permit requirements in §
1517.04:
   (a)   Vegetation grown on the premises of a home or farm, provided
consideration is given to the effect of such emission on the air quality of the
area affected by such burning, and the health, safety, comfort and property of
persons are protected from the effects of such burning;
   (b)   Fires set for the purpose of bona fide instruction and training of
public and industrial employees in the methods of fighting fires, provided that
approval to conduct such burning is received from the Director of the state’s
Air Pollution Control Commission or his or her duly authorized representative;
and
   (c)   Open burning of construction and demolition wastes, provided that all
the following conditions are met:
      (1)   There is no practical alternate method for the disposal of the
material to be burned;
      (2)   The health, safety, comfort and property of persons are protected
from the effects of such burning;
      (3)   Such burning shall not be conducted for salvage purposes; and
      (4)   In nonrural areas approval to conduct such burning is received from
the Director of the state’s Air Pollution Control Commission or his or her duly
authorized representative.
§ 1517.03 PROHIBITION DURING ATMOSPHERIC STAGNATION.
   The exemptions listed in §
1517.02 are subject to the following stipulation: upon notification by the
Director of the state’s Air Pollution Control Commission no person shall cause,
allow or permit any form of open burning during existing or predicted periods
of atmospheric stagnation. Notification shall be made by such means as the
Director may deem necessary and feasible.
§ 1517.04 PERMITS.
   Whenever any person, firm, corporation, partnership, association or public
agency seeks to avail itself of exemptions in §
1517.02 for the open burning of refuse or open burning of construction and
demolition wastes, it shall be unlawful for such open burning to occur without
first a permit being obtained from the Fire Chief or his or her authorized
representative. The Fire Chief or his or her authorized representative, in
granting a permit, shall have the right to prescribe conditions for such open
burning in order to protect the health, safety, comfort and property of the
public, as well as to ensure that such open burning conforms to existing and
applicable law. The Fire Chief or his or her authorized representatives are
empowered to make inspections upon premises in a reasonable manner prior to the
issuance of any permit under this section.
§ 1517.05 APPLICATIONS.
   The Fire Chief is hereby authorized to design written applications for the
issuance of permits under this article and shall have the right to promulgate
reasonable rules and regulations for the implementation of such applications.
§ 1517.06 FEE.
   (a)   The fee for a permit for a single occurrence of open burning shall be
$5, or another amount set by Council from time to time. However, any person who
fails to obtain a permit as required under this article, or has a permit
revoked, or submits a false application for a permit, shall be charged an
administrative permit surcharge of $3, or another amount set by Council from
time to time, in addition to the usual fee, at such time that all requirements
of this article are complied with and a valid permit becomes issued.
   (b)   The collection of all fees and surcharges in this section shall be the
responsibility of the Finance Director, who shall have the authority to appoint
a collection agent.
§ 1517.07 RIGHT OF ENTRY UPON PREMISES.
   The Fire Chief or his or her authorized representatives are hereby empowered
to enforce the provisions of this article. Such enforcement shall include the
right to make entry upon any premises in a reasonable manner within the city to
investigate complaints or information received of prohibited open burning
activity. Should any open burning be found to be in violation of this article,
the responsible party shall be ordered immediately to extinguish such burning
in the presence of the Fire Chief or his or her authorized representative.
§ 1517.08 SPECIAL FIRE SERVICE CHARGE FOR FAILURE TO EXTINGUISH.
   Failure of the responsible party to extinguish open burning in violation of
this article will provide cause for the Fire Department promptly to extinguish
such burning and thereafter surcharge the costs of the special fire
extinguishing service against the responsible party. The special surcharge of
this section shall be a debt due to the city and enforceable by civil action in
any court of competent jurisdiction. A penalty of 5% shall be added for any
default for a period of 30 days or more in the payment of the surcharge and for
each succeeding 30 days thereafter before payment shall be made, an additional
penalty of 1%. Collection of surcharges under this section shall be the
responsibility of the Finance Director, who shall have authority to appoint a
collection agent.
§ 1517.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   Whoever violates the terms of a permit issued under this article, or
submits a false application shall be subject to the revocation of such permit.
Revocation notices shall be issued by and in the discretion of the Fire Chief
or his or her authorized representative upon proper investigation of facts and
circumstances.
   (b)   No person making application for a permit shall willfully make false
statements with the intent of evading the requirements of this article. No
person shall commence with open burning in the city without first obtaining a
required permit from the Fire Chief or his or her authorized representative, or
shall proceed to open burn when a revocation notice of a previous permit has
been issued. Each day a violation continues shall constitute a separate
misdemeanor, each misdemeanor under this section shall, upon conviction, being
punishable by a fine not more than $500, or another such amount as set by
Council from time to time.
(Ord. passed 8-8-2017)
PART SEVENTEEN: BUILDING AND HOUSING CODE
ARTICLE 1705: FLOOD DAMAGE CONTROL
Section
   
1705.01   General provisions
   
1705.02   Definitions
   
1705.03   Establishment of the flood plain district
   
1705.04   Utilization of the flood plain area
   
1705.05   Criteria for building and site plan approval
   
1705.06   Design and construction standards
   
1705.07   Administration
   
1705.08   Appeals
   
1705.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Flood control projects, see W.Va. Code § 8-30-1
   Flood plain area management, see W.Va. Code § 7-1-3(v)
   Treatment of streams to prevent floods, see W.Va. Code § 7-1-3(u)
§ 1705.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (a)   Intent. The intent of this article is to:
      (1)   Promote the general health, welfare and safety of the community;
      (2)   Encourage the utilization of appropriate construction practices in
order to prevent or minimize flood damage in the future;
      (3)   Minimize danger to public health and safety by protecting water
supply, sanitary sewage disposal and natural drainage; and
      (4)   Reduce financial burdens imposed on the community, its governmental
units and its residents, by preventing the unwise design and construction of
development in areas subject to flooding.
   (b)   Abrogation and greater restrictions. This article supersedes any
ordinances currently in effect in flood prone areas. However, any ordinance
shall remain in full force and effect to the extent that its provisions are
more restrictive.
   (c)   Applicability.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, partnership, business or
corporation to undertake or cause to be undertaken, any development or the new
construction, substantial improvement, the placement or relocation of any
structure (including manufactured homes) within the flood plain area, unless a
permit has been obtained from the Permit Officer. In addition, where land is to
be subdivided, utilized for a manufactured home park or subdivision or
otherwise developed, a site plan must be submitted to, and approved by, the
Permit Officer prior to any development.
      (2)   Provisions of all other codes, ordinances and regulations shall be
applicable insofar as they are consistent with the provisions of this article
and the community’s need to minimize the hazards and damage resulting from
flooding.
(Ord. passed 10-1-1991)
§ 1705.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (a)   “Base flood” means the flood which has been selected to serve as the
basis upon which the flood plain management provisions of this and other
ordinances have been prepared; for purposes of this article, the 100-year
flood.
   (b)   “Basement” means any area of the building having its floor subgrade
(below ground level) on all sides.
   (c)   “Development” means any human-made change to improved or unimproved
real estate, including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures,
mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations
or storage of equipment or materials.
   (d)   “Existing manufactured home park or subdivision” means a manufactured
home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing
the lot on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a
minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either
final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the
effective date of this article.
   (e)   “Expansion to an existing manufactured home park or subdivision” means
the preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for
servicing the lot on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including
the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final
site grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   (f)   “Flood” means a general and temporary inundation of normally dry land
areas.
   (g)   “Flood plain” means:
      (1)   A relatively flat or low land area adjoining a river, stream or
watercourse which is subject to partial or complete inundation; and
      (2)   An area subject to the unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of
surface waters from any source.
   (h)   “Floodway” means the channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land area that must be reserved to discharge the base flood without
increasing the water surface elevation of that flood more than one foot at any
point.
   (i)   “Floodproofing” means any combination of structural and non-structural
additions, changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood
damage to real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures, and their contents.
   (j)   “Historic structure” means any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         A.   By an approved state program as determined by Secretary of the
Interior; or
         B.   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   (k)   “Lowest floor” means the lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area
(including basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely
for parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s lowest floor; provided, that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this article.
   (l)   “Manufactured home” means a structure, transportable in one or more
sections, which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or
without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The
term “manufactured home” does not include a “recreational vehicle”.
   (m)   “Manufactured home park or subdivision” means a parcel (or contiguous
parcels) of land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or
sale.
   (n)   “New construction” means structures for which the start of
construction as herein defined commenced on or after the effective date of this
article and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   (o)   “New manufactured home park or subdivision” means a manufactured home
park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the
lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum,
the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final
site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the
effective date of this article.
   (p)   “One-hundred (100-)year flood” means a flood that has one chance in
100 or a 1% chance of being equalled or exceeded in any given year.
   (q)   “Person” means any individual or group of individuals, corporation,
partnership, association, or other entity, including state and local
governments and agencies.
   (r)   “Principally above ground” means where at least 51% of the actual cash
value of a structure, less land value, is above ground.
   (s)   “Recreational vehicle” means a vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   (t)   “Start of construction”. For other than new construction or
substantial improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act, being 16
U.S.C. §§ 3501 et seq., includes substantial improvements, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement or other
improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start means
either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site,
such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include the
excavation for a basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start
of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other
structural part of a building whether or not that alteration-affects the
external dimensions of the building.
   (u)   “Structure” means a walled and roofed building, including a gas or
liquid storage tank, that is principally above ground, as well as a
manufactured home.
   (v)   “Substantial damage” means damage of any origin sustained by a
structure whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged
condition would equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before
the damage occurred.
   (w)   “Substantial improvement” means any repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition or other improvement of a structure, the cost of which
equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure before the start of
construction of the improvement. This term includes structures which have
incurred “substantial damage”, as defined herein, regardless of the actual
repair work performed. The term does not, however, include either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a “historic structure”, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
“historic structure”.
(Ord. passed 10-1-1991)
§ 1705.03 ESTABLISHMENT OF THE FLOOD PLAIN DISTRICT.
   (a)   Identification. The identified floodplain area shall be those areas of
the city, which are subject to the 100-year flood, as shown on the Floodway Map
or Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) and described in the Flood Insurance Study
(FIS) prepared for the City of Philippi by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency (FEMA) dated September 4, 1986, or the most recent revision thereof.
   (b)   Description of floodplain areas. The identified floodplain area shall
consist of the following three specific areas:
      (1)   The Floodway area shall be those areas identified as such in the
FIS and as shown on the Floodway Map or FIRM. The term shall also include
floodway areas identified in other studies for the approximated area discussed
in subsection (c) below;
      (2)   The Floodway Fringe area shall be those areas for which specific
100-year flood elevations have been provided in the FIS but which lie beyond
the Floodway area. These areas are shown on the Floodway Map or FIRM; and
      (3)   The approximated area shall be those areas identified as an A Zone
on the Floodway Map or FIRM included in the FIS prepared by FEMA and for which
no 100-year flood elevations have been provided. For these areas, elevation and
floodway information from other federal, state or other acceptable source shall
be used when available. Where other acceptable information is not available,
the elevation shall be determined by using the elevation of a point on the
boundary of the identified floodplain area which is nearest the construction
site. The city may require the applicant to determine the elevation with
hydrologic and hydraulic engineering techniques. Hydrologic and hydraulic
analyses shall be undertaken only by professional engineers or others of
demonstrated qualifications, who shall certify that the technical methods used
correctly reflect currently accepted technical concepts. Studies, analyses,
computations and the like shall be submitted in sufficient detail to allow a
thorough technical review by the city.
   (c)   Changes in designation of area. The delineation of the identified
flood plain area may be revised by the city where natural or human-made changes
have occurred and/or more detailed studies conducted or undertaken by the U.S.
Army Corps of Engineers, a River Basin Commission or other qualified agency or
individual document the necessity for such changes. However, prior to any such
change, approval must be obtained from the Federal Insurance Administration
(FIA).
   (d)   Boundary disputes. Should a dispute concerning any district boundary
arise, an initial determination shall be made by the Permit Officer and any
party aggrieved by this decision may appeal to the City Council. The burden of
proof shall be on the appellant.
(Ord. passed 10-1-1991)
§ 1705.04 UTILIZATION OF THE FLOOD PLAIN AREA.
   (a)   In the Floodplain Area any development and/or use of land may be
permitted provided that all such uses, activities, and/or development shall be
undertaken in strict compliance with the floodproofing and related provisions
contained herein and in all other applicable codes, ordinances and regulations.
   (b)   Within any floodway area, no encroachments, including fill, new
construction, substantial improvements, or other development shall be permitted
unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic analysis
performed in accordance with standard engineering practice that the proposed
encroachment will not result in any increase in the base flood elevation.
   (c)   Whenever a developer intends to alter or relocate a watercourse within
the Floodplain Area, the developer shall notify in writing by certified mail
all adjacent communities and the State Coordinating Office of all such intended
activities prior to any alteration or relocation of the watercourse, and shall
submit copies of such notification to the Federal Insurance Administrator. The
developer shall also assure the city in writing that the flood carrying
capacity within the altered or relocated portion of the watercourse in question
will be maintained.
(Ord. passed 10-1-1991)
§ 1705.05 CRITERIA FOR BUILDING AND SITE PLAN APPROVAL.
   (a)   General. Building permits are required in order to determine whether
all new construction or substantial improvements are:
      (1)   Designed, (or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy;
      (2)   Constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood
damage;
      (3)   Constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
and
      (4)   Constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding.
   (b)   Basic format. The basic format of the building permit shall include
the following:
      (1)   Name and address of applicant;
      (2)   Name and address of owner of land on which proposed construction is
to occur;
      (3)   Name and address of contractor;
      (4)   Site location;
      (5)   Brief description of proposed work and estimated cost; and
      (6)   A plan of the site showing the exact size and location of the
proposed construction as well as any existing buildings or structures.
   (c)   Elevation and floodproofing information. Depending on the type of
structure involved, the following information shall also be included in the
application for work within the flood plain area.
      (1)   For structures to be elevated to the base flood elevation.
         A.   A plan showing the size of the proposed structure and its
relation to the lot where it is to be constructed;
         B.   A determination of elevations of the existing ground, proposed
finished ground and lowest floor, certified by a registered professional
engineer, surveyor or architect;
         C.   Plans showing the method of elevating the proposed structure,
includes details of proposed fills, pile structures, retaining walls,
foundations, erosion, protection measures and the like. When required by the
Permit Officer, these plans shall be prepared by a registered professional
engineer or architect; and
         D.   Plans showing the methods used to protect utilities, (including
sewer, water, telephone, electric, gas and the like) from flooding to the base
flood elevation at the building site.
      (2)   For structures to be floodproofed to the base flood elevation
(nonresidential structures only).
         A.   Plans showing details of all floodproofing measures, prepared by
a registered professional engineer or architect, and showing the size of the
proposed structure and its relation to the lot where it is to be constructed;
         B.   A determination of elevations of existing ground, proposed
finished ground, lowest floor, and floodproofing limits; certified by a
registered professional engineer, surveyor or architect; and
         C.    A certificate prepared by the registered professional engineer
or architect who prepared the plans in subsection (c)(2)A. above, that the
structure in question, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities
is designed so that:
            1.   Below the base flood elevation the structure is watertight
with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water; and
            2.   The structure will withstand the hydrostatic, hydrodynamic,
buoyant, impact and other forces resulting from the flood depths, velocities,
pressures and other factors associated with the base flood.
   (d)   Site plan criteria. The owner or developer of any proposed
subdivision, manufactured home park or subdivision, or other development shall
submit a site plan to the Permit Officer which includes the following
information:
      (1)   Name of engineer, surveyor or other qualified person responsible
for providing the information required in this section;
      (2)   A map showing the location of the proposed subdivision and/or
development with respect to the municipality’s flood plain areas, proposed lots
and sites, fills, flood or erosion protective facilities and areas subject to
special deed restriction. In addition, it is required that all subdivision
proposals and other proposed new developments greater than 50 lots or five
acres, whichever is the lesser, shall include base flood elevation data; and
      (3)   Where the subdivision and/or development lies partially or
completely in the flood plain areas, the plan map shall include detailed
information giving the location and elevation of proposed roads, public
utilities and building sites. All such maps shall also show contours at
intervals of two or five feet depending upon the slope of the land and identify
accurately the boundaries of the floodplain areas.
(Ord. passed 10-1-1991)
§ 1705.06 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   In order to prevent excessive damage to buildings, structures and related
utilities and facilities, the following restrictions apply to all development,
subdivision proposals, manufactured home parks, new construction and to
construction of substantial improvements to existing structures occurring in
the flood plain area.
   (a)   Basements and lowest floors.
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures must have the lowest floor, (including basement) elevated to or
above the base flood elevation.
      (2)   All new construction and substantial improvements of nonresidential
structures must have the lowest floor, (including basement) elevated to or
above the base flood elevation; or, together with attendant utility and
sanitary facilities, be designed so that below the base flood elevation the
structure is floodproofed in accordance with §
1705.05(c)(2).
      (3)   For all new construction and substantial improvements, those fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking of
vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement and which
are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic
flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of
floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a
registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
         A.   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided;
         B.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above
grade; and
         C.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
   (b)   Manufactured home placement.
      (1)   Manufactured homes to be placed or substantially improved within
any floodplain area on sites outside of a manufactured home park or
subdivision; in a new manufactured home park or subdivision; in an expansion to
an existing manufactured home park or subdivision; or in an existing
manufactured home park or subdivision in which a manufactured home has incurred
“substantial damage”, as defined herein, as the result of a flood shall:
         A.   Be elevated on a permanent foundation so that the lowest floor of
the manufactured home is elevated to or above the base flood elevation; and
         B.   Be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system
to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
      (2)   Manufactured homes to be placed or substantially improved within
any floodplain area in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision and
not subject to the provisions of subsection (b)(1) above shall be elevated so
that either:
         A.   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is at or above the base
flood elevation; or
         B.   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or
other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less than
36 inches in height above grade and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
   (c)   Recreational vehicle placement. Recreational vehicles to be placed
within any floodplain area shall either be on the site for fewer than 180
consecutive days and be fully licensed and ready for highway use or meet the
provisions of subsection (b)(1) above. A recreational vehicle is ready for
highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site
only by quick disconnect utilities and security devices, and has no permanently
attached additions.
   (d)   Fill. If fill is used to raise the finished surface of the lowest
floor to the base flood elevation:
      (1)   Fill shall extend beyond a structure for a sufficient distance to
provide acceptable access. For residential structures, fill shall extend
laterally 15 feet beyond the building line from all points. For nonresidential
structures, fill shall be placed to provide access acceptable for intended use.
At-grade access, with fill extending laterally 15 feet beyond the building
line, shall be provided to a minimum of 25% of the perimeter of a
nonresidential structure;
      (2)   Fill shall consist of soil or rock materials only. Sanitary land
fills shall not be permitted;
      (3)   Fill material shall be compacted to provide the necessary stability
and resistance to erosion, scouring or settling;
      (4)   Fill slopes shall be no steeper than one vertical on two
horizontal, unless substantiating data justifying steeper slopes are submitted
to and approved by the Permit Officer; and
      (5)   Fill shall be used only to the extent to which it does not
adversely affect adjacent properties.
   (e)   Placement of buildings. All buildings and structures shall be
constructed and placed on the lot so as to offer the minimum obstruction to the
flow of water and shall be designed to have a minimum obstruction effect upon
the flow and height of flood water.
   (f)   Anchoring.
      (1)   All buildings and structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance
with accepted engineering practices to prevent flotation, collapse and lateral
movement, thus reducing the threat to life and property and decreasing the
possibility of the blockage of bridge openings and other restricted sections of
the watercourse.
      (2)   All air ducts, large pipes and storage tanks located at or below
the base flood elevation shall be firmly anchored to resist flotation.
      (3)   A.   All manufactured homes shall be anchored to resist flotation,
collapse or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not
limited to, the over-the-top and frame ties to ground anchors such as the
following:
            1.   Over-the-top ties shall be provided at each of the four
corners of the manufactured homes, with two additional ties per side for
manufactured homes less than 50 feet long;
            2.   Frame ties shall be provided at each corner of the home with
five additional ties per side at intermediate points, with manufactured homes
less than 50 feet long requiring four additional ties per side;
            3.   All components of the anchoring system shall be capable of
carrying a force of 4,800 pounds; and
            4.   Any additions to a manufactured home shall be similarly
anchored.
         B.   This requirement is in addition to applicable state and local
anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
   (g)   Storage. No materials that are buoyant, flammable, explosive, or in
times of flooding could be injurious to human, animal or plant life, shall be
stored below base flood elevation.
   (h)   Utility and facility requirements.
      (1)   All new or replacement water systems whether public or private,
shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into
systems.
      (2)   All new or replacement sanitary disposal systems, whether public or
private, shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood
waters into the systems and discharges from the systems into flood waters.
      (3)   All other new or replacement public and/or private utilities and
facilities shall be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damage.
      (4)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (i)   Drainage. Adequate drainage shall be provided to reduce exposure to
flood hazards.
(Ord. passed 10-1-1991)
§ 1705.07 ADMINISTRATION.
   (a)   Building permits and site plan approvals required. It shall be
unlawful for any person, partnership, business or corporation to undertake or
cause to be undertaken, any development or the new construction, substantial
improvement, the placement or relocation of any structure (including
manufactured homes) within the flood plain area, unless a permit has been
obtained from the Permit Officer. In addition, where land is to be subdivided,
utilized for a manufactured home park or subdivision or otherwise developed, a
site plan must be submitted to, and approved by, the Permit Officer prior to
any development.
   (b)   Approval of permits and plans.
      (1)   All permits and plans shall be approved only after it has been
determined that the proposed work to be undertaken will be in conformance with
the requirements of the state and all other applicable codes and ordinances.
      (2)   The Permit Officer shall require copies of all necessary permits
from those governmental agencies from which approval is required by federal or
state law.
      (3)   A record of all information supplied to the Permit Officer shall be
kept on file by the city.
   (c)   Application procedures. Application for a building permit and site
plan approvals shall be made, in writing to the Permit Officer, and shall
include all information stipulated under §
1705.05.
   (d)   Changes. After the issuance of a building permit or site plan approval
by the Permit Officer, no changes of any kind shall be made to the application,
permit or any of the plans, specifications or other documents submitted with
the application without the written consent or approval of the Permit Officer.
   (e)   Placards. In addition to the building permit, the Permit Officer shall
issue a placard which shall be displayed on the premises during the time
construction is in progress. This placard shall show the number of the building
permit, the date of its issuance and be signed by the Permit Officer.
   (f)   Start of construction. Work on the proposed construction shall begin
within six months after the date of issuance of the building permit or the
permit shall expire unless a time extension is granted, in writing, by the
Permit Officer.
   (g)   Inspection and revocation. During the construction period, the Permit
Officer or other authorized official may inspect the premises to determine that
the work is progressing in compliance with the information provided on the
permit application and with all applicable laws and ordinances. In the event
the Officer discovers that the work does not comply with the permit application
or any applicable laws and ordinances, or that there has been a false statement
or misrepresentation by any applicant, the Permit Officer shall revoke the
building permit and report such fact to the city for whatever action it
considers necessary.
   (h)   Fees. Applications for a building permit shall be accompanied by a
fee, payable to the city, based upon the estimated cost of the proposed
construction as determined by the Permit Officer at the following rates:
 
Estimated Cost                     Fee
$0 to $50                          $5
$51 to $500                        $10
$501 to $1,000                     $20
Each additional dollar over $1,000 $0.005
 
(Ord. passed 10-1-1991)
§ 1705.08 APPEALS.
   (a)   Whenever any person is aggrieved by a decision of the Permit Officer
with respect to the provision of this article, it is the right of that person
to appeal to City Council which shall be known as the Appeals Authority. Such
appeal must be filed, in writing, within 30 days after the determination by the
Permit Officer. Upon receipt of such appeal, the Appeals Authority shall set a
time and place not less than ten nor more than 30 days for the purpose of
hearing the appeal. Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be given
to all parties at which time they may appear and be heard. The determination by
the Appeals Authority shall be final in all cases.
   (b)   All appeals contesting only the permit fee established by the Permit
Officer may be handled at the discretion of the Appeals Authority. All
decisions on appeals to all other provisions of this chapter shall adhere to
the following criteria.
      (1)   Affirmative decisions shall only be issued by the Appeals Authority
upon a showing of good and sufficient cause; a determination that failure to
grant the appeal would result in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and a
determination that the granting of an appeal will not result in increased flood
heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public expense,
create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public or conflict
with existing local laws or ordinance.
      (2)   An affirmative decision shall be issued only upon determination
that it is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (3)   An affirmative decision may be issued for the repair or
rehabilitation of historic structures upon a determination that the proposed
repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s continued
designation as a historic structure and the variance is the minimum necessary
to preserve the historic character and design of the structure.
      (4)   The Appeals Authority shall notify the applicant in writing over
the signature of a community official that the issuance of a decision to allow
construction of a structure below the base flood elevation will result in
increased premium rates for flood insurance; such construction below the base
flood elevation increases risk to life and property. Such notifications shall
be maintained with a record of all decisions as required in subsection (b)(5)
below.
      (5)   The Appeals Authority shall maintain a record of all decisions
including justification for their issuance; and report such decisions issued in
its biennial report submitted to the Federal Insurance Administration.
      (6)   An affirmative decision shall not be granted for any construction,
development, use or activity within any floodway area that would cause any
increase in the base flood elevation.
(Ord. passed 10-1-1991)
§ 1705.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who fails to comply with any or all of the requirements or
provisions of this article or direction of the Permit Officer or any other
authorized employee of the community shall be guilty of an offense and, upon
conviction, shall pay a fine to the city of not less than $50 or more than
$500, or other such amounts as set by Council from time to time, plus cost of
prosecution. Each day during which any violation of this article continues
shall constitute a separate offense. In addition to the above penalties all
other actions are hereby reserved including an action in equity for the proper
enforcement of this article. The imposition of a fine or penalty for any
violation of, or noncompliance with, this article shall not excuse the
violation or noncompliance with this article or permit it to continue; and all
such persons shall be required to correct or remedy such violations or
noncompliances within a reasonable time. Any structure constructed,
reconstructed, enlarged, altered or relocated, in noncompliance with this
article may be declared by the city to be a public nuisance and abatable as
such.
(Ord. passed 10-1-1991)
ARTICLE 1713: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
Section
   
1713.01   Office of Building Inspector established
   
1713.02   Powers and duties
   
1713.03   Duty of other officers to cooperate
   
1713.04   Fire district established
   
1713.05   Costs
   
1713.06   Fees for permits
   
1713.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Adoption by reference, see W.Va. Code § 8-11-4
   Building permits, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-14
   Building regulations, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-13
   Municipal inspections, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-15
§ 1713.01 OFFICE OF BUILDING INSPECTOR ESTABLISHED.
   (a)   The office of Building Inspector is hereby established, which shall be
headed by the Building Inspector and shall have such other personnel as may
from time to time be authorized by Council.
   (b)   The Building Inspector shall be appointed or designated by the Mayor,
and he or she shall have the powers and perform the duties prescribed for him
or for his or her office by ordinance, resolution or order of Council, and as
prescribed by the West Virginia Code for municipal officers charged with the
administration and enforcement of building, plumbing, gas, electrical and other
technical codes which municipalities are authorized to adopt pursuant to W.V.
Code § 8-11-4(b).
   (c)   The Building Inspector may delegate powers to and require performance
of duties by such deputies, assistants and other personnel as may from time to
time be assigned or detailed to his or her office by the Mayor or Council.
§ 1713.02 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (a)   The Building Inspector or his or her authorized representative shall
receive all applications required to be submitted to him or her. He or she
shall make or cause to be made all inspections required to be made by him or
her; and issue all permits and certificates required to be issued by him or her
by the city or by any technical code adopted by the city. He or she shall
examine premises for which permits have been issued and make necessary
inspections to see that the provisions of law are complied with and that
construction and other work is prosecuted safely. He or she shall enforce all
provisions of any adopted technical code. He or she shall, when requested by
the proper authority, or when the public interest so requires, make
investigations in connection with matters referred to in the technical codes
and render written reports thereon. He or she shall issue such notices or
orders as may be necessary to enforce compliance with the law, to remove
illegal or unsafe conditions, to secure the necessary safeguards during
construction, or to require adequate exit facilities in buildings and
structures.
   (b)   Inspection required under the provisions of the technical codes shall
be made by the Building Inspector or his or her duly authorized agents. The
Building Inspector may accept reports of inspectors of recognized inspection
services, after investigation of their qualifications and reliability. No
certificate called for by any provision of any technical code shall be issued
on such reports unless they are in writing and certified to by a responsible
officer of such service.
   (c)   The Building Inspector shall keep comprehensive records, of permits
issued, of certificates issued, of inspections made, of reports required, and
of notices or orders issued. He or she shall retain on file copies of required
plans and all documents relating to building work so long as any part of the
building or structure to which they relate may be in existence.
   (d)   All such records shall be open to public inspection for good and
sufficient reasons at the stated office hours, but shall not be removed from
the office of the Building Inspector without his or her written consent.
   (e)   The Building Inspector shall make written reports to his or her
immediate supervisor once each month, or more often if requested, including
statements of permits and certificates issued, and orders promulgated.
§ 1713.03 DUTY OF OTHER OFFICERS TO COOPERATE.
   The Building Inspector may request and shall receive, so far as may be
necessary in the discharge of his or her duties, the assistance and cooperation
of the Chief of Police, the Fire Chief and other city officers and employees.
§ 1713.04 FIRE DISTRICT ESTABLISHED.
   For the purposes of the Building and Housing Code in particular, and for
such other purposes as may be served generally thereby, there is hereby
established a fire district, which shall comprise such area or areas of the
city designated as such on a plat of this city which shall remain on file in
the office of the City Clerk and which is hereby incorporated in and made a
part of this section as fully as though it were included herein in full.
§ 1713.05 COSTS.
   Any person violating any provision of this article, including the technical
codes which constitute part of this article, shall, in addition to the
imposition of any fine or imprisonment which may be adjudged by reason of such
violation, be liable to the city for any costs or expenses incurred by reason
of such violation or by reason of abatement of any nuisance or hazard thereby
created or by reason of rectifying any condition on any premises found to be in
violation of this article. Any liability so incurred shall be enforceable in
the same manner as the collection of other debts and taxes due the city.
§ 1713.06 FEES FOR PERMITS.
   (a)   The following fees, or another amount set by Council from time to
time, shall be charged for permits to demolish, erect, reconstruct, repair,
remodel, improve or structurally alter any building or addition, or property
within the city:
 
Estimated Cost                     Fee
$0 to $50                          $5
$51 to $500                        $10
$501 to $1,000                     $20
Each additional dollar over $1,000 $0.005
 
   (b)   All building permit fees will be paid in full prior to approval of the
permit by Council. A copy of the receipt will be attached to the building
permit upon application to Council.
   (c)   In the event the construction or activity stated in the building
permit is not completed under normal circumstances, by the date specified on
the building permit, then the permit fee may be forfeited to the city and a new
permit required.
(Ord. passed 12-2-1981)
§ 1713.99 PENALTY.
   See §
101.99 for general code penalty.
ARTICLE 1717: MOBILE HOMES
Section
   
1717.01   Definitions
   
1717.02   Mobile home subdivision
   
1717.03   Parking
   
1711.04   Lot requirements
   
1717.05   Map of subdivision
   
1717.06   Permit required
   
1717.07   Mobile homes in relation to fire zones
   
1717.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Flood plain requirements, see §§
1705.06(b) et seq.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-5(30)
§ 1717.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (a)   “Camper” means a mobile living unit designed to be mounted upon and
conveyed by another vehicle. No camper unit shall be occupied within the city
except as provided by city ordinance.
   (b)   “Mobile home” means a dwelling unit factory-built and factory-
assembled, designed for conveyance after fabrication, on streets and highways
on its own wheels or on flatbed or other trailers, and arriving at the site
where it is to be occupied as a dwelling unit complete and ready for occupancy,
except for minor and incidental unpacking and assembly operations such as
location for jacks or other foundation, or connection to utilities. A pre-
fabricated home or structure shall not be included in definitions.
   (c)   “Mobile home subdivision” means a subdivision designed and intended
for residential use where residence is in mobile homes exclusively.
   (d)   “Travel trailer” means mobile home not exceeding eight feet in width
nor more than 33 feet in length.
   (e)   “Mobile home parks” means an area consisting of four acres for the
renting of space for mobile homes.
§ 1717.02 MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION.
   (a)   Mobile home subdivision residential district. This district is
intended to promote and preserve single-family mobile home subdivision
development which is compatible with conventional single-family residential
development. The mobile home subdivision shall consist of a minimum lot size of
5,000 square feet and a 50 feet minimum width.
   (b)   Exclusive use. Premises located within this district shall be used
exclusively for a mobile home subdivision subject to this article.
§ 1717.03 PARKING.
   The parking regulation shall be the same as those provided for single-family
residential dwellings ; a minimum of one off-street parking space per lot shall
be required.
§ 1711.04 LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   The height, area and yard requirements shall be the same as required for
residential homes except that the minimum lot size shall be 5,000 square feet
and the intensity of use shall not exceed 40% of the total square footage of
such lot.
§ 1717.05 MAP OF SUBDIVISION.
   (a)   A map or plate of all mobile home subdivision shall be prepared in
accordance with the subdivision ordinance of the city, and shall be recorded in
the office of the County Clerk.
   (b)   Minimum size of the mobile home subdivision shall be ten acres.
   (c)   No more than one mobile home shall be placed on each lot.
   (d)   No mobile home shall be placed on a lot which has an existing
residence.
   (e)   No mobile home shall be permitted unless it contains at least 400 feet
of living area.
   (f)   Every mobile home located in a mobile home subdivision shall have at
least 40 square feet of totally enclosed storage space in addition to 400
square feet of living space.
   (g)   Not more than one travel trailer or camper shall be parked on any one
lot and such travel trailer or camper shall be parked in the rear one-third of
the lot, no camper or travel trailer shall be occupied or used for sleeping
quarters within the city limits.
§ 1717.06 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (a)   No person shall park a trailer for human occupancy in the city limits
without first securing a permit. Such permits shall be obtained only upon
application filed with the City Clerk, therefore, no permits will be granted
for placing of a trailer on a lot which is presently occupied by a residence or
another mobile home, except that permits can be granted upon the showing by the
applicant of some demonstrable hardship, other than financial, wherein such
trailer house is necessary for the care and treatment of close relations who,
due to either injury, poor health, or sickness, are unable to properly care for
themselves.
   (b)   All applications for permits shall be subject to the same manner as
applications for building permits. The fee for such applications shall be the
same as for any application for a building permit. Such hardship permits will
only be issued for a six month duration. The hardship permits may be renewed
only upon a reapplication thereof by the holder.
§ 1717.07 MOBILE HOMES IN RELATION TO FIRE ZONES.
   Mobile homes cannot be parked in the City Fire Zone, from Pike to Cross
Streets, on Main Street, the Dayton Park Addition to the city, A-B College
Campus, Woodsboro Addition to the city and the Audra Addition to the city, and
anywhere else within the city.
(Ord. passed 11-19-1985)
§ 1717.99 PENALTY.
   See §
101.99 for general code penalty.
ARTICLE 1721: GROUND SATELLITE STATIONS
Section
   
1721.01   Regulations for residential districts
   
1721.02   Regulations for nonresidential districts
   
1721.99   Penalty
§ 1721.01 REGULATIONS FOR RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   Within the residential districts, the following provisions shall apply to
satellite ground stations or other antennas designed to transmit or receive
radio or television signals to or from the earth satellites.
   (a)   Such ground stations or antennas shall be for the personal use of
residents and their guests only.
   (b)   Such ground stations or antennas shall contain no graphic message or
advertising.
   (c)   Ground-mounted stations or antennas shall be considered accessory
structures and shall comply with following conditions and requirements.
      (1)   Such stations or antennas not mounted on the roof of a primary or
accessory structure shall be located to the rear of the principal building or
structure and shall not exceed an above grade height of 12 feet.
      (2)   Such stations or antennas shall not be located closer than ten feet
to a rear lot line, eight feet from a side lot line or one foot from any
easement.
      (3)   Such stations or antennas shall be mounted in a concrete base in
line with grade and only metal supports of galvanized construction shall be
utilized.
      (4)   Wiring between such stations and any other structure shall be
placed underground.
      (5)   Such stations or antennas shall be designed to withstand a wind
force of up to 70 miles per hour without the use of supporting guy wires.
   (d)   Roof mounted stations or antennas shall be considered accessory
structures and shall comply with the following conditions and requirements.
      (1)   Such stations or antennas shall be mounted directly on the roof of
a primary or accessory structure and shall not be mounted on appurtenances such
as chimneys, towers or spires.
      (2)   Such stations or antennas mounted on the roof of a primary or
accessory structure shall not exceed a height of greater than three feet above
the roof on which it is mounted. The height shall be measured vertically from
the point at which such station or antenna is mounted to the roof.
      (3)   The diameter of any dish antenna mounted upon the roof of a primary
or accessory structure shall not exceed three feet.
      (4)   Such stations or antennas shall be designed to withstand a wind
force of up to 70 miles per hour without the use of support guy wires.
§ 1721.02 REGULATIONS FOR NONRESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   Within nonresidential districts, the following provisions shall apply to
satellite ground stations or other antennas designed to transmit or receive
radio or television signals to or from earth satellites.
   (a)   Such ground stations or antennas shall contain no graphic message or
advertising.
   (b)   Ground mounted stations or antennas shall be considered accessory
structures and shall comply with the following conditions and requirements.
      (1)   Such stations or antennas not mounted on the roof of a primary or
accessory structure shall be located to the rear of the principal building or
structure on the property where the station is located and shall not exceed a
height of 12 feet.
      (2)   Such stations or antennas shall not be located within 50 feet of a
public right-of-way, 30 feet of a rear or side lot line and not closer than 50
feet from a lot line of a residential district.
      (3)   Such stations or antennas shall be mounted in a concrete base in
line with grade and only metal supports or of galvanized construction shall be
utilized.
      (4)   Wiring between such station and any other structure shall be placed
underground.
      (5)   Such stations or antennas shall be designed to withstand a wind
force of up to 70 miles per hour without the use of supporting guy wires.
   (c)   Roof mounted stations or antennas shall be considered accessory
structures and shall comply with the following conditions and requirements.
      (1)   Such stations or antennas shall be mounted directly on the roof of
a primary or accessory structure and shall not be mounted on appurtenances such
as chimneys, towers or spires.
      (2)   Such stations or antennas mounted on the roof of a primary or
accessory structure shall not exceed a height of greater than eight feet above
the roof on which it is mounted. The height shall be measured vertically from
the point at which such stations or antenna is mounted on the roof.
§ 1721.99 PENALTY.
   See §
101.99 for general code penalty.
ARTICLE 1725: VACANT STRUCTURES
Section
   
1725.01   Adoption
   
1725.02   Purpose
   
1725.03   Definitions
   
1725.04   Inspection
   
1725.05   Corrective action
   
1725.06   Registration generally
   
1725.07   Right of appeal
   
1725.08   Amending information
   
1725.09   Reinspection
   
1725.10   Nonpayment of fees/liens
   
1725.11   Relation to other codes and laws
   
1725.12   Severability
§ 1725.01 ADOPTION.
   There is hereby adopted a Vacant Structure Code for the city.
(Ord. passed 4-16-2013)
§ 1725.02 PURPOSE.
   (a)   The city has determined that an uninspected and unmonitored vacant
building may present a fire hazard, may provide temporary occupancy by
transients (including drug users and traffickers), may detract from private
and/or public efforts to rehabilitate or maintain surrounding buildings, and
that the health, safety and welfare of the public is served by the regulation
of such vacant buildings.
   (b)   Owners of uninspected and unmonitored vacant buildings shall register
such vacant buildings with the city, make payment of a fee for the registration
thereof, and otherwise conform to these vacant building regulations.
   (c)   This article ensures that, through a registration, inspection and
monitoring process, vacant buildings will be kept weather-tight and secure from
trespassers, will provide safe entry to police officers and firefighters in
times of emergency, will not impede private and/or public efforts to
rehabilitate or maintain surrounding buildings, and will not present otherwise
a public hazard.
   (d)   The city, by and through its departments, shall inspect and monitor
vacant buildings, shall assess the effects of the condition of those buildings
on nearby structures, and shall promote substantial efforts to rehabilitate and
develop such buildings when appropriate.
   (e)   These provisions will streamline and consolidate the existing
procedure (that is, complaint, research, notification, inspection, orders,
fines, liens, appeals and due process lien enforcement), by placing the
responsibility to register and maintain vacant structures on the building owner
before a building’s condition falls into disrepair or otherwise merits a
complaint.
(Ord. passed 4-16-2013)
§ 1725.03 DEFINITIONS.
   (a)   Definitions. For purposes of this section, the following words and
phrases shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them as follows.
      (1)   “Boarded” means a building or structure subject to the provision of
this section shall be deemed to be “boarded” if in place of one or more
exterior doors, other than a storm door, or of one or more windows, there is a
sheet or sheets of plywood or similar material covering the space for such door
or window.
      (2)   “Exterior maintenance and major systems” means the safe and lawful
maintenance of the facade, windows, doors, roof and other parts of the exterior
of the building and the maintenance of its major systems consisting of the
roof, the electrical and plumbing systems, the water supply system, the sewer
system, and the sidewalk, driveway, if any, area of the lot, as applicable and
as enforced by the Code Enforcement Officer, particularly in connection with
codes adopted by the city as well as all applicable local, state and federal
laws.
      (3)   “Occupied” means any building or structure shall be deemed to be
occupied if one or more persons actually conducts a lawful business or resides
in all or any part of the building as the licensed business occupant, or as the
legal or equitable owner/occupant(s) or tenant(s) on a permanent, non-transient
basis, or any combination of the same. For purposes of this section, evidence
offered to prove that a building is so occupied may include, but shall not be
limited to, the regular receipt of delivery of regular mail through the U.S.
Postal Service; proof of continual telephone, electric, gas, heating, water and
sewer services; a valid city business license, or the most recent, federal,
state or city income tax statements indicating that the subject property is the
official business or residence address of the person or business claiming
occupancy; or proof of bona fide pre-rental inspection.
      (4)   “Open” means a building or structure subject to the provisions of
this section shall be deemed to be “open” if any one or more exterior doors
other than a storm door is broken, open and/or closed but, without a properly
functioning lock to secure it, or if one or more windows is broken or not
capable of being locked and secured from intrusion, or any combination of the
same.
      (5)   “Owner” means an owner of the freehold of the premises or any
lesser estate therein, a mortgagee, a vendee-in-possession, assignee of rents,
receiver, executor, trustee, lessee, agent or any other person, firm or
corporation that is directly or indirectly in control of a building subject to
the provisions of this section, and as set forth below.
      (6)   “Vacant” means a building or structure shall be deemed to be vacant
if no person or persons actually, currently conducts a lawfully licensed
business, or lawfully resides, dwells or lives in any part of the building as
the legal or equitable owner(s) or tenant-occupant(s), or owner-occupant(s), or
tenant(s) on a permanent, non-transient basis. A building or structure shall be
deemed vacant and subject to the registration and possible penalty provisions
provided herein if the exterior maintenance and major systems of the building
and the surrounding real property thereof, as defined in this section, are in
violation of the building codes or health and sanitation codes and if there is
not proof of continual utility service evidencing actual use of electric, gas
(i.e., applicable heating sources), water service and the like. Continued is
meant to be without more than one 30-day interruption in any given 360-day
period. In order for such continual utility service to be considered as being
actually in use as described in this section, it must be more than merely
registered to the owner for purposes of billing and must be utilized, at a
minimum, in order to keep the property and the major systems of the building in
compliance with building and safety codes. The person or entity asserting that
there has been continued utility service has the burden to produce actual bills
evidencing utility service for the relevant period.
   (b)   Criteria. All vacant structures shall also comply with the following
criteria.
      (1)   Exterior property areas are to be mowed regularly and non-
cultivated gardens maintained at no more than 12 inches of growth. All noxious
weeds are prohibited.
      (2)   Structure is to be broom swept and cleared of all contents, not
including building materials or components to be used in the future renovation
at that structure.
      (3)   Electrical service is to be provided to the building via temporary
pole service on the exterior of the structure or create a permanent service for
the structure and install two GFCI protected receptacles.
      (4)   NEC and OSHA compliant string lighting is to be provided to the
entire structure so that it may be illuminated as needed to view the structure.
      (5)   Unstable interior and exterior surfaces and components are to be
removed. Unstable or unsound accessory buildings are to be razed or renovated.
      (6)   Using wood sheet goods, all loose, deteriorated and broken windows
and doors are to be covered to eliminate the danger of their falling and to
prevent the unwanted entry of trespassers. Such wood sheet goods are to be cut
and neatly fit, not just nailed over the opening.
      (7)   All loose or deteriorated trim, gutter or overhang extensions
(masonry or frame) are to be removed or reattached to prevent falling.
      (8)   Regular routine monitoring of the structure is to occur by the
owner to ensure that the building is being kept in compliance with the above
items.
      (9)   Utilities need to be connected to the structure.
   (c)   Applicability. The requirements of this section shall be applicable to
each owner of any building that is found to be vacant pursuant to the language
contained herein. Each such owner shall cause to be filed a notarized
registration statement, which shall include the street address and parcel
number of each such vacant building, the names and addresses of all owners, as
hereinafter described, and any other information deemed necessary by the Code
Enforcement Officer. The registration fee(s) as required by this section shall
be billed by the city and shall be paid by last day of the month when the
property has been registered. For purposes of this section, the following shall
also be applicable:
      (1)   If the owner is a corporation, the registration statement shall
provide the names and residence addresses of all officers and directors of the
corporation and shall be accompanied by a copy of the most recent annual
franchise tax report filed with the Secretary of State;
      (2)   If an estate, the name and business address of the executor of the
estate;
      (3)   If a trust, the name and address of all trustees, grantors, and
beneficiaries;
      (4)   If a partnership, the names and residence addresses of all partners
with an interest of 10% or greater;
      (5)   If any other form of unincorporated association, the names and
residence addresses of all principals with an interest of 10% or greater; and
      (6)   If an individual person, the name and residence address of that
individual person.
(Ord. passed 4-16-2013)
§ 1725.04 INSPECTION.
   At the time of registration, the Building Inspector, Code Enforcement
Officer, Fire Chief, and Police Chief shall determine whether it is necessary
for any or all of them to inspect the structure so as to identify any public
safety issues needing addressed. Inspections shall also be available to verify
the status of any property concerning occupancy, vacancy and the like. If an
internal inspection is deemed necessary, the owner will be notified of the same
and arrangements made for the same. If the owner fails or refuses to consent to
and arrange for an inspection, the city will seek an administrative search
warrant from a court of competent jurisdiction, which shall include the
Municipal Court, to authorize inspection of the premises for the purpose of
determining the structural integrity of the building, the repairs necessary to
ensure its structural integrity and that it will be safe for entry by
firefighters and police officers in time of emergency, and that the build in
and its contents do not present a hazard to the public during the time that the
building remains vacant.
(Ord. passed 4-16-2013)
§ 1725.05 CORRECTIVE ACTION.
   The property owners shall be notified in writing of any corrective action
deemed necessary for life, safety and building code matters by city officials,
the applicable code provisions or regulations, and will be afforded a
reasonable time to the corrective action. Corrective action concerning the
occupancy of vacant structures is discussed later herein.
(Ord. passed 4-16-2013)
§ 1725.06 REGISTRATION GENERALLY.
   (a)   Generally. At the time of adoption of this article, all owners of
realty within the city that contain a vacant structure, as defined above, shall
register the same with the office of code enforcement of the city. For those
structures that qualify as a vacant structure and after the adoption of this
article, the owner thereof shall be required to register the structure with the
code enforcement office within 30 days after the structure is found to meet the
definition of a vacant structure. The registration form shall require
information from the registrant deemed necessary by the Code Enforcement
Officer, Building Inspector, Fire Chief and Police Chief of the city, so as to
ensure that the purpose of this article is met. Specifically, the above named
city officers shall have the authority to require that the property owner
provide a professional opinion (architect, engineer and the like) to determine
the structural integrity of the building, the repairs necessary to ensure its
structural integrity and that it will be safe for entry by firefighters and
police officers in time of emergency, and that the building and its contents do
not present a hazard to the public during the time the building remains vacant.
The above named officers shall have the authority to issue orders to the owner
for corrective action deemed necessary. The Building Inspector and Fire Chief
shall rely upon the State Building Code, as adopted in Article 1747, and Fire
Code, as well as other applicable law, for guidance during any such structural
review.
   (b)   Registration statement and fees; local agent. If none of the persons
listed, as above, is shown at an address within the state, the registration
statement also shall provide the name and address of a person who resides
within the state and who is authorized to accept service of process on behalf
of the owners and who shall be designated as a responsible, local party or
agent, both for purposes of notification in the event of an emergency affecting
the public health, safety or welfare and for purposes of service of any and all
notices or registration statements as herein authorized and in connection
herewith. Registration shall be required for all vacant buildings, whether
vacant and secure, vacant and open or vacant and boarded, and shall be required
whenever any building has remained vacant for 45 consecutive days or more. In
no instance shall the registration of a vacant building and the payment of
registration fees be construed to exonerate the owner, agent or responsible
party for compliance with any other building code or housing code requirement.
One registration statement may be filed to include all vacant buildings of the
owner so registering, but each structure constitutes a separate fee. The owner
of the vacant property as of the last day of the month when the property has
been registered of each calendar year shall be responsible for the payment of
the nonrefundable registration fee. Said fee shall be billed by the city; and
based on the duration of the vacancy as determined by the following scale:
      (1)   No fee for properties that are vacant for less than one year;
      (2)   Two hundred dollars for properties that are vacant for at least one
year but less than two years;
      (3)   Four hundred dollars for properties that are vacant for at least
two years but less than three years;
      (4)   Six hundred dollars for properties that are vacant for at least
three years but less than four years;
      (5)   Eight hundred dollars for properties that are vacant for at least
four years but less than five years; and
      (6)   One thousand six hundred dollars for properties that are vacant for
at least five years, plus an additional $300 for each year in excess of five
years.
(Ord. passed 4-16-2013)
§ 1725.07 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   (a)   Appeal rights. The owner shall have the right to appeal the imposition
of the registration fees to the Code Enforcement Officer; upon filing an
application in writing to that department no later than 15 calendar days after
the date of the billing statement. On appeal, the owner shall bear the burden
of providing satisfactory objective proof of occupancy as defined in this
article specifically.
   (b)   One-time waiver of registration fee. A one-time waiver of the
registration fee, or an extension of a waiver for up to 90 days from the date
of the current billing statement, may be granted by the Code Enforcement
Officer or his or her designee upon application of the owner and upon review
and advice of the Building Inspector; if the owner:
      (1)   Demonstrates with satisfactory proof to the Code Enforcement
Officer or his or her designee that he or she is in the process of demolition,
rehabilitation, or other substantial repair of the vacant building; and
      (2)   Objectively demonstrates to the Code Enforcement Officer or his or
her designee a reasonable anticipated length of time for the demolition,
rehabilitation or other substantial repair of the vacant building;
      (3)   Provides satisfactory proof to the Code Enforcement Officer or his
or her designee that he or she was actively attempting to sell or lease the
property during the vacancy period; or
      (4)   Provides satisfactory proof to the Code Enforcement Officer, to be
evaluated on a case-by-case basis, that the vacancy is temporary and may be due
to illness of the owner, active military service, or some other reasonable
explanation believed to be short term in nature and document able as necessary.
   (c)   Within 30 days, or as soon thereafter as possible, after the waiver
application is received by the Code Enforcement Officer or his or her designee
shall grant or deny the waiver, or request for extension, in writing, and
dispatch the written decision by mail to the owner. If the owner properly
submitted an application for a one-time waiver or request for extension to the
Code Enforcement Officer or his or her designee, and the Code Enforcement
Officer or his or her designee rendered a decision which the owner seeks to
appeal to the City Council, the owner must file an application in writing no
later than 30 calendar days from the date of the Code Enforcement Officer or
his or her designee’s decision. City Council shall either grant or deny the
appeal. Thereafter the decision of City Council is final unless within 30 days
of such decision the owner appeals for injunctive relief to the Circuit Court
of the county.
(Ord. passed 4-16-2013)
§ 1725.08 AMENDING INFORMATION.
   (a)   Duty to amend registration statement. If the status of the
registration information changes during the course of any calendar year, it is
the responsibility of the owner, responsible party or agent for the same to
contact the department of licenses and inspections with 30 days of the
occurrence of such change and advise the department in writing of those
changes.
   (b)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply to any building owned by the
United States, the state, the city or any of their respective agencies or
political subdivisions.
   (c)   Violations and penalties for failure to register. The failure or
refusal for any reason of any owner, or agent of an owner acting on behalf of
the owner, to register a vacant building upon adoption of this section or to
pay any fees required to be paid pursuant to the provisions of this section,
within 30 days after they become due, shall constitute a violation punishable
upon conviction thereof by a fine in the amount of not less than $100 nor more
than $500 for each failure or refusal to pay a required vacant building fee, as
applicable. In such cases, whenever the minimum fine of $100 is imposed, it
shall not be subject to suspension or reduction for any reason.
(Ord. passed 4-16-2013)
§ 1725.09 REINSPECTION.
   All vacant structures are subject to reinspection on an annual basis or as
deemed necessary pursuant to §
1725.04.
(Ord. passed 4-16-2013)
§ 1725.10 NONPAYMENT OF FEES/LIENS.
   (a)   Delinquent registration fees as a lien. After the owner is given
notice of the amount of the registration fee due, except for those owners that
have properly perfected an appeal pursuant to §
1725.07(b)(4), and the owner fails to pay the amount due, said amount shall
constitute a debt due and owing to the city and the city may commence a civil
action to collect such unpaid debt.
   (b)   “Lien” or “liens” as used in this section shall arise whenever the
fees and charges as described in this section are levied or imposed.
   (c)   If an owner fails to pay the registration fee as assessed and the city
begins the collection action to enforce its lien, then the Code Enforcement
Officer shall post the written notice on the property and send the written
notice to the owner(s) by certified and regular mail.
   (d)   The city may take action to sell the subject property by means of
forfeiture and the court ordered enforcement process to collect the debt owed
the city. Should the city take the steps necessary to sell the subject
property, the city shall do so, subject to all liens and real and personal
property taxes that are due. Purchasers of the subject property shall be
similarly responsible for registration pursuant to this section in the same
manner as the prior owner and must begin the registration process anew if said
property remains vacant.
(Ord. passed 4-16-2013)
§ 1725.11 RELATION TO OTHER CODES AND LAWS.
   It is to be understood that the intent and purpose of this article are
separate and distinct from other parts and sections of the codified ordinances
of the city and the general laws of the state which may also be applicable. The
provisions of this section are applicable to the owners of such vacant
buildings as set forth herein and are in addition to and not in lieu of any and
all other applicable provisions of this chapter, the health and sanitation
code, and any other applicable provisions of the city’s municipal code.
(Ord. passed 4-16-2013)
§ 1725.12 SEVERABILITY.
   The provisions of this article are severable. If any part of this article is
held to be invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining
provisions of this article shall remain in full force and effect.
(Ord. passed 4-16-2013)
ARTICLE 1729: MULTIFAMILY DWELLINGS
Section
   
1729.01   Building requirements
   
1729.02   Application information
   
1729.03   Approval
   
1729.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Building regulations, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-13
§ 1729.01 BUILDING REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   The minimum lot size per unit shall be 1,200 square feet, but in no
case will a multiple-family dwelling be erected on a lot of less than 7,200
square feet.
   (b)   The ground floor area shall not cover more than 40% of lot area.
   (c)   The building shall not be located closer than ten feet from any side
or rear boundary lines.
   (d)   The building shall not be located closer than 20 feet from the front
of the building to the street.
   (e)   The maximum building height will be no more than 35 feet without
express written consent from Council. Building height will not create an
objectionable condition to the neighborhood or create unsafe conditions due to
proper fire protection.
   (f)   There shall be one and one-half parking spaces per unit or 300 square
feet.
§ 1729.02 APPLICATION INFORMATION.
   When application for multifamily dwelling is submitted, the following
information is required:
   (a)   Legal or site description of real estate involved;
   (b)   Location and size of any buildings or structures on the lot to be
improved, as well as other buildings or structures on adjoining real estate
within 25 feet of the lot to be improved;
   (c)   Width and length of all entrances and exits to and from the real
estate;
   (d)   Any building or structure on the lot to be improved that will be
moved, altered, demolished or otherwise changed during construction shall be
clearly marked on the plot plan;
   (e)   All dimensions shall be figured and shown accurately. Plot plan will
be drawn to scale;
   (f)   All adjacent and adjoining roads, highways or alleys;
   (g)   A list of all existing rights-of-way or easements, both presently in
force or proposed; and
   (h)   The site plan or copy that accompanies the building permit will remain
as a permanent record and filed with the city.
§ 1729.03 APPROVAL.
   Final decision for approval of all multifamily dwellings rests with Council.
If for any reason the proposed construction raises doubts about the quality of
construction, the safety of the occupants or the creation of a congested area,
a building permit may be denied so as to ensure the best interest of the city.
§ 1729.99 PENALTY.
   See §
101.99 for general code penalty.
ARTICLE 1743: DOWNTOWN DESIGN GUIDELINES
Section
   
1743.01   Basic principles
   
1743.02   Basic principles of storefront rehabilitation
   
1743.03   General building details
   
1743.04   Doors
   
1743.05   Windows
   
1743.06   Awnings
   
1743.07   Signage
   
1743.08   Painting
   
1743.09   Surface cleaning and paint removal
   
1743.10   New construction and additions
Cross-reference:
   Historic Landmarks Commission, see
Art. 164
Statutory reference:
   Building permits, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-14
   Building regulations, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-13
§ 1743.01 BASIC PRINCIPLES.
   (a)   Every reasonable effort shall be made to provide a compatible use for
a property that requires minimal alteration of the building, structure or site
and its environment, or to use a property for its originally intended purpose.
   (b)   The distinguishing original qualities or character of a building,
structure or site and its environment shall not be destroyed. The removal or
alteration of any historic material or distinctive architectural features
should be avoided when possible.
   (c)   All buildings, structures and sites shall be recognized as products of
their own time. Alterations that have no historical basis and that seek to
create an earlier appearance shall be discouraged.
   (d)   Changes that may have taken place in the course of time are evidence
of the history and development of a building, structure or site and its
environment. These changes may have acquired significance in their own right,
and this significance shall be recognized and respected.
   (e)   Distinctive stylistic features or examples of skilled craftsmanship
that characterize a building, structure or site shall be treated with
sensitivity.
   (f)   Deteriorated architectural features shall be repaired rather than
replaced, whenever possible. In the event replacement is necessary, the new
material should match the material being replaced in composition, design,
color, texture and other visual qualities. Repair or replacement of missing
architectural features should be based on accurate duplication of features,
substantiated by historic, physical or pictorial evidence rather than on
conjectural designs or the availability of different architectural elements
from other buildings or structures.
   (g)   The surface cleaning of structures shall be undertaken with the
gentlest means possible. Sandblasting and other cleaning methods that will
damage the historic building materials shall not be undertaken.
   (h)   Every reasonable effort shall be made to protect and preserve
archeological resources affected by, or adjacent to, any project.
   (i)   Contemporary design for alterations and additions to existing
properties shall not be discouraged when such alterations and additions do not
destroy significant historical, architectural or cultural material, and such
design is compatible with the size, scale, color, material and character of the
property, neighborhood or environment.
   (j)   Whenever possible, new additions or alterations to structures shall be
done in such a manner that, if such additions or alterations were to be removed
in the future, the essential form and integrity of the structure would be
unimpaired.
(Ord. passed 3-16-1993)
§ 1743.02 BASIC PRINCIPLES OF STOREFRONT REHABILITATION.
   (a)   Where the original storefront remains, it should be preserved and
repaired with as little alteration as possible.
   (b)   Where only part of the original storefront remains, repair the
storefront by reinforcing historic materials, including limited replacement of
extensively deteriorated or missing parts with new parts based upon surviving
prototypes such as transoms, bulkheads, pilasters or signs.
   (c)   Where the original storefront is completely missing, it is recommended
to reconstruct the storefront based upon historical, pictorial and physical
documentation or design a new storefront that is compatible with the size,
scale, material and color of the historic building.
   (d)   Some replacement storefronts have acquired historic significance in
their own right, and should be retained in any rehabilitation.
   TYPICAL FACADE COMPONENTS
(Ord. passed 3-16-1993)
§ 1743.03 GENERAL BUILDING DETAILS.
   (a)   Screens, boards and other inappropriate materials covering the
building’s upper facades and windows should be removed.
   (b)   Avoid fake “historic” details, decorations and cornices. Deteriorated
historic details, decorations and cornices should be repaired, rather than
replaced, whenever possible. In the event replacement is necessary, the new
material should match the original material in composition, design, color and
texture. Repair or replacement of missing architectural decorations and details
should be based on accurate duplications, substantiated by historical, physical
or pictorial evidence rather than on conjectural design.
   (c)   Heavy or numerous coats of paint that obscure architectural
decorations and details should be removed before repainting.
   (d)   Decorative detail should be retained and restored whenever possible.
   (e)   Where the original cornice has been removed or altered, it should be
replaced or restored with a duplication of the original. Where this is not
possible, a simplified version of the original should be designed.
   (f)   If the cornice is replaced, avoid unnecessary changes in cornice
height.
   (g)   Cornices and other applied ornaments which have been subjected to long
term deterioration, due to water penetration, insect damage or other damaging
elements, should be thoroughly examined for structural integrity. Masonry,
metal and wood facades, along with their anchors, flashings, and concealed
supports, are subject to deterioration and collapse when proper maintenance has
been neglected. Excessively damaged items may need to be reconstructed or
replaced.
   (h)   Soft, dry or split areas in wood surfaces should be filled, caulked,
primed and painted or stained to match the original.
   (i)   Exterior historical light fixtures should be maintained and/or
repaired whenever possible. If replacement is necessary, the new fixture should
resemble the character, style, size and location of the historic light fixture.
   (j)   Replacement glass should resemble the original as closely as possible
in reflectivity and color.
(Ord. passed 3-16-1993)
§ 1743.04 DOORS.
   (a)   Original doors should be retained, repaired and refinished. Attractive
hardware, such as brass door pulls and plates, add visual value to the entrance
and should be retained.
   (b)   New and replacement doors should be compatible with the historic
character and design of the building.
   (c)   Where bare aluminum doors are to be retained, they should be primed
and painted.
   (d)   Consider using subtle decorations on new and replacement doors. A
handsome knob or pull or an attractive molding can make the door special and
inviting.
(Ord. passed 3-16-1993)
§ 1743.05 WINDOWS.
   (a)   Retain the original window opening proportions. If existing ceiling
has been lowered, pull the dropped ceiling back from the original window.
   (b)   If possible, save and restore the original windows and frames. Replace
missing, rotting or broken sash, frames, mullion and muntins with similar
material.
   (c)   If the original window openings have been altered, restore them to
their original configuration and detail. Avoid blocking or filling in window
openings, which are critical to facade design and natural light and
ventilation.
   (d)   Avoid storing material directly in front of windows. Wash upper story
windows regularly and install curtains or other suitable devices to give a
“lived-in” appearance.
   (e)   Avoid substituting one type of operable sash for another.
   (f)   Avoid the use of shutters except where the clear evidence indicates
their historic presence. If shutters are used, they should be functional.
(Ord. passed 3-16-1993)
§ 1743.06 AWNINGS.
   (a)   Consider enclosed side awnings on the upper facade windows and slanted
fixed awnings on the storefronts. When canvas awnings are used on both upper
and lower facades, they should be of compatible color, material and design.
   (b)   The color of all awnings should complement the building. When a
building contains more than one storefront, each with a different awning color,
the colors should be related.
   (c)   If signs are incorporated into an awning, the message should be simple
and directed towards identification of the storefront business. Avoid the use
of signs in upper facade awnings.
   (d)   Avoid materials, colors and designs which detract from the character
of the building.
   (e)   Avoid stock, unpainted metal awnings which are inappropriately related
to the character of the building.
   (f)   The use of a cloth awning over a plain building may help to tie it
into the rest of downtown.
   (g)   Upper facade awnings should be limited to buildings of less than three
stories.
   (h)   Awnings should fit within the shape of the window opening.
   (i)   Awning designs for south facing windows and storefronts should provide
the functional benefits of sun control.
(Ord. passed 3-16-1993)
§ 1743.07 SIGNAGE.
   (a)   Signage should fit into the lintel area above the storefront.
   (b)   Signs should use colors, materials and lettering styles which relate
to and complement the buildings.
      (1)   Light colored letters on dark backgrounds are recommended.
      (2)   Lettering styles should be simple: Helvetica, Clarendon, Souvenir
and Palatino are good examples.
      (3)   Very ornate, difficult to read styles will not be approved.
   (c)   Avoid the use of nationally distributed signs which are not compatible
with the character of the building.
   (d)   Window and door signage should complement other facade signage and
should not obscure visibility into the business.
   (e)   Sign lighting and neon signs are acceptable when size, design, color
and style are compatible with the original building design.
   (f)   New hanging signs may be appropriate for historic commercial
buildings, if they are compatible in scale and design with the building.
(Ord. passed 3-16-1993)
§ 1743.08 PAINTING.
   (a)   When repainting, consider using original painting scheme and color
palette.
   (b)   The color palette should be consistent throughout both the upper and
lower portions of the building’s front facade.
   (c)   Color palettes and paint schemes on adjoining buildings should be
compatible.
   (d)   Color should be used to tie building elements, such as details,
decorations, cornices, signs and storefronts, together. This is usually most
successful when a maximum of three colors is used.
   (e)   Color palettes should generally be lighter on the south side of the
street, which is normally in shadow, than on the north, which is normally in
sun.
   (f)   The color used on the cornice should offset the color of the sky.
   (g)   Normally, the previous paint type (oil or latex base) should be used
in repainting. If possible, use oil base paint for wood or metal and latex base
paint for masonry.
   (h)   Avoid the use of bright primary colors, which are usually incompatible
with the buildings downtown. Bright colors are also highly susceptible to
fading.
   (i)   Avoid the use of very dark colors, which are usually incompatible with
the buildings downtown, except where historically appropriate.
   (j)   Avoid using paint on materials which historically were not painted;
i.e., glass, brick, terra-cotta and tile.
(Ord. passed 3-16-1993)
§ 1743.09 SURFACE CLEANING AND PAINT REMOVAL.
   (a)   Walls surfaces that have not been painted should remain unpainted.
   (b)   If a brick facade was originally painted, a soft brick was probably
used in construction. These surfaces should remain painted.
   (c)   Generally, stone terra-cotta brick or tile should not be painted.
   (d)   Sandblasting and other abrasive cleaning methods should not be
undertaken because they damage the structure.
   (e)   Masonry repair such as repointing should use an approved mortar mix
and method, including proper routing of existing joints to allow for a good
bond and striking profile.
   (f)   Silicone waterproof coating is not an appropriate treatment.
   (g)   Peeling or blistering paint should be wire brushed or scraped off. The
surface to be painted should be clean and dry. If a painted surface has cracks
or fissures, the old paint should be removed before new paint is applied. Caulk
joints between wood trim and masonry before painting.
(Ord. passed 3-16-1993)
§ 1743.10 NEW CONSTRUCTION AND ADDITIONS.
   (a)   A new building facade or addition should not pretend to be historic by
adding pseudo-Colonial, Victorian or other period details in an attempt to
blend with the existing environment. This “applied style” approach will only
detract from the character of the downtown by compromising what is truly
historic.
   (b)   Most buildings downtown share a general similarity in height, which
should be respected. Extreme differencies in building heights will have a
detrimental visual effect on the appearance of surrounding property.
   (c)   A new building and additions should reflect the existing rhythm,
proportion, scale, massing, decoration and detail of the buildings in the area
and their relationship to the site.
   (d)   New buildings and additions should respect the established setbacks
and the spacing between buildings.
   (e)   The form of the roof and cornice treatment of new buildings and
additions should respect the established context.
   (f)   The rhythm, scale and proportion of openings in new buildings and
additions and their relationship to the wall surface in which they are located
should respect the existing buildings.
   (g)   A new building’s facade or an addition’s facade should be composed of
materials, textures and colors which complement adjacent facades.
(Ord. passed 3-16-1993)
ARTICLE 1747: INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
Section
   
1747.01   Adoption by reference
   
1747.02   Amendments
§ 1747.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   That a certain document, three copies of which are on file in the office of
the City Clerk’s office of the city, being marked and designated as the
International Property Maintenance Code, 2015 edition, as published by the
International Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the Property
Maintenance Code of the City of Philippi in the State of West Virginia for
regulating and governing the conditions and maintenance of all property,
buildings and structures; by providing the standards for supplied utilities and
facilities and other physical things and conditions essential to ensure that
structures are safe, sanitary and fit for occupation and use; and the
condemnation of buildings and structures unfit for human occupancy and use, and
the demolition of such existing structures as herein provided; providing for
the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefore; and each and all of
the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said Property
Maintenance Code on file in the office of the City Clerk are hereby referred
to, adopted and made apart hereof, as if fully set out in this section, with
the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in §
1747.02.
(Ord. passed 8-18-2020)
§ 1747.02 AMENDMENTS.
   The following sections are hereby revised:
   Section 101.1. Insert: City of Philippi
   Section 103.5. Insert: FEES FOR PERMITS
The following fees shall be charged for permits to demolish, erect,
reconstruct, repair, remodel, improve, or structurally alter any building or
addition, or property within the city:
 
Estimated Cost of Project      Fee
$0 to $50                      $5
$51 to $500                    $10
$501 to $1,000                 $20
Each additional $1 over $1,000 $ 0.005
 
Section 112.4: Is hereby amended to provide for a fine of not less than $100
and not more than $500, per incident of non-compliance.
Section 302.4: Is hereby amended to prohibit weeds or plant growth in excess of
12 inches in height.
Section 304.14: Is hereby amended to provide for enforcement of the provision
as set forth therein between the dates of April 15 to October 1.
Section 602.3: Is hereby amended to provide for enforcement of the provision as
set forth therein between the dates of October 1 April 1.
Section 602.4. Is hereby amended to provide for enforcement of the provision as
set forth therein between the dates of October 1 April 1.
(Ord. passed 8-18-2020)
ARTICLE 1749: DANGEROUS STRUCTURES
Section
   
1749.01   Purpose and scope
   
1749.02   Definitions
   
1749.03   Closing, removal and demolition of unsafe structures
   
1749.04   Right of entry for inspection
   
1749.05   Administrative search warrant to inspect property
   
1749.06   Abatement and correction of unsafe conditions
   
1749.07   Notice requirements
   
1749.08   Owner’s right to apply to Circuit Court for relief
   
1749.09   Owner liability for costs incurred by city
   
1749.10   Civil action by city for corrective action and recovery of costs
   
1749.11   Notices
   
1749.12   Absolute defense for city action
§ 1749.01 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (a)   This article provides a process for the identification, inspection,
correction and removal of unsafe structures within the city in a manner that
provides adequate notice and due process to the owners of such structures while
protecting the public from danger due to unsafe or unsanitary conditions.
   (b)   This article is intended to authorize the city to exercise, to the
fullest extent provided by law, the power and authority provided by W.Va. Code
§ 8-12-16, as it may be amended, subject to the requirements and limitations
therein.
   (c)   The powers and duties granted in this article are in addition to those
otherwise granted by law and shall not be construed to limit any other lawful
powers of the city, including the power of code enforcement officials to
interpret and enforce the State Building Code as adopted in
Article 1747, as duly adopted by the city.
   (d)   This article shall be construed liberally to promote the purpose of
efficiently abating dangerous conditions that are harmful to the community.
(Ord. passed 2-19-2019)
§ 1749.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this article the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them as follows.
   (a)   “Code enforcement agency” means the city’s Building Code Enforcement
Department, a code enforcement department as defined by 87 CSR 7-2, as may be
amended.
   (b)   “Code enforcement agency official” means any individual employed by
the city who has been delegated the authority from the code enforcement agency
to conduct property maintenance inspections.
   (c)   “Owner” or “landowner” means a person who individually or jointly with
others:
      (1)   Has legal title to the property, with or without actual possession
of the property;
      (2)   Has charge, care or control of the property as owner or agent of
the owner;
      (3)   Is an executor, administrator, trustee or guardian of the estate of
the owner;
      (4)   Is the agent of the owner for the purpose of managing, controlling
or collecting rents; or
      (5)   May control or direct the management or disposition of the
property.
   (d)   “Property” means any lot, tract or parcel including any dwelling,
building or structure of any kind located thereon, regardless of the nature of
the use.
   (e)   “Unsafe, unsanitary, dangerous or detrimental to the public safety or
welfare” means:
      (1)   Any door, aisle, passageway, stairway, exit or other means of
egress that does not conform to the approved building or fire code of the
jurisdiction as related to the requirements for existing buildings;
      (2)   The walking surface of any aisle, passageway, stairway, exit or
other means of egress is so warped, worn loose, torn or otherwise unsafe as to
not provide safe and adequate means of egress;
      (3)   Any portion of a dwelling, building, structure or appurtenance that
has been damaged by fire, earthquake, wind, flood, deterioration, neglect,
abandonment, vandalism or by any other cause to an extent that it is likely to
partially or completely collapse, or to become detached or dislodged;
      (4)   Any portion of a structure or building, or any member, appurtenance
or ornamentation on the exterior that is not of sufficient strength or
stability, or is not so anchored, attached or fastened in place so as to be
capable of resisting natural or artificial loads of one and one-half the
original designed value;
      (5)   The dwelling, building or structure, or part of the building or
structure, because of dilapidation, deterioration, decay, faulty construction,
the removal or movement of some portion of the ground necessary for the
support, or for any other reason, is likely to partially or completely
collapse, or some portion of the foundation or underpinning of the building or
structure is likely to fail or give way;
      (6)   The dwelling, building or structure, or any portion, is clearly
unsafe for its use;
      (7)   The dwelling, building or structure is neglected, damaged,
dilapidated, unsecured or abandoned so as to become an attractive nuisance to
children, becomes a harbor for vagrants, criminals, criminal activity or
enables persons to resort to the dwelling, building or structure for committing
a nuisance or an unlawful act;
      (8)   Any dwelling, building or structure constructed, exists or
maintained in violation of any specific requirement or prohibition applicable
to any dwelling, building or structure provided by the approved building or
fire code of the jurisdiction or of any law or ordinance that presents either a
substantial risk of fire, building collapse or any other threat to life and
safety;
      (9)   A dwelling, building or structure, used or intended to be used for
dwelling purposes, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay,
contamination by any hazardous substance or material including, but not limited
to, substance resulting from the illegal manufacture of drugs, damage, faulty
construction or arrangement, inadequate light, ventilation, mechanical or
plumbing system, or otherwise, is determined by the code enforcement agency to
be unsanitary, unfit for human habitation or in such a condition that is likely
to cause sickness or disease;
      (10)   Any dwelling, building or structure, because of a lack of
sufficient or proper fire resistance-rated construction, fire protection
systems, electrical system, fuel connections, mechanical system, plumbing
system or other cause, is determined by the code official to be a threat to
life or health; or
      (11)   Any portion of a building that remains on a site after the
demolition or destruction of the building or structure, or whenever any
building or structure is abandoned.
(Ord. passed 2-19-2019)
§ 1749.03 CLOSING, REMOVAL AND DEMOLITION OF UNSAFE STRUCTURES.
   (a)   The code enforcement agency may order the repair, alteration,
improvement, closing, demolition or removal of any structure, dwelling or
building that is determined by a code official to be unsafe, unsanitary,
dangerous or detrimental to the public safety or welfare in accordance with the
procedures set forth in this article.
   (b)   In order to make a determination regarding the classification of a
structure as unsafe, unsanitary, dangerous or detrimental to the public safety
or welfare pursuant to this article, and to determine and enforce the
appropriate remedy for any such structure, code officials shall be entitled to
make inspections, perform investigations, issue notices, require corrective
measures, obtain search warrants from and/or present complaints to the
municipal judge, and exercise all other powers and duties authorized by W.Va.
Code § 8-12-16, as it may be amended.
(Ord. passed 2-19-2019)
§ 1749.04 RIGHT OF ENTRY FOR INSPECTION.
   Where it is necessary to make an inspection to enforce the provisions of §
1749.03 or the State Building Code as adopted in
Article 1747, as promulgated by the State Fire Commission and adopted by the
city, or whenever a Code Enforcement Agency Official has reasonable cause to
believe there exists in a structure or upon a property a condition in violation
of this article, the Code Enforcement Agency Official is authorized to enter
the structure or property to inspect and perform the duties imposed upon the
Code Enforcement Agency Official provided that:
   (a)   When a code official lawfully enters the premises of the property or
the structure, dwelling, or building for investigating or inspecting any
structure, dwelling or building, the investigation shall be conducted in a way
that minimizes the inconvenience to the owner or person(s) in possession;
   (b)   Except in exigent circumstances or as permitted by law or the State
Building Code as adopted in
Article 1747, the Code Enforcement Agency shall provide reasonable advance
notice to the owner and request permission from the owner to enter the
property;
   (c)   The Code Enforcement Agency Official shall present credentials to any
owner or occupant present on the property at the time of inspection; and
   (d)   If the owner cannot be located after reasonable inquiry by the code
enforcement agency as required by this article, or if the owner refuses entry,
the code enforcement agency may obtain an administrative search warrant
pursuant to §
1749.05.
(Ord. passed 2-19-2019)
§ 1749.05 ADMINISTRATIVE SEARCH WARRANT TO INSPECT PROPERTY.
   (a)   Where an owner cannot be located after reasonable inquire by the code
enforcement agency, or the owner or occupant refuses entry on the property, the
Code Enforcement Agency Official may obtain an administrative search warrant,
permitting the entry and inspection of any property or structure for a
violation of this article or the State Building Code as adopted in
Article 1747 as adopted by the city, from either the city’s Municipal Court or
the County Magistrate Court.
   (b)   Before obtaining an administrative search warrant, a Code Enforcement
Agency Official shall make a sworn statement and prima facie case showing that
the code enforcement agency was unable to gain access to the structure,
dwelling or building after reasonable and good faith efforts, and that there is
a legitimate and substantial safety concern involving the structure, dwelling
or building that supports the requested entry.
   (c)   (1)   Any administrative search warrant granted pursuant to this
article shall be limited in scope for the sole purpose of the inspection of the
structure, dwelling or building for violations of this article or the dully
adopted State Building Code as adopted in
Article 1747.
      (2)   Any administrative search warrant issued pursuant to this section
shall expressly prohibit the collection or gathering of evidence for the
purpose of a criminal charge, prosecution or proceeding unrelated to a
violation of this article or the duly adopted State Building Code as adopted in
Article 1747.
   (d)   Upon being granted an administrative search warrant the code
enforcement agency shall provide the owner a copy of the administrative search
warrant five days before entering the property, if the owner can be located. If
applicable, the code enforcement agency shall also provide the same notice to
any occupant or other person in possession of the structure, dwelling or
building.
(Ord. passed 2-19-2019)
§ 1749.06 ABATEMENT AND CORRECTION OF UNSAFE CONDITIONS.
   Upon a determination by the code enforcement agency that a structure,
dwelling or building is unsafe, unsanitary, dangerous or detrimental to the
public safety or welfare, the city may take corrective action by causing it to
be vacated, closed, removed or demolished, either directly or through a third-
party agent, in the absence of owner agreement or a court order, provided the
following conditions are met:
   (a)   The code enforcement agency undertakes reasonable efforts to locate
and seek agreement from the owner prior to taking the corrective action;
   (b)   The corrective action may only be taken as to a structure, dwelling or
building that is either:
      (1)   Defined in §
1749.02(e)(3), (e)(5), (e)(8); or
      (2)   Defined in §
1749.02(e)(6), (e)(7); (e)(8) or (e)(10); provided, that the structure,
dwelling, or building is vacant, abandoned or has been lawfully declared unfit
for human habitation; and the reasonable estimated cost of repair,
rehabilitation or corrective action exceeds the reasonable estimate of the fair
market value of the structure, dwelling, or building.
   (c)   Prior to undertaking the corrective action, the city will provide
notice to the owner and meet procedural requirements in accordance with §
1749.07
(Ord. passed 2-19-2019)
§ 1749.07 NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   The code enforcement agency shall produce a written notice containing:
      (1)   A description of the property and the structure, dwelling or
building sufficient for identification;
      (2)   The date of the last inspection;
      (3)   The name of the inspector;
      (4)   A reasonable description of the unsafe, unsanitary, dangerous or
detrimental condition(s);
      (5)   A reasonable description of the corrective measures required;
      (6)   The allotted time to correct the substandard conditions); and
      (7)   A statement of the owner’s right to apply to the circuit court for
a temporary injunction or other similar relief, restraining action by the
enforcement agency.
   (b)   The code enforcement agency shall serve the notice of violation in the
following manner.
      (1)   Service of the notice of violation shall be made upon the owner or
landowner by conspicuously posting and attaching a copy of the notice to the
subject property, and by serving the notice on the owner or landowner in the
same manner as service of a complaint as set forth in §
1749.11.
      (2)   If the Code Enforcement Agency cannot effect personal service on
the owner, a Code Enforcement Agency Official shall subscribe a written
affidavit, to be maintained for a minimum of two years, that demonstrates the
structure or dwelling falls within one of the categories set forth in §
1749.06(a) or (b), sets forth the basis in reasonable detail including
documentation of same, and memorializes the Code Enforcement Agency Official’s
efforts to contact or get permission for entry and corrective action from the
owner; and the code enforcement agency shall publish notice of its intent to
enter the property for the purpose of demolition or correction, along with the
address of the property, the name of the owner(s) and the date of the proposed
action, as a Class II legal advertisement, the first of which shall run at
least 30 days before the date of the proposed action by the enforcement agency,
and the last being no later than 20 days before the date of the proposed action
by the enforcement agency.
   (c)   In the event the owner fails to respond to the notice of violation
within the specified time set forth in said notice, then the municipality shall
have the authority to proceed in correction or demolition of the subject
dwelling, building or structure.
(Ord. passed 2-19-2019)
§ 1749.08 OWNER’S RIGHT TO APPLY TO CIRCUIT COURT FOR RELIEF.
   (a)   Pursuant to W.Va. Code § 8-12-16, the owner of property subject to
corrective action pursuant to this section shall be given notice of the right
to apply to the Circuit Court of the county for a temporary injunction or other
similar relief restraining correction or demolition by the city. Such notice
shall be provided in the written notice produced pursuant to §
1749.07(a).
   (b)   Pursuant to W.Va. Code § 8-12-16, if such an application is made by
the owner to the Circuit Court, a hearing shall be held within 20 days of the
application, or as soon as reasonably possible.
   (c)   Pursuant to W.Va. Code § 8-12-16, continuances of the hearing provided
for in this section may be made for cause only. If a continuance is granted
upon request by the owner, the owner is required to pay into court, in the form
of a bond, any reasonable and necessary costs related to the structure,
dwelling or building likely to be incurred by the municipality during the
continuance. This requirement is in addition to any other bond required or
authorized by the state’s Rules of Civil Procedure or other applicable law.
   (d)   Pursuant to W.Va. Code § 8-12-16, at the conclusion of a hearing held
under this section, if the court finds that the structure, dwelling or building
is unsafe, unsanitary, dangerous, or detrimental to the public safety or
welfare, the court shall make and enter an order granting the relief as
requested by the city.
(Ord. passed 2-19-2019)
§ 1749.09 OWNER LIABILITY FOR COSTS INCURRED BY CITY.
   (a)   The owner of any structure, dwelling or building under determination
of the State Fire Marshall as provided in W.Va. Code § 15A-10-2, or order of
the Code Enforcement Agency of the city or, shall be required to pay for the
costs incurred by city for repairing, altering, improving, vacating, closing,
removing or demolishing any structure, dwelling or building.
   (b)   In addition to any other rights provided by law, the city may file a
lien against the real property in question for an amount that reflects all
costs incurred by the city for repairing, altering, improving, vacating,
closing, removing or demolishing any structure, dwelling, or building. Any such
lien shall be filed and notices in accordance with applicable state law and the
city code.
(Ord. passed 2-19-2019)
§ 1749.10 CIVIL ACTION BY CITY FOR CORRECTIVE ACTION AND RECOVERY OF COSTS.
   (a)   In addition to any other rights provided in this article and by law,
the city may, in its discretion, institute a civil action in Circuit Court
against the landowner or other responsible party to obtain an order to take
corrective action up to and including demolition of any structure, dwelling or
building that is unsafe, unsanitary, dangerous or detrimental to the public
safety or welfare; and to recover all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by
the city with respect to the property or structure, dwelling, or building and
for reasonable attorney fees and court costs incurred in the prosecution of the
action.
   (b)   No fewer than ten days before instituting a civil action as provided
in this section, the city shall send notice to the landowner by certified mail,
return receipt requested, advising the landowner of the governing body’s
intention to institute such action.
   (c)   The notice shall be sent to the most recent address of the landowner
of record in the office of the County Assessor and to any other address for the
landowner as may exist on record with the city. If, for any reason, such
certified mail is returned without evidence of proper receipt, the city shall
resend the notice(s) by first class mail, postage prepaid, and shall also post
notice on the front door or other conspicuous location on the subject property
or structure, dwelling, or building.
(Ord. passed 2-19-2019)
§ 1749.11 NOTICES.
   (a)   To the extent not otherwise authorized by state law, all notices of
violation or corrections for violations that do not fall within one of the
categories defined in §
1749.06(a) or (b) shall be served in accordance with the process set forth in
the State Building Code as adopted in
Article 1747.
   (b)   Any violation of this article may be prosecuted by the city consistent
with state and local laws. Unless otherwise authorized by state law,
prosecution of a violation shall be initiated by a complaint presented to and
sworn or affirmed before Municipal Judge or other municipal official with
lawful authority to hear and determine violations of municipal code. Unless
otherwise provided by statute, the presentation and oath or affirmation shall
be made by a Code Enforcement Official or City Attorney showing reason to have
reliable information and belief. If from the facts stated in the complaint the
Municipal Judge or other municipal official with lawful authority to hear and
determine violations of municipal code finds probable cause, the complaint
becomes the charging instrument initiating a criminal proceeding. A complaint
lawfully authorized by this section along with a summons setting forth the
date, time and place of appearance before a Municipal Judge and or other
municipal official with lawful authority to hear and determine violations of
municipal code shall be served in accordance with the law of the state
concerning the service of process in civil actions, except that personal
service of a summons and complaint may be made by a code enforcement agency
official. If service is made by certified mail under Rule 4(d)(1)(D) of the
state’s Rules of Civil Procedure and delivery of the summons and complaint is
refused, the Code Enforcement Agency Official, promptly upon the receipt of the
notice of the refusal, shall mail to the person or entity being noticed, by
first class mail, postage prepaid, a copy of the summons and complaint. If the
first-class mailing is not returned as undeliverable by the U.S. Postal
Service, service of the summons and complaint is presumed to have been
effectuated. Upon service of the summons and complaint consistent with this
subsection, the violation may be prosecuted consistent with state and local
law.
(Ord. passed 2-19-2019)
§ 1749.12 ABSOLUTE DEFENSE FOR CITY ACTION.
   It shall be an absolute defense to any civil action by an owner, landowner
or tenant for damages resulting from the closure, demolition or other
corrective action taken by a municipality under this section; provided, that
the municipality acted in good faith, can demonstrate that the structure,
dwelling or building falls within one of the categories set forth in §
1749.06(a) or (b), the municipality followed the procedures set forth herein
and the municipality had adopted the State Building Code as adopted in
Article 1747 at the time of the closure, demolition or other corrective action
occurred.
(Ord. passed 2-19-2020)
ARTICLE 1751: NUMBERING OF STRUCTURES
Section
   
1751.01   Uniform numbering system
   
1751.02   Assignment of numbers
§ 1751.01 UNIFORM NUMBERING SYSTEM.
   (a)   A uniform system of numbering properties and buildings as described by
a map and material filed in the office of the city is hereby adopted.
   (b)   The map system description as filed is hereby adopted and made a part
of this article.
      (1)   All properties, lots and parcels of land within the corporate
limits of the city shall hereafter be identified by reference to the uniform
numbering system adopted herein, except that all existing number identification
of buildings or lots or parcels not in conformity with the system adopted
herein shall be changed in not more than six months from the adoption of this
article so as to conform.
      (2)   Each principal building shall bear the number assigned to it by the
Administrator of the system as herein provided and where more than one business
or family dwelling unit occupies a single structure shall bear, in addition to
the basic number assigned to the structure, the supplementary numbers or
letters assigned to them.
      (3)   Numerals and letters indicating the official property number
designation shall be posted at the entrance for which the designated number has
been assigned in such a manner as to provide an unobstructed sighting from the
street on which the building is located.
      (4)   No person, agency or business shall adopt, assign, display or cite
any number other than that assigned as provided herein for the purpose of
property identification or for the purpose of designating location of property.
(Ord. passed 10-7-1997)
§ 1751.02 ASSIGNMENT OF NUMBERS.
   (a)   All properties, lots and parcels of land within the corporate limits
of the city shall hereafter be identified by reference to the uniform numbering
system adopted herein, except that all existing number identification of
buildings or lots or parcels not in conformity with the system adopted herein
shall be changed in not more than six months from the adoption of this article
so as to conform.
   (b)   Each principal building shall bear the number assigned to it by the
Administrator of the system as herein provided and where more than one business
or family dwelling unit occupies a single structure shall bear, in addition to
the basic number assigned to the structure, the supplementary numerals or
letters assigned to them.
   (c)   Numerals and letters indicating the official property number
designation shall be posted at the entrance for which the designated number has
been assigned in such a manner as to provide an unobstructed sighting from the
street on which the building is located.
   (d)   No person, agency or business shall adopt, assign, display or cite any
number other than that assigned as provided herein for the purpose of property
identification or for the purpose of designating location of property.
(Ord. passed 10-7-1997)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to West Virginia Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO WEST VIRGINIA CODE
W.Va. Code Section Code Section
W.Va. Code Section           Code Section
Article 2-2                  161.08
2-2-1                        Article 103
2-2-1(d)                     101.03
2-2-5                        101.06
2-2-8                        101.04
2-2-9                        101.04
2-2-10                       101.02,
                             101.03
2-2-11                       101.04
                             Charter § 7a,
Ch. 3                        105.01,
                             105.08,
                             105.09
3-1-2a                       Article 105
3-1-6                        Article 105
3-1-24                       105.08
3-1-27                       Article 105
3-1-37                       105.08
Article 3-3                  105.14
3-3-1 et seq.                105.14
3-3-13                       Article 105
3-9-2                        105.08
3-9-5                        105.08
3-9-6                        105.08
3-9-8                        105.08
3-9-9                        105.08
5-10-16                      161.02
5-15-5                       371.08
6-2-11                       Article 161
Art. 6-9A                    Article 115
6-9A-1 et seq.               167.04
6-9A-4                       115.05
7-1-3ss                      521.06,
                             521.09
7-1-3(u)                     Article 1705
7-1-3(v)                     Article 1369,
                             Article 1705
Art. 7-18                    Article 167,
                             Article 749
Chapter 8                    1109.01
8-5-12                       Article 117,
                             Article 161
8-5-13                       Article 105,
                             105.03
8-5-15a                      Article 105
8-5-19                       Article 161
8-10-1 et seq.               173.02
8-10-1                       Article 139,
                             173.02
8-10-1a                      Article 137
8-10-2                       173.02
                             Article 101,
8-11-1                       Article 117,
                             373.99
8-11-2                       Article 117
8-11-3                       Article 117
8-11-4                       Article 117,
                             Article 1713
8-11-4(a)(2)                 115.12
8-11-4(b)                    Article 101,
                             1713.01
8-12-2                       Article 137
8-12-2(a)(11)                Article 101
8-12-5(1)                    Article 919
8-12-5(2)                    Article 915
8-12-5(3)                    Article 311
8-12-5(10) et seq.           Article 951,
                             Article 1105
8-12-5(13)                   Article 1109
8-12-5(14) et seq.           Article 1503
8-12-5(14)                   Article 1507
8-12-5(15)                   Article 1517
8-12-5(16)                   Article 545
8-12-5(17)                   Article 517
8-12-5(18)                   Article 517
8-12-5(19)                   Article 509,
                             Article 517
8-12-5(20)                   Article 521
8-12-5(21)                   331.99
8-12-5(23)                   Article 537,
                             Article 1109
8-12-5(26)                   Article 505
8-12-5(27)                   Article 505
8-12-5(30)                   Article 1717
8-12-5(31)                   Article 533
                             Article 153,
                             Article 155,
8-12-5(32)                   Article 159,
                             Article 921,
                             Article 925
8-12-5(36)                   Article 143
8-12-5(38)                   Article 148
8-12-5(40)                   Article 1109
8-12-5(44)                   Article 509,
                             Article 537
8-12-5(46)                   Article 161
8-12-5(47)                   Article 161
8-12-5(54)                   Article 161
8-12-5(56)                   Article 161
8-12-5(57)                   Article 141
                             Article 101,
8-12-(5)(58)                 Article 117,
                             Article 501
8-12-5a                      Article 545
8-12-5b(b)                   517.08
8-12-7 et seq.               Article 161
8-12-7                       Article 163,
                             163.01
                             Article 1713,
8-12-13                      Article 1729,
                             Article 1743
8-12-14                      Article 1713,
                             Article 1743
8-12-15                      1705.99
                             1749.01,
8-12-16                      1749.03,
                             1749.08
8-12-19                      173.01
                             Article 701,
8-13-4                       Article 741,
                             Article 773
8-13-5                       Article 745
8-13-5a                      Article 769
                             Article 161,
8-13-7                       761.01,
                             761.02
8-13-10                      Article 505
                             Article 157,
8-13-13                      Article 777,
                             1505.02
8-13-15 et seq.              Article 741,
                             Article 745
8-13-15                      769.99
8-13-22                      109.02
8-14-1                       Article 139
8-14-2                       Article 139
8-14-2a                      Article 139,
                             161.06
8-14-3                       Article 139
8-14-5                       Article 139
8-14-5a                      Article 139
8-14-6 et seq.               Article 139
8-15-1                       Article 141
8-15-3                       Article 141
8-15-4 et seq.               Article 141
8-15-9 et seq.               Article 141
8-15-11 et seq.              Article 141
Art. 8-18                    Article 143,
                             Article 915
8-18-22                      Article 925
8-19-13                      Article 921
Art. 8-21                    Article 145
                             Article 139,
Art. 8-22                    Article 141,
                             Article 161
Chapter 8, Article 24        147.03,
                             1301.02
8-24-1                       Article 147
8-24-3                       1301.08
8-24-16 et seq.              Article 147,
                             Article 1301
8-24-28 et seq.              Article 147
8-24-31                      Article 1309
8-24-40                      Article 1309
8-24-42 et seq.              Article 147
8-24-45 et seq.              Article 1381
8-24-50                      Article 1349,
                             Article 1373
8-24-51 et seq.              1385.01
8-24-55 et seq.              Article 1385
8-24-56 et seq.              Article 1377
8-24-66 et seq.              Article 1377
8-24-67                      Article 1377
8-24-68                      Article 1377
8-24-70                      Article 1301
8-24A-5 et seq.              Article 147
Art. 8-26A                   Article 164
Art. 8-28                    Article 165
Art. 8-29                    Article 165
8-30-1                       Article 1369,
                             Article 1705
Art. 8-33                    Article 160
Chapter 8, Article 37        115.16
Art. 10-1                    Article 148
Article 10-2                 145.01,
                             145.04
Chapter 11                   521.03
Art. 11-12                   Article 741
11-12-4                      Article 741
11-12-86                     545.10
Article 11-13                Article 745
Article 11-13C               745.16
11-16-18                     521.07
                             Article 521,
                             Article 757,
Art. 11-16                   757.02,
                             757.05,
                             757.06
11-16-1 et seq.              521.01
11-16-2                      521.01
11-16-3                      334.01
11-16-17                     Article 757
11-16-18                     521.06
11-16-19                     521.08,
                             521.99
14-2A-4                      333.011
15-2-19 et seq.              Article 501
Art. 15-5                    Article 107
15A-10-2                     1749.09
Chapter 15A, Article 11, § 31305.02
Chapter 16, Article I        1111.02
Chapter 16, Article 5C, 2    1305.02
16-9-3                       Article 505
16-9A-2                      525.07
16-9A-3                      525.07
16-9A-7                      525.07
16-13-16(e)                  925.17
16-13-18                     Article 149
16-13-18a                    Article 149
16-15                        Article 152
Article 16-15                152.02
Art. 16-6                    745.99
Chapter 17                   351.07,
                             351.09
17-4-26 et seq.              Article 157
17-10-7                      Article 541
17-10-17                     Article 157
17-24-5 et seq.              301.48
Article 17-24A               303.07
17-24A-1                     361.07
17-24A-2                     361.07
Chapter 17A                  351.01,
                             351.04
17A-1-1 et seq.              373.11
17A-1-1                      501.02
17A-3-1                      351.01
17A-3-13                     351.02
17A-3-15                     351.03
17A-3-14(c)(6)               361.06
17A-8-4                      349.13
17A-8-6                      349.13
17A-9-2                      351.04
17A-9-3                      351.05
                             301.02,
17A-10-1                     345.18,
                             351.03
17A-11-1                     349.99
17B-1-1 et seq.              373.11
17B-2-1                      351.06
17B-2-1a                     351.07
17B-2-2                      351.07
17B-2-3a                     349.22
17B-2-7b                     351.06
17B-2-9                      351.08
17B-4-1                      351.09
17B-4-3                      351.10
17B-4-3(b)                   351.99
17B-4-3(d)                   351.99
17B-4-4                      351.11
Chapter 17C                  345.18,
                             379.10
17C-1-1                      301.01
17C-1-2                      301.47
17C-1-3                      301.17
17C-1-4                      301.15
17C-1-5                      301.16
17C-1-5a                     301.14
17C-1-6                      301.02
17C-1-7                      301.34
17C-1-8                      301.02
17C-1-12                     301.46
17C-1-13                     301.04
17C-1-15                     301.45
17C-1-16                     301.36
17C-1-17                     301.23
17C-1-21                     301.26
17C-1-22                     301.28
17C-1-24                     301.09
17C-1-25                     301.10
17C-1-26                     301.11
17C-1-29                     301.22
17C-1-30                     301.21
17C-1-31                     301.08
17C-1-32                     301.18
17C-1-33                     301.24
17C-1-35                     301.40
17C-1-36                     301.25
17C-1-37                     301.32
17C-1-38                     301.37
17C-1-39                     301.13
17C-1-40                     301.41
17C-1-41                     301.06
17C-1-42                     301.12
17C-1-43                     301.07
17C-1-44                     301.33
17C-1-45                     301.05
17C-1-46                     301.29
17C-1-47                     301.43
17C-1-48                     301.44
17C-1-49                     301.27
17C-1-50                     301.42
17C-1-51                     301.31
17C-1-52                     301.38
17C-1-53                     301.39
17C-1-54                     301.19
17C-1-55                     301.35
17C-1-60                     301.20
17C-1-62                     301.30
17C-1-64                     301.201
17C-1-65                     301.48
17C-1-66                     301.081
17C-1-69                     345.29
17C-1-70                     301.085,
                             373.11
17C-2-1                      303.02
17C-2-3(c)                   303.03
17C-2-4                      303.04
17C-2-5                      303.05
17C-2-6                      303.06
17C-2-7                      Article 303,
                             Article 305
                             Article 303,
17C-2-8                      Article 305,
                             Article 335
17C-2-8(a)(1)                Article 361
17C-2-8(a)(2)                Article 313
17C-2-8(a)(3)                Article 311
17C-2-8(a)(6)                Article 341,
                             Article 343
17C-2-8(a)(7)                Article 347
17C-2-8(a)(8)                Article 373
17C-2-8(a)(9)                Article 339
17C-2-8(b)                   Article 313
17C-2-8(c)                   Article 313
17C-2-8(a)(4)                Article 337
17C-2-9                      303.08
17C-3-1                      313.08
17C-3-2                      Article 313
17C-3-3                      Article 313
17C-3-4                      313.01
17C-3-4a                     313.02
17C-3-4b                     313.08
17C-3-5                      313.03
17C-3-6                      313.04
17C-3-7                      313.05
17C-3-8                      313.06
17C-3-9                      313.06
17C-4-1                      331.01,
                             331.99
17C-4-2                      331.02
17C-4-3                      331.03
17C-4-4                      331.04
17C-4-5                      331.05
17C-4-6                      331.06
17C-4-8                      331.07
17C-4-12                     331.08
17C-4-15                     Article 331
17C-5                        333.011
17C-5-2                      333.01
17C-5-2b                     333.01,
                             333.011
17C-5-3                      333.02
17C-5-7a                     333.011
17C-5-11(a)                  Article 333
17C-5A                       Article 333
17C-5A-1 et seq.             333.011
17C-5A-3                     333.01,
                             333.011
17C-5A-3a                    333.01
17C-5D-2                     334.01
17C-5D-3                     334.02,
                             334.99
17C-5D-4                     334.03
Article 17C-6                335.01
17C-6-1                      335.01
17C-6-3                      Article 335
17C-6-3a                     Article 335
17C-6-3a(a)                  335.02
17C-6-4 et seq.              Article 335
17C-6-4                      335.03
17C-6-5                      335.03
17C-6-7                      Article 335,
                             335.05
17C-6-8(a)                   335.04
Chapter 17C-6-11             345.18
17C-6-11                     335.06
17C-7-1                      337.01
17C-7-2                      337.02
17C-7-3                      337.03
17C-7-4                      337.04
17C-7-5                      337.05
17C-7-6                      337.06
17C-7-7                      337.07
17C-7-8(b)                   337.08
17C-7-8(c)                   337.08
17C-7-9                      337.09
17C-7-10                     337.10
17C-7-11                     337.11
17C-7-12                     337.12
17C-8-1                      339.01
17C-8-2                      339.02
17C-8-3                      339.03
17C-8-4                      339.04
17C-8-5                      Article 339,
                             339.05
17C-8-6                      339.06
17C-8-7                      339.07
17C-8-8                      339.08
17C-8-9                      339.09
17C-8-10                     339.10
17C-9-1                      341.01
17C-9-2                      341.02
17C-9-3                      341.03
17C-9-4                      341.04
17C-9-5                      341.05
17C-10-1(a)                  371.01
17C-10-2                     371.02
17C-10-3                     371.03
17C-10-4                     371.04
17C-10-5                     371.05
17C-10-6                     371.06
17C-10-8                     371.07
17C-10A-1                    371.09
17C-10A-2                    371.09
17C-11-1                     373.01
17C-11-2                     373.02
17C-11-3                     373.03
17C-11-4                     373.04
17C-11-5                     373.05
17C-11-6                     373.06
17C-11-7                     373.07
17C-11-8                     373.11
17C-11A-3                    373.10
17C-11A-4                    373.10
17C-11A-5                    373.10
17C-11A-6                    373.10
17C-11A-7                    373.99
17C-12-1                     343.01
17C-12-2                     343.02
17C-12-3                     343.03
17C-12-4                     343.04
17C-12-5                     Article 341,
                             343.05
17C-12-6                     343.06
17C-12-7                     343.07
17C-12-8                     343.07,
                             343.08
17C-12-7a                    343.08
17C-13-1                     361.01
17C-13-2                     361.02
17C-13-3                     361.03
17C-13-4                     Article 361
17C-13-6                     361.06
17C-14-1                     349.01
17C-14-2                     349.02
17C-14-4                     349.03
17C-14-5                     349.04
17C-14-6                     349.05
17C-14-9                     349.06
17C-14-9a                    349.061,
                             349.99
17C-14-10                    349.07
17C-14-11                    311.01
17C-14-12                    345.18
17C-14-13                    361.04
17C-14-14                    349.21
17C-14-15                    349.21,
                             349.99
Article 17C-15               303.07
17C-15-1                     345.01
17C-15-2                     345.02
17C-15-3                     345.03
17C-15-4                     345.04
17C-15-5                     345.05
17C-15-13                    Article 345
17C-15-14                    345.06
17C-15-15                    345.07
17C-15-16                    345.08
17C-15-17                    345.09
17C-15-18                    345.10
17C-15-19                    345.11
17C-15-20                    345.12
17C-15-21                    345.13
17C-15-22                    345.14
17C-15-23                    345.15
17C-15-24                    345.16
17C-15-25                    345.17
17C-15-26                    301.02,
                             345.18
17C-15-26(e)                 343.08
17C-15-27                    345.18
17C-15-31                    345.19
17C-15-32                    345.20
17C-15-33                    345.21
17C-15-34                    345.21
17C-15-35                    345.23
17C-15-36                    345.24
17C-15-36a                   345.34,
                             345.99
17C-15-37                    345.25
17C-15-38                    345.26
17C-15-39                    Article 345
17C-15-41                    345.27
17-C-15-42                   345.28
17-C-15-44                   345.29
17C-15-45                    345.30
17C-15-46                    345.31
17C-15-48                    345.33
17C-15-49                    345.35
Article 17C-16               345.32
Chapter 17C-16               345.33
17C-16-9                     345.32
Article 17C-17               347.01,
                             347.03
17C-17-2                     347.03
17C-17-2(b)                  Article 347
17C-17-3                     347.02
17C-17-4                     347.03
17C-17-5                     347.03
17C-17-6                     347.04
17C-17-7                     347.05
17C-17-11                    347.06
17C-17-11b                   347.03
17C-18-1                     303.99
Article 17C-19               334.03
17C-19-3                     334.03,
                             353.06
Art. 17C-23                  349.08
17D-1-1 et seq.              373.11
Article 17D-2A               349.20
17D-2A-3                     331.03
17D-2A-9                     349.99
17D-4-2                      331.03,
                             379.05
Article 17E-1                Article 353,
                             353.01
17E-1-1 et seq.              349.22
17E-1-3                      353.01
17E-1-4                      353.02
17E-1-5                      353.03
17E-1-6                      353.03
17E-1-7                      353.04
17E-1-8                      353.05
17E-1-9(d)                   353.01
17E-1-14                     353.06
17E-1-14(a)                  353.07
17E-1-15                     353.06
18-2A-9                      Article 501
18-8-1                       525.06
18-8-10                      525.06
18A-5-1                      529.02
18A-5-1a                     545.01,
                             529.02
Article 19-4                 745.15
19-7-8                       Article 513
Art. 19-9                    Article 505
Art. 19-20                   Article 505
Art. 19-20A                  Article 505,
                             505.05
19-23-9                      511.05
Art. 20-2                    Article 505
21-9                         1369.08
Chapter 21, Article 9, 2     1305.02
21A-6-3                      525.07
24-2-4b                      Article 921
24-3-8                       Article 921
25-1-11c                     545.03
Chapter 27                   545.04
Article 27-5                 521.06,
                             521.99
Article 27-6A                521.06,
                             521.99
27-11-17                     521.06
Article 29-3                 545.10
29-3-21                      501.02
29-3-23                      545.10
29-3-24                      545.10
Art. 29-3A                   Article 141,
                             Article 1503 
29-22A-1 et seq.             521.09
29-22B                       1369.10
29-22C-1 et seq.             521.09
29-25-1 et seq.              521.09
Chapter 29A                  521.06
29B-1-3                      133.12
29B-1-3a                     133.12
30-6-3                       349.08
                             361.06,
30-29-1                      501.05,
                             545.03
30-29-4                      333.011
30-29-8                      139.18
Ch. 31                       745.15
31-2-13                      Article 541
Art. 31-2A                   541.01
Ch. 36, § 10                Charter § 26
Ch. 36, § 11                Charter § 26
Ch. 36, § 12                Charter § 26
38-11-5                      533.11
47-20-1 et seq.              521.09
47-21-1 et seq.              521.09
49-1-202                     Article 525
49-4-701 et seq.             545.05
49-4-701                     525.07
Chapter 50                   Charter §§ 19,
                             20
50-3-2                       333.011
50-3-2a                      533.99
55-7A-2                      525.03
Art. 55-9                    Article 513
59-2-1(c)                    373.99
Chapter 59, Article 3        1381.01
                             105.08,
59-3-1 et seq.               109.03,
                             115.12
                             521.03,
Chapter 60                   521.04,
                             521.06
60-1-1 et seq.               521.06
                             334.01,
60-1-5                       521.01,
                             529.04
60-1-5a                      521.11
Article 60-3                 761.01
60-3-22                      521.04
60-3-22a                     521.05,
                             521.99
60-3A-24                     521.13,
                             521.99
60-3A-25a                    521.11
Art. 60-5                    Article 521
Article 60-6                 521.03
60-6-5                       521.02
60-6-7                       521.03
60-6-8                       521.04
60-6-9                       521.06,
                             521.99
60-6-18                      Article 521
                             521.09,
                             745.15,
                             757.05,
Article 60-7                 765.01,
                             765.02,
                             761.01,
                             761.02
                             521.04,
60-7-1 et seq.               521.07,
                             521.09
60-7-2                       765.01
60-7-7                       Article 761,
                             Article 765
60-7-12                      521.09,
                             521.99
60-7-12a                     521.10,
                             521.99
Article 60-8                 521.11,
                             773.01
60-8-1 et seq.               521.04,
                             521.07
60-8-3                       521.01
60-8-6                       521.11
60-8-20                      521.11
60-8-20a                     521.12,
                             521.99
                             521.04,
Chapter 60A                  529.03,
                             Article 529
60A-1-101                    333.01,
                             529.03
60A-1-101(d)                 505.01
60A-1-101(f)                 529.03
60A-1-101(g)                 529.03
60A-1-101(y)                 529.03
60A-2-204                    545.99
60A-2-205                    545.99
60A-2-206                    545.99
60A-2-211                    529.03
60A-2-212                    529.03
Ch. 61                       Article 501
61-1-9                       501.05
Art. 61-2                    Article 529
61-2-9(a)                    545.04
61-2-9(b)                    545.04
61-2-26                      525.04
61-2-28                      545.04
Art. 61-3                    Article 533
61-3-13                      533.03
61-3-18                      533.04
61-3-30                      533.05
61-3-40                      533.11
61-3-43                      541.02
61-3-44                      533.06
61-3-45                      533.06
61-3-53                      533.10
61-3A-1                      533.01
61-3A-2                      533.01
61-3A-3                      533.01
61-3A-4                      533.01
61-3A-5                      533.01
61-3A-6                      533.01
61-3B-1                      533.02
61-3B-2                      533.02
61-3B-3                      533.02
Art. 61-5                    Article 501
61-5-14                      501.01,
                             501.99
61-5-17                      501.02,
                             501.99
Art. 61-5A                   Article 501
Art. 61-6                    Article 509
61-6-1b                      509.01
61-6-14                      509.06
61-6-14a                     509.02
61-6-17                      501.04,
                             501.99
61-6-20                      501.08
61-6-22                      509.08
Art. 61-7                    Article 545
61-7-1                       533.02
61-7-2                       545.01
61-7-3                       545.02
61-7-4                       545.03
61-7-6                       545.03
61-7-6a                      545.03
61-7-7                       545.04,
                             545.99
61-7-8                       545.05
61-7-9                       545.06
61-7-10                      545.07
61-7-11                      545.08
61-7-11a                     545.01
61-7A-5                      545.04 
61-8-5                       517.01
61-8-6                       517.02
61-8-7                       517.03
61-8-8                       517.04
61-8-9                       517.06
61-8-16                      517.05
61-8-19                      505.01,
                             505.99
61-8-19a                     505.99
61-8-29                      509.10
61-8D-10                     525.01
Art. 61-9                    Article 517
Art. 61-10                   Article 513
61-10-1                      513.01
61-10-2                      513.02
61-10-3                      513.03
61-10-4                      513.04
61-10-5                      513.05
61-10-6                      513.06
61-10-9                      513.07
61-10-10                     513.08
61-10-11                     513.09
61-10-15                     Article 501
61-10-22                     Article 501
61-11-8                      501.06
61-11A-4                     533.99
61-11A-5                     525.01
61A-1-101(e)                 545.01
61A-1-101(m)                 545.01
62-1-5a                      501.07
62-5-2                       333.011
62-5-7                       333.011
62-5-10                      333.011
Article 62-11B               351.99
62-11B-1 et seq.             173.15
62-12-14                     545.03
62-12-26                     509.10
                             
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        - -         109.03
-        5-5-1959    149.01—
                     149.05
-        12-1-1970   160.01—
                     160.11
-        7-7-1981    773.01—
                     773.04
-        12-2-1981   1713.06
-        8-12-1981   505.06
-        2-17-1982   145.01—
                     145.05
                     505.02,
-        10-5-1982   505.03,
                     505.14
-        12-21-1982  161.08,
                     161.09
                     745.01—
                     745.16,
-        6-7-1983    745.18—
                     745.33,
                     745.99
-        8-16-1983   761.01
-        12-21-1983  161.05,
                     161.06
-        10-1-1984   921.03
-        11-19-1985  1717.07
89-3     7-5-1988    533.09
-        7-26-1988   148.01—
                     148.09
-        3-8-1989    164.01—
                     164.08
-        8-23-1989   1109.01—
                     1109.08
-        11-7-1989   507.01—
                     507.21
-        3-6-1990    761.02
-        10-18-1990  711.01—
                     711.04
-        10-18-1990  719.01—
                     719.04
-        10-18-1990  741.16
-        12-4-1990   147.01—
                     147.03
-        12-4-1990   152.01—
                     152.03
-        3-5-1991    165.01—
                     165.04
                     1705.01—
-        10-1-1991   1705.08,
                     1705.99
                     951.01—
-        1-21-1992   951.05,
                     951.99
-        3-3-1992    537.02
-        3-5-1992    105.06
-        10-27-1992  781.03
-        3-16-1993   115.12
-        3-16-1993   1743.01—
                     1743.10
93-001   3-16-1993   161.11
                     777.01,
-        5-4-1993    777.03—
                     777.10,
                     777.99
-        7-6-1993    509.09
-        8-2-1993    167.01—
                     167.04
-        10-19-1993  164.05
95-01    5-2-1995    951.06
-        6-27-1995   545.10
                     1301.01—
                     1301.08,
                     1305.01,
                     1305.02,
                     1309.01—
                     1309.05,
                     1313.01—
                     1313.07,
                     1317.01—
                     1317.07,
                     1321.01—
                     1321.07,
                     1325.01—
                     1325.07,
                     1329.01—
                     1329.06,
                     1333.01—
                     1333.09,
                     1337.01—
                     1337.07,
95-04    8-29-1995   1341.01—
                     1341.07,
                     1345.01,
                     1345.02,
                     1349.01—
                     1349.03,
                     1353.01—
                     1353.11,
                     1357.01—
                     1357.10,
                     1361.01—
                     1361.14,
                     1365.01—
                     1365.11,
                     1369.01—
                     1369.09,
                     1373.01—
                     1373.05,
                     1377.01—
                     1377.09,
                     1385.01—
                     1385.12
95-06    10-19-1995  164.02
95-08    10-19-1995  951.04
95-09    11-7-1995   545.10
96-02    4-2-1996    147.04
96-03    4-23-1996   929.21
96-05    7-30-1996   373.10
96-08    10-23-1996  525.06
-        10-7-1997   1751.01,
                     1751.02
-        4-21-1998   777.02
-        9-1-1998    1313.05
-        11-2-1999   929.22
                     133.02,
                     133.11,
-        12-21-1999  133.12,
                     133.15,
                     133.16
-        2-2-2000    1385.04
-        4-4-2000    161.06,
                     161.08
-        7-10-2001   165.02
-        8-21-2001   115.15
-        10-4-2001   1369.10
-        2-4-2003    115.16,
                     115.17
-        9-16-2003   105.07
                     363.01—
-        10-4-2003   363.03,
                     363.99
-        7-6-2004    139.01—
                     139.18
-        2-21-2006   749.01—
                     749.11
-        3-7-2006    149.04
-        3-7-2006    1369.10
-        6-15-2010   160.02
-        8-7-2012    925.17
                     511.01—
-        4-16-2013   511.05,
                     1725.01—
                     1725.12
                     355.01—
-        9-3-2013    355.05,
                     355.99
-        2-4-2014    951.04,
                     951.06
-        4-1-2014    361.17
-        12-2-2014   361.16
-        12-16-2014  365.01
                     777.01—
-        5-5-2015    777.10,
                     777.99
                     173.01—
-        12-15-2015  173.17,
                     351.99
                     355.01—
-        2-2-2016    355.05,
                     355.99
-        5-2-2017    347.07
                     1505.01—
-        7-11-2017   1505.13,
                     1505.99
                     535.01—
-        7-25-2017   535.13,
                     535.99
                     101.99,
                     313.99,
                     335.99,
                     337.99,
                     339.99,
                     341.99,
                     345.35,
                     345.99,
                     361.99,
                     363.99,
                     371.99,
                     509.99,
                     517.99,
-        8-8-2017    525.99,
                     529.99,
                     533.01,
                     541.99,
                     701.99,
                     715.99,
                     741.99,
                     749.99,
                     781.07,
                     1109.02—
                     1109.08,
                     1507.99,
                     1513.99,
                     1517.99
-        9-19-2017   921.04
                     343.07,
-        11-7-2017   343.08,
                     343.99,
                     353.99
                     379.01—
-        12-5-2017   379.10,
                     379.99
                     173.01—
                     173.17,
-        10-16-2018  529.01—
                     529.04,
                     529.98
-        12-18-2018  546.01—
                     546.04
-        2-19-2019   1749.01—
                     1749.11
-        10-1-2019   929.23
-        2-19-2020   1749.12
-        9-15-2020   1317.04
                     1381.01—
-        8-18-2020   1381.03,
                     1747.01,
                     1747.02
 
 
