SHINNSTON, WEST VIRGINIA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ord. passed 9-14-2020
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING CORPORATION
525 Vine Street  *  Suite 310  *  Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588  www.amlegal.com
CITY OFFICIALS
   Mayor   Patrick Kovalck
   Vice-Mayor   Andrew Kisamore
   City Clerk   Kathleen Panek
   Council Ward 1   Andrew Kisamore
   Council Ward 2    Brian Parrish
   Council Ward 3   Patrick Kovalck
   Council Ward 4   Kevin Wiles
   At-large   Bill Watson
      Mary Ann Ferris
      Rodney Strait
CHARTER OF THE CITY OF SHINNSTON, WEST VIRGINIA
Section
   
1.   Incorporation; Succession; Number of Wards
   
2.   Form of Government
   
3.   Powers of the City
   
4.   The Council; Qualifications, Terms of Office, and Salary of Members;
Selection of Mayor
   
5.   City Council - Prohibitions
   
6.   Vacancies; Forfeiture of Office; Removal from Office; Filling of Vacancies
   
7.   City Council - Judge of Qualifications
   
8.   Powers of the Council; Appointment and Tenure of the City Manager
   
9.   Powers and Duties of City Manager
   
10.   City Clerk
   
11.   Recall of a Member of Council
   
12.   City Council - Independent Audit
   
13.   Meetings of Council; Rules of Procedure; Journal and Voting
   
14.   Action Requiring Ordinance
   
15.   Ordinances in General
   
16.   Emergency Ordinances
   
17.   Codes of Technical Regulations
   
18.   Authentication and Recording; Codification; Printing
   
19.   Administrative Offices and Departments
   
20.   Fire Department; Service Fees
   
21.   Personnel System
   
22.   City Attorney
   
23.   Planning and Zoning Commission
   
24.   Police Judge
   
25.   Chief of Police
   
26.   Board of Parks and Recreation
   
27.   Enforcement Agency for the Repair, Closing, Demolition of Dwellings or
Buildings Unfit for Human Habitation
   
28.   Budget and Budget Message; Public Hearing; Adoption and Revision
   
29.   Prohibitions - General
   
30.   Charter Amendments
   
31.   Sanitary Board
   
32.   Discriminatory Practices Prohibited
   
33.   Social Security
   
34.   Oath or Affirmation of Office
   
35.   Effect of Charter on Existing Ordinances and Administrative Rules and
Regulations
   
36.   Reference to General Law
   
37.   Meetings and Other Acts on Legal Holidays
   
38.   Separability
   
39.   Elections
   
40.   Effective Date of Charter
   
41.   Transition
SECTION 1. INCORPORATION; SUCCESSION; NUMBER OF WARDS.
   The inhabitants of the City of Shinnston, Harrison County, West Virginia,
within the corporate limits thereof as now established or as may hereafter be
established in the manner provided by law, shall be and continue in perpetuity
to be a municipal body politic and corporate, under the name of the “City of
Shinnston,” with all the powers of self-government granted by the constitution
and laws of the state.
   The City of Shinnston, as successor in interest of the present municipal
corporation of the same name, shall succeed to, own, possess and enjoy all the
property and all the rights, titles and interest of every kind and nature
vested in or belonging to such municipal corporation at the time this Charter
becomes effective, shall be subject to all existing liabilities, shall be bound
by and through the appropriate agency shall pay all existing debts, and shall
faithfully perform all present duties and discharge all present obligations of
such corporation.
   The territory embraced within said City shall be divided into four wards as
now established, or as may hereafter be established, and the Council of said
City may change the boundaries of said wards, or create additional ones, as may
appear to said Council to be proper or necessary; but no change shall be made
in the boundaries of said wards, or any new ward created, less than sixty days
before the holding of a general election for said City.
SECTION 2. FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   There is established by this Charter the “Manager Plan” form of municipal
government, as prescribed in Plan IV of section two, article three, chapter
eight of the Official Code of West Virginia, as amended. Except as otherwise
provided in this Charter, the Council shall be the governing authority of the
City, and shall appoint the City Manager who shall execute the laws and
administer the government of the City, except as otherwise provided herein.
SECTION 3. POWERS OF THE CITY.
   The City shall have all the powers specifically provided for in this
Charter, and shall also have all the powers now or hereafter granted to
municipal corporations and to cities of its class by the constitution and
general laws of the state, together with all the implied powers necessary and
proper to carry into execution the powers so granted. The enumeration herein of
particular powers shall not be deemed exclusive, but the City shall have and
may exercise all the powers which under the constitution and laws of the state
might properly be specifically enumerated in this Charter.
SECTION 4. THE COUNCIL; QUALIFICATIONS, TERMS OF OFFICE, AND SALARY OF MEMBERS;
SELECTION OF MAYOR.
   The Council shall consist of seven members, one from each of the four wards
established by the qualified voters of the City for terms of four years
beginning on the first day of July following their election, except that of the
seven Council members elected at the first election held under the provisions
of the Charter, the three Council members elected at large shall be elected for
terms of two years.
   In order to determine the ward representatives of Council of the first
administration under the first provisions of this Charter, all candidates for
Council in the first election under this Charter shall file and declare by the
ward in which they reside. Eligible voters shall be able to vote for all seven
Council positions in the first election under this Charter. The person
receiving the highest number of votes in that candidate’s ward shall be the
ward representative. The three persons receiving the highest number of votes
after all four wards are represented shall be the at large Council members.
   At each regular election thereafter, either three or four Council members,
as the case may be, shall be elected to succeed the incumbent members whose
terms of office expire on the thirtieth day of June following the election. The
terms of all Council members in office on the date this Charter is adopted
shall continue until the close of business on the 30th day of June following
the first regular election held hereunder.
   Council members shall be qualified voters of the City, shall be residents of
the City, shall hold no other public office except that of notary public or
member of the National Guard or naval or military reserve, and shall not be
employed by the City in any capacity. If a Council member shall cease to be
qualified or shall be convicted of treason, felony, or bribery in any election,
their office shall immediately become vacant. To file for Council, a candidate
must present the appropriate form and pay a $10.00 filing fee. The first
election under this Charter shall be held on June 9, 1998. Subsequent elections
shall be held on the first Tuesday in June in even numbered years thereafter.
   A special meeting of the Council shall be held at 12:00 noon on the 1st day
of July following each regular City election. If the former Mayor has been re-
elected to Council and is present, the former Mayor shall preside as temporary
chairperson. Otherwise, the person receiving the highest number of votes shall
preside. Then, newly elected Council members shall be inducted into office. The
Council shall then elect one of its members to serve as Mayor for a term of two
years. The Mayor shall preside at meetings of the Council and shall be
recognized as the head of the City government for all ceremonial and military
purposes, but shall have no regular administrative duties unless otherwise
provided herein or directed by Council. The Council shall elect from among its
members a Vice-Mayor who shall act as Mayor during the absence or disability of
the Mayor and, if a vacancy occurs, shall become Mayor for the remainder of the
unexpired term.
   The compensation of the Mayor and members of Council shall be set by
ordinance.
SECTION 5. CITY COUNCIL - PROHIBITIONS.
   (a)   Holding Other Office. Except where authorized by law, no Council
member shall hold any other elected public office during the term for which the
member was elected to the Council. No Council member shall hold any other City
office or employment during the terms for which the member was elected to the
Council. No former Council member shall hold any compensated appointive office
or employment with the City until one year after the expiration of the term for
which the member was elected to the Council. Nothing in this section shall be
construed to prohibit the Council from selecting any current or former Council
member to represent the City on the governing board of any regional or other
intergovernmental agency.
   (b)   Appointments and Removals. Neither the City Council nor any of its
members shall in any manner control or demand the appointment or removal of any
City administrative officer or employee whom the City Manager or any
subordinate of the City Manager is empowered to appoint, but the Council may
express its views and fully and freely discuss with the City Manager anything
pertaining to appointment and removal of such officers and employees.
   (c)   Interference with Administration. Except for the purpose of inquiries
and investigations under Section 7 of this Charter, the Council or its members
shall deal with City officers and employees who are subject to the direction
and supervision of the City Manager solely through the City Manager, and
neither the Council nor its members shall give orders to any such officer or
employee, either publicly or privately.
   (d)   Conflict of Interest. Any member of the Council having any interest
direct or indirect, other than as a citizen of the City of Shinnston, in any
matter to be acted upon in any way by Council, shall divulge that interest to
the City Council and shall have no vote on such matter, nor shall he/she be
privileged to take part in the discussion thereof except by unanimous consent,
and, upon the request of any other member of the Council, the member shall
retire from the session until such matter has been disposed of.
SECTION 6. VACANCIES; FORFEITURE OF OFFICE; REMOVAL FROM OFFICE; FILLING OF
VACANCIES.
   (a)   Vacancies. The office of a Council member shall become vacant upon the
member’s death, resignation, removal from office or forfeiture of office in any
manner authorized by law.
   (b)   Forfeiture of Office. A Council member shall forfeit that office if
the Council member (1) lacks at any time during the term of the office for
which elected any qualification for the office prescribed by this Charter or by
law, or (2) while holding such office is convicted of treason, felony, or
bribery in any election.
   (c)   Removal from Office. A Council member shall be subject to removal from
office in the manner provided for the removal of municipal officers in section
seven, article six, chapter six of the official Code of West Virginia, as
amended, if the Council member (1) violates any express prohibition of this
Charter, (2) is convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude, or (3) fails to
attend three consecutive regular meetings of the Council without being excused
by the Council.
   (d)   Filling of Vacancies. If a vacancy occurs in the City Council, the
Council by a majority vote of all its remaining members shall appoint a
qualified person to fill the vacancy. An individual who has forfeited the
office of member of the City Council cannot be reappointed to complete the
unexpired term. The appointee will remain in office until the person elected to
serve the remainder of the unexpired term takes office. This person will be
elected at the regular municipal election following the date the vacancy
occurred. If the vacancy occurs less than 60 days prior to the next municipal
election, the appointee will remain in the office the remainder of the
unexpired term of the Council member. If the Council fails to appoint someone
to fill the vacancy within 45 days, then of the unsuccessful candidates for the
office of member of Council at the last election, who are still qualified and
willing to serve, the one who received more votes than any of the others shall
be entitled to the office. A special election shall be held within 40 days,
following all other efforts to fill a Council vacancy, if those efforts are
unsuccessful in filling the vacancy with a qualified replacement. If a special
election does not fill the vacancy, then the Mayor shall appoint a qualified
person to fill the vacancy.
   (e)   Appointments and/or Elections. Appointments and/or elections to fill
any vacancy on Council shall be done in such a manner to keep intact the
respective ward and at-large representation of the electorate.
SECTION 7. CITY COUNCIL - JUDGE OF QUALIFICATIONS.
   The City Council shall be the judge of the election and qualifications of
its members and of the grounds for forfeiture of their office. In order to
exercise these powers, the Council shall have the power to subpoena witnesses,
administer oaths and require the production of evidence. The City Clerk shall
notify a member charged with conduct constituting grounds for forfeiture of
office by certified mail.
   If the member desires a public hearing, he/she must notify the City Council
within ten days. The public hearing must be heard no later than twenty days
after the receipt of the request for a hearing. A notice of such hearing shall
be published in one or more newspapers of general circulation in the City at
least one week in advance of the hearing. Decisions made by the Council under
this section shall be subject to judicial review.
SECTION 8. POWERS OF THE COUNCIL; APPOINTMENT AND TENURE OF THE CITY MANAGER.
   Subject to any limitations imposed by the constitution and general laws of
the state, all powers of the City shall be vested in and exercised by the
Council, except such powers as are by this Charter specifically vested in the
sanitary board and such powers as are by general law vested in the other boards
or commissions provided for in this Charter or hereafter created by Council
pursuant to general law. No franchise granted by the Council may be transferred
in whole or in part without the written consent of Council.
   The Council shall appoint a City Manager to serve for an indefinite term,
and may at any time remove him/her from office by the affirmative vote of not
less than four of its members. At least thirty days before such removal shall
become effective, the Council shall adopt a preliminary resolution stating the
reasons for his/her removal, and specifying the date on which his/her removal
shall become final. At any time within ten days after the adoption of such
resolution, upon the written request of the Manager, he/she shall be afforded
an opportunity to be heard at a public meeting of the Council, which shall be
held no earlier than ten nor later than twenty days after the request was made,
and at a time and place to be fixed by Council. After such public hearing if
one is requested, after full consideration, the Council by the affirmative vote
of four of its members may adopt a final resolution of removal. By the
preliminary resolution the Council may suspend the Manager with pay for a
period not to exceed thirty days, and may designate some other person to
perform the duties of the Manager during the period of his/her suspension.
   The City Manager shall be a person of proved executive and administrative
ability, preferably with experience and training in the field of City
management. At the time of his/her appointment he/she need not be a resident of
the City or state, but within six months of his/her appointment to office shall
be a West Virginia resident and reside within thirty miles of Shinnston’s
municipal boundaries. No Council member, during his/her term and for a year
thereafter, shall be eligible for appointment as City Manager.
   Neither the Council nor any of its members shall direct or in any manner
interfere with or obstruct the appointment or removal of any City officer or
employee by the City Manager or by any of his/her subordinates. Except for the
purpose of inquiry, the Council and its members shall deal with the
administrative service solely through the City Manager and neither the Council
nor any member thereof shall give orders to any subordinates of the City
Manager, either publicly or privately. If any Council member shall violate the
provisions of this section, he/she shall be subject to removal from office
pursuant to section seven, article six, chapter six of the official code of
West Virginia, as provided by Section 6, Subsection (c) of this Charter.
   Except as otherwise provided by this Charter, and within the limitations
imposed by the constitution and general laws of the state, the Council may
determine the powers and duties of City officers, and subject to the
requirements of general law may regulate the number, method of selection,
qualifications, tenure, and compensation of City officers and employees,
including the establishment of civil service for such employees.
(Ord. passed 12-8-2014)
SECTION 9. POWERS AND DUTIES OF CITY MANAGER.
   Except as otherwise provided in the Charter, the City Manager shall be the
head of the administrative branch of the City government. He/she shall be
responsible to the Council under policy direction, serves as the Chief
Executive Officer of the City: assumes full responsibility for planning,
administering, directing, overseeing, and evaluating the activities and
operations of the City of Shinnston including public safety, community
development, finance, utilities, operations and maintenance, parks, facilities,
and administration: provides policy guidance to and coordinates the activities
of management staff; facilitates the development and implementation of long and
short range plans, policies, goals, objectives, and programs to provide the
City with technical and administrative direction in meeting and maintaining
City services standards: ensures public services are delivered in an efficient
and effective manner: and provides highly complex administrative support to the
City Council including implementing policy decisions made by the City Council.
In addition, he/she shall have the power and shall be required to:
      (1)   Appoint and, when he/she deems it necessary or advisable, remove
all officers and employees of the City except as otherwise provided by this
Charter or by general law, and except as he/she may authorize the head of a
department or office to appoint and remove subordinates in such department or
office.
      (2)   Assume full management responsibility for all City operations:
assess ongoing operational needs through department heads and determine best
organizational structure to meet goals and objectives: develop, recommend, and
administer policies and procedures.
      (3)   Direct the development and implementation of the City’s goals,
objectives, policies, and priorities.
      (4)   Establish, within City policy, appropriate service and staffing
levels: monitor and evaluate the efficiency and effectiveness of service
delivery methods and procedures; allocate resources accordingly.
      (5)   Plan, direct and coordinate, through department heads, the work
plan for the City; assign projects and programmatic areas of responsibility;
review and evaluate work methods and procedures: meet with management staff to
identify and resolve problems.
      (6)   Assess and monitor work load, administrative support systems, and
internal reporting relationships: identify opportunities for improvement and
implement as appropriate.
      (7)   Select, motivate, and evaluate personnel; resolve personnel
concerns and issues.
      (8)   Oversee the development and administration of the City budget:
approve the forecast of funds needed for staffing, equipment, materials, and
supplies: approve expenditures and implement budgetary adjustments as
appropriate and necessary: keep Council advised of financial conditions,
program progress, and present the future needs of the City.
      (9)   Explain City Programs, policies, and activities: negotiate and
resolve sensitive and controversial issues.
      (10)   Represent the City to all departments and outside agencies:
coordinate City activities with those of other cities, counties, and outside
agencies and organizations.
      (11)   Provide staff assistance to the City Council: prepare and present
staff reports and other necessary correspondence: provide advice and
consultation to the City Council on the development and implementation of City
programs and services.
      (12)   Confer with department heads concerning administrative and
operational problems, work plans, and strategic plans: make appropriate
decisions or recommendations: oversee the preparations and implementation of
long range plans for the City.
      (13)   Serve as a resources for the City Council, department personnel.
City Staff, other organizations, and the public: coordinate pertinent
information, resources, and work teams necessary to support a positive and
productive environment.
      (14)   Perform all duties as may be prescribed by City Council action:
direct the preparation of plans and specifications for work that the City
Council orders.
      (15)   Attend and participate in professional group meetings: stay
abreast of new trends and innovations in the field of city management and
administration.
      (16)   Respond to media inquiries. City Council concerns and issues, and
community needs.
      (17)   Respond to and resolve difficult and sensitive citizen inquiries
and complaints.
      (18)   Perform related duties as required.
   The Manager may by letter filed with the City Clerk designate some qualified
administrative officer of the City to perform the duties of the City Manager
during his/her temporary absence or disability. If the City Manager fails to
make such designation, the Council may by resolution appoint an officer of the
City to act as City Manager during his/her absence or disability.
(Ord. passed 2-9-2015)
SECTION 10. CITY CLERK.
   The Council shall appoint a resident of the City to serve as City Clerk at
the will and pleasure of the Council. Except as otherwise provided in this
Charter and subject to the supervision of the City Manager, the Clerk shall
have the power and it shall be his/her duty to:
      (1)   Give notice of and attend all meetings of the Council, keep the
journal of its proceedings, authenticate by his/her signature and record in
full in a book kept for the purpose all ordinances and resolutions of the
Council, prepare and keep up to date an index of all such ordinances and
resolutions, and keep all such records available for public inspection when not
in use.
      (2)   Make and certify copies of any ordinance, resolution or order of
the Council whenever required to do so, and affix the corporate seal of the
City to any paper required to be sealed and to any certified copy of any paper,
order or proceeding which he/she may make.
      (3)   Prepare and cause to be served all notices required to be given to
any person, firm or corporation, and after the proper service and return of any
notice he/she shall file and preserve the same.
      (4)   Have custody of and keep available for public inspection the
permanent records of the City and file and properly index all records of such
City officers and departments as the City Manager may direct.
      (5)   Perform such other duties as may be required of him/her by this
Charter, by general law, or by City ordinance or order of the City Manager not
inconsistent with this Charter or with general law.
SECTION 11. RECALL OF A MEMBER OF COUNCIL.
   Any member of Council may be removed from office by the following procedure:
a petition signed by at least twenty percent of the qualified voters of a ward
for a ward Council member or of the City for an at-large member shall be filed
with the City Clerk, which Petition shall contain a general statement of the
grounds for which the removal is sought. The petition shall be accompanied by a
bond in an amount determined by the City Clerk to equal the cost of the recall
election with sufficient surety to pay the cost of the recall election if a
majority of the legal votes cast are against the recall. Such petition and bond
shall be submitted to, examined and certified by the City Clerk, and if such
petition be deemed sufficient by the City Clerk, the City Clerk shall certify
the same to the City Council without delay. Upon receipt of such petition the
Council shall order and fix a date for holding a special recall election, not
less than thirty days nor more than fifty days from the date of the City
Clerk’s certificate. The Council shall publish notice of the election at least
ten days prior to the recall election in two newspapers of general circulation
in the City. The ballot for such recall election shall be substantially of the
following form and effect:
 
OFFICIAL BALLOT
 
                       day of                                  , in the year                      . Special
recall election for the removal of                                                              .
 
          For the recall of                                                        
          Against the recall of                                                  
 
 
   Should a majority of the votes cast be in favor of recall the person
recalled shall forthwith forfeit his/her office and the Council shall appoint a
successor to such office following the provisions in Section 6 of this Charter.
   The method of removal shall be cumulative and in addition to any other
methods of removal provided by law. No recall petition shall be filed within
ninety days succeeding or preceding any regular Council election. Not more than
one recall election shall be held with respect to an officer during his/her
term of office.
SECTION 12. CITY COUNCIL - INDEPENDENT AUDIT.
   The City Council shall provide for an independent annual audit of all City
accounts and may provide for more frequent audits as it deems necessary. Such
audits shall be made by a certified public accountant or firm of such
accountants who have no personal interest, direct or indirect, in the fiscal
affairs of the City government or any of its officers. The Council may, without
requiring competitive bids, designate such accountant or firm annually or for a
period not exceeding three years, but the designation for any particular fiscal
year shall be made no later than 30 days after the beginning of such fiscal
year. If the state makes such an audit, the Council may accept it as satisfying
the requirements of this section.
SECTION 13. MEETINGS OF COUNCIL; RULES OF PROCEDURE; JOURNAL AND VOTING.
   (a)   Meeting. The Council shall meet on the second Monday of each month at
7:00 p.m. Special meetings may be held on the call of the mayor or of three or
more members and, except in cases of emergency, upon no less than twenty-four
hours’ notice to each member, the public and news media, specifying the time,
place and purpose of the meeting. Except as allowed by the Open Governmental
Proceedings Act, Chapter 6, Article 9A, Section 4 of the West Virginia Code,
all meetings shall be public.
   (b)   Rules and Journal. The City Council shall determine its own rules and
order of business and shall provide for keeping a journal of its proceedings.
An updated and official record of the City ordinances along with the City
Charter shall be kept in a locked, secure location under the supervision of the
City Clerk. A copy of the journal of Council proceedings, the City Charter and
the City ordinances shall be kept at the City building and be available to the
public.
   (c)   Voting. Voting, except on procedural motions, shall be by roll call
and the ayes and nays shall be recorded in the journal. Four members of the
Council shall constitute a quorum. The Mayor shall be entitled to vote on all
matters before the Council. The Council shall by resolution adopt by-laws
prescribing its own rules, procedure, and order of business, and shall keep a
journal of all its proceedings, which shall be available for public inspection.
   (d)   Agenda. The City Manager shall make a preliminary agenda available to
each Council member, the City Attorney, the media, and interested citizens no
later than the close of business on the Thursday preceding the regularly
scheduled meeting of the Council, and a final agenda at the start of the
meeting itself.
(Ord. passed 1-31-2000)
SECTION 14. ACTION REQUIRING ORDINANCE.
   In addition to other acts required by law or by specific provision of this
Charter to be done by ordinance, those acts of the City Council shall be done
by ordinance which:
      (1)   Adopt or amend an administrative code or establish, alter, or
abolish any City department, office or agency;
      (2)   Provide for a fine or other penalty or a rule or regulation for
violation of which a fine, or other penalty is imposed;
      (3)   Levy taxes or provide for the collection of fees of any kind;
      (4)   Require a license to do business;
      (5)   Provide for public improvement;
      (6)   Grant, renew or extend a franchise;
      (7)   Regulate the rate charged for its services by a public utility;
      (8)   Authorize the issuance of bonds or other forms of indebtedness;
      (9)   Lay out or vacate a public street, avenue, road, alley or way;
      (10)   Relate to planning and zoning;
      (11)   Regulate land use and development;
      (12)   Provide for contractual or other agreements with other
jurisdictions;
      (13)   Provide for the purchase of private property by the municipality
or for the sale of property belonging to the municipality; and
      (14)   Amend or repeal any ordinance previously adopted.
   Acts other than those referred to in the preceding sentence may be done
either by ordinance or by resolution.
SECTION 15. ORDINANCES IN GENERAL.
   (a)   Form. Every proposed ordinance shall be introduced in writing in the
form required for final adoption. No ordinance shall contain more than one
subject which shall be clearly expressed in its title. The enacting clause
shall be “The City of Shinnston hereby ordains...” Any Ordinance which repeals
or amends an existing ordinance or part of the City Code shall set out in full
the ordinance, sections or subsections to be repealed or amended, and shall
indicate matters to be omitted by enclosing it in brackets or by striking type
and shall indicate new matters by underscoring or by italics.
   (b)   Procedure. Any ordinance may be introduced by any member at any
regular or special meeting of the Council. Upon introduction of any ordinance,
the City Clerk shall distribute a copy to each Council member and to the City
Manager and shall file a reasonable number of copies in the office of the City
Clerk and such other public places as the Council may designate. The proposed
ordinance shall be read by title at not less than two meetings of the City
Council with at least one week intervening between each meeting unless a member
of the City Council demands that the ordinance be read in full at one or both
meetings. If such demand is made, the ordinance shall be read in full as
demanded. The City Clerk shall publish the ordinance together with a notice
setting out the time and place for a public hearing thereon and for its
consideration by the Council. The public hearing shall follow the publication
by at least five days, may be held separately or in connection with a regular
or special Council meeting and may be adjourned from time to time; all persons
interested shall have an opportunity to be heard. After the hearing the Council
may adopt the ordinance with or without amendment or reject it, but if it is
amended as to any substance, the Council may not adopt it until the ordinance
or its amended sections have been subjected to all the procedures herein before
required in the case of a newly introduced ordinance. As soon as practicable
after adoption, the Clerk shall have the ordinance and a notice of its
adoption, published and available at a reasonable price.
   (c)   Effective Date. Except as provided in this Charter, every adopted
ordinance shall become effective at the expiration of 30 days after adoption or
at any later date specified therein.
   (d)   “Publish” Defined. As used in this section, the term “Publish” means
to print in one or more newspapers of general circulation in this City:
      (1)   The subject matter and general title or titles thereof, and
      (2)   The places where copies of it have been filed and the times when
they are available for public inspection and purchase at a reasonable price.
SECTION 16. EMERGENCY ORDINANCES.
   To meet a public emergency affecting life, health, property or the public
peace, the City Council may adopt one or more emergency ordinances, but such
ordinances may not levy taxes, grant, renew or extend a franchise, regulate the
rate charged by any public utility for its services or authorize the borrowing
of money except as provided in Section 3. An emergency ordinance shall be
introduced in the form and manner prescribed for ordinances generally, except
that it shall be plainly designated as an emergency ordinance and shall
contain, after enacting clause, a declaration stating that an emergency exists
and describing it in clear and specific terms. An emergency ordinance may be
adopted with or without amendment or rejected at the meeting at which it is
introduced, but the affirmative vote of at least five members shall be required
for its adoption. After its adoption, the ordinance shall be published and
printed as prescribed for other adopted ordinances. It shall become effective
upon adoption or at such a later time as it may specify. Every emergency
ordinance, except one made pursuant to Section 3, shall automatically stand
repealed as of the 61st day following the date on which it was adopted, but
this shall not prevent re-enactment of the ordinance in the manner specified in
this section if an emergency still exists. An emergency ordinance may also be
repealed by adoption of a repealing ordinance in the same manner specified in
this section for adoption of emergency ordinances.
SECTION 17. CODES OF TECHNICAL REGULATIONS.
   The City Council may adopt any standard code of technical regulations by
reference thereto in an adopting ordinance. The procedure and requirements
governing such an adopting ordinance shall be as prescribed for ordinances
generally except that:
      (1)   Before any such ordinance shall be adopted, the code must be
printed or typewritten and shall be presented in pamphlet form to the City
Council at a regular meeting, and copies of such code shall be made available
for public inspection.
      (2)   The ordinance adopting such code shall not set out said code in
full, but shall merely identify the same. After adoption of the ordinance, such
code or codes shall be certified by the mayor and filed as permanent record in
the office of the Clerk, who shall not be required to transcribe and record the
same in the ordinance book as other ordinances are transcribed and recorded.
   Copies of any adopted code of technical regulations shall be made available
by the City Clerk for distribution or for purchase at a reasonable price.
SECTION 18. AUTHENTICATION AND RECORDING; CODIFICATION; PRINTING.
   (a)   Authentication and Recording. The City Clerk shall authenticate by
signing and shall record in full in a properly indexed book kept for the
purpose all ordinances and resolutions adopted by the City Council.
   (b)   Codification. One year after Charter is in effect and at least every
four years after, the City Council shall provide for the preparation of a
general codification of all City ordinances and resolutions having the force
and effect of the law. The general codification shall be adopted by the Council
by ordinance and shall be published promptly in bound or loose-leaf form,
together with the Charter and other laws of the state of West Virginia, and
such codes as the Council may specify. This compilation shall be known and
cited officially as the Shinnston City Code. Copies of the code shall be
furnished to City officers, placed in libraries and public offices for free
public reference and made available for purchase by the public at a reasonable
price fixed by the Council.
   (c)   Printing of Ordinances and Resolutions. The City Council shall cause
each ordinance and resolution having the force and effect of law and each
amendment to this Charter be printed promptly following its adoption, and
printed ordinances, resolutions and Charter amendments shall be distributed or
sold to the public at reasonable prices as fixed by the Council. Following
publication of the first Shinnston City Code and at all times thereafter, the
ordinances, resolutions and Charter amendments shall be printed in
substantially the same style as the code currently in effect and shall be
suitable in form for integration therein. The Council shall make such further
arrangements as it deems desirable with respect to reproduction and
distribution of any current changes in or addition to the provisions of the
constitution and other laws of the state of West Virginia, or the codes of
technical regulations and other rules and regulations included in the code.
SECTION 19. ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICES AND DEPARTMENTS.
   There shall be in the City government a police department, a fire
department, a department of public works, and such other administrative
departments as may by ordinance be created by the Council. The City Manager
shall appoint as the head of each department, except the fire department, so
long as it remains a volunteer entity, a chief, supervisor or director, who
shall be responsible for the efficient administration of the department,
subject to the supervision and control of the Manager. Except as otherwise
provided by this Charter or by general law, the head of a department need not
be a resident of the City or state at the time of his/her appointment, but
within six months of his/her appointment to office shall be a West Virginia
resident and reside within thirty miles of Shinnston’s municipal boundaries.
   The Council may by ordinance create, combine, change or abolish offices,
departments or agencies, other than those established by this Charter. Except
as otherwise provided in this Charter, the Council may assign additional
functions or duties to any office, department or agency created by it or by
this Charter, but may not discontinue or transfer any function or duty assigned
by this Charter to any particular office, department or agency.
(Ord. passed 1-31-2000; Ord. passed 12-8-2014)
SECTION 20. FIRE DEPARTMENT; SERVICE FEES.
   Pursuant to West Virginia Code 8-15-1 et seq., the Shinnston Volunteer Fire
Department shall be designated to provide the City with fire protection
services for the City of Shinnston, so long as it is a viable, operating
department. If it shall cease to be operational, then the City shall provide
fire protection by establishing a fire department in accordance with Section 19
of this Charter.
SECTION 21. PERSONNEL SYSTEM.
   (a)   Merit Principle. All appointments and promotions of City officers and
employees shall be made solely on the basis of merit and fitness demonstrated
by a valid and reliable examination or other evidence of competence.
   (b)   Merit System. Consistent with all applicable federal and state laws
the City Council shall provide by ordinance, for the establishment, regulation
and maintenance of a merit system governing personnel policies necessary to
effective administration of the employees of the City’s offices and agencies,
including but not limited to any pay plans, examinations, force reduction,
removals, working conditions, provisional and exempt appointments, in-service
training, grievances and relationships with employee organizations.
SECTION 22. CITY ATTORNEY.
   The City attorney shall be a member in good standing of the West Virginia
State Bar. He/she shall be appointed by the City Manager to serve for an
indefinite term, only with the consent and ratification of Council. The City
Attorney shall be a contracted employee. He/she shall perform all duties and
exercise all powers which shall be conferred upon him/her by any ordinance or
resolution of the Council and, except as otherwise provided in this Charter,
he/she shall have the power and it shall be his/her duty to:
      (1)   Act as legal adviser and counsel for the City Council and for all
administrative boards and officers thereof with respect to their official
duties. Upon request, he/she shall furnish to the City Council or to such
officers a written opinion upon any question concerning their respective powers
and duties.
      (2)   Prosecute and defend all suits for or against the City, and prepare
all ordinances and all contracts, bonds or other writings in which the City is
concerned, and endorse on each his/her approval of the form and correctness
thereof.
      (3)   Prosecute all cases brought before or appealed from the police
court, and perform the same duties so far as they are applicable thereto as are
required by law of prosecuting attorneys.
   Whenever the exigencies of the business of the City require such action, the
City Manager shall have the right to employ special counsel to assist the City
attorney.
SECTION 23. PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
   The City Council shall establish a Planning, and Zoning Commission having
five members whose purpose shall be to promote the orderly development of the
municipality’s governmental units and its environs. The members of this
commission must be residents of the municipality and shall include
representatives of business, industry and labor. One member of the commission
shall also be a member of City Council and one member shall be the City
Manager, who will serve as an ex-officio, non-voting member. The terms of these
two members shall be co-extensive with the term of office to which they have
been elected or appointed, unless the City Council and City Manager at the
first regular meeting of the commission each year designate others to serve as
the municipality’s representatives. The City Manager will nominate one member
of Council and four residents of the City who are qualified by knowledge and
experience in matters pertaining to the development of the municipality, to
serve on the commission. The appointees must then be confirmed by City Council.
The appointments of the four residents will be one member for one year, one
member for two years and two members for three years respectively when first
selected. Thereafter members shall be selected for terms of three years each. A
member may be reappointed to his/her position on the commission. The commission
shall fix the time for holding regular meetings, but it shall meet at least
once in the months of January, April, July and October. All activities of the
commission will be consistent with Chapter eight, Article twenty-four of the
official Code of West Virginia.
SECTION 24. POLICE JUDGE.
   There shall be a police judge appointed by the City Manager, only with the
consent and ratification of Council. He/she shall have criminal jurisdiction
over the violation of all ordinances of the City. He/she shall hold Police
Court at such times and places as may be determined by him/her. He/she shall
give bond with security as required of a police judge, for the holding and
proper disbursement of all sums which may come to him/her in his/her official
capacity.
SECTION 25. CHIEF OF POLICE.
   The City Manager shall appoint a qualified individual to the office of chief
of police.
SECTION 26. BOARD OF PARKS AND RECREATION.
   With the concurrence of Council, the City Manager will appoint five
residents of the City to serve on a Board of Parks and Recreation. The first
appointments under this Charter shall be as follows; two members will be
appointed for two year terms, two members will be appointed for four year terms
and one member will be appointed for a six year term. Thereafter, each member
will serve for a six year term and may be reappointed. The Board will develop a
plan for the improvement of all recreational facilities and submit a
corresponding budget request to the City Manager annually. This plan and budget
will become part of the overall plan and budget for the City. The Board will be
required to develop rules, regulations and operating procedures for all
recreational facilities. The Board shall be required to meet at least once a
month on a regularly scheduled date which they themselves shall determine. An
appointee shall forfeit his/her office if he/she fails attend three consecutive
regularly scheduled meetings of the Board without being excused by the City
Manager.
SECTION 27. ENFORCEMENT AGENCY FOR THE REPAIR, CLOSING, DEMOLITION OF DWELLINGS
OR BUILDINGS UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION.
   The City Council shall enact ordinances regulating the repair, closing,
demolition, etc. of dwellings or buildings unfit for human habitation
consistent with the Chapter 8, Article 12, Section 16 of the West Virginia
Code. The enforcement agency shall consist of the City Manager, a municipal
engineer or building inspector, and one member at large to be selected by and
to serve at the will and pleasure of the City Manager. The ranking health
officer and fire chief shall serve as ex-officio members of the enforcement
agency. The enforcement agency shall be known as the Building Commission.
SECTION 28. BUDGET AND BUDGET MESSAGE; PUBLIC HEARING; ADOPTION AND REVISION.
   The fiscal and budget year of the City shall begin on the 1st day of July
and shall end on the 30th day of June of each calendar year. The budget for
each succeeding fiscal year submitted and amended as provided in this section,
shall be adopted by the Council not later than the 28th day of March of the
then current fiscal year.
   Not later than the 1st day of March of each year, the City Manager shall
submit to the Council a budget for the next fiscal year, together with a budget
message which shall contain an outline of the proposed financial operation of
the City for the coming year, shall describe the important features of the
budget plan, and shall set forth the reasons for the salient changes from the
previous year in cost and revenue items. In respect to proposed appropriations
for capital improvements, there shall be included in the budget message, or
attached thereto, a program and schedule of capital projects recommended by the
City Planning Commission for the next five fiscal years. A copy of the budget
and budget message, and all supporting documents, shall at the same time the
budget is submitted to the Council be filed with the City Clerk as a public
record, and shall be available for inspection by any interested person.
   The budget shall provide a complete financial plan for the budget year,
including any estimate of any anticipated surplus at the beginning of the year,
an estimate of anticipated revenues from all sources during the year, and a
detailed estimate of proposed appropriations for expenditure during the year by
each office, department, and agency of the City. The total of appropriations of
the budget as submitted by the Manager or as adopted by the Council shall not
exceed the sum of estimated revenues and surplus.
At a regular or special meeting of Council between the 7th and 28th days of
March of each year, there shall be a public hearing on the proposed budget, at
which time all interested persons shall be given an opportunity to be heard for
or against any estimate of revenue or any item of appropriation contained
therein. At said meeting, Council shall ascertain the fiscal condition of the
corporation, and make an itemized statement setting forth:
      (1)   The amount due and the amount that will become due and collectible
from every source during the current fiscal year except from the levy of taxes
to be made for the year;
      (2)   The interest, sinking fund and amortization requirements for the
fiscal year of bonded indebtedness, legally incurred upon a vote of the people
as provided by law, prior to the adoption of the tax limitation amendment;
      (3)   Other contractual indebtedness, not bonded, legally incurred prior
to the adoption of the tax limitation amendment, owing by the Municipality;
      (4)   All other expenditures to be paid out of the receipts of the
Municipality for the current fiscal year with proper allowance for delinquent
taxes, exonerations, and contingencies;
      (5)   The total amount necessary to be raised by the levy of taxes for
the current fiscal year;
      (6)   The proposed rate of levy in cents on each one hundred dollars
assessed valuation of each class of property; and
      (7)   The separate and aggregate assessed valuations of real, personal
and public utility property in each class in the Municipality.
   The City Clerk of the Municipality shall forward immediately a certified
copy of the statement to the Tax Commissioner, and shall publish the statement
forthwith. The session shall then stand adjourned until the 3rd Tuesday in
April, at which time it shall reconvene.
   The Council shall, when it reconvenes upon the 3rd Tuesday in April, hear
and consider any objections made orally or in writing by the City Attorney, by
the Tax Commissioner or his/her representative, or by any taxpayer of the City,
to the estimate and proposed levy, or to any item thereof. Council shall enter
of record any objections so made and the reasons and grounds therefor. The
Council, after hearing objections, shall reconsider the proposed original
estimate and proposed rates of levy, and if the objections are well taken,
shall correct the estimate and levy. No such estimate and levy, however, shall
be entered until the same shall have first been approved, in writing, by the
Tax Commissioner. When the same shall have been approved by the Tax
Commissioner, the Clerk shall then enter the estimate and levy, together with
the order of the Council approving them and the written approval of the Tax
Commissioner thereof, in the proper record book.
   In addition to the provisions set forth herein, Council shall be subject to
the requirements contained in section one, article eight, chapter eleven, et
seq. of the Official Code of West Virginia, as amended, as the same may apply
to municipal corporations.
   After the beginning of the fiscal year, the Council shall make only such
changes in the budget as may be required because of action taken by the State
Tax Commissioner in respect to the proposed tax levy of the City or as may be
permitted or required by general law. Thereafter, the Council shall make no
other changes in the budget unless permitted or required to do so by general
law. After the final adoption of the budget, the several amounts stated therein
as proposed appropriation shall be appropriated to the specified objects and
purposes. Except as otherwise provided by general law, the City Manager may at
any time transfer any unencumbered appropriation balance of an appropriated
line item from that line item to another line item with the same account
category established by the State Tax Commissioner, subject to the approval of
City Council. No transfers from one account category to another may be made
without revision of the budget and approval by the Tax Commissioner pursuant to
Chapter 11, Article 8, Section 1, et seq.
   For the purposes of accounting for the budget, the modified accrual basis of
accounting will be used, or any other basis of accounting required by the State
Tax Commissioner. The ending unencumbered balance at the end of the fiscal year
shall be the starting unencumbered balance for the new fiscal year.
   In addition to the foregoing, Council and the City Manager shall comply with
all applicable federal and state laws which in any way relate to the governing
of the financial affairs of a municipal corporation.
(Ord. passed 1-31-2000)
SECTION 29. PROHIBITIONS - GENERAL.
   (a)   Activities Prohibited.
      (1)   No person shall be appointed to or removed from, or in any way
favored or discriminated against with respect to any City position or
appointive City administrative office because of race, gender, age, handicap,
religion, country of origin or political affiliation.
      (2)   No person shall willfully make any false statement, certificate,
mark, rating or report in regard to any test, certification or appointment
under the provisions of this Charter or the rules and regulations made
thereunder, or in any manner commit or attempt to commit any fraud preventing
the impartial execution of such provisions, rules and regulations.
      (3)   No person who seeks appointment or promotion with respect to any
City position or appointive City administrative office shall directly or
indirectly give, render or pay any money, service or other valuable thing to
any person for or in connection with his or her test, appointment, proposed
appointment, promotion or proposed promotion.
      (4)   No person shall knowingly or willfully solicit or assist in
soliciting any assessment, subscription or contribution for any political party
or political purpose to be used in conjunction with any City election from any
City employee.
      (5)   No City employee shall knowingly or willfully solicit or receive
any contribution to the campaign funds of any political party or committee to
be used in a City election or to campaign funds to be used in support of or
opposition to any candidate for election to City office or City ballot issue.
Further, no City employee shall solicit votes for any candidate for election to
City office or City ballot issue. Further, no City employee shall manage the
campaign of or participate in fund-raising activities for any candidate for
City office. Nor shall a City employee work at the polls for a municipal
election. This section shall not be construed to limit any person’s right to
exercise rights as a citizen to express opinions or to cast a vote nor shall it
be construed to prohibit any person from active participation in political
campaigns at any other level of government.
   (b)   Penalties. Any person convicted of a violation of this section shall
be ineligible for a period of five years following such conviction to hold any
City office or position and if an officer or employee of the City, shall
immediately forfeit his or her office or position. The City Council shall
establish by ordinance such further penalties as it may deem appropriate.
SECTION 30. CHARTER AMENDMENTS.
   Amendments to this Charter shall be made in accordance with the general laws
of the State of West Virginia.
SECTION 31. SANITARY BOARD.
   The Sanitary Board of the City in existence on the date this Charter Board
is adopted shall be continued. The Sanitary Board shall have the powers and
shall perform the duties prescribed by general law with respect to the
construction, operation and maintenance of sewage disposal facilities. The
Sanitary Board shall be composed of either the Mayor or the City Manager, as
appointed by Council, who shall be the Chair of the Board, and two other
persons appointed by the Council.
(Ord. passed 1-31-2000; Ord. passed 6-13-2011)
SECTION 32. DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICES PROHIBITED.
   No person holding any appointive office or employment in the service of the
City, or seeking appointment thereto, shall be appointed, promoted, demoted or
removed, or in any way favored or discriminated against because of political
opinions or affiliations, or because of race, color or religious beliefs, or
gender, handicap, or country of origin.
SECTION 33. SOCIAL SECURITY.
   The City Council, the sanitary board, and every other board or commission
provided for in this Charter, or hereafter created by Council pursuant to
general law, shall in the manner prescribed by law provide social security
coverage for all eligible City officers and employees.
SECTION 34. OATH OR AFFIRMATION OF OFFICE.
   Before taking office every officer of the City and the head of each
administrative department shall take the oath or affirmation required by
section five, article four of the constitution of the state.
SECTION 35. EFFECT OF CHARTER ON EXISTING ORDINANCES AND ADMINISTRATIVE RULES
AND REGULATIONS.
   All existing ordinances and all existing administrative rules, regulations
and practices, if not inconsistent or in conflict with this Charter, shall
continue in full force and effect until repealed or modified by the Council or
other competent authority of the City. All ordinances, rules, regulations and
practices that are inconsistent or in conflict with this Charter shall, unless
sooner repealed or modified, continue in full force and effect for a period of
sixty days only, and at the end of that period shall to the extent of such
inconsistency or conflict be of no further force or effect.
SECTION 36. REFERENCE TO GENERAL LAW.
   A reference contained in this Charter to a provision of general law shall be
construed to mean the provision as it now exists or as it may hereafter be
amended. Where additional sections are added to the subject matter of a
provision of general law referred to in this Charter, the reference shall
include such additional sections.
SECTION 37. MEETINGS AND OTHER ACTS ON LEGAL HOLIDAYS.
   Whenever under the provisions of this Charter it is required that a meeting
be held or that an act be done on a date which is a legal holiday, the meeting
shall be held or the act shall be done on the next day not a legal holiday.
SECTION 38. SEPARABILITY.
   The provisions of this Charter shall be construed as severable, and should
any provision be held unconstitutional, or for any other reason invalid, such
holding shall in no way affect any other provision thereof.
SECTION 39. ELECTIONS.
   The City Clerk shall prepare and furnish printed forms for certificates of
announcement substantially in the form set forth and authorized by ordinance of
the City Council. The certificate of announcement is defined as and shall be
the form on which qualified persons make official such person’s candidacy for
Council in the next City election.
   Regular City elections shall be held on the 9th day of June, one thousand
nine hundred ninety-eight, and on the first Tuesday in June of every second
year thereafter. Special elections shall be held at such times as may be fixed
by the Council in accordance with the provisions of this Charter and of general
law.
   The ballot to be used in City elections shall be prepared by the Council and
shall have set forth thereon a division the names of all properly nominated
candidates for election to membership on the Council by ward, and at-large, as
is provided hereunder. In the printing of the ballots, the position of the
names of the candidates shall be in like manner as is provided by general law
for the printing of official primary ballots. The ballots shall state that the
election is non-partisan and shall clearly indicate the number of candidates
for each office for whom the voter is entitled to vote. At least ten days
before the election a sample ballot showing the names of all properly nominated
candidates shall be published once in two newspapers circulated in the City in
the same manner as is provided by law for the publication of the list of
nominations in a general election.
   Except as otherwise provided in this Charter, City elections shall be
conducted and the result determined and certified in accordance with the
provisions of general law with respect to primary, general and special
elections, so far as they are applicable, except that the duties devolving upon
the county court and the Clerk thereof under the general laws for conducting
elections shall be performed by the City Council and the City Clerk. The
Council shall appoint three commissioners and two Clerks to serve as election
officials in each precinct in the City. At least three days before the date of
the election the City Clerk shall procure from the Clerk of the county court
the necessary registration records and other election supplies and shall
deliver them together with the ballots to the election officials. The election
officials shall as soon as possible after the closing of the polls on election
day return to the City Clerk the ballots, tally sheets, certificates of the
result of the election, registration records, ballot boxes and other election
supplies. On the first Monday following the election the Council shall canvass
the returns of the election and declare the result. In the case of a contest
the Council shall be the judge of the election and qualifications of all City
officials.
   The cost incurred for such election shall be paid out of the general City
revenues. The costs of conducting special elections shall be paid out of
general City revenues.
   In the event any candidate requests a recount of the votes in any election,
such recount is to be paid by the person making such request, and the cost of
such recount is to be set by Council prior to each election according to state
law.
SECTION 40. EFFECTIVE DATE OF CHARTER.
   For the purposes of extending the terms of office of present elective
officers, of the election of new officers under this Charter, and the operation
of all other provisions of Section 41 hereof, this Charter shall be in effect
from and after the date of its adoption by the voters of the City. For all
other purposes it shall be in effect on and after the first day of July next
following the first election held under its provisions.
SECTION 41. TRANSITION.
   (a)   Schedule. The first election of officers under this Charter shall be
held on June 9, 1998 in conjunction with the election regarding the approval of
this Charter. Members of Council elected on June 9, 1998 shall take office on
July 1, 1998 as specified in Section 4 of this Charter.
   (b)   Hiring of City Manager. At the time the Charter is approved by the
voters, the City Council will commence the search for qualified candidates for
City Manager by advertising the position in a professional journal and a
newspaper of general circulation in Harrison County, West Virginia. At the
first regular meeting of City Council under this Charter, on July 1, 1998, City
Council shall appoint an interim City Manager. Thereafter, City Council shall
scrutinize resumes, interview candidates and select the most qualified
individual for the position of City Manager. City Council shall appoint a City
Manager by August 1, 1998.
   (c)   Continuance of Office or Employment. No City administrative officer
shall continue in office after the effective date of this Charter, unless such
office is continued or provided for by this Charter. Except with respect to the
position of City Clerk, no non-elected City employee shall lose their position
of employment solely as a result of the adoption of this Charter unless such
position is specifically eliminated hereby. Nothing contained herein shall
prohibit the Council from contracting with or employing former City officers or
employees, on a temporary basis, to provide for the orderly and efficient
transfer of duties under, and implementation of, this Charter. Such contract or
employment shall not constitute a conflict of interest.
   (d)   City Clerk. The non-elected position of City Clerk under the previous
Charter is materially distinguishable from the position of City Clerk under
this Charter. Therefore, the position of City Clerk under the previous Charter
is specifically eliminated and the position of City Clerk under this Charter is
considered a new position. City Council shall appoint an interim City Clerk by
July 1, 1998. City Council shall appoint a City Clerk by August 1, 1998.
   (e)   Former Elected Officers. The members of Council representing the
first, second, third and fourth wards and the Mayor and Recorder elected in
June, 1996 shall serve until their successors are elected and qualified and
take office on July 1, 1998.
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10:  RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   How code designated and cited
   
10.02   Definitions and rules of construction
   
10.03   Provisions considered as continuations of existing ordinances
   
10.04   Catchlines and headings of portions of code
   
10.05   Severability of parts of this code, and of codes and other regulations
adopted by reference
   
10.06   Effect of repeal or expiration of ordinance
   
10.07   Acts by agents or deputies
   
10.08   Conflicting provisions
   
10.09   General labor charge
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01  HOW CODE DESIGNATED AND CITED.
   The ordinances contained in this title and the following titles, chapters
and sections shall constitute and be designated the “Code of the City of
Shinnston, West Virginia”, and may be so cited. Such ordinances may also be
cited as the “Shinnston City Code”, “city code” or “code of ordinances”.
Statutory reference:
   Authority of Common Council to adopt a comprehensive code of ordinances, see
W.Va. Code § 8-11-4(b)
§ 10.02  DEFINITIONS AND RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   In the construction of this code and of all other ordinances and resolutions
of the Council, the following definitions and rules of construction shall be
observed, unless it shall be expressly provided otherwise by any section,
ordinance or resolution, unless inconsistent with the manifest intent of the
Council or unless the context clearly requires otherwise.
   AUTHORITY OF OFFICERS. Whenever authority is conferred on or an act is
required to be performed by a city officer, such authority may be exercised or
performed, at the instance of such officer, by a deputy, agent or subordinate,
unless such authority cannot lawfully be deputed.
   CHARTER or THE CITY CHARTER. The Charter of the City of Shinnston, West
Virginia, as amended and currently in effect.
   CITY. The City of Shinnston, West Virginia.
   CITY CODE or THIS CODE. The Code of the City of Shinnston, West Virginia, as
amended and currently in effect.
   COMPUTATION OF TIME; REASONABLE TIME. The time within which an act is to be
done shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last; or,
if the last day be Sunday or a holiday, it shall also be excluded; but this
provision shall not be deemed to change any rule of law applicable to bills of
exchange or negotiable instruments; provided that, if time is expressed in
hours, the whole of any Sunday or holiday shall be excluded, unless the clear
intent of the Council is to the contrary. In all cases where provision is made
for an act to be done or notice to be given within a REASONABLE TIME, it shall
be construed to mean only such time as may be necessary, under the
circumstances then and there existing, for the prompt performance of such act
or the giving of such notice.
   COUNCIL or THE COUNCIL. The Council of the City of Shinnston, West Virginia.
   COUNTY. The County of Harrison, West Virginia.
   GENDER. A word importing the masculine gender only may be construed to
include the feminine and neuter as well as the masculine.
   GENERAL RULE. All general provisions, terms, phrases and expressions shall
be liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the Council
may be fully carried out. Words and phrases shall be taken in their usual
sense, but technical words having a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law
shall be understood according to their technical import.
   JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving a JOINT AUTHORITY to three or more persons
or officers shall be construed as giving such JOINT AUTHORITY to a majority of
such persons or officers and not to any lesser number.
   MONTH, YEAR, FISCAL YEAR. The word MONTH shall mean a calendar month; the
word YEAR shall mean a calendar year; the word YEAR alone shall be equivalent
to the expression YEAR OF OUR LORD. The FISCAL YEAR for the city and all bodies
or officers collecting or disbursing funds shall begin on July 1 and expire
with the expiration of the next following June 30.
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Shinnston, West Virginia.
   NUMBER. A word importing the singular number only may be applied to several
persons or things, as well as to one person or thing; a word importing the
plural number only may be applied to one person or thing as well as to several.
   OATH or SWORN. A solemn affirmation shall be the equivalent to an oath in
all cases, unless otherwise expressly provided, and the word OATH shall be
deemed to include an affirmation and the word SWEAR or SWORN to be complied
with if the person referred to makes solemn affirmation.
   OFFICERS, DEPARTMENTS AND THE LIKE. Officers, departments, boards,
commissions and employees referred to in this code shall mean officers,
departments, boards, commissions and employees of the city, unless the content
clearly indicates otherwise.
   OWNER. As applied to any property, any part owner, joint owner, tenant in
common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety of the
whole or of a part of such property.
   PERSON. A corporation, firm, partnership, association, society, club or any
other group acting as a unit, as well as an individual, unless restricted
within the context.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Goods, chattels, real and personal, money, credits,
investments and the evidence thereof.
   PRECEDING; FOLLOWING. Next before and next after, respectively.
   PREMISES. When used as applicable to real property, shall include land and
buildings.
   PROPERTY. Real, personal and mixed property.
   REAL PROPERTY, REAL ESTATE, LAND or LANDS. Lands, buildings, tenements and
hereditaments and all rights thereto and interests therein, except chattel
interests.
   SHALL; MAY. The word SHALL is mandatory; the word MAY is permissive.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curb line or, where there is
no curb, the lateral lines of a roadway and the adjacent property line,
intended for the use of pedestrians. If there is no public area between the
lateral lines of the roadway and the abutting property line, then that area
immediately abutting the street line shall be considered SIDEWALK AREA.
   SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION BY MARK. A mark made by a signer or subscriber who
cannot write, such signer’s or subscriber’s name being written near the mark by
a witness who shall write his or her own name near the signer’s or subscriber’s
name.
   STATE. The State of West Virginia.
   STATE CODE REFERENCES. References to the West Virginia Code shall be to the
Official Code of West Virginia, 1931, as amended and currently in effect.
   STREET. Alley, avenue, boulevard, highway, road, lane, viaduct, bridge and
approaches thereto, and all other public thoroughfares in the city, and the
entire width thereof between abutting property lines; also a sidewalk or
footpath, unless the contrary is expressed or unless such construction would be
inconsistent with the intent of the Council.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. Applied to a building or land, any person holding a
written or oral lease to or who occupies the whole or part of such building or
land, either alone or with others.
   TENSES. The present tense includes the past and future tenses; the future
includes the present.
   WRITING. Includes any form of recorded message comprehensible by ordinary
visual means. Whenever any notice, report, statement or record is required or
authorized by this code or other ordinance or resolution of the city, it shall
be made in WRITING in the English language, unless it is expressly provided
otherwise.
Statutory reference:
   Definitions, see W.Va. Code § 2-2-10
§ 10.03  PROVISIONS CONSIDERED AS CONTINUATIONS OF EXISTING ORDINANCES.
   The provisions appearing in this code, insofar as they are substantially the
same as those of ordinances in effect immediately preceding the effective date
of this code and included herein, shall be considered as continuations thereof
and not as new enactments.
§ 10.04  CATCHLINES AND HEADINGS OF PORTIONS OF CODE.
   The chapter, subchapter, division and section headings of this code are
intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents thereof and shall not be
deemed or taken to be titles thereof, nor as any part thereof; nor, unless
expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such chapters,
subchapters, divisions or sections, including the headings or catchlines, are
amended or reenacted.
Statutory reference:
   Construction of statutes, see W.Va. Code §§ 2-2-10(z), 2-2-12
§ 10.05  SEVERABILITY OF PARTS OF THIS CODE, AND OF CODES AND OTHER REGULATIONS
ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the Council that the sections,
divisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this code and of each
of the technical codes and other regulations herein adopted by reference are
severable, and that if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, division or
section of this code or of any such technical code or other regulations shall
be declared unconstitutional or invalid by the valid judgment or decree of any
court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality or invalidity shall
not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs,
divisions and sections thereof, since they would have been enacted by the
Council without the incorporation therein of any such unconstitutional or
invalid phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, division or section.
§ 10.06  EFFECT OF REPEAL OR EXPIRATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The repeal of an ordinance or its expiration, by virtue of any
provision contained therein, shall not affect any right accrued, any offense
committed, any penalty or punishment incurred or any proceeding commenced
before the repeal took effect or the ordinance expired.
   (B)   When any ordinance which repealed another shall itself be repealed,
the previous ordinance shall not be revived without express words to that
effect.
Statutory reference:
   Effect of repeal or expiration of statutes, see W.Va. Code § 2-2-8
   Repeal of an act repealing a statute, see W.Va. Code § 2-2-9
§ 10.07  ACTS BY AGENTS OR DEPUTIES.
   When a section requires that an act be done by an officer or person, it
shall be sufficient if it be done by his or her agent or deputy, unless it be
such as cannot lawfully be done by deputation.
(Prior Code, § 101.06)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 2-2-5
§ 10.08  CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, articles or sections of the codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be construed so as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
(Prior Code, § 101.07)
§ 10.09  GENERAL LABOR CHARGE.
   (A)   The following charges shall be billed by the city to property owners,
when the city must perform work on private property to bring the property into
compliance with the codified ordinances of the city.
      (1)   The charge for up to a two-person crew, one pick-up truck and hand
tools shall be in an amount set by Council from time to time. A minimum of one
hour’s labor will be charged for each call out.
      (2)   The charge for each additional worker shall be in an amount set by
Council from time to time. A minimum of one hour’s labor will be charged for
each call out.
      (3)   When it is necessary for additional city equipment to be used to
complete the project, the city shall charge the appropriate rate as listed in
the Federal Emergency Management Agency “Schedule of Equipment Rates”, attached
as Attachment A to the ordinance codified herein. A minimum of one hour’s use
will be charged for each call out.
      (4)   When it is necessary for the city to engage a private contractor to
complete the project, the city shall charge the actual contracted amount.
      (5)   When it is necessary for the city to pay disposal costs, permit
fees or other fees to complete the project, the city shall charge the actual
cost of said fees.
   (B)   The Public Works Field Supervisor shall furnish the City Manager with
a project report, with a detailed summary of all employees, vehicles and
equipment used and the amount of time that each was used on the project. The
report will also provide an explanation of all contractors, services and fees
that were utilized or incurred on the project and provide dated and itemized
receipts.
   (C)   Upon review and approval of the project report, the City Manager shall
authorize the City Clerk to send an invoice to the property owner for payment
within 30 days.
   (D)   If payment is not received within 30 days, the City Manager is
authorized to initiate collection action against the property owner.
(Prior Code, § 101.09)  (Ord. passed 8-14-2000)
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Whenever, in the codified ordinances or in any ordinance of the
municipality, any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an
offense, or whenever the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any
act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is otherwise
provided, whoever violates any such provision shall be fined in an amount set
by Council from time to time or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both. Each
day any such violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   When a person or business is cited for the same code violation more
than one time in a single 18-month period the following fine structure shall be
imposed.
      (1)   The minimum fine for a repeat offense, under this section, shall be
in an amount set by Council from time to time and the maximum fine shall be in
an amount set by Council from time to time. Each day that a violation remains
shall be a separate violation subject to an individual fine.
      (2)   The person or business that receives a “repeat offense” violation
will have five business days after receipt of the notice of violation to
correct the violation. If the violation is not corrected within the five days,
the person or business shall be subject to the fines stated in division (B)(1)
above.
      (3)   The city shall state clearly in the notice of repeat offense the
nature of the offense and the date in which the initial violation was issued.
(Prior Code, § 101.99)  (Ord. passed 11-13-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Penalties authorized to be imposed, subject to certain limitations, for
violations of municipal ordinances and means available to municipalities for
the recovery thereof, see W.Va. Code §§ 8-11-1, 8-12-5(58)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   TOWN COUNCIL
      
31.   FINANCE AND REVENUE; TAXATION
      
32.   OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
      
33.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
34.   PUBLIC SAFETY
      
35.   JUDICIARY
      
36.   EMERGENCY SERVICES
      
37.   ELECTIONS
CHAPTER 30:  TOWN COUNCIL
Section
   
30.01   Meetings; special meetings; time
   
30.02   Call to order; quorum; minutes
   
30.03   Parliamentary rules
   
30.04   Questions of order
   
30.05   Contempt
   
30.06   Appeals from rulings
   
30.07   Voting
   
30.08   Motion; debate; voting
   
30.09   Order of business
   
30.10   Priority of motions
   
30.11   Committee reports to be in writing
   
30.12   Compelling attendance of members
   
30.13   Remission of fines and penalties
   
30.14   Charges against officers
   
30.15   Official bonds
   
30.16   Record books
Charter reference:
   Meetings; rules; voting, see
Charter § 13
   Powers, see
Charter § 8
   Qualifications; terms; salary, see
Charter § 4
   Vacancies, see
Charter § 6
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of rules, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-5(45)
   Oath, see W.Va. Code § 8-5-8
   Open meeting law, see W.Va. Code Art. 6-9A
§ 30.01  MEETINGS; SPECIAL MEETINGS; TIME.
   (A)   The regular meetings of Council shall be held at the municipal
building on the first Monday of every month at 7:00 p.m. and at such other
times and places as may be fixed by Council.
   (B)   A special or call meeting may be held on call of the Mayor or any
three members of Council upon written notice signed by them or the Mayor,
specifying the time, place and purpose of such meeting, reasonable notice
having been given to all members of Council to be found within the city.
   (C)   The call for such meeting shall be copied into the minute book of the
proceedings of Council.
(Prior Code, § 121.01)  (Ord. passed 10-1-1984)
§ 30.02  CALL TO ORDER; QUORUM; MINUTES.
   Upon the assembling of Council, the Mayor, if present, and in his or her
absence the Vice Mayor, and if both are absent, some member of Council, shall
call the meeting to order and upon ascertainment of a quorum, shall order the
reading of the minutes of the preceding meeting by the City Clerk or the City
Clerk appointed pro tempore, and, if found correct, signed by the presiding
officer and the City Clerk, and shall then proceed to the business of Council,
the presiding officer preserving order and decorum.
(Prior Code, § 121.02)
§ 30.03  PARLIAMENTARY RULES.
   The parliamentary rules of the State Senate shall govern the procedure of
Council, except insofar as they may herein or hereafter be modified or may be
repugnant hereto in matters not covered by these rules.
(Prior Code, § 121.03)
§ 30.04  QUESTIONS OF ORDER.
   All questions of order shall be decided by the presiding officer, subject to
reversal upon appeal to Council.
(Prior Code, § 121.04)
§ 30.05  CONTEMPT.
   Any member transgressing any rule of Council, the presiding officer shall
call to order, or any member of Council may raise a point of order, upon which
the presiding officer shall rule and, in case any member is called to order, he
or she shall immediately sit down and desist from speaking and remain silent,
and any member proving contumacious may be punished by the Mayor for contempt
and fined in an amount set by Council from time to time and, upon failure to
pay such fine, may be imprisoned in jail not exceeding five days.
(Prior Code, § 121.05)
§ 30.06  APPEALS FROM RULINGS.
   No appeal shall be taken from the ruling of the presiding officer, except
two members shall demand such appeal and, upon such appeal being taken, the
presiding officer shall put the same in the following form: “The question now
is, shall the decision of the chair be sustained?”, whereupon a vote shall be
taken on such question and the result ascertained as on other questions.
(Prior Code, § 121.06)
§ 30.07  VOTING.
Editor’s note:
   See
§ 13 of the City Charter.
§ 30.08  MOTION; DEBATE; VOTING.
   (A)   Every motion, resolution or proposition shall, if required by the City
Clerk or any member of Council, be reduced to writing by its proponent. When a
motion is made and seconded, it shall be considered and debated before Council
and shall be stated by the presiding officer before being put to vote and
unless withdrawn by unanimous consent, shall be voted upon and duly entered in
the minutes.
   (B)   Upon demand of any member of Council, the “ayes” and “noes” shall be
called and a record made of the vote of each member.
(Prior Code, § 121.08)
§ 30.09  ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   The order of Councilmanic procedure shall be as follows, after
ascertaining that a quorum is present:
      (1)   The reading of the minutes of the preceding meeting;
      (2)   Unfinished business appearing upon minutes;
      (3)   Reports of committees;
      (4)   Reports of officers;
      (5)   Petitions of all kinds; and
      (6)   New business and propositions.
   (B)   The regular order of business may be suspended at any time for special
reasons.
(Prior Code, § 121.09)
§ 30.10  PRIORITY OF MOTIONS.
   (A)   When a question is properly before Council, no other motion shall be
made or received, unless to amend, postpone, lay on the table or to adjourn,
and no question shall be considered before Council until moved and seconded.
   (B)   A motion to adjourn shall be in order at any time, unless Council
shall be engaged in voting on some proposition.
(Prior Code, § 121.10)
§ 30.11  COMMITTEE REPORTS TO BE IN WRITING.
   All reports of committees shall be in writing and responsive to the purpose
of their appointment.
(Prior Code, § 121.11)
§ 30.12  COMPELLING ATTENDANCE OF MEMBERS.
   (A)   The Council shall have power to compel attendance of members and in
case of the refusal of any member, after being notified to attend, the
presiding officer may issue a warrant ordering his or her apprehension, bring
him or her before Council and compel him or her to remain during the session,
so as to secure proper attendance to transact business, and any member refusing
to remain after being brought in shall be subject to a fine for contempt, as
hereinbefore provided.
   (B)   No member of Council shall depart during its session unless by
permission of the Mayor or Council.
(Prior Code, § 121.12)
§ 30.13  REMISSION OF FINES AND PENALTIES.
   All petitions for the remission of fines and penalties shall state fully the
reasons therefor and shall be supported by affidavit.
(Prior Code, § 121.13)
§ 30.14  CHARGES AGAINST OFFICERS.
   Charges against officer shall be in writing, specifying fully the nature of
the charge and shall be supported by affidavit.
(Prior Code, § 121.14)
§ 30.15  OFFICIAL BONDS.
   All bonds of officers shall be presented to and approved by Council and
carefully filed away and a record of the same together with the several
sureties and the amount entered on the minutes and the Treasurer’s bond shall
be copied in full in the minutes.
(Prior Code, § 121.15)
§ 30.16  RECORD BOOKS.
   The records of Council shall be kept in two books, one to be known as the
“Minute Book” in which shall be kept a complete record of the administrative
and current actions and proceedings and routine orders, and another to be known
as the “Shinnston City Code”, wherein shall be all bylaws, rules, ordinances
and resolutions of a general nature.
(Prior Code, § 121.16)
CHAPTER 31:  FINANCE AND REVENUE; TAXATION
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Liens on real property for unpaid fees
Municipal Sales and Use Tax
   
31.15   City Council findings
   
31.16   Definitions
   
31.17   Imposition of tax
   
31.18   Calculation of tax on fractional parts of dollar
   
31.19   State and local tax bases
   
31.20   Exceptions
   
31.21   Credit against municipal use tax
   
31.22   Tax cumulative
   
31.23   Local rate and boundary database; changes
   
31.24   State level administration
   
31.25   Administrative procedures
   
31.26   Criminal penalty
   
31.27   Automatic updating
   
31.28   Deposit of taxes collected in special revenue fund
Public Utility Service Tax
   
31.40   Definitions
   
31.41   Imposition and levying; amount
   
31.42   Collection; time of payment; effective date
   
31.43   Maintenance of records; inspection
   
31.44   Exemptions
   
31.45   Non-liability of utility; duty of city; refunds and rules
   
31.46   Collection; additional remedies
   
31.47   Effective date; notice to utilities
Statutory reference:
   Authority to levy, see W.Va. Code § 8-13-5a
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01  LIENS ON REAL PROPERTY FOR UNPAID FEES.
   (A)   Lien for unpaid and delinquent fire, police or street fees. The city
may, pursuant to the procedures established in this section, place a lien upon
real property located within the corporate limits of the city for unpaid and
delinquent fire, police or street fees. This section shall apply to existing
fire, police or street fees, and any such fees which may be enacted or amended
by ordinance in the future.
   (B)   Notice of assessment; petition for reassessment. The City Manager
shall give the property owner written notice of any assessment for unpaid and
delinquent fees made pursuant to this section. A notice of assessment and
intent to file lien shall be served on the property owner, either personally or
by certified mail, return receipt requested. The aforesaid notice shall state
the amount of the delinquency, that the city will file a lien against the
property unless the delinquency is paid in full within said 90 days, and also
state that the property owner has the right to petition for a reassessment. A
copy of this section shall be attached to said notice. Unless the property
owner, to whom the notice of assessment and intent to file lien is given, shall
within 90 days after service thereof, pay the delinquency in full, or file with
the City Manager a petition for reassessment in writing verified under oath by
the property owner or his or her duly authorized agent having knowledge of the
facts, setting forth with particularity the items of the assessment objected
to, together with the reasons for the objections; then the assessment shall
become final and not subject to administrative or judicial review. A lien may
be filed in the office of the Clerk of the County Commission on the day
following the date upon which the assessment becomes final.
   (C)   Hearing procedure; administrative decision.
      (1)   When a petition for reassessment provided in division (B) above is
filed within the time prescribed for such filing, the City Manager shall assign
a time and a place for a hearing thereon and shall notify the petitioner of
such hearing by written notice at least 20 days in advance thereof. Such
hearing shall be held within 90 days from the date of filing the petition,
unless continued by agreement of the parties or by the City Manager for
sufficient cause.
      (2)   The hearing shall be informal and shall be conducted in an
impartial manner by the City Manager or a hearing examiner designated by the
City Manager. The burden of proof shall be upon the property owner to show that
the assessment is incorrect and contrary to law, in whole or in part. After
such hearing, the City Manager shall, within a reasonable time, give notice in
writing to the property owner, either personally or by certified mail, return
receipt requested, of the City Manager’s decision.
   (D)   Judicial review. An appeal may be taken by the property owner to the
Circuit Court of the county within 60 days after service of the City Manager’s
administrative decision issued pursuant to division (C) above.
   (E)   Release of lien. The City Manager, upon payment in full of the
delinquency, shall forward a receipt showing payment in full and a release of
lien to the property owner. The release shall be in recordable form.
(Ord. passed 9-14-2009)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 8-13-13
MUNICIPAL SALES AND USE TAX
§ 31.15  CITY COUNCIL FINDINGS.
   (A)   The Municipal Home Rule Board on 10-6-2014 approved the home rule plan
submitted by the city, thereby allowing the city to adopt a municipal use tax
pursuant to W.Va. Code § 8-1-5a without the limiting restrictions of W.Va. Code
§§ 8-13C-1 et seq. In accordance with its home rule plan, the City Council
hereby finds and declares that the adoption by the city for its municipal sales
and service tax and its municipal use tax provisions of the Code of West
Virginia, 1931, as amended, relating to imposition, administration, collection
and enforcement of the state consumers sales and service tax codified in W.Va.
Code §§ 11-15-1 et seq., the state use tax codified in W.Va. Code §§ 11-15B-
1 et seq., and the Streamlined Sales and Use Tax Act codified in W.Va. Code §§
11-15B-1 et seq. will:
      (1)   Simplify collection of the city’s sales and use taxes;
      (2)   Simplify preparation of municipal sales and use tax returns by
taxpayers; and
      (3)   Improve enforcement of the city’s sales and use taxes.
   (B)   The City Council does, therefore, declare that this subchapter be
construed so as to accomplish the foregoing purposes.
(Ord. passed 11-12-2019)
§ 31.16  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Terms used in this subchapter or in the administration, collection,
and enforcement of the taxes imposed by this subchapter and not otherwise
defined in this subchapter shall have the meanings ascribed to them in W.Va.
Code Art. 11-9, 11-10, 11-15, 11-15A and 11-15B, as amended.
   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BUSINESS. Includes all activities engaged in or caused to be engaged in
by any person with the object of gain or economic benefit, direct or indirect,
and all activities of the state and its political subdivisions, which involve
sales of tangible personal property or the rendering of services when those
service activities compete with or may compete with the activities of other
persons.
      CITY or THIS CITY. The City of Shinnston, West Virginia.
      CODE OF WEST VIRGINIA or W.VA. CODE. The Code of West Virginia, 1931, as
amended from time to time by the West Virginia Legislature.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, association, corporation, limited
liability company, limited liability partnership or any other legal entity,
including the state or its political subdivisions or any agency of either, or
the guardian, trustee, committee, executor or administrator of any person.
      PURCHASE. Any transfer, exchange or barter, conditional or otherwise, in
any manner or by any means whatsoever, for a consideration.
      PURCHASE PRICE. The measure subject to the taxes imposed by this
subchapter and has the same meaning as sales price.
      PURCHASER. A person who purchases tangible personal property, custom
software or a service taxed by this subchapter.
      SALE, SALES or SELLING. Have the meaning ascribed to those terms in W.Va.
Code Art. 11-15B.
      SALES AND USE TAXES. The taxes imposed by §
31.17 of this chapter.
      SALES PRICE. Has the meaning ascribed to that term in W.Va. Code Art. 11-
15B.
      SALES TAX. The tax levied by §
31.17(A) of this chapter.
      SERVICE or SELECTED SERVICE. Have the meaning ascribed to those terms in
W.Va. Code Art. 11-15B.
      STATE SALES TAX. The tax levied by W.Va. Code Art. 11-15B, as amended.
      STATE USE TAX. The tax levied by W.Va. Code Art. 11-15A, as amended.
      TAX. The taxes imposed by this subchapter and includes additions to tax,
interest and penalties levied under W.Va. Code Art. 11-10, as amended.
      TAX COMMISSIONER. The Chief Executive Officer of the Tax Division of the
Department of Revenue of the state, as provided in W.Va. Code § 11-1-1.
      THIS STATE. The State of West Virginia.
      ULTIMATE CONSUMER or CONSUMER. A person who uses or consumes services,
tangible personal property or custom software.
      USE.
         (a)   For purposes of the tax imposed by §
31.17 of this chapter, means and includes:
            1.   The exercise by any person of any right or power over tangible
personal property or custom software incident to the ownership, possession or
enjoyment of the property, or by any transaction in which possession of or the
exercise of any right or power over tangible personal property, custom software
or the result of a taxable service is acquired for a consideration, including
any lease, rental or conditional sale of tangible personal property or custom
software; or
            2.   The use or enjoyment in the state of the result of a taxable
service.  As used in this definition, “enjoyment” includes a purchaser’s right
to direct the disposition of the property or the use of the taxable service,
whether or not the purchaser has possession of the property.
         (b)   The term USE does not include the keeping, retaining or
exercising any right or power over tangible personal property, custom software
or the result of a taxable service for the purpose of subsequently transporting
it outside the city for use thereafter solely outside the city.
      USE TAX. The tax imposed by §
31.17 of this chapter.
      VENDOR. Any person engaged in the city in furnishing services taxed by
this subchapter or making sales of tangible personal property or custom
software. VENDOR and SELLER are used interchangeably in this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 11-12-2019)
§ 31.17  IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   (A)   For the privilege of selling tangible personal property or custom
software and for the privilege of furnishing certain selected service, a vendor
doing business in the city shall collect from the purchaser the taxes imposed
by this division (A) and pay the amount of taxes collected to the Tax
Commissioner at the same time and in the same manner as the consumers sales and
service tax imposed by W.Va. Code Art. 11-15, as amended, are paid to the Tax
Commissioner. The rate of tax shall be 1% of the sales price, as defined in §
31.16 of this subchapter of the tangible personal property, custom software or
taxable service purchased or leased.
   (B)   An excise tax is hereby levied and imposed on the use in the city of
tangible personal property, custom software and the results of taxable
services, to be collected and paid to the Tax Commissioner as agent for the
city in the same manner that state use tax is collected under W.Va. Code Art.
11-15A and 11-15B, as amended, and remitted to the Tax Commissioner. The rate
of tax shall be 1% of the purchase price, as defined in division (A) above, of
the tangible personal property, custom software or taxable service used within
the city.
(Ord. passed 11-12-2019)
§ 31.18  CALCULATION OF TAX ON FRACTIONAL PARTS OF DOLLAR.
   The computation under §
31.17 of this chapter shall be carried to the third decimal place and the tax
rounded up to the next whole cent whenever the third decimal place is greater
than four and rounded down to the lower whole cent whenever the third decimal
place is four or less. The vendor may elect to compute the tax due on a
transaction on a per item basis or on an invoice basis provided the method used
is consistently used during the reporting period, but the method used shall be
the same as that used for purposes of computing the state sales or use tax.
(Ord. passed 11-12-2019)
§ 31.19  STATE AND LOCAL TAX BASES.
   The taxable base of the taxes imposed by §
31.17 of this chapter shall be identical to the sales and use tax base of the
state, except as provided in §
31.20 of this chapter, unless otherwise prohibited by federal law, as required
by W.Va. Code § 11-15B-34.
(Ord. passed 11-12-2019)
§ 31.20  EXCEPTIONS.
   The taxes imposed by this subchapter do not apply to:
   (A)   The sale or use of motor fuel, as defined in W.Va. Code Art. 11-14C,
as amended;
   (B)   The sale or use of motor vehicles upon which the tax imposed by W.Va.
Code § 11-15-3c, as amended, is paid;
   (C)   The purchase or use of any tangible personal property, custom software
or service that the city is prohibited from taxing under the laws of the state
or of the United States;
   (D)   The sales tax imposed by §
31.17(A) of this chapter does not apply to any transaction that is exempt from
the tax imposed by W.Va. Art. 11-15; and/or
   (E)   The use tax imposed by §
31.17(B) of this chapter does not apply to any purchase upon which the sales
tax imposed by §
31.17(A) of this chapter has been paid.
(Ord. passed 11-12-2019)
§ 31.21  CREDIT AGAINST MUNICIPAL USE TAX.
   (A)   A person is entitled to a credit against the use tax imposed by §
31.17(B) of this chapter on the use of a particular item of tangible personal
property, custom software or results of a taxable service equal to the amount,
if any, of sales tax lawfully paid to another municipality for the acquisition
of that property, custom software or service; provided that, the amount of
credit allowed may not exceed the amount of use tax imposed by §
31.17(B) of this chapter on the use of the tangible personal property, custom
software or results of the taxable service in the city.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section:
      (1)   SALES TAX includes a sales tax or compensating use tax imposed on
the sale or use of tangible personal property, custom software or the results
of a taxable service by the municipality in which the sale occurred; and   
      (2)   MUNICIPALITY includes all municipalities of the state or of any
other state of the United States.
   (C)   No credit is allowed under this section for payment of any sales or
use taxes imposed by this state or any other state. For the purposes of this
division (C), STATE includes the 50 states of the United States and the
District of Columbia but does not include any of the several territories
organized by Congress.
(Ord. passed 11-12-2019)
§ 31.22  TAX CUMULATIVE.
   The taxes imposed by this subchapter are in addition to other taxes imposed
on the sale or use of tangible personal property, custom software or taxable
services including, but not limited to, the state consumers sales and service
tax imposed by W.Va. Art. 11-15; the state use tax imposed by W.Va. Art. 11-
15A; the public utility tax imposed by the city pursuant to W.Va. Code § 8-13-
5A; the amusement tax imposed by the city pursuant to W.Va. Code § 8-13-6; the
tax on sales of alcoholic liquors and wine imposed by the city pursuant to
W.Va. § 8-13-7; the hotel occupancy tax imposed by the city pursuant to W.Va.
Art. 7-18; and the special district excise taxes imposed by a county pursuant
to W.Va. Code §§ 7-22-1 et seq. or a municipality pursuant to W.Va. Code §§ 8-
38-1 et seq.
(Ord. passed 11-12-2019)
§ 31.23  LOCAL RATE AND BOUNDARY DATABASE; CHANGES.
   (A)   The Tax Commissioner is required by W.Va. Code § 11-15B-35 to maintain
a database for all jurisdictions levying a sales or use tax in the state. The
Recorder shall furnish the Tax Commissioner with information the Tax
Commissioner requires for that database that will allow the Tax Commissioner to
maintain a database that assigns each five-digit and nine-digit zip code within
the city to the proper rate of tax. If any nine-digit zip code area includes
area outside the city, the single state and local rate assigned that that area
in the Tax Commissioner’s database will be the lowest rate applicable to that
area; provided that, when sales occur at and are sourced to a physical location
of the seller located in the city in that nine-digit zip code area, the seller
shall collect the tax imposed by §
31.17(A) of this chapter.
   (B)   Whenever boundaries of the city change, whether by annexation or de-
annexation, the Recorder shall promptly notify the Tax Commissioner in writing
of the change in boundaries; provide the Tax Commissioner with the nine-digit
zip code or codes for the area annexed or de-annexed; and any other information
the Tax Commissioner may require to maintain the database. An ordinance
annexing property into the city, or an ordinance removing property from the
corporate limits of the city may not take effect any sooner than the first day
of a calendar quarter that begins 60 days after the city provides written
notice to the Tax Commissioner of a change in the boundaries of the city.
   (C)   The nine-digit database shall be maintained by the city until such
time as the tax commissioner allows use of a different system to determine
whether a location is within or outside the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. passed 11-12-2019)
§ 31.24  STATE LEVEL ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Tax Commissioner is responsible for administering, collecting and
enforcing the taxes imposed by this subchapter as provided in W.Va. Code §§ 8-
13C-6 and 11-15B-33. The city may enter into a written agreement with the Tax
Commissioner that will allow employees of the city auditing a vendor whose
primary business location is in the city of compliance with the city’s business
and occupation tax to also audit that business location for compliance with the
sales and use tax laws of the state and the city and obligate the city to share
that information with the Tax Commissioner.
   (B)   The Tax Commissioner may retain from collections of the taxes imposed
by this subchapter the fee allowed by W.Va. Code § 11-10-11c or by any other
state law or legislative rule.
   (C)   The Tax Commissioner shall deposit all the proceeds from collection of
the taxes imposed by this subchapter, minus any fee for collecting, enforcing
and administering taxes retained under this section, in the subaccount for the
city established in the Municipal Sales and Services Tax and Use Tax Fund, an
interest-bearing account created in the state treasury pursuant to W.Va. Code §
8-13C-7. All moneys collected and deposited in the subaccount for the city
shall be remitted at least quarterly by the State Treasurer to the City
Manager, as provided by W.Va. Code § 8-13C-7.
(Ord. passed 11-12-2019)
§ 31.25  ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES.
   Each and every provision of the state’s Tax Procedure and Administration Act
set forth in W.Va. Art. 11-9 and 11-10 applies to the administration,
collection, and enforcement of the sales and use taxes imposed pursuant to this
subchapter, except as otherwise expressly provided in W.Va. Art. 8-13C, with
like effect as if that act were applicable only to the taxes imposed by this
subchapter and were set forth in extenso in this subchapter, as provided in
W.Va. Code § 8-13C-6.
(Ord. passed 11-12-2019)
§ 31.26  CRIMINAL PENALTY.
   Each and every provision of the state’s Tax Crimes and Penalties Act set
forth in W.Va. Art. 11-9 applies to the administration, collection and
enforcement of the municipal sales and use taxes imposed pursuant to this
subchapter with like effect as if that act were applicable only to the taxes
imposed pursuant to this subchapter and were set forth in extenso in this
subchapter, as provided in W.Va. Code § 8-13C-6; provided that, the criminal
penalties imposed upon conviction for a criminal violation of this subchapter
may not exceed the maximum penalties allowed by law for a similar violation of
the ordinances of the city.
(Ord. passed 11-12-2019)
§ 31.27  AUTOMATIC UPDATING.
   Any amendments to W.Va. Code Art. 11-9, 11-10, 11-15, 11-15A and 11-15B
shall automatically apply to the municipal sales and use tax imposed pursuant
to this article, to the extent they are applicable to the taxes imposed by this
subchapter.
(Ord. passed 11-12-2019)
§ 31.28  DEPOSIT OF TAXES COLLECTED IN SPECIAL REVENUE FUND.
   When the City Manager receives periodic distributions of municipal sales and
use taxes from the State Treasurer, the City Manager shall promptly deposit the
amount received in the General Revenue Fund or Account of the city.
(Ord. passed 11-12-2019)
PUBLIC UTILITY SERVICE TAX
§ 31.40  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. Individuals, firms, partnerships, associations, corporations and
combinations thereof, of whatever form and character.
   PUBLIC UTILITY SERVICE. All services and tangible personal property
purchased within the city from a seller, as hereinafter in this section
defined, namely: telephone service; electric service; gas service, including
bottled or liquid gas, if the seller thereof is classified as a public utility
subject to the jurisdiction of the Public Service Commission of the state;
water service and sanitary sewer service, if purchased, used or consumed within
the corporate limits of the city.
   PURCHASER. Every person who purchases, uses or consumes a public utility
service.
   SELLER. Every person, whether a public service corporation, a municipality
or private corporation, classified as a public utility and subject to the
jurisdiction of the Public Service Commission of the state; who sells,
furnishes or supplies a public utility service.
   USER. The owner or tenant of private residential property or the owner or
tenant of property used for commercial or industrial purposes and every
combination thereof of every kind and description.
(Prior Code, § 761.01)  (Ord. passed 6-27-2005)
§ 31.41  IMPOSITION AND LEVYING; AMOUNT.
   (A)   There is hereby imposed and levied by the city, upon each and every
purchaser of a public utility service, an excise tax upon the privilege of
purchasing, using or consuming, within the corporate limits of the city, such
public utility service. Such tax shall be in the amount of 2% of the charge
exclusive of any federal or state tax thereon, imposed upon the purchaser, made
by the seller against the purchaser with respect to each public utility
service, which tax in every case shall be collected by the seller and paid by
the purchaser upon the amount of each periodic statement rendered such
purchaser by the seller and shall be paid by the purchaser to the seller at the
time the purchase price or such charge becomes due and payable under the
agreement between the purchaser and the seller. The tax imposed and levied by
this section is in addition to all other taxes imposed and levied by the city.
In the event the amount of the charge for any single public utility service
exceeds the sum of $20,000 in any given calendar month, to any single
purchaser, no tax shall be imposed for such additional purchase, use or
consumption in excess of the amount of $20,000. In the event more than one
public utility shall furnish the identical public utility service to the same
purchaser, such purchaser shall be entitled to group the same as a single
public utility service in calculating the amount of the charges in any calendar
month for such public utility service.
   (B)   If any utility at a future date should adopt lifeline utility rates,
the city shall recognize such rates for its taxing purposes under this
subchapter and impose and levy the 2% on the lower amount.
(Prior Code, § 761.02)  (Ord. passed 6-27-2005)
§ 31.42  COLLECTION; TIME OF PAYMENT; EFFECTIVE DATE.
   Every seller, in acting as the tax collecting medium or agency for the city,
shall collect from each purchaser, for the use of the city, the tax hereby
imposed and levied at the time of collecting the purchase price charged for its
public utility service, and the amount of tax actually collected during each
calendar month shall be reported by each seller to the city, and each seller
shall remit the amount of tax shown by such report to have been collected to
the city on or before the last day of the first calendar month following the
month in which collected, together with the name and address of any purchaser
who has failed or refused to pay the tax so imposed and levied. The tax imposed
and levied by this subchapter shall apply to periodic statements rendered after
the effective date of this subchapter, for public utility service rendered
subsequent to the effective date of this subchapter. The required reports shall
be in the form prescribed by the City Manager.
(Prior Code, § 761.03)  (Ord. passed 6-27-2005)
§ 31.43  MAINTENANCE OF RECORDS; INSPECTION.
   Each and every seller shall keep and maintain complete records showing all
purchases of public utility service within the corporate limits of the city,
which records shall show the charge made against each purchaser, the dates such
public utility service was furnished, the date of payment therefor and the
amount of tax imposed hereunder and such records shall be kept open for
inspection by the duly authorized agents of the city at reasonable times, and
the duly authorized agents of the city shall have the right, power and
authority to make, at the expense of the city, such transcripts thereof during
such times as they may desire.
(Prior Code, § 761.04)  (Ord. passed 6-27-2005)
§ 31.44  EXEMPTIONS.
   The tax hereby imposed and levied shall not apply to the following
transactions, which transactions are hereby exempted from such tax:
   (A)   Purchases of public utility service for resale;
   (B)   Purchases of tangible personal property such as appliances or the
like, as distinguished from the public service supplied;
   (C)   Charges for telephone services which are paid by the insertion of
coins into coin-operated telephones and specified charges or tolls for
telephone calls to points outside the corporate limits of the city;
   (D)   Nonrecurring or one-time charges incidental to the furnishing of
public utility service; and
   (E)   Purchases of public utility service by the United States, the state
and the political subdivisions, municipalities, boards, commissions,
authorities and public corporations thereof.
(Prior Code, § 761.05)  (Ord. passed 6-27-2005)
§ 31.45  NON-LIABILITY OF UTILITY; DUTY OF CITY; REFUNDS AND RULES.
   (A)   There shall be no liability upon the seller for erroneously collecting
the tax hereby imposed and levied or for erroneously failing to bill for such
tax as a result of a good faith mistake on the part of the seller. When any
purchaser contends that such tax is not owed by the purchaser on the grounds
that the public utility service was not purchased, used or consumed within the
corporate limits of the city, the seller shall refer the question to the City
Manager, and such seller shall thereafter collect or refrain from collecting
such tax from the purchaser for such utility service as instructed in writing
to do by the City Manager. Any and all claims for refunds of any such tax shall
be presented to the City Manager and not to the seller.
   (B)   The City Manager shall have the authority to promulgate and enforce
reasonable rules and regulations necessary for the administration and
enforcement of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 761.06)  (Ord. passed 6-27-2005)
§ 31.46  COLLECTION; ADDITIONAL REMEDIES.
   Any amount of tax due and unpaid under this subchapter shall be a debt due
to the city. In addition to all other methods set forth and prescribed in this
subchapter for the collection of the taxes due hereunder, the city, through its
City Manager, is authorized and empowered to collect the same, in the same
manner and by the same remedies as are now, or may hereafter be, provided by
law for the enforcement of liens and levies for state, county and municipal
taxes.
(Prior Code, § 761.07)  (Ord. passed 6-27-2005)
§ 31.47  EFFECTIVE DATE; NOTICE TO UTILITIES.
   This subchapter shall be and become in effect from 9-1-2005, and all taxes
prescribed hereunder shall be calculated beginning with such date; provided
that, in accordance with the provisions of W.Va. Code § 8-13-5a, as amended,
such tax shall not be effective until the city gives 60 days’ written notice by
certified mail to all utilities doing business within the corporate limits of
the city of the effective date of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 761.08)  (Ord. passed 6-27-2005)
CHAPTER 32:  OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Indemnification of officers, agents and employees
   
32.02   Ethics
   
32.03   On-the-spot authority
   
32.04   Public records custodian
Specific Offices
   
32.15   City Manager; Office of Administrative Services
Statutory reference:
   Compensation of officers and employees, see W.Va. Code § 8-5-12
   Conflict of interest, see W.Va. Code § 8-5-19
   Bonds, see W.Va. Code §§ 6-2-11, 8-12-5(55), (56)
   Employee Benefit Fund, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-5(55)
   Insurance and indemnification, see W.Va. Code §§ 8-12-7 et seq.
   Reimbursement of employment applicant, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-5(53), (54)
   Retirement benefits, see W.Va. Code Art. 8-22
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01  INDEMNIFICATION OF OFFICERS, AGENTS AND EMPLOYEES.
   The city, by the purchase of insurance, shall provide for the
indemnification of its officers, agents and employees against any and all
liability, losses, damages, expenses and costs, including court costs and
reasonable and necessary attorney fees, arising from, growing out of, by reason
of or in any way connected with any acts or omissions of such officers, agents
or employees in the performance of their official duties.
(Prior Code, § 147.01)  (Ord. passed 10-4-1982)
§ 32.02  ETHICS.
   (A)   Council hereby finds that the purposes of the state’s Governmental
Ethics Act, being W.Va. Code Ch. 6B, have reasonable, necessary and appropriate
application to matters involving all elected and appointed municipal officials
and employees, whether full or part time, who derive a salary, payment of wages
or other direct remuneration from the municipality, and does now hereby affirm,
ratify and adopt such state defined purposes as being the same purposes of this
section, without specifically republishing the state purposes herein.
   (B)   Council further hereby finds that for the purpose of assisting in the
administration of the provisions of this section, that various statutory
sections of the aforesaid state act shall be hereby expressly adopted and
incorporated as provisions of this section, except as otherwise expressly
provided herein, and which such state statutory sections specifically hereby
adopted and incorporated herein are as follows:
      (1)   W.Va. Code §§ 6B-1-1 through 6B-1-6; and
      (2)   W.Va. Code § 6B-2-5.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the affirmation and adoption of the purposes of the
state act and further the specific adoption of the selected, statutory sections
which were immediately hereinbefore set forth in division (B) above, Council
specifically finds that certain statutory provisions of the aforesaid state act
are either inapplicable to the administration of this section or would
otherwise be unduly burdensome for the city to require and administer and,
specifically, Council finds that the purposes of the state act and of this
section can be effectively executed at the municipal level without the specific
adoption and incorporation of the statutory provisions of W.Va. Code §§ 6B-2-
4 and 6B-2-7 respecting financial disclosure and W.Va. Code Art. 6B-3 relating
to regulation and registration of lobbyists, and which the statutory provisions
the Council hereby expressly opts not to include as provisions of this section,
and affirmatively elects that such provisions shall not apply to the
municipality and its officers and employees.
   (D)   Any amendment to any of the aforesaid statutory provisions of the
state which are expressly herein adopted and incorporated as provisions of this
section, shall upon enactment by the state legislature, pursuant to the state
prescribed effective date thereof, be deemed to be an amendment to this section
unless the city expressly opts not to adopt any such amendment by ordinance
duly adopted by Council evidencing the non-adoption of such amendments.
(Prior Code, § 147.02)  (Ord. passed 8-8-1989)
§ 32.03  ON-THE-SPOT AUTHORITY.
   The Mayor, Recorder and City Manager are hereby authorized to execute such
application for and on behalf of the city and to certify this section to the
Municipal Home Rule Board of the state in accordance with the rules and
regulations applicable thereto and to take any and all action necessary with
respect to said application and to execute such other documents, hearings,
notices, certificates and affidavits as are necessary or convenient to the
filing of such application.
(Ord. passed - -2015)
§ 32.04  PUBLIC RECORDS CUSTODIAN.
   The City Manager is hereby designated the public records custodian as
required by the Freedom of Information Act.
SPECIFIC OFFICES
§ 32.15  CITY MANAGER; OFFICE OF ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish the Office of
Administrative Services to administer those various functions not assigned to
designated departments by the Charter. Among these functions, although not
limited to them, are billing, purchasing, funds accounting, information
management, payroll, personnel, budgeting, planning, zoning, building
inspections, utilities administration and customer relations.
   (B)   Administration. The Office of Administrative Services shall be headed
by an Office Supervisor, who shall be appointed by the City Manager. The Office
Supervisor shall answer directly to the City Manager. In accordance with the
Charter, the Office Supervisor need not be a resident of the city or state at
the time of his or her appointment, but within six months of his or her
appointment to office shall become a resident or and shall reside in the
county.
   (C)   Staff. The position of Office Clerk, and such other positions as may
be needed, shall be created by the City Manager with approval of the City
Council. The current Funds Clerk and Billing Clerk positions shall continue
until the current employees occupying those positions leave the position or
until 6-30-2004, whichever occurs first, at which time both positions will be
eliminated.
(Prior Code, § 131.01)  (Ord. passed 1-12-2004)
Charter reference:
   Appointment, tenure, see
Charter § 8
   Powers and duties, see
Charter § 9
CHAPTER 33:  ORGANIZATIONS
Section
   
33.01   Development Authority
   
33.02   Fine Arts Council
   
33.03   Sanitary Board
   
33.04   Board of Parks and Recreation
   
33.05   Board of Museums
   
33.06   Library Board
   
33.07   Building Commission
§ 33.01  DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Purposes. The city’s Development Authority, hereinafter referred to as
the “Authority”, is created to promote, develop and advance the business
prosperity and economic welfare of the city, for its citizens and its
industrial complex; to encourage and assist through loans, investments or other
business transactions in the locating of new business and industry within the
city, and to rehabilitate and assist existing businesses and industries
therein; to stimulate and promote the expansion of all kinds of business and
industrial activity, which will tend to advance business and industrial
development and maintain the economic stability of the city; provide maximum
opportunities for employment, encourage thrift, and improve the standard of
living of the citizens of the city; to cooperate and act in conjunction with
other federal, state or local organizations in the promotion and advancement of
industrial, commercial, agricultural and recreational developments within the
city and the county; and to furnish money and credit, land and industrial
sites, technical assistance and such other aid as may be deemed requisite to
approved and deserving applicants for the promotion, development and conduct of
all kinds of business activity within the city.
   (B)   Board management and control; appointment and terms of members;
vacancies; removal of members. The management and control of the city’s
Development Authority, its property, operations, business and affairs shall be
lodged in a Board of not fewer than 12, nor more than 21, persons, who shall be
appointed by the Council and be known as members of the Authority. One member
of the Authority shall also be a member of Council. One member of the Authority
shall be the City Manager. Other members shall be appointed by the Council and
shall include representatives of business, industry and labor. The members of
the Authority first appointed shall serve respectively for terms of one year,
two years and three years, divided equally, or as nearly equal as possible,
among these terms. Thereafter, members shall be appointed for terms of three
years each. A member may be reappointed for such additional term or terms as
the Council may deem proper. If a member resigns, is removed or for any other
reason his or her membership terminates during his or her term of office, a
successor shall be appointed by the Council to fill out the remainder of his or
her term. Members in office at the expiration of their respective terms shall
continue to serve until their successors have been appointed and have
qualified. The Council may at any time remove a member of the Authority by an
order duly entered of record or by other appropriate action and may appoint a
successor member for any member so removed.
   (C)   Qualifications of Board members.
      (1)   In addition to the appointing agencies hereinbefore named at
division (B) above, such other persons, firms, unincorporated associations and
corporations, who reside, maintain offices or have economic interests, as the
case may be, in the municipality, are eligible to participate in and request
the governing body to appoint members to the Development Authority.
      (2)   Any person employed by, owning an interest in, or otherwise
associated with a public utility company, as defined in W.Va. Code § 24-1-2, or
bank, as defined in W.Va. Code § 31A-1-2, may serve as a Board member and shall
not be disqualified from serving as a Board member because of conflict of
interest, as defined in W.Va. Code § 61-10-15, and shall not be subject to
prosecution under the provisions of said section when the violation is created
solely as a result of his or her relationship with the bank or public utility.
This member must recuse himself or herself from Board participation regarding
the conflicting issue as provided for in division (D) below.
   (D)   Compensation; expenses; conflict of interest.
      (1)   No member of the city’s Development Authority shall receive any
compensation, whether in formal salary, per diem allowance or otherwise, in
connection with his or her services as such member. Each member shall, however,
be entitled to reimbursement by the city’s Development Authority for any
necessary expenditures in connection with the performance of his or her general
duties as such member.
      (2)   Each member present, during any meeting of the Authority when any
question is put, shall vote, unless he or she is immediately and particularly
interested therein. Before such a question is put, any member having direct
personal or pecuniary interest therein shall announce this fact and request to
be excused from voting. The presiding officer of the meeting or a majority of
the members present may then excuse the member from voting upon the question.
The disqualifying interest must be such as affects the member directly, and not
as one of a class.
      (3)   Whenever a person associated with a public utility or bank as set
out in division (C) above has a conflict of interest between the Board and that
public utility or bank, then he or she must recuse himself or herself from any
vote, discussion or other activity associated with the board or its members
that creates the conflict of interest.
   (E)   Authority to be a public corporation. The city’s Development Authority
and the members thereof shall constitute and be a public corporation under the
name of the city’s Development Authority with its offices at the municipal
building, and as such, shall have perpetual succession, may contract and be
contracted with, sue and be sued, plead and be impleaded, and have and use a
common seal.
   (F)   Powers generally. The city’s Development Authority is hereby given
power and authority as follows:
      (1)   To make and adopt all necessary bylaws and rules for its
organization and operations not inconsistent with laws;
      (2)   To elect its own officers, to appoint committees and to employ and
fix compensation for personnel necessary for its operation;
      (3)   To enter into contracts with any person, agency, governmental
department, firm or corporation, including both public and private
corporations, and generally to do any and all things necessary or convenient
for the purpose of promoting, developing and advancing the business prosperity
and economic welfare of the county in which it is intended to operate, its
citizens and industrial complex, including, without limiting any of the
foregoing, the construction of any building or structure for lease to the
federal government or any of its agencies or departments, and in connection
therewith to prepare and submit bids and negotiate with the federal government
or such agencies or departments in accordance with plans and specifications and
in the manner and on the terms and conditions and subject to any requirements,
regulations, rules and laws of the United States of America for the
construction of said buildings or structures and the leasing thereof to the
federal government or such agencies or departments;
      (4)   To amend or supplement any contracts or leases or to enter into
new, additional or further contracts or leases upon such terms and conditions,
for such consideration and for such term of duration, with or without option of
renewal, as may be agreed upon by the authority and such person, agency,
governmental department, firm or corporation;
      (5)   Unless otherwise provided for in, and subject to the provisions of,
such contracts, or leases, to operate, repair, manage and maintain such
buildings and structures and provide adequate insurance of all types and in
connection with the primary use thereof and incidental thereto to provide such
services, such as barber shops, newsstands, drugstores and restaurants, and to
effectuate such incidental purposes, grant leases, permits, concessions or
other authorizations to any person or persons, upon such terms and conditions,
for such consideration and for such term of duration as may be agreed upon by
the authority and such person, agency, governmental department, firm or
corporation;
      (6)   To delegate any authority given to it by law to any of its
officers, committees, agents or employees;
      (7)   To apply for, receive and use grants-in-aid, donations and
contributions from any source or sources and to accept and use bequests,
devises, gifts and donations from any person, firm or corporation;
      (8)   To acquire real property by gift, purchase or construction, or in
any other lawful manner, and hold title thereto in its own name and to sell,
lease or otherwise dispose of all or part of such real property which it may
own, either by contract or at public auction, upon the approval by the Board of
Directors of the Development Authority;
      (9)   To purchase or otherwise acquire, own, hold, sell, lease and
dispose of all or part of any personal property which it may own, either by
contract or at public auction;
      (10)   Pursuant to a determination by the Board that there exists a
continuing need for programs to alleviate and prevent unemployment within the
county in which the Authority is intended to operate or aid in the
rehabilitation of areas in said county which are underdeveloped, decaying or
otherwise economically depressed and that moneys or funds of the Authority are
necessary therefor, to borrow money and execute and deliver the Authority’s
negotiable notes, mortgage bonds, other bonds, debentures and other evidences
of indebtedness therefor, on such terms as the Authority shall determine and
give such security therefor as shall be requisite, including giving a mortgage
or deed of trust on its real or personal property and facilities in connection
with the issuance of mortgage bonds;
      (11)   To raise funds by the issuance and sale of revenue bonds in the
manner provided by the applicable provisions of W.Va. Art. 8-16, it being
hereby expressly provided that a Development Authority created under this
section is a “governing body” within the definition of that term as used in
said W.Va. Code Art. 8-16; and
      (12)   To expend its funds in the execution of the powers and authority
herein given, which expenditures, by the means authorized herein, are hereby
determined and declared as a matter of legislative finding to be for a public
purpose and use, in the public interest and for the general welfare of the
people of the state, to alleviate and prevent economic deterioration and to
relieve the existing critical condition of unemployment existing within the
state.
   (G)   Incurring indebtedness; rights of creditors. The city’s Development
Authority may incur any proper indebtedness and issue any obligations and give
any security therefor, which it may deem necessary or advisable in connection
with carrying out its purposes, as hereinbefore mentioned. No statutory
limitation with respect to the nature, or amount, interest rate or duration of
indebtedness, which may be incurred by municipalities or other public bodies,
shall apply to indebtedness of the Authority. No indebtedness of any nature of
the Authority shall constitute an indebtedness of the city or a charge against
any property of said city. The rights of creditors of the Authority shall be
solely against the Authority, as a corporate body and shall be satisfied only
out of property held by it in its corporate capacity.
   (H)   Agreements in connection with obtaining funds; joint development
entities.
      (1)   The city’s Development Authority may, in connection with obtaining
funds for its purposes, enter into any agreement with any person, firm or
corporation, including the federal government, or any agency or subdivision
thereof, containing such provisions, covenants, terms and conditions as the
Authority may deem advisable.
      (2)   The city’s Development Authority may jointly, with two or more
county governing bodies, municipal governing bodies, municipal development
authorities or county development authorities, form and hold partnership,
ownership or membership interests in a partnership, corporation or limited
liability company, the sole purpose of which is to develop and own one or more
joint economic development projects.
   (I)   Property, bonds and obligations of authority exempt from taxation. The
city’s Development Authority shall be exempt from the payment of any taxes or
fees to the state, or any subdivision thereof, or to any officer or employee of
the state, or other subdivision thereof. The property of the Authority shall be
exempt from all local and municipal taxes. Bonds, notes, debentures and other
evidence of indebtedness of the Authority are declared to be issued for a
public purpose and to be public instrumentalities and shall be exempt from
taxes.
   (J)   Contributions; funds and accounts; reports; audit and examination of
books, records and accounts. Contributions may be made to the city’s
Development Authority from time to time by the County Commission or any
municipal corporation therein, and by any persons, firms or corporations, which
shall desire so to do. All such funds and all other funds received by the
Authority shall be deposited in such bank or banks as the Authority may direct
and shall be withdrawn therefrom in such manner as the Authority may direct.
The Authority shall keep strict account of all its receipts and expenditures
and shall make a quarterly report to the city, containing an itemized statement
of its receipts and disbursements during the preceding quarter. Within 60 days
after the end of each fiscal year, the Authority shall make an annual report,
containing an itemized statement of its receipts and disbursements for the
preceding year, and such annual report shall be published as a Class I legal
advertisement in compliance with the provisions of W.Va. Code Art. 59-3, and
the publication area for such publication shall be the county. The books,
records and accounts of the Authority shall be subject to audit and examination
by the office of the state’s Tax Commissioner and by any other proper public
official or body in the manner provided by law.
   (K)   Sale or lease of property; reversion of assets upon dissolution. In
the event the Board of the city’s Development Authority shall so determine, the
Authority may lease or sell all of its property and equipment, either by
contract or at public auction, on such terms and conditions as the Authority
may fix and determine. Upon the dissolution of the Authority, all of its assets
and property shall revert to and become the property of the city.
   (L)   Employees to be covered by worker’s compensation. All employees of the
Authority eligible thereto are deemed to be within the Worker’s Compensation
Act of the state, being W.Va. Code Ch. 23, and premiums on their compensations
shall be paid by the Authority as required by law.
   (M)   Liberal construction of this section. It is the purpose of this
section to provide for promotion, development and advancement of the business
prosperity and economic welfare of the city, its citizens and its industrial
complex, and this subchapter shall be liberally construed as giving to the
Authority full and complete power reasonably required to give effect to the
purposes hereof.
   (N)   Appropriation of adequate funding for advertising. The Council of the
city may appropriate and expend an amount in an amount set by Council from time
to time per capita per annum for advertising the municipality and for the
promotion of city events.
(Ord. passed 8-10-2009; Ord. passed 12-14-2015; Ord. passed 12-28-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal development authorities, see W.Va. Code §§ 7-12-1 et seq.
§ 33.02  FINE ARTS COUNCIL.
   (A)   There is hereby established a City Fine Arts Council, hereinafter
referred to as the “Arts Council”. The Arts Council shall serve as an advisory
body and shall be composed of seven persons, at least five of whom are
residents of the city, appointed by the City Manager subject to confirmation by
the City Council. The members are to be appointed for staggered three-year
terms. The members so appointed shall serve without compensation. In the event
that vacancies may occur in membership of the city’s Arts Council due to death,
resignation or any other cause, the remaining members of the city’s Arts
Council shall be enabled to act even if the vacancy causes there to be fewer
than four members who are residents of the city. Whenever a vacancy on the
city’s Arts Council occurs, the remaining members of the city’s Arts Council
shall promptly notify the City Manager that a position is vacant and it needs
to be filled for the unexpired term.
   (B)   The Arts Council shall have the following powers and duties:
      (1)   The ability to promulgate and establish its own rules of procedure;
      (2)   Encourage the cooperation and coordination of projects in the field
of arts and other creative events that will enhance the cultural level and
activities of the arts community;
      (3)   Encourage individual and group activity in the area of creative
writing, music, drama, dance, visual art and related activity, as well as any
special historical or other special event as directed by the Council of the
city;
      (4)   Cooperate with colleges, universities and school districts in the
area as well as other groups in the use of facilities and programs, which may
be available for future use to foster a broad arts program in the community;
and
      (5)   Accept or reject gifts made or offered to the city’s Arts Council
for use in connection with the arts program. Gifts of money, or other monetary
donations, shall be deposited with the City Manager and shall be credited to
the city’s Fine Arts Council Account.
(Ord. passed 10-27-2008)
§ 33.03  SANITARY BOARD.
   (A)   Established. There is hereby created a Sanitary Board for the city.
(Prior Code, § 141.01)
   (B)   Terms; vacancies. The appointment of the original Board shall be for
the term of two and three years respectively, and upon the expiration of each
term, and each succeeding term thereafter, the appointment of a successor shall
be made in like manner for a term of three years. Vacancies shall be filled for
the unexpired term in the same manner as the original appointment. The Mayor or
City Manager’s term shall not extend beyond his or her tenure of office.
(Prior Code, § 141.02)
   (C)   Powers; scope; authority. The Sanitary Board shall have the control
over and supervision of the construction, acquisition, improvement, equipment,
custody, operation and maintenance of a sewage collection system and sewage
treatment plant or plants; intercepting sewers; outfall sewers; force mains;
pumping stations; ejector stations, the collection and treatment, purification
and disposal, in a sanitary manner, of liquid and solid waste, night soil and
industrial waste of the city; and, in addition thereto, such Board shall be
vested with and shall exercise all of the rights and perform all of the duties
conferred upon it by W.Va. Art. 16-11 and 16-13 and all acts amendatory and
supplemental thereto.
(Prior Code, § 141.03)
   (D)   Officers. The Mayor or City Manager shall act as Chair of the Sanitary
Board, which shall select from its members a Vice-Chair and shall designate a
Secretary and Treasurer, but the Secretary and Treasurer may be one and the
same, who need not be a member or members of the Sanitary Board. The Vice-
Chair, Secretary and Treasurer shall hold office at the will of the Sanitary
Board. The members of the Sanitary Board shall receive compensation for their
services, either as salary or as payments for meetings attended, as Council may
determine, and shall be entitled to payment for reasonable expenses incurred in
the performance of their duties. Council shall fix the reasonable compensation
of the Secretary and Treasurer in its discretion, and shall fix the amounts of
bond to be given by the Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 141.04)  (Ord. passed 10-10-1960; Ord. passed 6-13-2011)
Charter reference:
   Composition of Board, see
Charter § 31
Statutory reference:
   Publication of financial statement, see W.Va. Code § 16-13-18a
§ 33.04  BOARD OF PARKS AND RECREATION.
   (A)   Board created; powers generally. There is hereby created the Board of
Parks and Recreation for the purpose of establishing, improving, developing,
operating and maintaining a municipal park system. The Board shall be a
corporate body, with perpetual existence and a corporate seal. The Board shall
have the power to purchase, hold, sell and convey real or personal property;
receive any gift, grant, donation and bequest or devise, sue and be sued,
contract and be contracted with, and do any and all things and acts which may
be necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate purposes and provisions
of this section.
(Prior Code, § 143.01)
   (B)   Members; qualifications; appointments; terms; disqualifications. See
Charter § 26.
(Prior Code, § 143.02)
   (C)   Vacancies. When a vacancy occurs on such Board by reason of death,
resignation, change of residence from the municipality, or for any other cause,
the City Manager shall appoint successors who shall fill the unexpired term or
terms.
(Prior Code, § 143.03)
   (D)   Oath; organization.
      (1)   After appointment, the members of the Board shall qualify by taking
and filing with the City Clerk the oath prescribed by law for public officials
and they shall not be permitted to serve upon the Board until they have so
qualified. If any member of the Board shall fail to so qualify on or before the
date upon which he or she should assume the duties of his or her office, the
other qualified members of such Board may declare his or her position vacant
and a successor appointed as provided in this section.
      (2)   On the second Wednesday in May of each year, the members of the
Board shall organize by electing one of their number President, and another
Vice President, and by electing a Secretary who need not be a member of the
Board. The Secretary shall keep an accurate record of all the fiscal affairs of
the Board, and shall keep a minute book in which he or she shall record the
proceedings and transactions of each meeting of the Board. The Secretary shall
be paid such compensation for his or her services as the Board shall fix from
year to year. The City Treasurer shall be ex-officio Treasurer of such Board,
and he shall take the oath prescribed by law and shall furnish such bond as may
be required by the Board.
(Prior Code, § 143.04)
   (E)   Compensation; contract interest. The members of the Board shall
receive no compensation for their services, but they shall be entitled to
reimbursement for any reasonable expenses incurred in the performance of their
duties as members of the Board. They shall not be personally interested
directly or indirectly, in any contract entered into by the Board, or hold any
remunerative position in connection with the construction, operation or
maintenance of any of the property under their control as members of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 143.05)
   (F)   Office; powers. Council shall furnish the Board an office at the
Municipal Building where it may hold its meetings and keep its records. The
Board shall have complete and exclusive control and management of all or the
properties which it shall operate in connection with the public park system for
the city, and shall have power to employ such persons as, in its opinion, may
be necessary for the construction, operation and maintenance of the property
under its control at such wages or salaries as it shall deem proper, and shall
have full control of all employees.
(Prior Code, § 143.06)
   (G)   Purchases; lease or condemnation of real estate. The Board shall have
power to acquire, by purchase, lease or by exercise of the power of eminent
domain, such land as it shall determine to be necessary or incidental to the
construction, operation and maintenance of a system of public parks, parkways,
playgrounds, athletic fields, stadiums, swimming pools, skating rinks and other
like public recreational facilities for the city.
(Prior Code, § 143.07)
   (H)   Acquisition and disposal of real property. The Board is authorized to
take title in its own name or in the name of the city to all real and personal
property acquired by it for the use of the public or useful to the public, in
the operation, maintenance or enjoyment of all public parks, parkways,
playgrounds, athletic fields, stadiums, swimming pools, skating rinks and other
like public recreational facilities for the city and shall manage and dispose
of the same as, in its opinion, will best serve the interests of the public in
carrying out the purposes of this section. The city and all other public bodies
owning real estate intended to be used for public parks, are hereby authorized
to convey the same to the Board to be held by it for such purpose; provided,
however, that, nothing herein contained shall be construed as limiting the
Board from going beyond the territorial limits of the city, anywhere within the
state, to lease, purchase or otherwise acquire any real estate for the purposes
herein set forth; provided further that, such Board shall have the right to
sell and convey only such part of the real estate that it may acquire by gift,
devise, purchase or otherwise, as it may determine to be of no advantage in the
operation, management and maintenance of such public parks, parkways,
playgrounds, athletic fields, stadiums, swimming pools, skating rinks and other
like public recreational facilities; except that, the Board shall have
authority and power to make such sales and conveyances of its real estate as
may be necessary, desirable or convenient, or any other like act or legislative
authorization; and, provided further that, under no circumstances shall any of
such property be sold or conveyed, except by unanimous vote of all of the
members of the Board. All deeds conveying the real estate of the Board shall be
executed in its official name by its President or Vice President and shall have
its corporate seal affixed and duly attested by its Secretary.
(Prior Code, § 143.08)
   (I)   General powers.
      (1)   The Board shall have the necessary powers and authority to manage
and control all public parks, parkways, playgrounds, athletic fields, stadiums,
swimming pools, skating rinks and other recreational facilities of all kinds
used as a part of the public park system or as a means of maintaining places of
beauty, education and recreation, promoting the health, property, lives,
decency, morality and good order of the general public, and particularly of the
inhabitants of the city and vicinity; to abate or cause to be abated all
nuisances; to regulate or prohibit the selling of any article, goods, wares or
merchandise within the park system so designated; to regulate or prohibit the
placing of signs, billboards, posters and advertisements within the park system
as so designated, or the grounds immediately adjacent thereto; to have the same
kept in good order and free from obstruction for the use and benefit of the
public; to restrict and prohibit vagrants, mendicants, beggars, tramps,
prostitutes or disorderly persons therefrom; to construct, improve and repair
such parks, parkways, playgrounds, athletic fields, stadiums, swimming pools,
skating rinks and other recreational facilities on any grounds controlled by
the Board; to acquire for public use, by lease or otherwise, lands either
within or without the municipal limits as they now exist, or may hereafter be
enlarged or diminished; to cause any public street, bridle path or walkway,
which is a part of the public park system to be graded, drained and surfaced;
to construct, operate and maintain all necessary sewers and water lines in
connection with the public park system; and to do any and all other things or
acts which may in any way be necessary or incidental to the use and enjoyment
of such public park system by the general public as a place of beauty,
education, entertainment and recreation.
      (2)   In order to accomplish the foregoing purposes, the Board shall be
empowered to make or promulgate such ordinances as may be necessary or
incidental thereto; to enforce the same by appropriate proceedings in any
proper tribunal of the state, or any county, district or municipality thereof,
and to employ or cause to be employed or provided such police officers as it
shall deem proper and necessary. The City Attorney shall be the official
counsel for the Board and shall advise it on all legal matters, but the Board
may, in its own discretion, employ other or additional counsel.
(Prior Code, § 143.09)
   (J)   Charge for use of facilities. The Board may make reasonable charges to
the public for the privilege of using any of the recreational facilities
provided in the parks and may use the funds so received for the purpose of
constructing, operating and maintaining the parks.
(Prior Code, § 143.10)
   (K)   Use of appropriations. In carrying out the purposes of this section,
the Board shall be authorized to receive and disburse for such purposes any
moneys appropriated to it by Council, together with any other funds which may
come into its hands by gift, grant, donation, bequest, devise or from its own
operation, or otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 143.11)
   (L)   Control of pool and park complex and facilities. There is reserved to
the city the exclusive control and operation of the city’s municipal pool and
park complex and facilities. The scope of service by the city shall be as
follows:
      (1)   Management of pool operations.
         (a)   Hiring, training, supervision of pool staff;
         (b)   Payroll processing;
         (c)   Purchasing and invoice processing;
         (d)   Accounts receivable and accounts payable processing;
         (e)   Daily cash management;
         (f)   Concession stand operation;
         (g)   Budgeting and financial reporting;
         (h)   Pool maintenance and daily operation;
         (i)   Pool activity scheduling; and
         (j)   Provide management and oversight of the pool operation under the
current city management paradigm.
      (2)   Park operations.
         (a)   Hiring, training, supplying and supervision of park staff;
         (b)   Payroll processing;
         (c)   Purchasing and invoice processing;
         (d)   Provide maintenance and grounds keeping services;
         (e)   Provide required equipment; and
         (f)   Provide management and oversight of the pool operation under the
current city management paradigm.
      (3)   Cost allocation. The operational revenues from the pool, concession
stand and pavilion rentals will be used to offset the operational costs. The
city will not charge a management fee for its services and only budgeted labor
costs will be charged. The city will use the revenues generated by the park and
pool operation to offset the direct expenses of its operation.
(Prior Code, § 143.12)  (Ord. passed 6-1-1955; Ord. passed 11-13-2001)
Charter reference:
   Board of Park Commissioners, see
Charter § 26
§ 33.05  BOARD OF MUSEUMS.
   (A)   Board created; powers generally. There is hereby created the Board of
Museums for the purpose of establishing, improving, developing, operating and
maintaining a municipal museum system. The Board shall be a corporate body with
perpetual existence and a corporate seal. The Board shall have the power to
purchase, hold, sell and convey real or personal property; receive any gift,
grant, donation and bequest or devise, sue and be sued, contract and be
contracted with, and do any and all things and acts which may be necessary or
convenient to carry out and effectuate purposes and provisions of this section.
The Board shall have complete and exclusive control and management for all
properties which it shall operate in connection with the municipal museum
system for the city, and shall have the power to employ such persons as, in its
opinion, may be necessary for the construction, operation and maintenance of
the property under its control at such wages or salaries it deems proper, and
shall have full control of all employees.
(Prior Code, § 144.01)
   (B)   Members; qualifications; appointments; terms; disqualifications. The
Council shall appoint a Board of Museums consisting of five area persons, of
which one shall be a Council person. The appointees of the original five-member
Board shall serve terms as follows: two appointees for four years; two
appointees for two years; and Council person for one year. The five members
shall serve a term of four years. Each succeeding term thereafter, the
appointment of a successor shall be made in a like manner for a term of four
years, except the Council person who shall be appointed each year. Vacancies
shall be filled for the unexpired term in the same manner as the original
appointment.
(Prior Code, § 144.02)
   (C)   Oath; officers. After appointment, the members of the Board shall
qualify by taking and filing with the City Clerk the oath prescribed by law for
public officials. The Board shall select from the five voting members a
Chairperson, a Vice-Chair and a Secretary-Treasurer. These officers shall serve
for a period of one fiscal year.
(Prior Code, § 144.03)
   (D)   Compensation; contract interest. The members of the Board of Museums
shall receive no compensation for their services, but shall be reimbursed for
expenses incurred in the performance of their duties as members of the Board.
They shall not be personally interested, either directly or indirectly, in any
contract entered into by the Board, or hold any remunerative position in
connection with the construction, operation or maintenance of any property
under their control as members of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 144.04)
   (E)   Removal from office. A Board member may be removed from his or her
position by the City Council if the member:
      (1)   Violates any express prohibition of this section;
      (2)   Is convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude; or
      (3)   Fails to attend three consecutive meetings of the Board without
being excused by the Board.
(Prior Code, § 144.05)
   (F)   Meetings. Council shall furnish the Board an office or meeting area
where the Board may hold its meetings and keep its records. Meetings shall be
held on a monthly basis and shall be posted and open to the public. Minutes
shall be kept of each Board meeting. A financial report shall be prepared by
the Secretary-Treasurer and submitted to City Council at the first regular
Council meeting in August to report Board activity for the proceeding fiscal
year.
(Prior Code, § 144.06)  (Ord. passed 12-13-2004)
§ 33.06  LIBRARY BOARD.
   (A)   Lowe Public Library. The city shall, upon the effective date of this
section, pursuant to the authority granted in W.Va. Code § 10-1-2, take over,
maintain and support that certain public library, known as the “Lowe Public
Library”, heretofore established.
(Prior Code, § 145.01)
   (B)   Appointment, powers and duties of Board of Library Directors.
      (1)   Council shall appoint a Board of Library Directors in accordance
with W.Va. Code Art. 10-1.
      (2)   The Board of Library Directors shall have the powers and shall
perform the duties conferred and required by general law.
(Prior Code, § 145.02)
   (C)   Library Fund. Council shall provide and allocate in the annual city
budget sufficient funds for the adequate operation, maintenance and repair of
the public library. All money so allocated and collected for library purposes,
except donations, bequests and devises, and the proceeds and income therefrom,
made to or received by the Board of Library Directors under the provisions of
W.Va. Code § 10-1-9 shall be set aside in the City Treasury in a special
library fund, and shall be disbursed by the City Treasurer upon properly
authenticated orders drawn by the Board upon such fund.
(Prior Code, § 145.03)  (Ord. passed 6-5-1989)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to operate library board, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-5(39)
   Authority to operate public library, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-5(38)
   Public libraries, see W.Va. Code Art. 10-1
§ 33.07  BUILDING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Commission created. There is hereby created a Municipal Building
Commission for the city, which shall be known as “Shinnston Municipal Building
Commission”, herein called the “Commission”.
(Prior Code, § 146.01)
   (B)   Public corporation. The Commission shall be a public corporation and
shall have perpetual existence.
(Prior Code, § 146.02)
   (C)   Members.
      (1)   All property, powers and duties and the management and control of
the Commission shall be vested in a Board of three members appointed by Council
for terms of three years.
      (2)   Members first appointed shall serve respectively for terms of one
year, two years and three years. Thereafter, members shall be appointed for
terms of three years each. Vacancies shall be filled by appointment for the
unexpired term only. As the term of each initial appointment expires, the
successor to fill the vacancy created by such expired term shall be appointed
for a term of three years. No member of the Commission shall hold any office or
employment under the United States of America, the state, any county or
political subdivision thereof, or of any political party. All members of the
Commission shall be residents of the city; no member of such Commission shall
receive any compensation for his or her services as such, but each member shall
be reimbursed by the Commission for any reasonable and necessary expenses
actually incurred in the discharge of his or her duties as a member of the
Commission.
(Prior Code, § 146.03)
   (D)   Powers. The Commission is empowered to sue and be sued; contract and
be contracted with; adopt, use and alter a common seal; make and adopt all
necessary, appropriate and lawful bylaws, rules and regulations pertaining to
its affairs; elect such officers; appoint such committees and agents and employ
and fix the compensation of such employees and contractors as may be necessary
for the conduct of the affairs and operations of the Commission; acquire,
purchase, own and hold any property, real, personal or mixed, and acquire,
equip, construct, maintain and operate public buildings, structures, projects
and appurtenant facilities of any type or types for which the city is permitted
by law to expend public funds (all hereinafter referred to as facilities);
apply for receive and use grants-in-aid, donations, and contributions from
source or sources, including, but not limited to the United States of America,
or any agency thereof, and accept and use bequests, devises, gifts and
donations from any source whatsoever; sell, encumber or dispose of any
property, real, personal or mixed; issue negotiable bonds, notes, debentures or
other evidences of indebtedness and provide for the rights of the holders
thereof, incur any proper indebtedness and issue any obligations and give any
security therefor which it may deem necessary or advisable in connection with
exercising powers as provided herein; raise funds by the issuance and sale of
revenue bonds in the manner provided by the applicable provisions of West
Virginia Code, and such Commission is hereby declared to be a “municipal
authority” with the power of eminent domain in the manner provided in the West
Virginia Code, for the purposes set forth in this article, which purposes set
forth in this section, which purposes are hereby declared public purposes for
which private property may be taken; lease its property or any part thereof,
for public purposes, to such persons and upon such terms as the Commission
deems proper; and do all things reasonable and necessary to carry out the
foregoing powers.
(Prior Code, § 146.04)
   (E)   Indebtedness. No statutory limitation with respect to the nature or
amount of indebtedness which may be incurred by municipalities or other public
or governmental bodies shall apply to the indebtedness of the Commission. No
indebtedness of any nature of the Commission shall constitute an indebtedness
of the municipality or a charge against any property of the municipality. No
obligation incurred by the Commission shall give any right against any member
of the Council, or any member of the Commission. The rights of creditors of the
Commission shall be solely against the Commission as a corporate body and shall
be satisfied only out of property held by it in its corporate capacity.
(Prior Code, § 146.05)
   (F)   Disposition of surplus. If the Commission should realize a surplus
over and above the amount required for the maintenance, improvements and
operation of its facilities and for meeting all required payments on its
obligations, it shall set aside such a reserve for future operations,
improvements and contingencies as it shall deem proper and shall then apply the
residue of such surplus, if any, to the payment of any recognized and
established obligations not then due; and, after all such recognized and
established obligations have been paid and discharged in full, the Commission
shall, at the end of each fiscal year, set aside the reserve for future
operations, improvements and contingencies, as aforesaid, and then pay the
residue of such surplus, if any, to the city.
(Prior Code, § 146.06)
   (G)   Contributions.
      (1)   Contributions may be made to the Commission from time to time by
Council and any other persons, firms or corporations that may desire to do so.
      (2)   All funds received by the Commission shall be deposited in such
bank or banks as the Commission may determine and shall be withdrawn therefrom
in such manner as the Commission may direct. Such Commission shall keep a
strict account of all of its receipts and expenditures and shall quarterly
report to the counties, municipalities, persons, firms or corporation which
have made contributions to it. Such report shall contain an itemized account of
the Commission’s receipts and disbursements during the preceding quarter. Such
report shall be made within 60 days after the end of the quarter. Within 60
days after the end of each fiscal year, the Commission shall make an annual
report containing an itemized statement of its receipts and disbursements for
the preceding year and publish the same as a Class II-O legal advertisement in
compliance with West Virginia Code. The publication area for such publication
shall be each county in which the Commission’
(Prior Code, § 146.07)
   (H)   Sale of property. In the event a majority of Council shall so direct
in writing and, if all indebtedness of the Commission has been paid in full,
the Commission shall sell, or transfer all or any of its properties, and assets
so directed and distribute the proceeds thereof, if any, to the city.
(Prior Code, § 146.08)
   (I)   Worker’s compensation. The Commission shall subscribe to the Worker’s
Compensation Fund of the state, and pay all necessary premiums therein, to the
end that all eligible employees of such Commission shall be covered by worker’s
compensation.
(Prior Code, § 146.09)  (Ord. passed 5-16-1968; Ord. passed 12-14-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to establish, see W.Va. Code Art. 8-33
CHAPTER 34:  PUBLIC SAFETY
Section
Police Department
   
34.01   Chief of Police; powers
   
34.02   Special police officers
Fire Department
   
34.15   Fire Chief
   
34.16   Fire protection service charge
Traffic School
   
34.30   Establishment
   
34.31   Driver safety education course
   
34.32   Condition; fines
   
34.33   Availability
Charter reference:
   Chief of Police appointed, see
Charter § 25
Statutory reference:
   Appointment of special police, see W.Va. Code § 8-10-1
   Authority of local fire departments, see W.Va. Code Art. 29-3A
   Civil service, see W.Va. Code §§ 8-14-6 et seq., 8-15-11 et seq.
   Fire protection contracts, see W.Va. Code §§ 8-12-5(57), 8-15-3
   Hours of duty; holidays, see W.Va. Code §§ 8-14-2, 8-14-2a
   Paid fire departments, see W.Va. Code §§ 8-15-9 et seq.
   Parking lot or building officers, see W.Va. Code § 8-14-5a
   Pension and relief fund, see W.Va. Code Art. 8-22
   Police bonds, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-7
   Power of governing body, see W.Va. Code § 8-15-1
   Powers and duties, see W.Va. Code §§ 8-14-1, 8-14-3
   School zones officers, see W.Va. Code § 8-14-5
   Traffic schools, see W.Va. Code § 8-11-5
   Volunteer fire companies, see W.Va. Code §§ 8-15-4 et seq.
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 34.01  CHIEF OF POLICE; POWERS.
   The Chief of Police shall have full power to carry into effect all the legal
orders, laws and ordinances made by Council and shall be the ministerial agent
or officer of the City Manager and shall execute all writs, processes,
warrants, executions and other lawful orders of the City Manager or persons
lawfully exercising the powers of the City Manager and shall collect all fines
and penalties imposed by the City Manager and Council; shall preserve the peace
and good order of the city and apprehend and take before the City Manager and
formally charge all persons seen or heard by him or her to have violated any of
the laws and ordinances of the city; shall have control and custody of all
prisoners and shall feed the same at the expense of the city; and he or she
shall exercise any and all other lawful duties and powers conferred on him or
her by the Council and the laws of the state, and he or she shall have the
right to call to his or her assistance in the performance of his or her duties,
when necessary, any able-bodied male person not under 21 and or over 50 years
of age.
(Prior Code, § 137.01)
§ 34.02  SPECIAL POLICE OFFICERS.
   Council may from time to time elect special police officers who shall give
bond and take the prescribed oath before entering upon their duties. They shall
be responsible to the Chief of Police or Assistant Chief of Police on duty and,
if neither be on duty, then they shall be responsible to the City Manager.
(Prior Code, § 137.02)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 34.15  FIRE CHIEF.
   Council shall also elect a Fire Chief, to serve during the will and pleasure
of Council, who shall take the proper oath within ten days after his or her
election. He or she shall have authority, upon the breaking out of
conflagrations within the city, to take command and exercise control of
volunteers, in the extinguishment of such fires and to arrest or cause to be
arrested and held in custody refractory and disobedient persons and to prevent
the congregating of persons and crowds on the streets at points where they may
obstruct the firefighting apparatus of the city and obstruct firefighting, and
to enforce obedience to his or her commands with regard to the fighting of
fires and, in case the same is absolutely necessary, may dynamite or otherwise
tear down and destroy buildings to prevent further spread of flames.
(Prior Code, § 139.01)
§ 34.16  FIRE PROTECTION SERVICE CHARGE.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CITY. The City of Shinnston.
      FAMILY UNIT. Any dwelling, room and apartment owned or occupied by any
person within the city, which may require fire or police protection.
      FIRE DEPARTMENT. The City of Shinnston Volunteer Fire Department,
including all of the personnel, buildings, machinery and equipment used in the
operation thereof.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MERCANTILE UNIT. Store, service station, garage, rest home, school,
beauty shop, pool room, fraternal organization, lodge, service organization,
restaurant and any other undefined structure owned or occupied by any person or
corporation within the city, which may require fire or police protection.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      WATER METERS. All meters used to measure the quantity of city water used.
(Prior Code, § 753.01)
   (B)   Charges and fees.
      (1)   A monthly municipal service fee in an amount set by Council from
time to time shall be imposed or levied for each family unit for the service
and facilities of the Fire and Police Departments of the city and for the
maintenance and repair of any and all streets, sidewalks and alleys within the
corporate limits of the city, such charge to be paid by the occupants or
persons occupying each such family unit, or if unoccupied, then the charge to
be paid by the titled owner of such unit.
      (2)   A monthly service fee in an amount set by Council from time to time
shall be imposed and levied for every mercantile unit, for the use of the
services and facilities of the city’s Fire and Police Departments and for the
repair and maintenance of any and all streets, alleys and sidewalks within the
corporate boundaries of the city, and such charge shall be paid by the
occupants of each mercantile unit or, if unoccupied, the charges are to be paid
by the owner of such mercantile unit.
      (3)   Such monthly charges shall be due and payable at the same times and
in the same manner as charges for water sold and furnished by the city to its
water customers.
      (4)   Of each municipal service fee collected, in an amount set by
Council from time to time, less the Fire Department’s pro rata share of the
cost of billing, such billing cost, including the cost of postage and
collection, shall be credited to the Fire Department and from the fund so
created, the Fire Department shall be responsible for paying its own fuel. The
remainder of the monthly municipal service fee collected by the city from its
family units, owners of family units, mercantile units or owners of mercantile
units shall be apportioned by Council for use by the Police Department and for
the maintenance and repair of streets, alleys and sidewalks within the
corporate limits.
(Prior Code, § 753.02)
   (C)   Late payments; interest. If such charges or fees shall not be paid
within ten days after same become due, the amount thereof, together with a
penalty of 10% per annum may be recovered by the city in a civil action
instituted in the name of the city.
(Prior Code, § 753.03)  (Ord. passed 3-16-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Special charges for municipal services, see W.Va. Code § 8-13-13
TRAFFIC SCHOOL
§ 34.30  ESTABLISHMENT.
   The Municipal Court is hereby authorized to establish a prejudgment
alternative disposition procedure for traffic offenses over which the court has
jurisdiction.
(Ord. passed 1-14-2013)
§ 34.31  DRIVER SAFETY EDUCATION COURSE.
   If a person is found guilty of a traffic offense, the Municipal Court may,
with the person’s consent, withhold for a reasonable time not to exceed 180
days the entry of a judgment of conviction so that the person may attend a
driver safety education course designated by the Municipal Court. If the person
attends said course, the Municipal Court, if satisfied with the person’s
participation in the course, shall, without entering a judgment of conviction,
dismiss the proceeding against the person.
(Ord. passed 1-14-2013)
§ 34.32  CONDITION; FINES.
   It shall be a condition of any prejudgment alternative disposition
authorized by the provisions of this subchapter that the person pay any fine
assessed by the court and pay all fees and costs required to be paid by any
provision of this code where a person is convicted of a criminal traffic
offense. The Municipal Court shall not utilize any prejudgment alternative
disposition procedure unless it collects such fees and costs as are required by
any provision of the West Virginia Code and transmits the moneys collected as
required by law. The Municipal Court shall not utilize any prejudgment
alternative disposition procedure unless it conforms with the requirements of
this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 1-14-2013)
§ 34.33  AVAILABILITY.
   The procedure authorized by the provisions of this subchapter shall not be
available to any person who:
   (A)   Holds a commercial driver’s license issued by the state in accordance
with W.Va. Code Ch.17E, or who holds a commercial driver’s license issued by
any other state or jurisdiction;
   (B)   Is arrested while operating a commercial motor vehicle, as defined in
W.Va. Code Ch. 17E; or
   (C)   Is arrested for driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs or any
other offense for which a mandatory period of confinement in jail is required.
(Ord. passed 1-14-2013)
CHAPTER 35:  JUDICIARY
Section
Municipal Court
   
35.01   Established
   
35.02   Jurisdiction
   
35.03   Proceedings
   
35.04   Authority
   
35.05   Judge; appointment; qualifications; compensation
   
35.06   Court records; docket
   
35.07   Judgments; warrants
   
35.08   Sessions; time; place
   
35.09   Supervision of Police Department
   
35.10   Costs and proceedings
   
35.11   Executions for fines and costs
   
35.12   Collection
   
35.13   Forfeiture of bail
Teen Court
   
35.25   Extension of option
   
35.26   Applicability
   
35.27   Rules
   
35.28   Mandatory fees
Cross-reference:
   Public Safety, see
Ch. 34
   Traffic Code, see Title VII
Statutory reference:
   Costs for crime victims reparation fund, see W.Va. Code § 14-2A-4
   Costs for funding law enforcement training academies, see W.Va. Code § 30-
29-4
   General right of appeal, see W.Va. Code § 8-34-1
   State law provisions, see W.Va. Code § 8-10-2
   Teen court, see W.Va. Code § 49-4-716
MUNICIPAL COURT
§ 35.01  ESTABLISHED.
   Council shall establish a Municipal Court for the city, which court shall
have such jurisdiction and powers as are now or may hereafter be prescribed by
general law.
(Prior Code, § 173.01)  (Ord. passed 9-14-1964)
§ 35.02  JURISDICTION.
   The Municipal Court shall have jurisdiction over all offenses against or
violations of the ordinances of the city, and authority to inflict punishments
for such violations in the manner lawfully prescribed by such ordinances upon
and against violators of the same.
(Prior Code, § 173.02)  (Ord. passed 9-14-1964; Ord. passed 7-14-2014)
§ 35.03  PROCEEDINGS.
   The proceedings for the recovery of the fine or for the enforcement of the
penalty prescribed by any ordinance shall conform to the relations so far as
they are applicable, prescribed in W.Va. Code Ch. 50, for the enforcement of
penalties against persons convicted for misdemeanors; but the Judge of such
court by capias pro fine or other process may cause the defendant to be
arrested and brought before such court to be dealt with according to law.
(Prior Code, § 173.03)  (Ord. passed 9-14-1964)
§ 35.04  AUTHORITY.
   The court shall have full power and authority to enforce its orders and
judgments, by any process of law which may be necessary and proper for the
purpose, and all processes, executions and orders of such court shall be signed
by the Judge. Such process and executions shall be directed to the Chief of
Police of the city and be executed by him or her or one of his or her deputies.
In the execution of any process or order of the court, the Chief of Police or
deputy shall have the same powers, be governed in his or her proceedings by the
same rules of law and be subject to the same liabilities as the Sheriff of the
county in the performance of like services. There may be charged for the
services of such officer the same fees as the Sheriff is entitled to charge for
like services, but all such fees, as well as all fines imposed by the court
shall be collected by the Chief of Police and accounted for and paid by him or
her to the Treasurer of the city. The city shall in no event be liable for any
such fees.
(Prior Code, § 173.04)  (Ord. passed 9-14-1964)
§ 35.05  JUDGE; APPOINTMENT; QUALIFICATIONS; COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Appointment. The Judge of the court shall have authority to administer
oaths within the city, and shall perform such duties as may be required of the
Judge of the court, or be prescribed by rule or order of Council. Such Judge
may charge the same fees for his or her services as are allowed to be charged
by justices of the peace for like services, and such fees shall be collected by
him or her in like manner as fees of the Clerk of the Criminal Court are
collected, but all such fees shall be accounted for by him or her to the city
and paid over to the Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 173.05)
   (B)   Appointment. The Judge of the court shall be appointed by the City
Manager to serve at its will and pleasure.
(Prior Code, § 173.09)
   (C)   Qualifications. The Judge shall be at least 21 years of age, a citizen
of the United States and shall be a person of good moral character and such
person as Council shall deem qualified for such services and appointment.
(Prior Code, § 173.10)
   (D)   Compensation. The Municipal Judge shall be paid on a fee basis.
(Prior Code, § 173.11)
   (E)   Temporary Judge. In the event of and during the temporary absence or
disability of the Municipal Judge, Council shall appoint a qualified person to
preside over the court, and perform the duties of the Judge thereof, and the
fees payable to the Judge for services shall be transferred to and paid such
temporary Judge for the time he or she serves as such.
(Prior Code, § 173.12)  (Ord. passed 9-14-1964; Ord. passed 7-14-2014)
§ 35.06  COURT RECORDS; DOCKET.
   A docket and other books required for the records and a seal shall be
provided for the court by Council, and the seal may be altered or renewed as
the court may direct. Full faith and credit shall be given to the records of
the court and the certificate of its Judge, whether the seal of the court be
fixed thereto or not, in like manner and with the same effect as if the same
were records of the Circuit Court similarly authenticated.
(Prior Code, § 173.06)  (Ord. passed 9-14-1964)
§ 35.07  JUDGMENTS; WARRANTS.
   The Municipal Court shall have power, upon rendering judgment against a
defendant charged with the violation of an ordinance of the city, to render
judgment against him or her also for the costs of prosecution. In every suit or
prosecution for the violation of an ordinance, the court shall cause the person
or persons at whose instance it was instituted to be designated upon the
warrant or writ issued to arrest or summon the person charged and, if the
person or persons charged are not convicted in such court, and such court is of
the opinion that no sufficient or probable cause exists for the institution of
the suit or prosecution, then judgment for the costs of the city, and of the
defendant, or of either of them, as the court shall deem just, shall be
rendered against the person or persons in whose instance such suit or
prosecution was instituted.
(Prior Code, § 173.07)  (Ord. passed 9-14-1964)
§ 35.08  SESSIONS; TIME; PLACE.
   The sessions of the court shall be at such time and place as the Judge of
the court shall direct.
(Prior Code, § 173.08)  (Ord. passed 9-14-1964)
§ 35.09  SUPERVISION OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   The supervision and direction of the Police Department of the city shall
remain under the authority and powers of the City Manager.
(Prior Code, § 173.13)  (Ord. passed 9-14-1964)
§ 35.10  COSTS AND PROCEEDINGS.
   In every criminal case or proceeding instituted in the Municipal Court of
the city, wherein there is a conviction upon the plea of guilty, nolo
contendere or upon a finding of guilty by the court, there is hereby imposed
and, where possible, there shall be collected, the following items of costs, to
wit:
   (A)   The Municipal Judge shall charge a fee in an amount set by Council
from time to time in each criminal case or proceeding had before him or her, in
which the defendant is found guilty in any of the ways aforesaid, which shall
be in full for the following services rendered in any case; including affidavit
for warrant, search and seizure warrant, warrant for arrest, trial examination,
issuing subpoenas and copies thereof, swearing witnesses and certifying their
attendance, entering judgment and taxing costs, and all other acts in
connection therewith; except that, he or she shall charge, and where possible,
collect an additional fee in an amount set by Council from time to time for
making and certifying a transcript of his or her docket in any particular case
and transmitting the same to the Clerk of the Criminal Court, the state’s Road
Commission or any other office to which he or she may be by law required to
certify any transcript of his or her docket; and the additional sum in an
amount set by Council from time to time for bond recognizance, in an amount set
by Council from time to time for issuing an execution or capias pro fine; and
   (B)   In every criminal case or proceeding had before the Municipal Judge
aforesaid, the following additional items shall be charged as costs:
      (1)   For an arrest in case of a felony: in an amount set by Council from
time to time;
      (2)   For an arrest in a case other than a felony: in an amount set by
Council from time to time;
      (3)   For serving a subpoena: in an amount set by Council from time to
time;
      (4)   For executing a search warrant: in an amount set by Council from
time to time; and
      (5)   For levying an execution or making an arrest under capias pro fine:
An amount set by Council from time to time per mile for each mile of necessary
travel of the police officer in the performance of his or her duties in any
case under this subchapter and an amount set by Council from time to time per
mile for transporting prisoners.
   (C)   (1)   Beginning on the effective date of this subchapter, a fee in an
amount set by Council from time to time per citation shall be charged by the
Municipal Judge in all criminal court proceedings involving the violation of
any criminal law of the municipality, excluding violations of municipal parking
ordinances.
      (2)   All fees collected pursuant to division (C)(1) above shall be
collected by the Municipal Court and remitted within ten days to the City Clerk
for deposit into an escrow account for the funding of maintenance and repair of
police equipment.
(Prior Code, § 173.10)  (Ord. passed 9-14-1964; Ord. passed 1-13-2000)
§ 35.11  EXECUTIONS FOR FINES AND COSTS.
   The Municipal Judge shall issue executions for all fines and costs imposed
by him or her in any criminal case or proceeding within ten days from the date
judgement is entered by him or her on his or her docket, where satisfactory
arrangements for satisfying the same have not been made prior to such time, and
shall deliver such executions to the Chief of Police of the city, who shall
collect the same by levy or otherwise, if the same can be collected, and shall
return such executions to the Municipal Judge within 30 days, showing how he or
she has executed the same, and the Judge shall note such returns on his or her
docket, showing how the same have been executed.
(Prior Code, § 173.15)  (Ord. passed 9-14-1964)
§ 35.12  COLLECTION.
   All costs incurred in criminal cases and proceedings had in the Municipal
Court of the city shall be charged to and collected from the defendants and,
when collected, shall be paid to the City Clerk, who shall issue receipts
therefor, and who shall deposit the same.
(Prior Code, § 173.16)  (Ord. passed 9-14-1964)
§ 35.13  FORFEITURE OF BAIL.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, a forfeiture of cash bail or cash
collateral deposited to secure a defendant’s or defendants’ appearance in
court, which forfeiture has not been vacated, shall be equivalent to a plea of
nolo contendere and treated as a conviction in the direction of the court, and
the cash, so forfeited, may be applied to any fine and costs assessed by the
court.
(Prior Code, § 173.17)  (Ord. passed 9-14-1964)
TEEN COURT
§ 35.25  EXTENSION OF OPTION.
   Any juvenile who is alleged to have committed a status offense or an act of
delinquency which would be a misdemeanor if committed by an adult or in the
case of a violation of a municipal ordinance, an offense over which municipal
courts have concurrent jurisdiction, and who is otherwise subject to the
provisions of W.Va. Ch. 49, may be given the option of proceeding in the Teen
Court program as an alternative to the filing of a formal petition under W.Va.
§ 49-4-04 or proceeding to a disposition as provided by W.Va. Code §§ 49-4-712
or 49-4-714, as the case may be. The decision to extend the option to enter the
Teen Court program as an alternative procedure shall be made by the Municipal
Court if the court finds that the offender is a suitable candidate for the
program. No juvenile may enter the Teen Court program unless he or she and his
or her parent or guardian consent. Any juvenile who does not successfully
cooperate in and complete the Teen Court program and any disposition imposed
therein shall be returned to the municipality for further disposition
consistent with any applicable ordinance.
(Ord. passed 1-14-2013)
§ 35.26  APPLICABILITY.
   The following provisions apply to the Teen Court program:
   (A)   The Judge for each Teen Court proceeding shall be an acting or retired
circuit court judge or an active member of the West Virginia State Bar, who
serves on a voluntary basis;
   (B)   Any juvenile who selects the Teen Court Program as an alternative
disposition shall agree to serve thereafter on at least two occasions as a Teen
Court juror;
   (C)   Volunteer students from grades seven through 12 of the schools serving
the city shall be selected to serve as defense attorney, prosecuting attorney,
court clerk, bailiff and jurors for each proceeding; and
   (D)   Disposition in a teen court proceeding shall consist of requiring the
juvenile to perform 16 to 40 hours of community service, the duration and type
of which shall be determined by the Teen Court jury from a standard list of
available community service programs provided by the county juvenile probation
system and a standard list of alternative consequences that are consistent with
the purposes of this subchapter. The performance of the juvenile shall be
monitored by the Municipal Teen Court Coordinator or other designee for cases
originating in the municipal court’s jurisdiction. The juvenile shall also
perform at least two sessions of Teen Court jury service and, if considered
appropriate by the Municipal Court Judge or Teen Court Judge, participate in an
education program. Nothing in this section may be construed so as to deny
availability of the services provided under W.Va. § 49-5-11a to juveniles who
are otherwise eligible for such service.
(Ord. passed 1-14-2013)
§ 35.27  RULES.
   The rules for administration, procedure and admission of evidence shall be
determined by the Municipal Court Judge or Teen Court Judge, but in no case may
the court require a juvenile to admit the allegation against him or her as a
prerequisite to participation in the Teen Court program. A copy of these rules
shall be provided to every Teen Court participant.
(Ord. passed 1-14-2013)
§ 35.28  MANDATORY FEES.
   There shall be a mandatory fee in an amount set by Council from time to time
to be assessed by the clerk of the court, which shall be deposited into an
account specifically for the operation and administration of the Teen Court
Program. The clerk of the court shall collect the fees established in this
subchapter and shall remit the fees to the Teen Court Program. The mandatory
fee shall be paid by the defendant on a judgment of guilty or a plea of nolo
contendere for each violation committed in the municipality of any felony,
misdemeanor or any local ordinance, including traffic violations and moving
violations, but excluding municipal parking ordinances. Fees assessed in
Municipal Court pursuant to this subchapter shall be used for operation of the
Teen Court Program in the city.
(Ord. passed 1-14-2013)
CHAPTER 36:  EMERGENCY SERVICES
Section
   
36.01   Policy and purpose
   
36.02   Office created; membership
   
36.03   Powers and duties
   
36.04   Organization
   
36.05   Acceptance of federal or state aid
   
36.06   Director; appointment
Statutory reference:
   Emergency services, see W.Va. Code Art. 15-5
§ 36.01  POLICY AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   In view of the existing and increasing possibility of the occurrence
of disasters of unprecedented size and destructiveness resulting from enemy
attack, sabotage or other hostile action, or from fire, flood, earthquakes or
other natural or human-made causes, and in order to ensure that preparations of
the city will be adequate to deal with such disasters, and, generally to
provide for the defense and to protect the public peace, health and safety and
to preserve the lives and property of the people of the city, it is hereby
found and declared to be necessary:
      (1)   To create an Office of Emergency Services in the city;
      (2)   To confer upon the officials of the city the emergency powers
provided herein; and
      (3)   To provide for the rendering of emergency services within the city
and to cooperate with other governmental agencies with respect to carrying out
the emergency service functions.
   (B)   It is further declared to be the purpose of this chapter and the
policy of the city that all emergency services functions of the city be
coordinated to the maximum extent with the comparable functions of the county,
state and federal governments, including various departments and agencies
thereof, as well as with other states and localities and with private agencies
of every type, so that the most effective preparation and use may be made of
the county, state and nation’s manpower, resources and facilities for dealing
with any disaster that may occur.
(Prior Code, § 107.01)
§ 36.02  OFFICE CREATED; MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   There is hereby created the city’s Office of Emergency Services, which
shall consist of the following members: the City Manager, who shall be ex-
officio Chairperson of the Office of Emergency Services; the Chiefs of Police
and Fire of the city; and one other member to be nominated and appointed by
Council, not more than three of whom shall be of the same political party. In
nominating and appointing the one member, Council shall consider the political
affiliations of the four ex-officio members in order to comply with the
requirement that not more than three members of Council shall be of the same
political party. If, after the appointment of such member, this requirement is
not met, the City Manager shall fill the vacancy with a registered professional
engineer or the appropriate political party.
   (B)   The terms of all ex-officio members shall follow the term of their
respective municipal offices.
   (C)   The term of such registered professional engineer shall be at the will
and pleasure of the City Manager. The term of Council’s appointee shall be
until the second regular meeting of Council following the next regular
municipal election for Council members.
(Prior Code, § 107.02)
§ 36.03  POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The powers and duties of the city’s Office of Emergency Services shall
include the recommendation of a civil defense program and a program for
emergency services for the city and shall also include the following:
   (A)   Control and direction of the civil defense organization of the city;
   (B)   Control and direction of services during every type of emergency
within the city;
   (C)   Appointment of such voluntary personnel as the Office of Emergency
Services may deem advisable;
   (D)   The maintenance of necessary liaison with other municipal, area,
state, regional, federal or other civil defense or emergency services offices
or organizations;
   (E)   The marshaling, after the declaration of an emergency, of all
necessary personnel, equipment or supplies to aid the carrying out of the civil
defense plan or the emergency services plan;
   (F)   The institution of training programs and public information programs
and the taking of other preparatory steps including partial or full
mobilization of civil defense programs and emergency services programs in
advance of an actual disaster or emergency; and
   (G)   On behalf of the city and subject to approval of the Office of
Emergency Services, the entering into mutual aid arrangements with other cities
and counties in the state, and also, under authority of the state, the entering
into of reciprocal civil defense agreements and emergency services agreements
with federal and other states for aid in case of disaster or emergencies too
great to be dealt with unassisted.
(Prior Code, § 107.03)
§ 36.04  ORGANIZATION.
   The Emergency Services Organization of the city shall consist of the
officers and employees of the city designated by the City Manager, as well as
all volunteer municipal defense and emergency services workers. The functions
and duties of this organization shall be distributed among such divisions,
services and special staff as Council shall be resolution prescribe. Insofar as
possible, the form of organization and terminology shall conform to the
recommendations of the Federal and State Emergency Service Organization.
(Prior Code, § 107.04)
§ 36.05  ACCEPTANCE OF FEDERAL OR STATE AID.
   Whatever the federal and state governments, or any agency or officer
thereof, shall offer or make available to the city, services, equipment,
supplies, material or funds by way of gift, grant, loan or matching funds, for
the purpose of civil defense or emergency services, the city, acting through
the City Manager, may accept such offer and, upon acceptance, authorize the
proper offices of the city to receive such services, equipment, supplies,
materials or funds on behalf of the city.
(Prior Code, § 107.05)
§ 36.06  DIRECTOR; APPOINTMENT.
   Council may authorize the appointment of a Director of the office of
Emergency Services. Upon such authorization, the City Manager is authorized and
directed to appoint a Director of the Office of Emergency Services to serve at
the will and pleasure of the City Manager.
(Prior Code, § 107.06)
CHAPTER 37:  ELECTIONS
Section
   
37.01   Applicability of state law to municipal elections
   
37.02   Hours
   
37.03   Ballot boxes
   
37.04   Regular elections; term of office
   
37.05   Permanent registration law; records
   
37.06   Voting precincts; wards
Charter reference:
   Election, see
Charter § 39
Statutory reference:
   Absentee voting in municipal elections, see W.Va. Code § 3-3-13
   Integration of municipal elections with systems of permanent registration,
see W.Va. Code § 8-5-13
   Municipal precinct registration records, see W.Va. Code § 3-1-27
   Municipal voting precincts, see W.Va. Code § 3-1-6
   Special elections, see W.Va. Code § 8-5-15a
§ 37.01  APPLICABILITY OF STATE LAW TO MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS.
   The provisions of W.Va. Code Ch. 3, as amended, shall so far as the same can
be applied, govern the conduct of municipal elections and to that extent, such
Ch. 3 is hereby adopted and made a part of this chapter by reference.
(Prior Code, § 105.01)
§ 37.02  HOURS.
   Polls shall be opened in each precinct on the day of such election as
provided in W.Va. Code § 3-1-31.
(Prior Code, § 105.03)
§ 37.03  BALLOT BOXES.
   The City Clerk shall provide ballot boxes and tickets for each of the wards
of the city and the Chief of Police shall convey them to each of the polling
places and deliver the same to the Commissioners in time for the holding of the
election.
(Prior Code, § 105.04)
§ 37.04  REGULAR ELECTIONS; TERM OF OFFICE.
   All regular elections for officers shall be held biennially on the second
Tuesday in June. The terms of all officers elected shall commence on July 1,
following the election and shall be for two years.
(Prior Code, § 105.05)  (Ord. passed 12-30-1959; Ord. passed 3-3-1986)
§ 37.05  PERMANENT REGISTRATION LAW; RECORDS.
   (A)   All elections of the city shall be held in accordance with and subject
to the provisions of the permanent registration law of the state.
   (B)   At least three days prior to each election of the city, the City Clerk
shall procure from the office of the Clerk of the County Court the municipal
registration records necessary for the conduct of such election. Such records
shall, within ten days after the date of the municipal election, be returned to
the office of the Clerk of such court by the City Clerk.
   (C)   In case of a contested election, the registration record of any
challenged voter may be obtained from the Clerk of the County Court by Council
to determine the contest. Such records shall be returned by the City Clerk to
the office of the Clerk of such County Court within a reasonable time after the
contest is finally decided.
(Prior Code, § 105.06)
§ 37.06  VOTING PRECINCTS; WARDS.
   (A)   For the purpose of all municipal elections of the city, the voting
precincts in the city shall coincide with the boundaries of the voting
precincts as fixed by the County Court for all state and county elections,
insofar as such precincts are within the corporate limits of the city, and
except in the fourth ward where there are parts of two county precincts, the
same shall constitute a single voting precinct to be designated 4-53-54.
   (B)   Each voting precinct of the city shall be designated by the number of
the ward in which such precinct is situated, followed by the corresponding
number used by the County Court to designate such precinct, to wit: 1-50; 2-51;
3-52; and 4-53-54.
(Prior Code, § 105.07)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   REFUSE COLLECTION
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   SEWERS
CHAPTER 50:  REFUSE COLLECTION
Section
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Collection by city exclusively
   
50.03   Separate dwelling and commercial units require separate payments
   
50.04   Sanitation Department
   
50.05   Charges
   
50.06   Unlawful activities
   
50.07   Containers to be accessible
Statutory reference:
   Power to regulate, see W.Va. Code §§ 8-12-5(10) et seq.
§ 50.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, firm or corporation.
   PRIVATE SCAVENGER. One who for hire, collects, removes or disposes of
refuse.
   REFUSE. All sweepings, cleanings, trash, rubbish, litter, garbage,
industrial or domestic wastes, organic wastes or residue of animals sold as
meat, fruit or other vegetable matter from kitchens, dining rooms, markets or
places dealing in or handling meats, fowl, fruits, grain or vegetables; offal,
animal excreta, the carcasses of animals, accumulated waste materials or
substances which may become nuisances, some of which are more particularly
classified as follows.
      (1)   ASHES. Residue resulting from the combustion of coal, coke or wood,
in domestic, industrial or commercial stoves, furnaces or boilers.
      (2)   DEBRIS. Trees, or shrub trimmings, grass clippings, dirt, wood
alternation or construction of buildings or structures.
      (3)   PREPARED GARBAGE. Waste material from kitchens, dining rooms and
similar places, from which liquids have been drained and solid matter wrapped
in paper.
      (4)   RAW GARBAGE. Swill not prepared as in the definition of “prepared
garbage” above.
      (5)   TRASH. Waste material containing no putrid matter or organic waste.
   REFUSE COLLECTIONS. The gathering of refuse containers and their contents
from the premises of improved property and loading contents into removal
vehicles, and returning containers to the place where found after contents have
been emptied for which a charge is made.
   REFUSE CONTAINERS.
      (1)   Dry refuse containers shall be such as to accommodate the waste
materials contained therein without causing litter, and so constructed to be
readily removed by one collector.
      (2)   Garbage containers shall be substantially constructed of
nonabsorbent material, shall be water-tight, leak-proof, fly-tight, shall be
equipped with adequate carrying bail and tight-fitting metal cover, and shall
be of such size that it may be conveniently handled by one collector.
   REFUSE DISPOSAL. The disposition of refuse in accordance with rules and
regulations promulgated by the City Manager with the approval of Council.
   REFUSE REMOVAL. The hauling and transportation of refuse from point of
collection to point of disposal.
(Prior Code, § 951.01)  (Ord. passed 4-1-1958)
§ 50.02  COLLECTION BY CITY EXCLUSIVELY.
   (A)   No person shall engage in or conduct the business of collection,
removal or disposal of refuse, ashes, raw garbage or prepared garbage within
the city. Private scavengers, push cart operators and private garbage
collectors are hereby prohibited from engaging in the business of transporting
or disposing of raw or prepared garbage or refuse containing organic wastes,
putrid matter and waste or excreta subject to purification.
   (B)   All residents, business houses, firms or corporations residing in or
doing business within the city shall be required to subscribe to, take and pay
for the service provided by the Sanitation Department of the city as provided
herein. No resident, person, firm or corporation shall neglect or refuse to
subscribe to such service and pay for such service.
   (C)   Council and the City Manager, in their discretion, after considering
which method would be the most feasible, efficient and economical to the city,
may resolve that collection, removal and disposal of solid waste and
recyclables generated within the corporate limits of the city be done by city
forces or be performed by an independent contractor with such independent
contractor having either exclusive rights or non-exclusive rights to collect,
remove and dispose of solid waste and recyclables within the city, or that such
independent contractor have exclusive or non-exclusive rights to collect,
remove or dispose of solid waste and recyclables in certain areas or districts
or certain classifications of occupants or owners and to recommend withholding
those rights as to other classifications of occupants or owners. The final
determination to use city forces or an independent contractor shall be made by
Council and the City Manager through resolution.
(Prior Code, § 951.02)  (Ord. passed 4-1-1958; Ord. passed 4-12-1993)  Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 50.03  SEPARATE DWELLING AND COMMERCIAL UNITS REQUIRE SEPARATE PAYMENTS.
   (A)   In buildings where there are more than one dwelling unit, or more than
one apartment, each dwelling unit or apartment shall be considered as a
separate unit with respect to service rendered under the terms hereof, and with
the duty of subscribing for service and paying for service to the respective
unit or apartment.
   (B)   In buildings in which there are more than one commercial business
unit, firm or corporation, each unit or business unit, firm or corporation
shall be considered as a separate unit with respect to service rendered under
the terms hereof, and with the duty of subscribing for service and paying for
service to the respective commercial unit.
(Prior Code, § 951.03)  (Ord. passed 11-1-1993)
§ 50.04  SANITATION DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   On and after the date when this chapter became operative, there shall
be a Sanitation Department within the office and under the supervision and
direction of the City Manager. The City Manager or other duly authorized
officer, with the approval of Council, shall be adequately equipped and applied
with personnel and equipment to properly and satisfactorily carry out the
essential public service of collecting, removing and disposing of refuse
produced in the household and places of business of city residents. The City
Manager or other duly authorized officer, with the approval of Council shall
publish, promulgate and enforce any and all reasonable rules and regulations
deemed by him or her necessary or proper, consistent with this chapter, to
carry out the objects and purposes thereof and for the safety and health of
city residents in respect to the collection, removal and disposal of the
refuse, as herein defined.
   (B)   Police officers, at the request of the City Manager and under the
direction of the Chief of Police, may inspect the premises of any person, firm
or corporation in the city relative to the enforcement of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 951.04)  (Ord. passed 4-1-1958)
§ 50.05  CHARGES.
   (A)   The monthly charge for the collection of solid waste containers, cans
or bags and recyclables not exceeding 40 gallons in capacity and not exceeding
40 pounds per bag or can in weight, for each single-family unit, whether the
same is a single-family house, apartment unit, condominium or one unit of a
duplex, shall hereafter be in an amount set by Council from time to time.
   (B)   The monthly charge for commercial establishments and multiple-family
or individual dwelling units where the owner or landlord agrees to be
responsible for the payment of solid waste and recyclable collection fees shall
hereafter be as follows.
      (1)   Any commercial customer requiring the collection of refuse from a
dumpster leased from the city’s contractor shall be charged a fee not to exceed
the fee listed in the approved bid document submitted to the city.
      (2)   Any commercial establishment requiring the collection of bags or
containers shall be charged a fee per month, negotiated between the customer
and the city’s contractor, based on the customers necessity of pick-up times
and the estimate of the expected weight of the customers solid waste and
recyclable generated.
      (3)   The City Council shall serve as a board of appeals for any
commercial customer who feels that the price negotiated for hand pick-up is
unfair based upon charges for other commercial customers with similar trash
volume and pick-up requirements.
   (C)   The city’s contractor shall be responsible for the billing and
collection of all city refuse disposal customers. The city’s contractor shall
make all customers aware of the billing and collection schedule. The city’s
contractor shall also make all customers aware of all delinquent fees and
interest that are to be charged past due accounts.
(Prior Code, § 951.05)  (Ord. passed 12-13-1999)
§ 50.06  UNLAWFUL ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   Accumulation of refuse. No person shall cause or permit the
accumulation of refuse in, about or upon premises owned, occupied or used by
him or her, except in the containers and in the manner prescribed herein.
   (B)   Delivery of refuse. No person shall deliver refuse to or upon private
property within the city.
   (C)   Scattering of rubbish, trash and the like. No person shall throw,
bury, place or scatter any garbage, rubbish, trash, ashes or other refuse over
or upon any premises, street, or alley, either public or private or adjacent
thereto and either with or without the intent to later remove or burn the same;
or to suffer or permit from the accumulation of refuse, any premises owned,
unsanitary, unsightly or unsafe to the public health, or hazardous from fire.
   (D)   Keeping garbage not prepared. No person shall deposit or store garbage
in refuse containers unless such garbage has been prepared for collection,
removal and disposal, and complies with the definition of “prepared garbage”.
   (E)   Disposal of refuse in streets, alleys, private property. No person
within the city shall bury, throw out, dispose of or place any garbage, offal,
dead animals, rubbish, slops or refuse matter, either vegetable or animal upon
any street, alley or private property, whether owned by such person or not, or
dispose of the same anywhere within the city, except in a vessel, can or tank,
which is watertight and kept in such condition, and also fitted with covers so
closely fitted that no odor can escape therefrom. Such covers shall not be
removed, except to put garbage into the vessel, can or tank, and such can shall
be immediately closed after each of such operations.
   (F)   Burning trash. No person within the city shall burn any form of trash,
paper boxes or any articles defined in §
50.01 of this chapter; except that, under special circumstances permission may
be granted by the City Manager or Fire Chief for the burning of articles on
private property.
(Prior Code, § 951.06)  (Ord. passed 4-1-1958)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.07  CONTAINERS TO BE ACCESSIBLE.
   Every tenant, lessee or occupant of each building, or other person in charge
of the same, shall make proper arrangements for the removal of refuse, ashes
and garbage from the premises, and place the containers at a point on the
premises or elsewhere where they may be readily accessible to the collector.
(Prior Code, § 951.07)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 51:  WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Rates
   
51.02   Minimum charge
   
51.03   Rate for resale
   
51.04   Delayed payment penalty
   
51.05   Security deposit
   
51.06   Private and public fire protection
   
51.07   Tap fee
   
51.08   Reconnection charge
   
51.09   Special surcharge
   
51.10   Returned checks
   
51.11   Leak adjustment rate
   
51.12   Disconnection for late payment
Backflow and Cross-Connection Control
   
51.25   Purpose
   
51.26   Authority
   
51.27   Responsibility
   
51.28   Definitions
   
51.29   Administration
   
51.30   Requirements
   
51.31   Degree of hazard
   
51.32   Existing in-use backflow prevention devices
   
51.33   Periodic testing
   
51.34   Records
Statutory reference:
   Deposit limitations, see W.Va. Code § 24-3-8
   Discontinuance for non-payment, see W.Va. Code § 8-19-13
   Power to collect charges, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-5(32), Art. 8-19
   Power to regulate, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-5(32)
   Review by Public Service Commission, see W.Va. Code § 24-2-4(b)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01  RATES.
 
First 2,000 gallons used per month      As determined by Council per 1,000
                                        gallons
Next 3,000 gallons used per month       As determined by Council per 1,000
                                        gallons
Next 5,000 gallons used per month       As determined by Council per 1,000
                                        gallons
Next 90,000 gallons used per month      As determined by Council per 1,000
                                        gallons
All over 100,000 gallons used per month As determined by Council per 1,000
                                        gallons
 
(Prior Code, § 925.01)  (Ord. passed 2-9-2004; Ord. passed 9-29-2014)
§ 51.02  MINIMUM CHARGE.
   No bill will be rendered for less than an amount set by Council from time to
time per month, which is the equivalent of 2,000 gallons or:
Inch Meter Per Month
Inch Meter       Per Month
5/8-inch meter   As determined by Council
3/4-inch meter   As determined by Council
1-inch meter     As determined by Council
1-1/2-inch meter As determined by Council
2-inch meter     As determined by Council
3-inch meter     As determined by Council
4-inch meter     As determined by Council
6-inch meter     As determined by Council
 
(Prior Code, § 925.02)  (Ord. passed 2-9-2004; Ord. passed 9-29-2014)
§ 51.03  RATES FOR RESALE.
   All water for resale to Bingamon Public Service District, Town of
Worthington, Hutchinson Water Association, Coons Run Public Service District
and Tri-County Water Association will be billed in accordance with the approved
rate of an amount set by Council from time to time per month.
(Prior Code, § 925.03)  (Ord. passed 2-9-2004; Ord. passed 9-29-2014)
§ 51.04  DELAYED PAYMENT PENALTY.
   The above schedule is net. On all current usage billings not paid in full
when due, 10% will be added to the net current amount unpaid. This delayed
payment penalty is not interest and is to be collected only once for each bill,
where it is appropriate.
(Prior Code, § 925.04)  (Ord. passed 2-9-2004; Ord. passed 9-29-2014)
§ 51.05  SECURITY DEPOSIT.
   The security deposit shall not exceed two-twelfths of the average annual
usage of a customer’s specific customer class, or in an amount set by Council
from time to time, whichever is greater. Average residential consumption will
be calculated as 4,500 gallons per month. Average commercial consumption will
be calculated as 9,000 gallons per month.
(Prior Code, § 925.05)  (Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed 6-7-1993; Ord. passed 2-
9-2004)
§ 51.06  PRIVATE AND PUBLIC FIRE PROTECTION.
 
Fire hydrants             As determined by Council per month
Fire sprinkler tap system As determined by Council per month
 
(Prior Code, § 925.06)  (Ord. passed 2-9-2004; Ord. passed 9-29-2014)
§ 51.07  TAP FEE.
   The following charges are to be made whenever the utility installs a new tap
to serve an applicant: a tap fee in an amount set by Council from time to time
will be charged to all customers who apply for service outside of a certificate
proceeding before the Commission for each new tap to the service.
(Prior Code, § 925.07)  (Ord. passed 2-9-2004; Ord. passed 9-29-2014)
§ 51.08  RECONNECTION CHARGE.
   There shall be a charge in an amount set by Council from time to time
whenever the supply of water is turned off for violations of rules and/or non-
payment of bills.
(Prior Code, § 925.08)  (Ord. passed 2-9-2004; Ord. passed 9-29-2014)
§ 51.09  SPECIAL SURCHARGE.
   The city has been authorized by the Public Service Commission of the state
to impose on all customers in an amount set by Council from time to time a per
thousand gallon surcharge  for a limited period of time. This surcharge is for
the sole purpose of providing the city with revenues to pay for some delinquent
accounts payable. The surcharge will last a period of approximately two years
after which all accounts payable are expected to be paid and the surcharge is
required to be discontinued.
(Prior Code, § 925.09)  (Ord. passed 2-9-2004)
§ 51.10  RETURNED CHECKS.
   A service charge equal to the actual bank fee assessed to the utility or in
an amount set by Council from time to time will be imposed upon any customer
whose check for payment of charges is returned by his or her bank due to
insufficient funds.
(Prior Code, § 925.10)  (Ord. passed 2-9-2004; Ord. passed 9-29-2014)
§ 51.11  LEAK ADJUSTMENT RATE.
   The leak adjustment rate, which shall be in an amount set by Council from
time to time per 1,000 gallons is to be used when the bill reflects unusual
consumption which can be attributed to eligible leakage on customer’s side of
the meter. This rate shall be applied to all such consumption above customer’s
historical average usage.
(Prior Code, § 925.11)  (Ord. passed 2-9-2004; Ord. passed 9-29-2014)
§ 51.12  DISCONNECTION FOR LATE PAYMENT.
   (A)   It is the policy of the city to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills.  The city’s form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
      (1)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth
on the bill;
      (2)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill
will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid within
ten days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued for
nonpayment; and
      (3)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill
shall have a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in
person and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may
present orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the city
official in charge of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to
order that the customer’s service not be discontinued and shall have the
authority to make a final determination of the customer’s complaint.
   (B)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered.  In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
   (C)   When it becomes necessary for the city to discontinue utility service
to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only after
all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on charge in
the sum of $20.
BACKFLOW AND CROSS-CONNECTIONS CONTROL
§ 51.25  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is:
   (A)   To protect the public water system served by the city from the
possibility of contamination or pollution by isolating within its customers’
internal distribution water system(s), such contaminants or pollutants that
could backflow due to back-pressure or back-siphonage into the public water
system;
   (B)   To promote the elimination and/or control of cross-connections and
backflow conditions, actual or potential, within a customer’s internal
distribution water system(s), non-potable systems, plumbing fixtures and
processes; and
   (C)   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross-
connection and backflow prevention control which will effectively prevent the
contamination or pollution of the public and/or customer’s water system(s) from
cross-connections and backflow conditions.
(Prior Code, § 925.12)  (Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 51.26  AUTHORITY.
   By the Federal Safe Drinking Water Act of 1974 and 1996 amendment, being 42
U.S.C. 300f et seq., and W.Va. Code Ch. 16, Art. 1, the water purveyor has the
primary responsibility for preventing water from unapproved sources, or any
other substances, from entering the public potable water system.
(Prior Code, § 925.12)  (Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 51.27  RESPONSIBILITY.
   The water purveyor shall be responsible for the protection of the public
potable water distribution system from contamination or pollution due to
backflow from back-pressure or back-siphonage of contaminants or pollutants
through the water service connection. If, in the judgment of the water
purveyor, an approved backflow preventer assembly is required at the water
service connection to any customer’s premises, the water purveyor, or his or
her delegated agent, shall give notice in writing to said customer to install
an approved backflow preventer assembly at each service connection to his or
her premises. The customer shall, within 90 days, install such approved
assembly, or assemblies, at his or her own expense, and failure or refusal, or
inability on the part of the customer to install said assembly or assemblies
within 90 days, shall constitute a grounds for discontinuing water service to
the premises until such assembly or assemblies have been properly installed.
(Prior Code, § 925.12)  (Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 51.28  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVED. Accepted by the Water Purveyor as meeting an applicable
specification stated or cited in the state’s Department of Health and Human
Resources regulation, or as suitable for the proposed purpose.
   ASSEMBLY. A backflow preventer usually of a combination of approved check
valve components and additional instrumentation including approved shutoff
valves and test cocks.
   AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY. Any water supply or water source, on or available,
to a customer’s premises other than the water purveyor’s approved public water
system.
   BACKFLOW. The undesirable reversal of water flow or introduction of other
liquids, mixtures or substances, caused by a pressure differential in the
distribution pipes of potable water system.
   BACKFLOW CONDITION(S). Any set of circumstances, actual or potential that
could be construed to create a cross-connection allowing for backflow of a
contaminant or pollutant to enter a potable water system.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTER. A device or assembly, or means designed to prevent
backflow in a potable water system. Most commonly categorized as air gap,
atmospheric vacuum breaker, barometric loop, double check with intermediate
atmospheric vent, double check valve assembly, hose bibb vacuum breaker,
pressure vacuum breaker, reduced pressure principle assembly and residential
dual check.
      (1)   AIR GAP. A physical separation sufficient to prevent backflow
between the free-flowing discharge end of the potable water system and any
other system. Physically defined as a distance equal to twice the diameter of
the supply side pipe diameter, but never less than one inch.
      (2)   ATMOSPHERIC VACUUM BREAKER. A device which prevents backflow by
creating an atmospheric vent when there is either a negative pressure or sub-
atmospheric pressure in a water system.
      (3)   BAROMETRIC LOOP. A fabricated piping arrangement rising at least 35
feet at its topmost point above the highest fixture it supplies. It is utilized
in water supply systems to protect against back-siphonage.
      (4)   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY. An assembly of two independently
operating spring loaded check valves with tightly closing shut-off valves on
each side of the check valves, and properly located test cocks for the testing
of each check valve.
      (5)   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE WITH INTERMEDIATE ATMOSPHERIC VENT. A device
having two spring loaded check valves separated by an atmospheric vent chamber.
      (6)   HOSE BIBB VACUUM BREAKER. A device attached to a hose bibb and
which acts as an atmospheric vacuum breaker.
      (7)   PRESSURE VACUUM BREAKER. An assembly containing an independently
operated spring loaded check valve and an independently operated spring loaded
air inlet valve located on the discharge side of the check valve. The assembly
includes tightly closing shut-off valves on each side of the valves and
properly located test cocks for the testing of the check and air valve.
      (8)   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTER. An assembly
consisting of two independently operating approved check valves with an
automatically operating differential relief valve located between the two check
valves, tightly closing shut-off valves on each side of the check valves, plus
properly located test cocks for the testing of the check valves and the relief
valves.
      (9)   RESIDENTIAL DUAL CHECK. A device consisting of two spring loaded,
independently operating check valves. Generally employed immediately downstream
of the water meter to act as a fixture isolation device.
   BACKPRESSURE. A condition in which the customer’s system pressure is greater
than the water purveyor’s system pressure.
   BACK-SIPHONAGE. The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures or substances
into the distribution pipes of a potable water system from any source other
than the primary source caused by the sudden reduction of pressure or negative
pressure in the potable water system.
   COMMUNITY WATER SYSTEM. A public water system that serves at least 25
residents year around or that has 15 service connections serving year around
residents.
   CONTAINMENT. (External protection.) A method of backflow prevention which
requires a backflow preventer assembly be installed after the meter and prior
to any water service entrance.
   CONTAMINANT. A substance that will impair the quality of potable water to a
degree that it creates a serious health hazard to the public leading to
poisoning or the spread of disease.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any actual or potential, direct or indirect, connection
between the public water system and an unapproved water supply or other source
of contamination or pollution.
   CUSTOMER. A billing unit or service connection to which drinking water is
delivered by a public water system. A CUSTOMER may also be identified as an
OWNER.
   DEGREE OF HAZARD. The potential risk of health and the potential adverse
effects upon the public water system based on the probability of backflow
occurring and the type or nature of the contaminant. A “health hazard” is any
condition, device or practice which creates or may create a danger to health
and well being of the water consumer. A “severe health hazard” is any health
hazard (contaminant) that could be expected to result in significant morbidity
or death. “A non-health hazard (pollutant)” is any condition that could degrade
the quality or adversely affect the public water system.
   DEVICE. A single body backflow preventer with one or two check valves that
cannot be tested and does not have shut off valves or test cocks.
   FIXTURE ISOLATION. (Internal isolation.) A method of backflow prevention
which a backflow preventer is located to control a cross-connection or
potential source of contamination at an in-plant piece of equipment or process
location other than at a water service entrance.
   OWNER. Any person who has legal title to, or license to operate, or resides
in a property or facility which is supplied drinking water from a public water
system. May also be referred to as a CUSTOMER.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, company, public or private corporation,
political subdivision, agency of the state, agency or instrumentality of the
United States or any other legal entity.
   POLLUTANT. A foreign substance that, if permitted to enter the public water
system, will degrade potable water quality so as to constitute a moderate
hazard, or impair the usefulness of the water to a degree which does not create
an actual hazard to the public health, but which does adversely and
unreasonably affect (appearance or color, odor, taste and the like) the water
for domestic use.
   POTABLE WATER. Water that is safe for human consumption as described by the
state’s Bureau for Public Health.
   PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM. Includes the works, auxiliaries, for the collection,
treatment, storage and distribution of drinking water from the source of supply
to a customer’s premises. May also be known as a WATER PURVEYOR.
   WATER PURVEYOR. The Municipal Water Department, Water Board, Public Service
District or other administrative authority invested with the authority and
responsibility for a public water system.
   WATER SERVICE ENTRANCE. The point in the customer’s water system beyond the
sanitary control of the public water system (water purveyor). Generally
considered to be the outlet end of the water meter and always before any
unprotected branch water line.
   WEST VIRGINIA BUREAU FOR PUBLIC HEALTH (WVBPH). The State of West Virginia
Bureau for Public Health.
(Prior Code, § 925.12)  (Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 51.29  ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The water purveyor will establish, operate and promote a cross-
connection and backflow prevention control program, to include the keeping of
necessary records, which fulfills the requirements of the WVBPH Cross-
Connection and Backflow Prevention Regulations.
   (B)   The owner shall allow his property to be inspected for possible cross-
connections and backflow conditions, and shall follow the provisions of the
water purveyor’s program and the WVBPH Cross-Connections and Backflow
Prevention Regulations where a cross-connection is permitted.
   (C)   If the water purveyor requires that the public water system be
protected by containment, the owner shall be responsible for the installation
and maintenance of the required backflow preventer assembly(blies) and for
water quality beyond the outlet end of the containment assembly(blies) and
could utilize fixtures isolation protection for that purpose. The owner may
also seek local public health officials, or personnel from the Water Purveyor,
or their designated representatives, or certified/licensed private sector
personnel to assist him or her in the survey of his or her facility(ties) and
to assist him or her in the selection of proper containment assemblies and/or
fixture isolation devices, and the proper installation of these assemblies/
devices.
(Prior Code, § 925.12)  (Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 51.30  REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Water purveyor.
      (1)   On new installations, the water purveyor will provide an on-site
evaluation and/or inspection of plans in order to determine the type of
backflow preventer assembly(blies), if any, that will be required based on
actual or potential cross-connections and the degree of health hazards.
      (2)   For premises existing prior to the start of this program, the water
purveyor will perform evaluations and inspections of plans and/or premises for
actual and potential cross-connections and backflow conditions and inform the
owner by letter of any corrective action deemed necessary, the method of
achieving the correction, and the time allowed for the correction to be made.
Ordinarily, 90 days will be allowed. However, this time period may be shortened
depending upon the degree of hazard involved and the history of the device(s)/
assembly(blies) already in place.
      (3)   The water purveyor will not allow any actual or potential cross-
connection to remain unless it is protected by an approved air gap or backflow
preventer assembly(blies) and which must be regularly tested or inspected to
insure satisfactory operation.
      (4)   The water purveyor shall inform the owner by letter, of any failure
to comply, prior to a re-inspection. The water purveyor will allow an
additional 15 days for the correction(s). In the event the owner fails to
comply with the necessary correction(s) by the time of a second re-inspection,
the water purveyor will inform the owner by letter, that the water service to
the owner’s premises will be terminated within a period not to exceed five
days. In the event that the owner informs the water purveyor of extenuating
circumstances as to why the correction(s) has not been made, a time extension
may be granted by the water purveyor, but in no case will exceed an additional
30 days.
      (5)   If the water purveyor determines at any time that a serious threat
to the public health exists, water service will be terminated immediately.
      (6)   The water purveyor will conduct initial and follow-up premises
inspections to determine the nature of existing or potential hazards. The main
focus will be on high hazard industries and commercial premises.
      (7)   The water purveyor must report any backflow incident(s) occurring
in the public water system as soon as possible, but no later than 24 hours
after the incident to the WVBPH.
   (B)   Owner.
      (1)   The owner shall be responsible for the elimination or protection of
all actual or potential cross-connections and/or backflow conditions on his or
her premises.
      (2)   The owner, after having been informed by a letter from the water
purveyor, shall, at his or her expense, install, maintain and test, or have
tested, any and all backflow preventer assembly(blies) on his or her premises.
      (3)   The owner shall correct within 30 days any malfunction of an air
gap or backflow preventer assembly(blies) which is revealed by periodic
inspection or testing. This may also involve the removal and/or replacement of
the backflow preventer assembly(blies).
      (4)   The owner shall inform the water purveyor of any proposed or
modified cross-connections and also any existing cross-connections of which the
owner is aware, but have not been found by the water purveyor.
      (5)   The owner shall not install a by-pass around any backflow preventer
assembly unless there is a backflow preventer assembly of the same type on the
bypass. Owners who cannot shut down operation for testing of the assembly
(blies) must supply additional assemblies necessary to allow testing to take
place.
      (6)   The owner shall install only backflow preventer assemblies approved
by the water purveyor or the WVBPH.
      (7)   The owner shall install backflow preventer assemblies in a manner
approved by the water purveyor and general industry standards.
      (8)   Any owner having a private well or other auxiliary water source
must have the approval of the water purveyor and the WVBPH if the well or
source is cross-connected to the water purveyor’s system. Permission to cross-
connect may be denied. The owner may be required to install a backflow
preventer assembly at the service entrance if a private water source is
maintained, even if it is not cross-connected to the water purveyor’s system.
      (9)   In the event the owner installs plumbing to provide potable water
for domestic purposes which is on the water purveyor’s side of a backflow
preventer assembly, such plumbing must have its own backflow preventer assembly
installed.
      (10)   The owner shall be responsible for the payment of all fees for
service, permits, periodic assembly testing, retesting in the case that a
backflow preventer assembly fails to operate correctly, and follow-up re-
inspections for non-compliance with water purveyor or WVBPH requirements.
      (11)   The owner must maintain for a minimum of three years’ records of
installation and removal, all testing, repair and maintenance for all
assemblies/devices in the owner’s water distribution system(s).
      (12)   The owner will report any backflow incident(s) occurring in his or
her facility(ties) building(s) as soon as possible, but no later than 24 hours
after the incident to the Water Purveyor and to the WVBPH. Also, the owner must
maintain for a minimum of three years all records and reports of all backflow
incidents occurring in their facility(ties)/building(s). These records and
reports are to be made available to the water purveyor and/or WVBPH upon
request.
(Prior Code, § 925.12)  (Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 51.31  DEGREE OF HAZARD.
   The water purveyor recognizes the threat to the public water system arising
from cross-connections and backflow conditions. All threats will be classified
by degree of hazard which will determine the requirements for the installation
of approved backflow preventer assemblies.
(Prior Code, § 925.12)  (Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 51.32  EXISTING IN-USE BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES.
   Any existing backflow preventer assembly shall be allowed by the water
purveyor or continue in service unless the degree of hazard is such as to
supersede the effectiveness of the present backflow preventer assembly, or
there is an unreasonable risk to the public health. Where the degree of hazard
has increased, as in the case of a residential installation converting to a
business establishment, any existing backflow preventer assemblies must be
upgraded to a reduced pressure principle assembly, or a reduced pressure
principle assembly must be installed in the event that no backflow preventer
assembly is present.
(Prior Code, § 925.12)  (Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 51.33  PERIODIC TESTING.
   (A)   Backflow preventer assemblies shall be tested and inspected at least
annually.
   (B)   Periodic testing shall be performed by a WVBPH certified tester. This
testing will be done at the owner’s expense.
   (C)   Any backflow preventer assembly which fails during a periodic test
will be repaired or replaced. When repairs are necessary, upon completion of
the repair, the assembly will be retested at the owner’s expense to ensure
correct operation. High hazard situations will not be allowed to continue
unprotected if the backflow preventer assembly fails the periodic test and
cannot be repaired immediately. In other situations, a compliance date of not
more than 30 days after the test date may be established. The owner is
responsible for the costs of all testing, repair service, replacement parts, or
a replacement assembly. Parallel installation of two assemblies is an effective
means of the owner insuring uninterrupted water service during testing or
repair of one of the assemblies and is strongly recommended when the owner
desires such continuity.
   (D)   Backflow preventer assemblies will be tested more frequently than
specified in division (A) above in cases where there is a history of test
failures and the water purveyor feels that due to the degree of hazard
involved, additional testing is warranted. Cost of the additional tests will be
borne by the owner.
(Prior Code, § 925.12)  (Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 51.34  RECORDS.
   (A)   The water purveyor will initiate and maintain (update) the following:
      (1)   Master files on customer evaluations and/or inspections of cross-
connections and backflow conditions;
      (2)   Master files on all customer backflow preventer assemblies;
      (3)   Master files on customer backflow preventer tests, repairs and
replacements. Records for replaced backflow preventer shall be maintained for a
period of one year after date of removal from service;
      (4)   Records and reports of any backflow incident(s) occurring in the
public or consumer water systems shall be maintained for at least three years
after the date of the incident; and
      (5)   Copies of any of the above and other records and/or reports
supplied to the WVBPH. This material shall be maintained for at least three
years after submission.
   (B)   Upon request, the water purveyor will submit records of inspection and
non-compliance, surveys, tests results and/or corrective actions, and backflow
incident reports to the state’s Bureau for Public Health.
(Prior Code, § 925.12)  (Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
CHAPTER 52:  SEWERS
Section
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Use of public sewers required
   
52.03   Private sewage disposal
   
52.04   Building sewers and connections
   
52.05   Use of public sewers
   
52.06   Protection from damage
   
52.07   Powers and authority of inspectors
   
52.08   Sewer Fund
   
52.09   Schedule of rates
 
   
52.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Deposit limitations, see W.Va. Code § 24-3-8
   Power to collect charges, see W.Va. Code §§ 8-12-5(32), 16-13-16
   Power to regulate utility systems, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-5(32)
   Review by Public Service Commissioner, see W.Va. Code § 24-2-4(b)
   Sewer connections, see W.Va. Code § 8-18-22
§ 52.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Shinnston.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   COUNCIL. The Council of the City of Shinnston.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of food,
and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial processes as distinct
from sanitary sewage.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or ground water.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and is controlled by public authority.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with such
ground, surface and storm waters as may be present.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying wastes and sewage.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A sewer which carries storm and surface waters
and drainage, but excludes sewage and polluted industrial wastes.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(Prior Code, § 921.01)  (Ord. passed 5-31-2005)
§ 52.02  USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall place, deposit or permit to be deposited in an
unsanitary manner upon public or private property within the city, or in any
area under the jurisdiction of the city, any human or animal excrement, garbage
or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   No person shall discharge into any natural outlet within the city, or
in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any sanitary sewage, industrial
wastes or other polluted waters, except the West Fork River without the consent
of Council.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall construct or maintain
any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility intended or
used for the disposal of sewage.
   (D)   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purpose, situated within the city
and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located
or may in the future be located a public sanitary or combined sewer of the
city, is hereby required, at his or her own expense, to install suitable toilet
facilities therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper
public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within 90 days
after date of official notice to do so; provided that, such public sewer is
within 100 feet of the property line.
(Prior Code, § 921.02)  (Ord. passed 5-31-2005)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.03  PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of division (D) below, the building sewer shall be connected to a
private sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a permit from Council. The application for
such permit shall be made on a form furnished by the city, which the applicant
shall supplement by any plans, specifications and other information as are
deemed necessary. A permit and inspection fee in an amount set by Council from
time to time shall be paid to the City Clerk at the time the application is
filed.
   (C)   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of Council. A
committee or representative of the city shall be allowed to inspect the work at
any stage of construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall
notify the City Manager when the work is ready for final inspection, and before
any underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within 48
hours of the receipt of the notice by the City Manager.
   (D)   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all recommendations of the state’s Department of
Public Health. No permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal system
employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is
less than 4,000 square feet. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to
discharge into any public sewer or natural outlet.
   (E)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewage disposal system, as provided in §
52.02(D) of this chapter, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer
in compliance with this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar
private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable
material.
   (F)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the city.
   (G)   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the State or County
Health Department.
(Prior Code, § 921.03)  (Ord. passed 5-31-2005)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.04  BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a permit from Council.
   (B)   There shall be two classes of sewer tap permit: for connections where
the main sewer is laid and in operation on the date this chapter becomes
effective; and where it becomes necessary to lay laterals from the property to
the main sewer line. In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make
application on a special form furnished by the city. The permit application
shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information
considered pertinent in the judgment of Council. A tap permit and inspection
fee in an amount set by Council from time to time shall be made where the main
sewer is laid and in operation at the time this chapter becomes effective and a
tap permit and inspection fee in an amount set by Council from time to time
shall be made where it becomes necessary to lay laterals from the property to
the main sewer line.
   (C)   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
city from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by
the installation of the building sewer.
   (D)   The applicant for the sewer tap permit shall notify the City Manager
when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public
sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the City Manager
or his or her representative.
   (E)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
   (F)   The city will not construct or maintain any sewer mains or lateral on
private property and will not construct or maintain any sewer mains or laterals
in a new subdivision or contemplated subdivision unless and until a plat is
made of the subdivision showing the location of streets and dedicating them to
public use and such dedication has been expressly accepted by the city.
(Prior Code, § 921.04)  (Ord. passed 5-31-2005)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.05  USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, cooling water or
unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer or combined sewer.
   (B)   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as storm sewers, or into a natural
outlet approved by Council. Industrial cooling water or unpolluted process
waters may be discharged, upon approval of Council, to a storm sewer or natural
outlet.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall discharge or cause to
be discharged any of the following described waters or wastes to any public
sewer:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F;
      (2)   Any water or waste which may contain more than 100 parts per
million, by weight, of fat, oil or grease;
      (3)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (4)   Any garbage, that has not been properly shredded;
      (5)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, paunch manure or any other solid or viscous
substance capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other
interference with the proper operation of the sewage works;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes having corrosive properties capable of causing
damage or hazard to structures, equipment and personnel of the sewage system;
and
      (7)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a
public nuisance.
   (D)   (1)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of Council, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand and other
harmful ingredients; except that, such interceptors shall not be required for
private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type
and capacity approved by Council and shall be located as to be readily and
easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
      (2)   Grease and oil interceptors shall be constructed of impervious
materials capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature.
They shall be of substantial construction, water-tight and equipped with easily
removable covers which when bolted in place shall be gas-tight and water-tight.
   (E)   When installed, all grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be
maintained by the owner, at his or her expense, in continuously efficient
operation at all times.
(Prior Code, § 921.05)  (Ord. passed 5-31-2005)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.06  PROTECTION FROM DAMAGE.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the municipal sewage system. Any person violating
this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly
conduct.
(Prior Code, § 921.06)  (Ord. passed 5-31-2005)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.07  POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   The duly authorized employees of the city bearing proper credentials and
identification shall be permitted to enter upon all properties for the purposes
of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing, in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 921.07)  (Ord. passed 5-31-2005)
§ 52.08  SEWER FUND.
   There is hereby created a special fund to be known as the “Sewer Fund”, into
which shall be paid all fees collected under the provisions of this chapter and
the same shall be used only for sewer construction and maintenance.
(Prior Code, § 921.08)  (Ord. passed 5-31-2005)
§ 52.09  SCHEDULE OF RATES.
   (A)   Applicability. Applicable in entire territory served.
   (B)   Availability. Available for sanitary sewer service.
   (C)   Rates. (Based upon metered amount of water supplied.)
 
First 2,000 gallons used per month As determined by Council per 1,000 gallons
Next 5,000 gallons used per month  As determined by Council per 1,000 gallons
Over 7,000 gallons used per month  As determined by Council per 1,000 gallons
 
   (D)   Minimum monthly charge. The minimum monthly charge to any user of the
sewerage system shall be in an amount set by Council from time to time.
   (E)   Delayed payment penalty. The above schedule is net. On all current
usage billings not paid within 20 days, 10% will be added to the net current
amount unpaid. This delayed payment is not interest and is to be collected only
once for each bill where it is appropriate.
   (F)   Tap fee. A tap fee in an amount set by Council from time to time per
tap will be charged.
   (G)   Security deposit. Not to exceed two-twelfths of the average annual
usage of a customer’s specific customer class, or in an amount set by Council
from time to time, whichever is greater. Average residential consumption will
be calculated as 4,500 gallons per month. Average commercial consumption will
be calculated as 9,000 gallons per month.
(Prior Code, § 921.09)  (Ord. passed 5-31-2005; Ord. passed 9-29-2014)
§ 52.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter, except
§
52.06 of this chapter, shall be served by the city with written notice stating
the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the
satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time
stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   (B)   Any person who continues any violation beyond the time limit provided
for in division (A) above shall be fined in an amount in an amount set by
Council from time to time for each violation. Each day in which any such
violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, in
addition to the penalties herein provided, become liable to the city for any
expense, loss, or damage occasioned the city by reason of such violation.
(Prior Code, § 921.99)  (Ord. passed 5-31-2005)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   PEDESTRIANS
      
72.   TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
      
73.   SAFETY AND EQUIPMENT
      
74.   LICENSES AND REGISTRATIONS
      
75.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
76.   PARKING RULES
      
77.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
CHAPTER 70:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Enforcement; traffic diversion; permits
Obstructions and Special Uses
   
70.15   Placing injurious material in street
   
70.16   Play streets
   
70.17   Toy vehicles in streets
   
70.18   Parades and assemblages
Enforcement and Impoundment
   
70.30   Authority of Police and Fire Department officials
   
70.31   Application to vehicles upon streets and highways; exceptions
   
70.32   Obedience to police officers; fleeing
   
70.33   Application to government vehicles; exception
   
70.34   Authorized emergency vehicles
   
70.35   Riding animals or driving animal-drawn vehicles
   
70.36   Impoundment of vehicles; redemption
   
70.37   Rights of owners of real property
   
70.38   Presumption as to moving violations
 
   
70.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Abandoned vehicles; disposition, see W.Va. Code §§ 17-24A-5 et seq.
   Meanings of words and phrases, see W.Va. Code § 17C-1-1
   Power of local authorities, see W.Va. Code § 17C-2-8
   Powers of municipality, see W.Va. Code § 17C-2-8
   Processions or assemblages, see W.Va. Code § 17C-2-8(a)(3)
   Prohibit littering in streets, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-5(3)
   Uniformity with state law required, see W.Va. Code § 17C-2-7
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this traffic code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Vehicles of the Fire Department, duly
chartered rescue squad, Police Department, ambulance service, state, county or
municipal agency and such privately owned ambulances, tow trucks, wreckers,
flag car services, vehicles providing road service to disabled vehicles,
service vehicles of a public service corporation, postal service vehicles, snow
removal equipment, Class A vehicles of firefighters, Class A vehicles of
members of ambulance services, and Class A vehicles of members of duly
chartered rescue squads, and all other emergency vehicles as are designated by
the agency responsible for the operation and control of these persons or
organizations. Class A vehicles are as defined by W.Va. Code § 17A-10-1. Agency
authorization and emergency equipment are defined in W.Va. Code § 17C-15-26.
Agencies responsible for issuing authorization for emergency vehicle permits
may promulgate such regulations that are necessary for the issuance of permits
for emergency vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 301.02)  (W.Va. Code § 17C-1-6)
   BICYCLE. Every device which does not have a motor attached and which is
propelled by human power upon which any person may ride, having two tandem
wheels either of which is more than 20 inches in diameter.
(Prior Code, § 301.03)  (W.Va. Code § 17C-1-8)
   BUS. Every motor vehicle designed for carrying more than seven passengers
and used for the transportation of persons; and every motor vehicle, other than
a taxicab, designed and used for the transportation of persons for
compensation.
(Prior Code, § 301.04)  (W.Va. Code § 17C-1-13)
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a street or
highway when within any 600 feet along such highway there are buildings in use
for business or industrial purposes, including, but not limited to, hotels,
banks or office buildings, railroad stations and public buildings which occupy
at least 300 feet of frontage on one side or 300 feet collectively on both
sides of the street or highway.
(Prior Code, § 301.05)  (W.Va. Code § 17C-1-45)
   CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY. Every highway, street or roadway in respect to
which owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal
right of access to or from the same, except at such points only and in such
manner as may be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over
such highway, street or roadway.
(Prior Code, § 301.06)  (W.Va. Code § 17C-1-41)
   CROSSWALK.
      (1)   The part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
street or highway measured from the curbs or, in the absence of curbs, from the
edges of the traversable roadway; and
      (2)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly
indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface.
(Prior Code, § 301.07)  (W.Va. Code § 17C-1-43)
   DRIVER. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 301.08)  (W.Va. Code § 17C-1-31)
   ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE or EPAMD. A self-balancing, two
non-tandem-wheeled device, designed to transport only one person, with an
electric propulsion system with average power of 750 watts (one horse power),
whose maximum speed on a paved level surface, when powered solely by such a
propulsion system while ridden by an operator who weighs 170 pounds, is less
than 20 mph.
(Prior Code, § 301.081)  (W.Va. Code § 17C-1-66)
   EXPLOSIVES. Any chemical compound or mechanical mixture that is commonly
used or intended for the purpose of producing an explosive and which contains
any oxidizing and combustive units or other ingredients in such proportions,
quantities or packing that an ignition by fire, by friction, by concussion, by
percussion or by detonator of any part of the compound or mixture may cause
such a sudden generation of highly heated gases that the resultant gaseous
pressures are capable of producing destructive effects on contiguous objects or
of destroying life or limb.
(Prior Code, § 301.09)  (W.Va. Code § 17C-1-24)
   FLAMMABLE LIQUID. Any liquid which has a flash point of 70°F, or less, as
determined by a tagliabue or equivalent closed-cup test device.
(Prior Code, § 301.10)  (W.Va. Code § 17C-1-25)
   GROSS WEIGHT. The weight of a vehicle without load, plus the weight of any
load thereon.
(Prior Code, § 301.11)  (W.Va. Code § 17C-1-26)
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadways
of two streets or highways which join one another at, or approximately at,
right angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different
streets or highways joining at any other angle may come in conflict; and
      (2)   Where a street or highway includes two roadways 30 feet or more
apart, then every crossing of each roadway of such divided street or highway by
an intersecting highway shall be regarded as a separate intersection. In the
event such intersecting street or highway also includes two roadways 30 feet or
more apart, then every crossing of two roadways of such streets or highways
shall be regarded as a separate INTERSECTION.
(Prior Code, § 301.12)  (W.Va. Code § 17C-1-42)
   LANED ROADWAY. A roadway which is divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for vehicular traffic.
(Prior Code, § 301.13)  (W.Va. Code § 17C-1-39)
   MOPED. Every motorcycle or motor-driven cycle unless otherwise specified in
this traffic code, which is equipped with two or three wheels, foot pedals to
permit muscular propulsion and an independent power source providing a maximum
of two brake horsepower. If a combustion engine is used, the maximum piston or
rotor displacement shall be 50 cubic centimeters regardless of the number of
chambers in such power source. The power source shall be capable of propelling
the vehicle, unassisted, at a speed not to exceed 30 mph on a level road
surface and shall be equipped with a power drive system that functions directly
or automatically only, not requiring clutching or shifting by the operator
after the drive system is engaged.
(Prior Code, § 301.14)  (W.Va. Code § 17C-l-5a)
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use of the
rider and designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the
ground, but excluding a tractor.
(Prior Code, § 301.15)  (W.Va. Code § 17C-1-4)
   MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLE. Every motorcycle having a piston displacement of more
than 50 cubic centimeters, but not more than 150 cubic centimeters, or with not
more than five brake horsepower.
(Prior Code, § 301.16)  (W.Va. Code § 17C-1-5)
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle which
is propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires, but not
operated upon rails, except motorized wheelchairs.
(Prior Code, § 301.17)  (W.Va. Code § 17C-1-3)
   OWNER. A person who holds the legal title of a vehicle or in the event a
vehicle is the subject of an agreement for the conditional sale or lease
thereof with the right of purchase upon performance of the conditions stated in
the agreement and with an immediate right of possession vested in the
conditional vendee or lessee, or in the event a mortgagor of a vehicle is
entitled to possession, then such conditional vendee or lessee or mortgagor
shall be deemed the OWNER for the purpose of this traffic code.
(Prior Code, § 301.18)  (W.Va. Code § 17C-1-32)
   PARK. When prohibited, means the standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or
not, otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged
in loading or unloading.
(Prior Code, § 301.19)  (W.Va. Code § 17C-1-54)
   PARKING AREA. Lots, areas or other accommodations for the parking of
vehicles off the street or highway and open to public use with or without
charge.
(Prior Code, § 301.20)  (W.Va. Code § 17C-1-60)
   PASSENGER VAN. Any van or other motor vehicle owned by any agency, business
or other legal entity and operated for the purpose of transportation of
children under the age of 18 years, other than a van utilized for private use,
taxicab, bus or school bus. PASSENGER VANS include, but are not limited to,
vehicles used by daycare centers, after-school centers and nursery schools;
provided that, the term PASSENGER VAN does not include any van or other motor
vehicle which is utilized for the specific purpose of transporting children to
medical facilities for the purpose of medical or dental treatment and which
loads and unloads the children on private property, making no stops for loading
or unloading along public roads or highways.
(Prior Code, § 301.201)  (W.Va. Code § 17C-1-64)
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot or any person using a wheelchair.
(Prior Code, § 301.21)  (W.Va. Code § 17C-1-30)
   PERSON. Every natural person, firm, copartnership, association or
corporation.
(Prior Code, § 301.22)  (W.Va. Code § 17C-1-29)
   POLE TRAILER. Every vehicle without motive power designed to be drawn by
another vehicle and attached to the towing vehicle by means of a reach, or
pole, or by being boomed or otherwise secured to the towing vehicle and
ordinarily used for transporting long or irregularly shaped loads such as
poles, pipes, trusses or structural members capable, generally, of sustaining
themselves as beams between the supporting connections.
(Prior Code, § 301.23)  (W.Va. Code § 17C-1-17)
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to
make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
(Prior Code, § 301.24)  (W.Va. Code § 17C-1-33)
   PRIVATE.
      (1)   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY. Every way or place in private ownership
and used for vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied
permission from the owner, but not by other persons.
      (2)   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Real estate in private ownership without regard
to the manner in which it is used.
(Prior Code, § 301.25)  (W.Va. Code § 17C-1-36)
   RAILROAD. A carrier of persons or property, upon cars, other than
streetcars, operated upon stationary rails.
(Prior Code, § 301.26)  (W.Va. Code § 17C-1-21)
   RAILROAD SIGN OR SIGNAL. Any sign, signal or device erected by authority of
a public body or official or by a railroad and intended to give notice of the
presence of railroad tracks or the approach of a railroad train.
(Prior Code, § 301.27)  (W.Va. Code § 17C-1-49)
   RAILROAD TRAIN. A steam engine, electric or other motor, with or without
cars coupled thereto, operated upon rails, except streetcars.
(Prior Code, § 301.28)  (W.Va. Code § 17C-1-22)
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a street or
highway not comprising a business district when the property on such street or
highway for a distance of 300 feet or more is in the main improved with
residences or residences and buildings in use for business.
(Prior Code, § 301.29)  (W.Va. Code § 17C-1-46)
   RESIDENTIAL STREET. The entire width between the boundary lines of every
way, whether publicly or privately maintained, located within any subdivision,
development or other similar area used primarily for residential purposes when
any part thereof is open to the common use of those living in such area for the
purpose of vehicular travel.
(Prior Code, § 301.30)  (W.Va. Code § 17C-1-62)
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the street or highway.
(Prior Code, § 301.31)  (W.Va. Code § 17C-1-51)
   ROADWAY. The portion of a street or highway improved, designed or ordinarily
used for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the event a
street or highway includes two or more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY, as
used herein, shall refer to any such roadway separately, but not to all such
roadways collectively.
(Prior Code, § 301.32)  (W.Va. Code § 17C-1-37)
   SAFETY ZONE. The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set
apart as a safety zone.
(Prior Code, § 301.33)  (W.Va. Code § 17C-1-44)
   SCHOOL BUS. Every motor vehicle owned by a public or governmental agency and
operated for the transportation of children to or from school, or privately
owned and operated for compensation for the transportation of children to or
from school.
(Prior Code, § 301.34)  (W.Va. Code § 17C-1-7)
   SCHOOL GROUNDS. Includes the land on which a school is built together with
such other land used by students for play, recreation or athletic events while
attending school.
(Prior Code, § 301.35)  (W.Va. Code § 17C-1-55)
   SEMI-TRAILER. Every vehicle with or without motive power, other than a pole
trailer, designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a
motor vehicle and so constructed that some part of its weight and that of its
load rests upon or is carried by another vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 301.36)  (W.Va. Code § 17C-1-16)
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street or highway between the curb lines, or the
lateral lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines intended for the
use of pedestrians.
(Prior Code, § 301.37)  (W.Va. Code § 17C-1-38)
   STOP. When required, means complete cessation from movement.
(Prior Code, § 301.38)  (W.Va. Code § 17C-1-52)
   STOP, STOPPING or STANDING. When prohibited, means any stopping or standing
of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict
with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or
traffic-control sign or signal.
(Prior Code, § 301.39)  (W.Va. Code § 17C-1-53)
   STREET, HIGHWAY, ALLEY.
      (1)   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of
every way publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the
public for purposes of vehicular travel.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-35)
      (2)   ALLEY. A street or highway intended to provide access to the rear
or side of lots or buildings in urban districts and not intended for the
purpose of through vehicular traffic.
(Prior Code, § 301.40)
   THROUGH STREET or THROUGH HIGHWAY. Every street or highway or portion
thereof at the entrances to which vehicular traffic from intersecting streets
or highways is required by law to stop before entering or crossing the same and
when stop signs are erected as provided in this traffic code.
(Prior Code, § 301.41)  (W.Va. Code § 17C-1-40)
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars and
other conveyances either singly or together while using any street or highway
for purposes of travel.
(Prior Code, § 301.42)  (W.Va. Code § 17C-1-50)
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICE. Any sign, signal, marking and device not
inconsistent with this traffic code placed or erected by authority of a public
body or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating, warning or
guiding traffic.
(Prior Code, § 301.43)  (W.Va. Code § 17C-1-47)
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL. Any device, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and to
proceed.
(Prior Code, § 301.44)  (W.Va. Code § 17C-1-48)
   TRAILER. Every vehicle with or without motive power, other than a pole
trailer, designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a
motor vehicle and so constructed that no part of its weight rests upon the
towing vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 301.45)  (W.Va. Code § 17C-1-15)
   TRUCK. Every motor vehicle designed, used or maintained primarily for the
transportation of property.
(Prior Code, § 301.46)  (W.Va. Code § 17C-1-12)
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a street or highway, except devices moved by human
power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks or wheelchairs.
(Prior Code, § 301.47)  (W.Va. Code § 17C-1-2)
   WHEELCHAIR. A motorized or non-motorized wheeled device designed for, and
used by, a person with disabilities that is incapable of a speed in excess of
eight mph.
(Prior Code, § 301.48)  (W.Va. Code § 17C-1-65)
§ 70.02  ENFORCEMENT; TRAFFIC DIVERSION; PERMITS.
   (A)   Enforcement. When not otherwise specifically provided in any case, the
Chief of Police and, under his or her direction, the police and traffic
officers of the city shall administer and enforce the provisions of the traffic
code.
(Prior Code, § 305.01)
   (B)   Traffic diversion. For the purpose of implementing the provisions of
the traffic code and carrying into effect the policies of Council thereunder,
the Chief of Police is hereby authorized and empowered, when he or she deems it
advisable for the public safety and convenience, to close any street or part
thereof to all traffic, or to traffic of certain classes or descriptions or to
direct the traffic thereon or divert or direct the course of traffic thereon
for such periods of time as he or she may deem advisable; in which cases, he or
she shall cause the necessary traffic-control signs, signals, markings or
devices controlling such traffic to be placed or installed by the Police
Department.
(Prior Code, § 305.02)
   (C)   Permits. Whenever, pursuant to any of the provisions of the traffic
code, a permit is required for any purpose and no other issuing authority is
specified, such permit shall be issued by the Chief of Police. Any permit
issued by the Chief of Police pursuant to the foregoing authority shall not be
valid for a period of time exceeding 12 months from the issuance thereof, nor
shall such a permit be valid for more than any lesser period of time which may
be specified in the permit. Any permit so issued may be revoked by the Chief of
Police at any time for good cause. Council may grant permits for longer periods
of time.
(Prior Code, § 305.03)
   (D)   Reports. Upon taking any action authorized by divisions (B) and (C)
above, the Chief of Police shall, without undue delay, report such action to
the City Manager, who may give such instructions to the Chief of Police with
respect thereto as he or she may deem to be in the best interest of the city;
and the City Manager may also submit such report of the Chief of Police to a
regular or special meeting of Council or to a majority of the members thereof
and obtain their advice and instructions to be given the Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 305.04)  (Ord. passed 4-2-1984)
OBSTRUCTIONS AND SPECIAL USES
§ 70.15  PLACING INJURIOUS MATERIAL IN STREET.
   (A)   No person shall throw or deposit upon any street or highway any glass
bottle, glass, nails, tacks, wire, cans or any other substance likely to injure
any person, animal or vehicle upon such street or highway.
   (B)   Any person who drops, or permits to be dropped or thrown, upon any
street or highway any destructive or injurious material shall immediately
remove the same or cause it to be removed.
   (C)   Any person removing a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a street or
highway shall remove any glass or other injurious substance dropped upon the
street or highway from such vehicle.
   (D)   No person shall throw, place or deposit upon any street or highway any
material, article or substance which injures or damages, or is likely to injure
or damage, the street or highway.
(Prior Code, § 311.01)  Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-14-11
§ 70.16  PLAY STREETS.
   (A)   No person shall use the public streets, highways, alleys,
thoroughfares, roads or avenues of the municipality for the purpose of engaging
in or playing any games or athletic activities, except public ways specifically
set aside for such purposes.
   (B)   When authorized signs are erected indicating any street or part
thereof as a play street, no person shall drive a vehicle upon any such street
or highway or portion thereof, except drivers of vehicles having business or
whose residence is within such closed area, and then any such driver shall
exercise the greatest care in driving upon any such street or highway or
portion thereof.
(Prior Code, § 311.02)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.17  TOY VEHICLES IN STREETS.
   No person on roller skates or riding in or by means of any sled, toy
vehicle, skateboard or similar device shall go upon any roadway, except while
crossing a street on a crosswalk and except on streets set aside as play
streets.
(Prior Code, § 311.03)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.18  PARADES AND ASSEMBLAGES.
   (A)   No person, group of persons or organization shall conduct or
participate in any parade, assemblage or procession other than a funeral
procession upon any street or highway, or block off any street or highway area,
without first obtaining a permit from the Police Chief.
   (B)   Applications for such permit shall be made on such forms as may be
prescribed and shall contain such information as is reasonably necessary to a
fair determination of whether a permit should be issued. Applications shall be
filed not less than five days before the time intended for such parade,
procession or assemblage.
   (C)   The permit may be refused or canceled if:
      (1)   The time, place, size or conduct of the parade including the
assembly areas and route of march would unreasonably interfere with the public
convenience and safe use of the streets and highways;
      (2)   The parade would require the diversion of so great a number of
police officers to properly police the line of movement, assembly area and
areas contiguous thereto so as to deny normal police protection to the
municipality;
      (3)   The parade route of march or assembly areas would unreasonably
interfere with the movement of police vehicles, firefighting equipment or
ambulance service to other areas of the municipality;
      (4)   The parade would unreasonably interfere with another parade for
which a permit has been issued;
      (5)   The information contained in the application is found to be false,
misleading or incomplete in any material detail; and/or
      (6)   An emergency such as a fire or storm would prevent the proper
conduct of the parade.
   (D)   The permit or any order accompanying it may limit or prescribe
reasonable conditions, including the hours, the places of assembly and of
dispersal, the route of march or travel and the streets, highways or portions
thereof which may be used or occupied.
(Prior Code, § 311.04)  Penalty, see §
70.99
ENFORCEMENT AND IMPOUNDMENT
§ 70.30  AUTHORITY OF POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the officers of the Police Department to
enforce all street traffic laws of the municipality and all of the state
vehicle laws applicable to street traffic in the municipality.
   (B)   Officers of the Police Department are hereby authorized to direct all
traffic by voice, hand or signal in conformance with traffic laws; provided
that, in the event of a fire or other emergency or to expedite traffic or to
safeguard pedestrians, officers of the Police Department may direct traffic as
conditions may require notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws.
   (C)   Officers of the Fire Department, when at the scene of a fire, may
direct or assist the police in directing traffic thereat or in the immediate
vicinity.
(Prior Code, § 303.01)
§ 70.31  APPLICATION TO VEHICLES UPON STREETS AND HIGHWAYS; EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this traffic code relating to the operation of vehicles
refer exclusively to the operation of vehicles upon streets and highways,
except:
   (A)   Where a different place is specifically referred to in a given
section; and
   (B)   The provisions of this traffic code, except §§
75.085 through
75.089 of this traffic code, shall apply upon streets and highways, as defined
in §
74.06 of this traffic code.
(Prior Code, § 303.02)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-2-1
§ 70.32  OBEDIENCE TO POLICE OFFICERS; FLEEING.
   (A)   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with a lawful order
or direction of any police officer or designated special officer invested by
law with authority to direct, control or regulate traffic.
   (B)   No person shall operate a vehicle so as to willfully elude or flee a
police officer or designated special officer after receiving a visible or
audible signal from such an officer to bring his or her vehicle to a stop.
(Prior Code, § 303.03)  Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-2-3(c)
§ 70.33  APPLICATION TO GOVERNMENT VEHICLES; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   The provisions of this traffic code applicable to the drivers of
vehicles upon the streets or highways shall apply to the drivers of all
vehicles owned or operated by the United States, the state or any county,
municipality, town, district or any other political subdivision of the state,
except as provided in this section and subject to such specific exceptions as
are set forth in this traffic code with reference to authorized emergency
vehicles.
   (B)   Unless specifically made applicable, the provisions of this traffic
code shall not apply to persons, teams, motor vehicles and other equipment
while actually engaged in work upon the surface of a street or highway, but
shall apply to such persons and vehicles when traveling to or from such work.
(Prior Code, § 303.04)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-2-4
§ 70.34  AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call or when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the
law or when responding to, but not upon returning from, a fire alarm, may
exercise the privileges set forth in this section, but subject to the
conditions herein stated.
   (B)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
      (1)   Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this traffic code;
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
      (3)   Exceed the speed limits so long as he or she does not endanger life
or property; and
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in
specified directions.
   (C)   The exemptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle shall
apply only when the driver of any such vehicle while in motion sounds audible
signal by bell, siren or exhaust whistle as may be reasonably necessary, and
when the vehicle is equipped with at least one lighted flashing lamp as
authorized by §
73.04(R) of this traffic code, which is visible under normal atmospheric
conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of such vehicle; except
that, an authorized emergency vehicle operated as a police vehicle need not be
equipped with or display a warning light visible from in front of the vehicle.
   (D)   The foregoing provisions shall not relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons, nor shall such provisions protect the driver from the consequences of
his or her reckless disregard for the safety of others.
(Prior Code, § 303.05)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-2-5
§ 70.35  RIDING ANIMALS OR DRIVING ANIMAL-DRAWN VEHICLES.
   Every person riding an animal or driving any animal-drawn vehicle upon a
roadway shall be granted all of the rights and shall be subject to all of the
duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle by this traffic code, except those
provisions of this traffic code which, by their very nature, can have no
application.
(Prior Code, § 303.06)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-2-6
§ 70.36  IMPOUNDING OF VEHICLES; REDEMPTION.
   (A)   Police officers are authorized to provide for the removal and
impounding of a vehicle under the following circumstances:
      (1)   When any vehicle is left unattended upon any street, bridge or
causeway and is so illegally parked so as to constitute a hazard or obstruction
to the normal movement of traffic, or so as to unreasonably interfere with
street cleaning or snow removal operations;
      (2)   When any vehicle has been abandoned or junked on private or public
property as provided in W.Va. Code Art. 17-24A;
      (3)   When any vehicle has been stolen or operated without the consent of
the owner;
      (4)   When any vehicle displays illegal license plates or fails to
display the current lawfully required license plates;
      (5)   When any vehicle has been used in or connected with the commission
of a felony;
      (6)   When any vehicle has been damaged or wrecked so as to be inoperable
or violates equipment provisions of this traffic code or W.Va. Code Art. 17C-15
whereby its continued operation would constitute a condition hazardous to life,
limb or property;
      (7)   When any vehicle is left unattended due to the removal of an ill,
injured or arrested operator;
      (8)   When any vehicle has been operated by any person who has failed to
stop in case of an accident or collision;
      (9)   When any vehicle has been operated by any person who is driving
without a lawful license or while his or her license has been suspended or
revoked; and
      (10)   When any vehicle is found for which two or more citation tags for
violations of this traffic code have been issued and the owner or operator
thereof has failed to respond to such citation tags as lawfully required.
   (B)   Any vehicle removed under authority of division (A)(2) above shall be
disposed of as provided under W.Va. Code Art. 17-24. Any other vehicle removed
under authority of this section shall be ordered into storage and the Police
Department shall forthwith notify the registered vehicle owner of the fact of
such removal and impounding, reasons therefor and the place of storage. Any
person desiring to redeem an impounded vehicle shall appear at the Police
Department to furnish satisfactory evidence of identity and ownership or right
to possession. Prior to issuance of a release form, the claimant, owner or
operator shall either pay the amount due for any fines for violations on
account of which such vehicle was impounded or, as the court may require, post
a bond in an amount set by the court, to appear to answer to such violations.
The pound operator shall release such vehicle upon the receipt of the release
form and payment of all towage and storage charges.
(Prior Code, § 303.07)
§ 70.37  RIGHTS OF OWNERS OF REAL PROPERTY.
   Nothing in this traffic code shall be construed to prevent an owner of real
property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel by permission of
the owner and not as matter of right from prohibiting such use, or from
requiring other or different or additional conditions than those specified in
this traffic code, or otherwise regulating such use as may seem best to such
owner.
(Prior Code, § 303.08)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-2-9
§ 70.38  PRESUMPTION AS TO MOVING VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   In any prosecution in the Municipal Court charging the violation of
any provision of this traffic code by the driver of a moving vehicle, proof
that the particular vehicle described in the complaint was in motion in such
manner or at such rate of speed in violation of such provision, together with
proof that the defendant named in the complaint was, at the time of such
alleged violation, the registered owner of such vehicle, shall constitute prima
facie evidence that the registered owner of such vehicle was the person who
drove such vehicle at the place or area where, and for the time during which,
such alleged violation occurred; provided that, such prima facie presumption
may be rebutted by competent evidence.
   (B)   This section shall not be applicable unless the driver of the vehicle
described in the complaint was given notice of the alleged violation or, if
such driver was not apprehended at the time of the alleged violation, the
complaint was served upon the registered owner of the vehicle described in the
complaint, such service to have been accomplished in any manner authorized by
law.
(Prior Code, § 303.09)  (Ord. passed 4-2-1984)
§ 70.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this traffic code for which another
penalty is not provided shall, for a first conviction thereof, be fined in an
amount set by Council from time to time or imprisoned not more than ten days;
for a second such conviction within one year thereafter, such person shall be
fined in an amount set by Council from time to time or imprisoned not more than
20 days, or both; and, upon a third or subsequent conviction, such person shall
be fined in an amount set by Council from time to time or imprisoned not more
than 30 days, or both.
(Prior Code, § 303.99)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-18-1
CHAPTER 71:  PEDESTRIANS
Section
   
71.01   Compliance with traffic regulations
   
71.02   Right-of-way in crosswalk
   
71.03   Crossing roadway outside crosswalk
   
71.04   Drivers to exercise due care
   
71.05   Moving upon right half of crosswalk
   
71.06   Walking along streets and highways; soliciting rides
   
71.07   Persons working on streets and highways
   
71.08   Protection of blind pedestrians
   
71.09   Electric personal assistive mobility device
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01  COMPLIANCE WITH TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic-control signals at intersections as
provided in §
72.03 of this traffic code, but at all other places pedestrians shall be
accorded the privileges and shall be subject to the restrictions stated in this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 371.01)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-10-l(a)
§ 71.02  RIGHT-OF-WAY IN CROSSWALK.
   (A)   When traffic-control signals are not in place or not in operation the
driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping if
need be to so yield, to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk
when the pedestrian is upon the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is
traveling, or when the pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite
half of the roadway as to be in danger, but no pedestrian shall suddenly leave
a curb or other place of safety and walk or run into the path of a vehicle
which is so close that it is impossible for the driver to yield. This provision
shall not apply under the conditions stated in §
71.03(B) of this chapter.
   (B)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass such stopped vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 371.02)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-10-2
§ 71.03  CROSSING ROADWAY OUTSIDE CROSSWALK.
   (A)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (B)   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right-of-way
to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (C)   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic-control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place, except in a marked
crosswalk.
(Prior Code, § 371.03)  Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-10-3
§ 71.04  DRIVERS TO EXERCISE DUE CARE.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, every driver of a
vehicle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any
roadway and shall give warning by sounding the horn when necessary and shall
exercise proper precaution upon observing any child or any confused or
incapacitated person upon a roadway.
(Prior Code, § 371.04)  Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-10-4
§ 71.05  MOVING UPON RIGHT HALF OF CROSSWALK.
   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks.
(Prior Code, § 371.05)  Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-10-5
§ 71.06  WALKING ALONG STREETS AND HIGHWAYS; SOLICITING RIDES.
   (A)   Where sidewalks are provided, no pedestrian shall walk along and upon
an adjacent roadway.
   (B)   Where sidewalks are not provided, any pedestrian walking along and
upon a street or highway shall, when practicable, walk only on the left side of
the roadway or its shoulder facing traffic which may approach from the opposite
direction.
   (C)   No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a
ride from the driver of any vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 371.06)  Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-10-6
§ 71.07  PERSONS WORKING ON STREETS AND HIGHWAYS.
   The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to persons engaged in
maintenance or construction work on a street or highway whenever he or she is
notified of their presence by an official traffic-control device or flagger.
(Prior Code, § 371.07)  Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-10-8
§ 71.08  PROTECTION OF BLIND PEDESTRIANS.
   The driver of a vehicle approaching a blind pedestrian who knows or, in the
exercise of reasonable care, should know that such pedestrian is blind because
such pedestrian is carrying a cane predominantly white or metallic in color
with or without a red tip, or is using a guide dog or otherwise, shall exercise
care commensurate with the situation to avoid injuring such pedestrian.
(Prior Code, § 371.08)  Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 5-15-5
§ 71.09  ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, the definition of an ELECTRIC PERSONAL
ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE is the same definition as previously set forth in §
70.01 of this traffic code and OPERATOR shall refer to the operator of an
electric personal assistive mobility device.
   (B)   An electric personal assistive mobility device shall be equipped with:
      (1)   Front, rear and side reflectors;
      (2)   A braking system that enables the operator to bring the device to a
controlled stop; and
      (3)   If operated at any time from one-half hour after sunset to one-half
hour before sunrise, a lamp that emits a white light that sufficiently
illuminates the area in front of the device.
   (C)   An operator of an electric personal assistive mobility device
traveling on a sidewalk, roadway or bicycle path shall have the rights and
duties of a pedestrian and shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with
pedestrians. An operator shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians.
   (D)   Except as provided in this section, no other provisions of the motor
vehicle code shall apply to electric personal assistive mobility devices.
(Prior Code, § 371.09)  Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code §§ 17C-10A-1, 17C-10A-2
§ 71.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time to
time; upon a second conviction within one year, thereafter shall be fined in an
amount set by Council from time to time; and, upon a third or subsequent
conviction, shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time to time.
   (B)   An operator who violates a provision of §
71.09 of this chapter shall receive a warning for the first offense. For a
second or subsequent offense, the operator shall be punished by a fine in an
amount set by Council from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 371.99)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code §§ 17C-10-7, 17C-10A-2
CHAPTER 72:  TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
Section
   
72.01   Obedience to traffic-control devices
   
72.02   Obedience to traffic-control instructions at street construction
   
72.03   Traffic-control signal terms and lights
   
72.04   Pedestrian-control signals
   
72.05   Flashing traffic signals
   
72.06   Unauthorized signs and signals; hiding from view; advertising
   
72.07   Alteration, injury, removal of traffic-control devices
   
72.08   Traffic violations in construction zones
   
72.09   Duties of Police Department
   
72.10   Fire lanes on private property devoted to public use
   
72.11   Previously installed devices
 
   
72.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority to place traffic-control devices, see W.Va. Code §§ 17C-2-8(a)(2),
17C-3-3
   Local regulations requiring traffic-control devices, see W.Va. Code § 17C-2-
8(c)
   Placing traffic-control devices on state highways, see W.Va. Code §§ 17C-2-8
(b), 17C-3-2
§ 72.01  OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic-control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code, unless otherwise directed by a traffic or
police officer, subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle in this traffic code.
   (B)   No provision of this traffic code for which signs are required shall
be enforced against an alleged violator if at the time and place of the alleged
violation an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently legible
to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular subchapter
does not state that signs are required, such subchapter shall be effective even
though no signs are erected or in place.
(Prior Code, § 313.01)  Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-3-4
§ 72.02  OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL INSTRUCTIONS AT STREET CONSTRUCTION.
   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the traffic-control instructions of any
law enforcement officer or persons authorized by the Commissioner of Highways
or by proper local authorities to operate traffic- control devices, act as
flaggers or operate authorized vehicles engaged in work at or near the site of
street or highway construction maintenance work, for the purpose of regulating,
warning or guiding traffic, subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an
authorized emergency vehicle in this traffic code.
(Prior Code, § 313.02)  Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-3-4a
§ 72.03  TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL TERMS AND LIGHTS.
   (A)   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals exhibiting
the words “go”, “caution” or “stop” or exhibiting different colored lights
successively one at a time, or with arrows, the following colors only shall be
used and such terms and lights shall indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles
and pedestrians as follows.
      (1)   Green alone or “go”.
         (a)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal, except when prohibited
under §§
75.065 through
75.073 of this traffic code, may proceed straight through or turn right or left
unless a sign at such place prohibits either such turn. But vehicular traffic,
including vehicles turning right or left, shall yield the right-of-way to other
vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection or an adjacent
crosswalk at the time such signal is exhibited.
         (b)   Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway
within any marked or unmarked crosswalk.
      (2)   Yellow alone or “caution” when showing following the green or “go”
signal.
         (a)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal is thereby warned that the
red or “stop” signal will be exhibited immediately thereafter and such
vehicular traffic shall not enter or be crossing the intersection when the red
or “stop” signal is exhibited.
         (b)   Pedestrians facing such signal are thereby advised that there is
insufficient time to cross the roadway and any pedestrian then starting to
cross shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles.
      (3)   Red alone or “stop”.
         (a)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering
the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if none, then before
entering the intersection and shall remain standing until green or “go” is
shown alone except as provided in divisions (A)(3)(b) and (A)(3)(c) below.
         (b)   A vehicle which is stopped in obedience to a red or “stop”
signal as close as practicable at the entrance to the crosswalk on the near
side of the intersection or, if none, then at the entrance to the intersection,
may cautiously make a right turn but such vehicle shall yield the right-of-way
to pedestrians lawfully within a crosswalk and to other vehicular traffic
proceeding as directed by the signal at such intersection; except that, Council
may by ordinance prohibit any such right turn against a red or “stop” signal at
any intersection which ordinance shall be effective when a sign is erected at
such intersection giving notice thereof.
         (c)   A vehicle which is stopped in obedience to a red or “stop”
signal as close as practicable at the entrance to the crosswalk on the near
side of the intersection or, if none, then at the entrance to the intersection
on a one-way street which intersects another one-way street on which traffic
moves to the left, may cautiously make a left turn into the one-way street but
such vehicle shall yield the right-of- way to pedestrians lawfully within a
crosswalk and to other vehicular traffic proceeding as directed by the signal
at such intersection; except that, Council may by ordinance prohibit any such
left turn against a red or “stop” signal at any intersection, which ordinance
shall be effective when a sign is erected at such intersection giving notice
thereof.
         (d)   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway unless
he or she can do so safely and without interfering with any vehicular traffic.
      (4)   Red with green arrow.
         (a)   Vehicular traffic facing such signal may cautiously enter the
intersection only to make the movement indicated by such arrow, but shall yield
the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within a crosswalk and to other
traffic lawfully using the intersection.
         (b)   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway unless
he or she can do so safely and without interfering with any vehicular traffic.
   (B)   In the event an official traffic-control signal is erected and
maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of this
subchapter shall be applicable, except as to those provisions which, by their
nature, can have no application. Any stop required shall be made at a sign or
marking on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made, but in the
absence of any such sign or marking the stop shall be made at the signal.
(Prior Code, § 313.03)  Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-3-5
§ 72.04  PEDESTRIAN-CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever special pedestrian-control signals exhibiting the words “walk” or
“wait” are in place such signals shall indicate as follows.
   (A)   Walk. Pedestrians facing such signal may proceed across the roadway in
the direction of the signal and shall be given the right-of-way by the drivers
of all vehicles.
   (B)   Wait. No pedestrian shall start to cross the roadway in the direction
of such signal, but any pedestrian who has partially completed his or her
crossing on the walk signal shall proceed to a sidewalk or safety island while
the wait signal is showing.
(Prior Code, § 313.04)  Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-3-6
§ 72.05  FLASHING TRAFFIC SIGNALS.
   Whenever an illuminated flashing red or yellow signal is used in a traffic
sign or signal, it shall require obedience by vehicular traffic as follows.
   (A)   Flashing red (stop signal). When a red lens is illuminated with rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at a limit line when marked or, if
none, then before entering the intersection and the right to proceed shall be
subject to the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
   (B)   Flashing yellow (caution signal). When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past such signal only with caution.
(Prior Code, § 313.05)  Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-3-7
§ 72.06  UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS AND SIGNALS; HIDING FROM VIEW; ADVERTISING.
   (A)   No local authority or person shall place, maintain or display upon or
in view of any street or highway any unauthorized traffic-control device or
traffic-control signal, or any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device
which purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic-
control device or railroad sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the
movement of traffic or which hides from view or interferes with the
effectiveness of any official traffic-control device or any railroad sign or
signal, and no person shall place or maintain nor shall any public authority
permit upon any street or highway any traffic-control device bearing thereon
any commercial advertising. This shall not be deemed to prohibit the erection
upon private property adjacent to a street or highway of signs giving useful
directional information and of a type that cannot be mistaken for official
signs.
   (B)   Every such prohibited device, signal, sign or marking is hereby
declared to be a public nuisance and the Commissioner of Highways or other
authority having jurisdiction over the street or highway is hereby empowered to
remove the same or cause it to be removed without notice.
(Prior Code, § 313.06)  Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-3-8
§ 72.07  ALTERATION, INJURY, REMOVAL OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   No person shall without lawful authority attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down or remove any official traffic-control device or any
railroad sign or signal or any inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or any
other part thereof.
(Prior Code, § 313.07)  Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-3-9
§ 72.08  TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS IN CONSTRUCTION ZONES.
   (A)   At each and every location where street or highway construction work
is to be conducted, a sign shall be posted at least 1,000 feet from the
construction site, or as close to 1,000 feet from the construction site as is
practicable given the location of the site when workers are present, notifying
all motorists as to the speed limit and displaying the words “construction
work”.
   (B)   No person shall violate any posted speed restriction or traffic
restriction at such construction site referred to in division (A) above.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to preclude prosecution of
any operator of a motor vehicle who commits a violation of any other provision
of this traffic code for such violation.
(Prior Code, § 313.08)  Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-3-4b
§ 72.09  DUTIES OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   The Police Department shall supervise the placement, erection, installation,
maintenance and repair of such markings, signs, signals, lights and other
traffic-control devices as the City Council may deem necessary to properly
control traffic within the city, in conformity with the rules and regulations
of the state’s Road Commission.
(Prior Code, § 313.09)  (Ord. passed 4-2-1984)
§ 72.10  FIRE LANES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY DEVOTED TO PUBLIC USE.
   (A)   The marking of fire lanes, on private property devoted to public use,
shall be approved by the Fire Chief as well as by the Chief of Police.
   (B)   Parking of motor vehicles or otherwise obstructing fire lanes shall be
prohibited at all times.
(Prior Code, § 313.10)  (Ord. passed 4-2-1984)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.11  PREVIOUSLY INSTALLED DEVICES.
   All traffic-control devices, signals, signs and markings heretofore
installed by authority of Council and which are in place on the effective date
of this subchapter shall be deemed to be official traffic- control devices
until such time as they may be removed by authority of Council and, until they
are so removed, no person shall fail to comply with any instruction or
directive indicated by any such official traffic-control device.
(Prior Code, § 313.11)  (Ord. passed 4-2-1984)
§ 72.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   See §
70.99 of this traffic code if no specific penalty is provided.
   (B)   (1)   General penalty. Whoever violates §§
72.01,
72.02 or
72.04 of this chapter shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time to
time upon a second conviction within one year thereafter, shall be fined in an
amount set by Council from time to time; and, upon a third or subsequent
conviction, shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time to time.
      (2)   Construction zones.
         (a)   Any person who exceeds any posted speed restriction or traffic
restriction at a construction site referred to in §
72.08 of this chapter by less than 15 mph shall be fined in an amount set by
Council from time to time.
         (b)   Any person who exceeds any posted speed restriction or traffic
restriction at a construction site referred to in §
72.08 of this chapter by 15 mph or more shall be fined in an amount set by
Council from time to time or imprisoned not more than 20 days, or both.
(Prior Code, § 313.99)
CHAPTER 73:  SAFETY AND EQUIPMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
73.01   Driving unsafe vehicles; application; exceptions
   
73.02   When lighted lights required
   
73.03   Measurements of distances and heights
   
73.04   Headlights and taillights; other lights
   
73.05   Brakes; inspections
   
73.06   Horn, siren and theft alarm signal
   
73.07   Muffler; muffler cutout; excessive smoke, noise and gas
   
73.08   Mirrors and windshields
   
73.09   Tire equipment
   
73.10   Vehicles transporting explosives
   
73.11   Television receiver in driver’s view
   
73.12   Safety equipment for motorcycles and the like
   
73.13   Certification labels on mopeds
   
73.14   Certificate of inspections and approval
   
73.15   Alteration of motor vehicles; bumper height limits
   
73.16   Sun screening devices
   
73.17   Safety belts
   
73.18   Child passenger safety devices required; child safety seats and booster
seats
Accidents
   
73.30   Accidents involving death or personal injuries
   
73.31   Accidents involving damage to vehicle
   
73.32   Duty to give information and render aid
   
73.33   Collision with unattended vehicle
   
73.34   Collision with fixtures upon street or highway
   
73.35   Immediate reports of accidents
   
73.36   When driver unable to report
   
73.37   Garages to report bullet damage
   
73.38   Accident reports confidential
 
   
73.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Obscured light on vehicles in combination, see W.Va. Code § 17C-15-13
   Warning devices for commercial vehicles, see W.Va. Code § 17C-15-39
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 73.01  DRIVING UNSAFE VEHICLES; APPLICATION; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall drive or move and no owner shall cause or knowingly
permit to be driven or moved on any street or highway any vehicle or
combination of vehicles which is in such unsafe condition as to endanger any
person, or which does not contain those parts or is not at all times equipped
with such lamps and other equipment in proper condition and adjustment as
required in this subchapter, or which is equipped in any manner in violation of
this subchapter, or for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to perform
any act required under this subchapter.
   (B)   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall be construed to prohibit
the use of additional parts and accessories on any vehicle not inconsistent
with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   The provisions of this subchapter with respect to equipment on
vehicles shall not apply to implements of husbandry, road machinery, road
rollers or farm tractors, except as herein made applicable. Every farm tractor
equipped with an electric lighting system shall at all times mentioned in §
73.02 of this chapter display a red tail lamp and either multiple-beam or
single-beam head lamps meeting the requirements of §
73.02 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 345.01)  Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-15-1
§ 73.02  WHEN LIGHTED LIGHTS REQUIRED.
   Every vehicle other than a school bus, motorcycle, motor-driven cycle or
moped operated upon a street or highway within the municipality at any time
from sunset to sunrise or during fog, smoke, rain or other unfavorable
atmospheric conditions, or at any other time when there is not sufficient light
to render clearly discernible persons and vehicles on the street or highway at
a distance of 500 feet ahead shall display lighted head lamps and illuminating
devices as hereinafter respectively required for different classes of vehicles,
subject to exceptions with respect to parked vehicles as provided for in §
73.04(D)(3) of this chapter. Every school bus, motorcycle, motor-driven cycle
and moped shall display lighted head lamps at all times when upon the street or
highway.
(Prior Code, § 345.02)  Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-15-2
§ 73.03  MEASUREMENTS OF DISTANCES AND HEIGHTS.
   (A)   Whenever requirement is hereinafter declared as to the distance from
which certain lamps and devices shall render objects visible or within which
such lamps or devices shall be visible such provisions shall apply during the
times stated in §
73.02 of this chapter in respect to a vehicle without load when upon a
straight, level, unlighted street or highway under normal atmospheric
conditions unless a different time or condition is expressly stated.
   (B)   Whenever requirement is hereinafter declared as to the mounted height
of lamps or devices, it shall mean from the center of such lamp or device to
the level ground upon which the vehicle stands when such vehicle is without a
load.
(Prior Code, § 345.03)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-15-3
§ 73.04  HEADLIGHTS AND TAILLIGHTS; OTHER LIGHTS.
   (A)   Headlights on motor vehicles and motorcycles.
      (1)   Every motor vehicle other than a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle or
moped shall be equipped with at least two head lamps with at least one on each
side of the front of the motor vehicle, which head lamps shall comply with the
requirements and limitations set forth in this subchapter.
      (2)   Every motorcycle, motor-driven cycle and moped shall be equipped
with at least one, and not more than two, head lamps which shall comply with
the requirements and limitations of this subchapter.
      (3)   Every head lamp upon every motor vehicle, including every
motorcycle, motor-driven cycle and moped, shall be located at a height measured
from the center of the head lamp of not more than 54 inches, nor less than 24
inches, to be measured as set forth in §
73.03 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 345.04)
   (B)   Taillight; illumination of rear license plate.
      (1)   Every motor vehicle, trailer or semi-trailer, and any other vehicle
which is being drawn at the end of a train of vehicles, shall be equipped with
at least one tail lamp mounted on the rear, which, when lighted as hereinbefore
required, shall emit a red light plainly visible from a distance of 500 feet to
the rear; provided that, in the case of a train of vehicles, only the tail lamp
on the rearmost vehicle need actually be seen from the distance specified.
      (2)   Every tail lamp upon every vehicle shall be located at a height of
not more than 60 inches, nor less than 20 inches, to be measured as set forth
in §
73.03(B) of this chapter.
      (3)   Either a tail lamp or a separate lamp shall be so constructed and
placed as to illuminate with a white light the rear registration plate and
render it clearly legible from a distance of 50 feet to the rear. Any tail lamp
or tail lamps, together with any separate lamp for illuminating the rear
registration plate, shall be so wired as to be lighted whenever the head lamps
or auxiliary driving lamps are lighted.
(Prior Code, § 345.05)
   (C)   Red light or red flag on extended loads. Whenever the load upon any
vehicle extends to the rear four feet or more beyond the bed or body of such
vehicle, there shall be displayed at the extreme rear end of the load, at the
times specified in §
73.02 of this chapter, a red light or lantern plainly visible from a distance
of at least 500 feet to the sides and rear. The red light or lantern required
under this subchapter shall be in addition to the red rear light required upon
every vehicle. At any time, there shall be displayed at the extreme rear end of
such load a red flag or cloth not less than 12 inches square and so hung that
the entire area is visible to the driver of a vehicle approaching from the
rear.
(Prior Code, § 345.06)
   (D)   Lights on parked or stopped vehicles.
      (1)   Whenever a vehicle is lawfully parked upon a street or highway
during the hours between sunset and sunrise and in the event there is
sufficient light to reveal any person or object within a distance of 500 feet
upon such street or highway, no lights need be displayed upon such parked
vehicle.
      (2)   Whenever a vehicle is parked or stopped upon a roadway or shoulder
adjacent thereto, whether attended or unattended, during the hours between
sunset and sunrise and there is not sufficient light to reveal any person or
object within a distance of 500 feet upon such street or highway, such vehicle
so parked or stopped shall be equipped with one or more lamps meeting the
following requirements: at least one lamp shall display a white or amber light
visible from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the vehicle, and the same
lamp or at least one other lamp shall display a red light visible from a
distance of 500 feet to the rear of the vehicle, and the location of such lamp
or lamps shall always be such that at least one lamp or combination of lamps
meeting the requirements of this section is installed as near as practicable to
the side of the vehicle which is closest to passing traffic. The foregoing
provisions shall not apply to a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle or moped.
      (3)   Any lighted head lamps upon a parked vehicle shall be depressed or
dimmed.
(Prior Code, § 345.07)
   (E)   Lights on slow-moving vehicles. All vehicles including animal-drawn
vehicles and including those referred to in §
73.01(C) of this chapter not hereinbefore specifically required to be equipped
with lamps, shall at the times specified in §
73.02 of this chapter be equipped with at least one lighted lamp or lantern
exhibiting a white light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the front of
such vehicle and with a lamp or lantern exhibiting a red light visible from a
distance of 500 feet to the rear.
(Prior Code, § 345.08)
   (F)   Spotlights and auxiliary lights.
      (1)   Spot lamps. Any motor vehicle, except a public utility company
maintenance vehicle, may be equipped with not more than one spot lamp and every
lighted spot lamp shall be so aimed and used upon approaching another vehicle
that no part of the high-intensity portion of the beam will be directed to the
left of the prolongation of the extreme left side of the vehicle, nor more than
100 feet ahead of the vehicle. A public utility company maintenance vehicle may
be equipped with more than one spot lamp, but all lighted spot lamps shall be
aimed and used in conformity to the requirements of this division (F)(1).
      (2)   Fog lamps. Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than two
fog lamps mounted on the front at a height not less than 12 inches, nor more
than 30 inches, above the level surface upon which the vehicle stands and so
aimed that when the vehicle is not loaded none of the high-intensity portion of
the light to the left of the center of the vehicle shall at a distance of 25
feet ahead project higher than a level of four inches below the level of the
center of the lamp from which it comes.
      (3)   Auxiliary passing lamp. Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not
more than one auxiliary passing lamp mounted on the front at a height not less
than 24 inches, nor more than 42 inches, above the level surface upon which the
vehicle stands and every auxiliary passing lamp shall meet the requirements and
limitations set forth in this subchapter.
      (4)   Auxiliary driving lamp. Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not
more than one auxiliary driving lamp mounted on the front at a height not less
than 16 inches, nor more than 42 inches, above the level surface upon which the
vehicle stands and every such auxiliary driving lamp shall meet the
requirements and limitations set forth in this subchapter.
      (5)   Roof-mounted off-road light bar lighting device. Any motor vehicle
may be equipped with a roof-mounted off-road light bar lighting device
comprised of multiple lamps; provided that, whenever the vehicle is operated or
driven upon any road or highway, the roof-mounted off-road light bar lighting
device shall be turned off and covered with an opaque covering that prohibits
light from being emitted while the vehicle is being operated on any road or
highway.
(Prior Code, § 345.09)
   (G)   Signal lamps and signal devices.
      (1)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped and when required under this
traffic code shall be equipped with the following signal lamps or devices:
         (a)   A stop lamp on the rear which shall emit a red or yellow light
and which shall be actuated upon application of the service (foot) brake and
which may, but need not, be incorporated with a tail lamp; and
         (b)   A lamp or lamps or mechanical signal device capable of clearly
indicating any intention to turn either to the right or to the left and which
shall be visible both from the front and rear.
      (2)   A stop lamp shall be plainly visible and understandable from a
distance of 100 feet to the rear both during normal sunlight and at nighttime
and signal lamp or lamps indicating intention to turn shall be visible and
understandable during daytime and nighttime from a distance of 100 feet both to
the front and rear. When a vehicle is equipped with a stop lamp or other signal
lamps, such lamp or lamps shall at all times be maintained in good working
condition. No stop lamp or signal lamp shall project a glaring or dazzling
light.
      (3)   All mechanical signal devices shall be self-illuminated when in use
at the times mentioned in §
73.02 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 345.10)
   (H)   Cowl, fender and back-up lights; flashing hazard lights.
      (1)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than two side cowl
or fender lamps, which shall emit an amber or white light without glare.
      (2)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than one running-
board courtesy lamp on each side thereof which shall emit a white or amber
light without glare.
      (3)   Except for school buses as provided in this division (H)(3), any
motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than two back-up lamps either
separately or in combination with other lamps, but any such back-up lamp shall
not be lighted when the motor vehicle is in forward motion. School buses used
for the transportation of school children in the municipality, whether owned
and operated by a county board of education or privately owned and operated
under contract with a county board of education, shall be equipped with two
back-up lamps, one on each side of the rear door, with white lens or
reflectors, capable of lighting the roadway and objects to the rear of the bus
for safe backing during darkness, and which, at the option of the county board
of education, may each provide 50 candlepower in illumination intensity instead
of 32 candlepower.
      (4)   Any vehicle may be equipped with lamps which may be used for the
purpose of warning the operators of other vehicles of the presence of a
vehicular traffic hazard requiring the exercise of unusual care in approaching,
overtaking or passing, and when so equipped may display such warning in
addition to any other warning signals required by this subchapter. The lamps
used to display such warning to the front shall be mounted at the same level
and as widely spaced laterally as practicable and shall display simultaneously
flashing white or amber lights, or any shade of color between white and amber.
The lamps used to display such warning to the rear shall be mounted at the same
level and as widely spaced laterally as practicable, and shall show
simultaneously flashing amber or red lights or any shade of color between amber
and red.
      (5)   Vehicles used by “rural mail carriers” in carrying or delivering
mail in rural areas may be equipped with amber flashing lights. Such lights
shall be on the front and rear of the vehicle and may be activated when the
vehicle is stopped or decreasing speed in order to stop in the course of
carrying, delivering or picking up mail along the route.
      (6)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this code to the contrary,
any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than one electroluminescent
solid state ceramic front identification plate without glare, mounted in
conformance with the manufacturer’s specifications.
      (7)   Vehicles used as the lead car in a funeral procession are hereby
authorized to be equipped with, but are not required to use, purple lamps or
purple flashing lights. Such lamps may be used for the purpose of warning the
operators of other vehicles of the presence of a vehicular traffic hazard
requiring the exercise of unusual care in approaching, overtaking or passing a
funeral procession, and when so equipped may display such warning in addition
to any other warning signals required by this subchapter. The lamps or flashing
lights used to display such warning to the front shall be mounted at the same
level and as widely spaced laterally as practicable and shall display
simultaneously either illuminating or flashing purple lights. The lamps used to
display such warning to the rear shall be mounted at the same level and as
widely spaced laterally as practicable, and shall show simultaneously flashing
or illuminated purple lights.
(Prior Code, § 345.11)
   (I)   Multiple-beam road-lighting equipment requirements. Except as
hereinafter provided, the head lamps or the auxiliary driving lamp or the
auxiliary passing lamp or combinations thereof on motor vehicles other than a
motorcycle, motor-driven cycle or moped shall be so arranged that the driver
may select at will between distributions of light projected to different
elevations and such lamps may, in addition, be so arranged that such selection
can be made automatically, subject to the following limitations.
      (1)   There shall be an uppermost distribution of light, or composite
beam, so aimed and of such intensity as to reveal persons and vehicles at a
distance of at least 350 feet ahead for all conditions of loading.
      (2)   There shall be a lowermost distribution of light, or composite
beam, so aimed and of sufficient intensity to reveal persons and vehicles at a
distance of at least 100 feet ahead; and on a straight level road under any
condition of loading none of the high-intensity portion of the beam shall be
directed to strike the eyes of an approaching driver.
      (3)   Every new motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, motor-driven
cycle or moped, registered in the state after 1-1-1952, which has multiple-beam
road-lighting equipment shall be equipped with a beam indicator, which shall be
lighted whenever the uppermost distribution of light from the head lamps is in
use, and shall not otherwise be lighted. Such indicator shall be so designed
and located that, when lighted, it will be readily visible without glare to the
driver of the vehicle so equipped.
(Prior Code, § 345.12)
   (J)   Use of headlight beams. Whenever a motor vehicle is being operated on
a roadway or shoulder adjacent thereto during the times specified in §
73.02 of this chapter, the driver shall use a distribution of light, or
composite beam, directed high enough and of sufficient intensity to reveal
persons and vehicles at a safe distance in advance of the vehicle, subject to
the following requirements and limitations.
      (1)   Whenever a driver of a vehicle approaches an oncoming vehicle
within 500 feet, such driver shall use a distribution of light, or composite
beam, so aimed that the glaring rays are not projected into the eyes of the
oncoming driver. The lowermost distribution of light, or composite beam
specified in division (I)(2) above shall be deemed to avoid glare at all times
regardless of road contour and loading.
      (2)   Whenever the driver of a vehicle follows another vehicle within 200
feet to the rear, except when engaged in the act of overtaking and passing,
such driver shall use a distribution of light permissible under this traffic
code other than the uppermost distribution of light specified in division (I)
(1) above.
(Prior Code, § 345.13)
   (K)   Single-beam road-lighting equipment. Head lamps arranged to provide a
single distribution of light shall be permitted on motor vehicles manufactured
and sold prior to 7-1-1952 in lieu of multiple-beam road-lighting equipment
herein specified if the single distribution of light complies with the
following requirements and limitations.
      (1)   The head lamps shall be so aimed that when the vehicle is not
loaded none of the high-intensity portion of the light shall at a distance of
25 feet ahead project higher than a level of five inches below the level of the
center of the lamp from which it comes, and in no case higher than 42 inches
above the level on which the vehicle stands at a distance of 75 feet ahead.
      (2)   The intensity shall be sufficient to reveal persons and vehicles at
a distance of at least 200 feet.
(Prior Code, § 345.14)
   (L)   Lights on motorcycles, motor-driven cycles and mopeds. The head lamp
or head lamps upon every motorcycle, motor-driven cycle and moped may be of the
single-beam or multiple-beam type, but, in either event, shall comply with the
requirements and limitations as follows.
      (1)   Every such head lamp or head lamps shall be of sufficient intensity
to reveal a person or a vehicle at a distance of not less than 100 feet when
the motorcycle, motor-driven cycle or moped is operated at any speed less than
25 mph and at a distance of not less than 200 feet when it is operated at a
speed of 25 or more mph.
      (2)   In the event the motorcycle, motor-driven cycle or moped is
equipped with a multiple-beam type head lamp or head lamps, the upper beam
shall meet the minimum requirements set forth above and shall not exceed the
limitations set forth in division (I)(1) above and the lowermost beam shall
meet the requirements applicable to a lowermost distribution of light as set
forth in division (I)(2) above.
      (3)   In the event the motorcycle, motor-driven cycle or moped is
equipped with a single-beam lamp or lamps such lamp or lamps shall be so aimed
that when the vehicle is loaded none of the high-intensity portion of light, at
a distance of 25 feet ahead, shall project higher than the level of the center
of the lamp from which it comes.
(Prior Code, § 345.15)
   (M)   Alternate road-lighting equipment. Any motor vehicle may be operated
under the conditions specified in §
73.02 of this chapter when equipped with two lighted lamps upon the front
thereof capable of revealing persons and objects 75 feet ahead in lieu of lamps
required in division (I) above or division (K) above; provided that, at no time
shall it be operated at a speed in excess of 20 mph.
(Prior Code, § 345.16)
   (N)   Number of driving lights required or permitted.
      (1)   At all times specified in §
73.02 of this chapter at least two lighted lamps shall be displayed, one on
each side at the front of every motor vehicle other than a motorcycle, motor-
driven cycle or moped, except when such vehicle is parked subject to the
regulations governing lights on parked vehicles.
      (2)   Whenever a motor vehicle equipped with head lamps as herein
required is also equipped with any auxiliary lamps or a spot lamp or any other
lamp on the front thereof projecting a beam of intensity greater than 300
candlepower, not more than a total of four of any such lamps on the front of a
vehicle shall be lighted at any one time when upon a street or highway.
(Prior Code, § 345.17)
   (O)   Special restrictions on lights.
      (1)   Any lighted lamp or illuminating device upon a motor vehicle other
than head lamps, spot lamps, auxiliary lamps or flashing front-direction
signals which projects a beam of light of an intensity greater than 300
candlepower shall be so directed that no part of the beam will strike the level
of the roadway on which the vehicle stands at a distance of more than 75 feet
from the vehicle.
      (2)   No person shall drive or move any vehicle or equipment upon any
street or highway with any lamp or device thereon displaying other than a white
or amber light visible from directly in front of the center thereof, except as
authorized by division (O)(4) below.
      (3)   Except as authorized in divisions (O)(4) and (O)(6) below and
division (H) above, flashing lights are prohibited on motor vehicles; provided
that, any vehicle as a means for indicating right or left turn, or any vehicle
as a means of indicating the same is disabled or otherwise stopped for an
emergency may have blinking or flashing lights.
      (4)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this traffic code, the
following colors of flashing warning lights are restricted for the use of the
type of vehicle designated.
         (a)   Blue flashing warning lights are restricted to police vehicles.
Authorization for police vehicles shall be designated by the chief
administrative official of each police department.
         (b)   Except for standard vehicle equipment authorized by division (H)
above, red flashing warning lights are restricted to: ambulances; firefighting
vehicles; hazardous material response vehicles; industrial fire brigade
vehicles; school buses; Class A vehicles, as defined by W.Va. Code § 17A-10-1,
of those firefighters who are authorized by their fire chiefs to have such
lights; Class A vehicles of members of ambulance services or duly chartered
rescue squads who are authorized by their respective chiefs to have such
lights; and Class A vehicles of out-of-state residents who are active members
of West Virginia fire departments, ambulance services or duly chartered rescue
squads who are authorized by their respective chiefs to have such lights. Red
flashing warning lights attached to such Class A vehicles shall be operated
only when responding to or engaged in handling an emergency requiring the
attention of such firefighters, members of such ambulance services or chartered
rescue squads.
         (c)   The use of red flashing warning lights shall be authorized as
follows.
            1.   Authorization for all ambulances shall be designated by the
Department of Health and Human Resources and the Sheriff of the county of
residence.
            2.   Authorization for all Fire Department vehicles shall be
designated by the Fire Chief and the State Marshal’s office.
            3.   Authorization for all hazardous material response vehicles and
industrial fire brigades shall be designated by the Chief of the Fire
Department and the State Fire Marshal’s office.
            4.   Authorization for all rescue squad vehicles not operating out
of a fire department shall be designated by the Squad Chief, the Sheriff of the
county of residence and the Department of Health and Human Resources.
            5.   Authorization for school buses shall be designated as set out
in W.Va. Code § 17C-14-12.
            6.   Authorization for firefighters to operate Class A vehicles
shall be designated by their fire chiefs and the State Fire Marshal’s office.
            7.   Authorization for members of ambulance services or any other
emergency medical service personnel to operate Class A vehicles shall be
designated by their chief official, the Department of Health and Human
Resources and the Sheriff of the county of residence.
            8.   Authorization for members of duly chartered rescue squads not
operating out of a fire department to operate Class A vehicles shall be
designated by their Squad Chiefs, the Sheriff of the county of residence and
the Department of Health and Human Resources.
            9.   Authorization for out-of-state residents operating Class A
vehicles who are active members of a West Virginia fire department, ambulance
services or duly chartered rescue squads shall be designated by their
respective chiefs.
         (d)   Yellow flashing warning lights are restricted to the following:
            1.   All other emergency vehicles, including tow trucks and
wreckers, authorized by the W.Va. Code Ch. 17C and § 17C-15-27;
            2.   Postal service vehicles and rural mail carriers, as authorized
in division (H) above;
            3.   Rural newspaper delivery vehicles;
            4.   Flag car services;
            5.   Vehicles providing road service to disabled vehicles;
            6.   Service vehicles of a public service corporation;
            7.   Snow removal equipment; and
            8.   School buses.
         (e)   The use of yellow flashing warning lights shall be authorized as
follows:
            1.   Authorization for tow trucks, wreckers, rural newspaper
delivery vehicles, flag car services, vehicles providing road service to
disabled vehicles, service vehicles of a public service corporation and postal
service vehicles shall be designated by the Sheriff of the county of residence.
            2.   Authorization for snow removal equipment shall be designated
by the Commissioner of the Division of Highways.
            3.   Authorization for school buses shall be designated as set out
in W.Va. Code § 17C-14-12.
      (5)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this subchapter, any
vehicle belonging to a county board of education, an organization receiving
funding from the state or federal transit administration for the purpose of
providing general public transportation, or hauling solid waste may be equipped
with a white flashing strobotron warning light. This strobe light may be
installed on the roof of a school bus, a public transportation vehicle or a
vehicle hauling solid waste not to exceed one-third the body length forward
from the rear of the roof edge. The light shall have a single clear lens
emitting light 360 degrees around its vertical axis and may not extend above
the roof more than six and one-half inches. A manual switch and a pilot light
must be included to indicate the light is in operation.
      (6)   No person shall install or use flashing warning lights of an
unauthorized color on a vehicle other than as specified in this subchapter;
except that, a police vehicle may be equipped with either or both blue or red
warning lights.
(Prior Code, § 345.18)  Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code §§ 17C-15-4, 17C-15-5, 17C-15-14 through
17C-15-26
§ 73.05  BRAKES; INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Motor vehicle or motorcycle brakes.
      (1)   Brake equipment required.
         (a)   Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle
or moped, when operated upon a street or highway shall be equipped with brakes
adequate to control the movement of and to stop and hold such vehicle,
including two separate means of applying the brakes, each of which means shall
be effective to apply the brakes to at least two wheels. If these two separate
means of applying the brakes are connected in any way, they shall be so
constructed that failure of any one part of the operating mechanism shall not
leave the motor vehicle without brakes on at least two wheels.
         (b)   Every motorcycle, motor-driven cycle and moped, when operated
upon a street or highway, shall be equipped with at least one brake which may
be operated by hand or foot.
         (c)   Every trailer or semi-trailer of a gross weight of 3,000 pounds
or more when operated upon a street or highway shall be equipped with brakes
adequate to control the movement of and to stop and to hold such vehicle and so
designed as to be applied by the driver of the towing motor vehicle from its
cab, and such brakes shall be so designed and connected that in case of an
accidental breakaway of the towed vehicle the brakes shall be automatically
applied.
         (d)   Every new motor vehicle, trailer or semi-trailer hereinafter
sold in the state and operated upon the streets or highways shall be equipped
with service brakes upon all wheels, with the following exceptions:
            1.   Trucks and truck-tractors having three or more axles need not
have brakes on the front wheels; except when such vehicles are equipped with at
least two steerable axles, the wheels of one such axle need not be equipped
with brakes; and
            2.   Any motorcycle, motor-driven cycle or moped and any semi-
trailer of less than 1,500 pounds gross weight need not be equipped with
brakes.
         (e)   In any combination of motor-driven vehicles, means shall be
provided for applying the rearmost trailer brakes, of any trailer equipped with
brakes, in approximate synchronism with the brakes on the towing vehicle and
developing the required braking effort on the rearmost wheels at the fastest
rate; or means shall be provided for applying braking effort first on the
rearmost trailer equipped, with brakes; or both of the above means capable of
being used alternatively may be employed.
         (f)   Every such vehicle and combination of vehicles, except
motorcycles, motor-driven cycles and mopeds, shall be equipped with parking
brakes adequate to hold the vehicle on any grade on which it is operated, under
all conditions of loading on a surface free from snow, ice or loose material.
The parking brakes shall be capable of being applied in conformance with the
foregoing requirements by the driver’s muscular effort or by spring action or
by equivalent means. Their operation may be assisted by the service brakes or
other source of power; provided that, failure of the service brake actuation
system or other power assisting mechanism will not prevent the parking brakes
from being applied in conformance with the foregoing requirements. The parking
brakes shall be so designed that, when once applied, they shall remain applied
with the required effectiveness despite exhaustion of any source of energy or
leakage of any kind. The same brake drums, brake shoes and lining assemblies,
brake shoe anchors and mechanical brake shoe actuation mechanism normally
associated with the wheel brake assemblies may be used for both the service
brakes and the parking brakes. If the means of applying the parking brakes and
the service brakes are connected in any way, they shall be so constructed that
a failure of any one part shall not leave the vehicle without operative brakes.
         (g)   The brake shoes operating within or upon the drums on the
vehicle wheels of any motor vehicle may be used for both service and hand
operation.
      (2)   Performance ability of brakes. Every motor vehicle or combination
of motor-drawn vehicles shall be capable, at all times and under all conditions
of loading, of being stopped on a dry, smooth, level road free from loose
material, upon application of the service (foot) brake, within the distances
specified below, or shall be capable of being decelerated at a sustained rate
corresponding to these distances:
 
                              Feet to stop from 20 mph Deceleration in feet per
                                                       second
Vehicle or combinations of
vehicles having brakes on all 30                       14
wheels
Vehicles or combinations of
vehicles not having brakes on 40                       10.7
all wheels
 
      (3)   Maintenance of brakes. All brakes shall be maintained in good
working order and shall be so adjusted as to operate as equally as practicable
with respect to the wheels on opposite sides of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 345.19)
   (B)   Inspection of brakes on motorcycles, motor-driven cycles and mopeds.
No person shall operate on any street or highway any motorcycle, motor-driven
cycle or moped in the event the Commissioner of Highways has disapproved the
brake equipment upon such vehicle or type of vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 345.20)  Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code §§ 17C-15-31, 17C-15-32
§ 73.06  HORN, SIREN AND THEFT ALARM SIGNAL.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle when operated upon a street or highway shall be
equipped with a horn in good working order and capable of emitting sound
audible under normal conditions from a distance of not less than 200 feet, but
no horn or other warning device shall emit an unreasonably loud or harsh sound
or a whistle. The driver of a motor vehicle shall when reasonably necessary to
insure safe operation give audible warning with his or her horn, but shall not
otherwise use such horn when upon a street or highway.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be equipped with, nor shall any person use upon a
vehicle, any siren, whistle or bell, except as otherwise permitted in this
section.
   (C)   It is permissible, but not required, that any commercial vehicle be
equipped with a theft alarm signal device which is so arranged that it cannot
be used by the driver as an ordinary warning signal. Any authorized emergency
vehicle may be equipped with a siren, whistle or bell, capable of emitting
sound audible under normal conditions from a distance of not less than 500 feet
and of a type approved by the Department of Motor Vehicles, but such siren
shall not be used, except when such vehicle is operated in response to an
emergency or in the immediate pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the
law; in which such latter events, the driver of such vehicle shall sound such
siren when reasonably necessary to warn pedestrians and other drivers of the
approach thereof.
(Prior Code, § 345.21)  Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-15-33
§ 73.07  MUFFLER; MUFFLER CUTOUT; EXCESSIVE SMOKE, NOISE AND GAS.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle shall at all times be equipped with a muffler in
good working order and in constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual
noise. Such muffler shall be the muffler originally installed by the
manufacturer of the vehicle or, if a replacement, the equivalent thereof. No
person shall use a muffler cutout, bypass or similar device upon a motor
vehicle on a street or highway.
   (B)   The engine and power mechanism of every motor vehicle shall be so
equipped and adjusted as to prevent the escape of excessive fumes or smoke.
(Prior Code, § 345.22)  Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-15-34
§ 73.08  MIRRORS AND WINDSHIELDS.
   (A)   Rear-view mirror. Every motor vehicle which is so constructed or
loaded as to obstruct the driver’s view to the rear thereof from the driver’s
position shall be equipped with a mirror so located as to reflect to the driver
a view of the street or highway for a distance of at least 200 feet to the rear
of such vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 345.23)
   (B)   Windshield to be unobstructed; windshield wiper.
      (1)   No person shall drive any motor vehicle with any sign, poster or
other non-transparent material upon the front windshield, side wings or side or
rear windows of such vehicle which obstructs the driver’s clear view of the
street or highway or any intersecting street or highway.
      (2)   The windshield on every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a
device for cleaning rain, snow or other moisture from the windshield, which
device shall be so constructed as to be controlled or operated by the driver of
the vehicle.
      (3)   Every windshield wiper upon a motor vehicle shall be maintained in
good working order.
(Prior Code, § 345.24)  Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code §§ 17C-15-35, 17C-15-36, 17C-15-38)
§ 73.09  TIRE EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Every solid rubber tire on a vehicle shall have rubber on its entire
traction surface at least one- inch thick above the edge of the flange of the
entire periphery.
   (B)   No person shall operate or move on any highway any motor vehicle,
trailer or semi-trailer having any metal tire in contact with the roadway.
   (C)   No tire on a vehicle moved on a highway shall have on its periphery
any block, stud, flange, cleat or spike or any other protuberance of any
material other than rubber which projects beyond the tread of the traction
surface of the tire; except that:
      (1)   It shall be permissible to use farm machinery with tires having
protuberances which will not injure the street or highway;
      (2)   It shall be permissible to use tire chains of reasonable
proportions upon any vehicle when required for safety because of snow, ice or
other conditions tending to cause a vehicle to skid; and
      (3)   It shall be permissible to use studded tires during the period from
November 1 of each year until April 15 of the following year; provided that, in
the interest of highway maintenance, no vehicle moved on a street or highway,
other than school buses, shall be equipped with studded tires which are
operational with a recommended air pressure greater than 40 pounds per square
inch.
   (D)   No studded tires or chains shall be sold or used within the
municipality which do not meet the specifications established by the rules and
regulations which the Commissioner of Highways shall promulgate.
   (E)   Council may, in its discretion, issue special permits authorizing the
operation upon the street or highway of traction engines or tractors having
movable tracks with transverse corrugations upon the periphery of such movable
tracks or farm tractors or other farm machinery, the operation of which upon a
highway would otherwise be prohibited under this traffic code.
(Prior Code, § 345.25)  Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-15-37
§ 73.10  VEHICLES TRANSPORTING EXPLOSIVES.
   Any person operating any vehicle transporting any explosive as a cargo or
part of a cargo upon a street or highway shall, at all times, comply with the
provisions of this section.
   (A)   Such vehicle shall be marked or placarded on each side and the rear
with the word “Explosives” in letters not less than eight inches high, or there
shall be displayed on the rear of such vehicle a red flag not less than 24
inches square marked with the word “Danger” in white letters six inches high.
   (B)   Every such vehicle shall be equipped with not less than two fire
extinguishers, filled and ready for immediate use and placed at a convenient
point on the vehicle so used.
(Prior Code, § 345.27)  Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-15-41
§ 73.11  TELEVISION RECEIVER IN DRIVER’S VIEW.
   No motor vehicle shall be operated on any street or highway in the
municipality when equipped with a television receiver unless such receiver is
so placed that the screen or picture tube of such receiver is visible only in
the rear seat of such motor vehicle and not in view of the operator of such
motor vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 345.28)  Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-15-42
§ 73.12  SAFETY EQUIPMENT FOR MOTORCYCLES AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   No person shall operate or be a passenger on any motorcycle or motor-
driven cycle unless he or she is wearing securely fastened on his or her head
by either a neck or chin strap a protective helmet designed to deflect blows,
resist penetration and spread impact forces. Any helmet worn by an operator or
passenger shall meet the current performance specifications established by the
American National Standards Institute Standard, Z 90.1, the United States
Department of Transportation Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 218 or
Snell Safety Standards for Protective Headgear for Vehicle Users.
   (B)   No person shall operate or be a passenger on any motorcycle or motor-
driven cycle unless he or she is wearing safety, shatter-resistant eyeglasses
(excluding contact lenses) or eyegoggles or face shield that complies with the
performance specifications established by the American National Standards
Institute for Head, Eye and Respiratory Protection, Z 2.1. In addition, if any
motorcycle, motor-driven cycle or moped is equipped with a windshield or
windscreen, the windshield or windscreen shall be constructed of safety,
shatter-resistant material that complies with the performance specifications
established by Department of Transportation Federal Motor Vehicle Safety
Standard No. 205 and American National Standards Institute, Safety Glazing
Materials for Glazing Motor Vehicles Operated on Land Highways, Standard Z
26.1.
   (C)   No person shall operate a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle or moped on
which the handlebars or grips are more than 15 inches higher than the uppermost
part of the operator’s seat when the seat is not depressed in any manner.
   (D)   A person operating a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle or moped shall
ride in a seated position facing forward and only upon a permanent operator’s
seat attached to the vehicle. No operator shall carry any other person, nor
shall any other person ride on such a vehicle unless the vehicle is designed to
carry more than one person, in which event a passenger may ride behind the
operator upon the permanent operator’s seat if it is designed for two persons,
or upon another seat firmly attached to the vehicle to the rear of the
operator’s seat and equipped with footrests designed and located for use by the
passenger or in a sidecar firmly attached to the vehicle. No person shall ride
sidesaddle on a seat. An operator may carry as many passengers as there are
seats and footrests to accommodate those passengers. Additional passengers may
be carried in a factory produced side car; provided that, there is one
passenger per seat. Passengers riding in a sidecar shall be restrained by
safety belts.
   (E)   Every motorcycle, motor-driven cycle and moped shall be equipped with
a rearview mirror affixed to the handlebars or fairings and adjusted so that
the operator shall have a clear view of the road and condition of traffic
behind him or her for a distance of at least 200 feet.
(Prior Code, § 345.29)  Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-15-44
§ 73.13  CERTIFICATION LABELS ON MOPEDS.
   Every moped sold in the municipality shall have permanently affixed to it a
certification label which shall contain the following information:
   (A)   Name of manufacturer;
   (B)   Month and year of manufacture;
   (C)   Gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR);
   (D)   Gross axle weight rating for front and rear axles (GAWR);
   (E)   Vehicle identification number;
   (F)   Classification type; and
   (G)   Statement of conformance to federal standards as required by federal
law.
(Prior Code, § 345.30)  Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-15-45
§ 73.14  CERTIFICATE OF INSPECTIONS AND APPROVAL.
   No owner or operator of any vehicle required to be inspected under W.Va.
Code Art. 17C-16 shall operate or permit to be operated such vehicle without
having displayed thereon a current and valid certificate of inspection and
approval or fail to produce same upon demand of any authorized person as
therein designated.
(Prior Code, § 345.32)  Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-16-9
§ 73.15  ALTERATION OF MOTOR VEHICLES; BUMPER HEIGHT LIMITS.
   (A)   No person shall operate upon a public street or highway any motor
vehicle registered or required to be registered in the state if it has been
modified by alteration of its height from the ground to the extent that its
bumpers, measured to any point on the lower edge of the main horizontal bumper
bar, exclusive of any bumper guards, do not fall within the limits specified
herein for its gross vehicle weight rating category. The front and rear bumper
height of motor vehicles whose gross vehicle weight rating is 10,000 pounds or
less shall be no less than six inches and no more than 31 inches. In the
absence of bumpers, and in cases where bumper heights have been altered or
modified, height measurements shall be made to the bottom of the frame rail. If
a motor vehicle has a bumper, the bumper must be at least three inches in
vertical width, centered on the center line of the motor vehicle and not less
than the width of the wheel track distance. The provisions of this division (A)
do not apply to motor vehicles with a gross vehicle weight rating in excess of
10,000 pounds. For the purpose of this division (A), the term GROSS VEHICLE
WEIGHT RATINGS means the manufacturer’s gross vehicle weight ratings
established for that vehicle.
   (B)   The maximum distance between the vehicle body to the vehicle frame
shall not exceed three inches. The distance from the vehicle body to the
vehicle frame shall be measured from the vehicle body mount seat to the vehicle
frame mount seat; provided that, the maximum distance limitation shall not
prohibit a body lift kit up to three inches to be added to the manufacturer’s
original spacer between the body and the frame. No vehicle shall be modified to
cause the vehicle body or chassis to come in contact with the ground, expose
the fuel tank to damage from collision, or cause the wheels to come in contact
with the body under normal operation. No part of the original suspension system
may be disconnected to defeat the safe operation of the suspension system.
Modification of the front end suspension by the use of lift blocks is expressly
prohibited.
   (C)   Nothing contained in this subchapter prevents the installation of
heavy duty equipment, including shock absorbers and overload springs.
   (D)   Nothing contained in this subchapter prohibits the operation on a
public street or highway of a motor vehicle with normal wear to the suspension
system if such normal wear does not adversely affect the control of the
vehicle.
   (E)   This subchapter does not apply to specially designed or modified motor
vehicles when operated off the public streets and highways in races and similar
events. Such motor vehicles may be lawfully towed on the streets and highways
of the municipality.
   (F)   Modifications to motor vehicles, not prohibited herein, shall be made
subject to inspection as provided in division (H) below.
   (G)   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall subject a vehicle modified
solely by the installation of tires not larger than two sizes beyond the
maximum specified by the manufacturer to inspection as provided in division (H)
below.
   (H)   Any motor vehicle which has been altered from the manufacturer’s
specification with respect to bumper height for that vehicle make and model but
within the allowable limits of division (A) above or any motor vehicle which
has been altered from the manufacturer’s specification for that vehicle make
and model with respect to the distance from the vehicle body to vehicle frame
but within the allowable limits of division (B) above may be operated upon a
public street or highway in the municipality, subject to inspection under W.Va.
Code § 17C-15-48; provided that, any motor vehicle which has been altered from
the manufacturer’s specification by lowering the bumper height for that vehicle
make and model within the allowable limits of division (A) above shall be
exempt from the inspection requirements hereunder and may be operated upon a
public street or highway in the municipality subject to provisions of W.Va.
Code Ch. 17C-16. Each municipal law enforcement agency must record on accident
report forms whether a modified vehicle was involved in the accident.
(Prior Code, § 345.33)  Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-15-48
§ 73.16  SUN SCREENING DEVICES.
   (A)   No person may operate a motor vehicle that is registered or required
to be registered in the state on any public highway, road or street that has a
sun screening device on the windshield, the front side wings and side windows
adjacent to the right and left of the driver and windows adjacent to the rear
of the driver that do not meet the requirements of this subchapter; provided
that, law enforcement K-9 and other emergency vehicles that are designed to
haul animals are exempt from this requirement.
   (B)   A sun screening device when used in conjunction with the windshield
must be non-reflective and may not be red, yellow or amber in color. A sun
screening device may be used only along the top of the windshield and may not
extend downward beyond the ASI line or more than five inches from the top of
the windshield whichever is closer to the top of the windshield.
   (C)   A sun screening device when used in conjunction with the automotive
safety glazing materials of the side wings or side windows located at the
immediate right and left of the driver shall be a non- reflective type with
reflectivity of not more than 20% and have a light transmission of not less
than 35%. The side windows behind the driver and the rear most windows may have
a sun screening device that is designed to be used on automotive safety glazing
materials that has a light transmission of not less than 35% and a reflectivity
of not more than 20%. If a sun screening device is used on glazing behind the
driver, one right and one left outside rear view mirror is required.
   (D)   Each manufacturer shall:
      (1)   Certify to the State Police and Division of Motor Vehicles that a
sun screening device used by it is in compliance with the reflectivity and
transmittance requirements of this subchapter;
      (2)   Provide a label not to exceed one and one-half square inches in
size, with a means for the permanent and legible installations between the sun
screening material and each glazing surface to which it is applied that
contains the manufacturer’s name and its percentage of light transmission; and
      (3)   Include instructions with the product or material for proper
installation, including the affixing of the label specified in this section.
The labeling or marking must be placed in the left lower corner of each glazing
surface when facing the vehicle from the outside.
   (E)   No person shall:
      (1)   Offer for sale or for use any sun screening product or material for
motor vehicle use not in compliance with this subchapter; or
      (2)   Install any sun screening product or material on vehicles intended
for use on public roads without permanently affixing the label specified in
this subchapter.
   (F)   The provisions of this subchapter do not apply to a motor vehicle
registered in the state in the name of a person, or the person’s legal
guardian, who has an affidavit signed by a physician or an optometrist licensed
to practice in the state that states that the person has a physical condition
that makes it necessary to equip the motor vehicle with sun screening material
which would be of a light transmittance or luminous reflectance in violation of
this subchapter. The affidavit must be in the possession of the person so
afflicted, or the person’s legal guardian, at all times while being transported
in the motor vehicle.
   (G)   The light transmittance requirement of this subchapter does not apply
to windows behind the driver on trucks, buses, trailers, mobile homes and
multipurpose passenger vehicles.
   (H)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BUS. A motor vehicle with motive power, except a trailer, designed for
carrying more than ten persons.
      LIGHT TRANSMISSION. The ratio of the amount of total light to pass
through a product or material to the amount of the total light falling on the
product or material.
      LUMINOUS REFLECTANTS. The ratio of the amount of total light that is
reflected outward by the product or material to the amount of the total light
falling on the product or materials.
      MANUFACTURER. Any person engaged in the manufacturing or assembling of
sun screening products or materials designed to be used in conjunction with
vehicle glazing materials for the purpose of reducing the effects of the sun.
      MOTOR HOMES. Vehicular units designed to provide temporary living
quarters built into and an integral part of or permanently attached to a self-
propelled motor vehicle chassis.
      MULTIPURPOSE PASSENGER VEHICLE. A motor vehicle with motive power, except
a trailer, designed to carry ten persons or less which is constructed either on
a truck chassis or with special features for occasional off-road operation.
      NON-REFLECTIVE. A product or material designed to absorb light rather
than to reflect it.
      PASSENGER CAR. A motor vehicle with motive power, except a multipurpose
passenger vehicle, motorcycle or trailer, designed for carrying ten persons or
less.
      SUN SCREENING DEVICE. Film material or device that is designed to be used
in conjunction with motor vehicle safety glazing materials for reducing the
effects of the sun.
      TRUCK. A motor vehicle with motive power, except a trailer, designed
primarily for the transportation of property or special purpose equipment.
(Prior Code, § 345.34)  Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-15-36a
§ 73.17  SAFETY BELTS.
   (A)   (1)   A person shall not operate a passenger vehicle on a public
street or highway unless the person, any passenger in the back seat under 18
years of age, and any passenger in the front seat of such passenger vehicle is
restrained by a safety belt meeting applicable federal motor vehicle safety
standards. For the purposes of this subchapter, PASSENGER VEHICLE means a motor
vehicle which is designed for transporting ten passengers or less, including
the driver; except that, such term does not include a motorcycle, a trailer or
any motor vehicle which is not required on the date of the enactment of this
section under a federal motor vehicle safety standard to be equipped with a
belt system.
      (2)   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to all passenger
vehicles manufactured after 1-1-1967 and being 1968 models and newer.
   (B)   The required use of safety belts as provided herein does not apply to
a duly appointed or contracted rural mail carrier of the United States Postal
Service who is actually making mail deliveries or to a passenger or operator
with a physically disabling condition whose physical disability would prevent
appropriate restraint in such safety belt if the condition is duly certified by
a physician who shall state the nature of the disability as well as the reason
such restraint is inappropriate.
   (C)   (1)   A violation of this subchapter is not admissible as evidence of
negligence or contributory negligence or comparative negligence in any civil
action or proceeding for damages, and shall not be admissible in mitigation of
damages; provided that, the court may, upon motion of the defendant, conduct an
in camera hearing to determine whether an injured party’s failure to wear a
safety belt was a proximate cause of the injuries complained of.
      (2)   Upon such a finding by the court, the court may then, in a jury
trial, by special interrogatory to the jury, determine:
         (a)   The injured party failed to wear a safety belt; and
         (b)   The failure to wear the safety belt constituted a failure to
mitigate damages.
      (3)   The trier of fact may reduce the injured party’s recovery for
medical damages by an amount not to exceed 5% thereof. In the event the
plaintiff stipulates to the reduction of 5% of medical damages, the court shall
make the calculations and the issue of mitigation of damages for failure to
wear a safety belt shall not be presented to the jury.
      (4)   In all cases, the actual computation of the dollar amount reduction
shall be determined by the court.
   (D)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this code to the contrary, no
points may be entered on any driver’s record maintained by the Division of
Motor Vehicles as a result of a violation of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 345.35)  Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-15-49
§ 73.18  CHILD PASSENGER SAFETY DEVICES REQUIRED; CHILD SAFETY SEATS AND
BOOSTER SEATS.
   Every driver who transports a child under the age of eight years in a
passenger automobile, van or pickup truck other than one operated for hire
shall, while the motor vehicle is in motion and operated on a street or
highway, provide for the protection of the child by properly placing,
maintaining and securing the child in a child passenger safety device system
meeting applicable federal motor vehicle safety standards; provided, that if a
child is under the age of eight years and at least four feet nine inches tall,
a safety belt shall be sufficient to meet the requirements of this subchapter.
Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be fined not less
than $10 nor more than $20. A violation of this subchapter does not by virtue
of the violation constitute evidence of negligence or contributory negligence
or comparative negligence in any civil action or proceeding for damages. If any
provision of this subchapter or the application thereof to any person or
circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity may not affect other provisions or
applications of this subchapter and to this end the sections of this subchapter
are declared to be severable. If all seat belts in a vehicle are being used at
the time of examination by a law officer and the vehicle contains more
passengers than the total number of seat belts or other safety devices as
installed in compliance with federal motor vehicle safety standards, the driver
may not be considered in violation of this subchapter.
(Prior Code § 345.31)
ACCIDENTS
§ 73.30  ACCIDENTS INVOLVING DEATH OR PERSONAL INJURIES.
   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in injury to or
death of any person shall immediately stop the vehicle at the scene of the
accident or as close thereto as possible, but shall then forthwith return to
and shall remain at the scene of the accident until he or she has complied with
the requirements of §
73.32 of this chapter; provided that, the driver may leave the scene of the
accident as may reasonably be necessary for the purpose of rendering assistance
to an injured person as required by §
73.32 of this chapter. Every such stop shall be made without obstructing
traffic more than is necessary.
(Prior Code, § 331.01)  Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-4-2
§ 73.31  ACCIDENTS INVOLVING DAMAGE TO VEHICLE.
   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting only in damage
to a vehicle which is driven or attended by any person shall immediately stop
such vehicle at the scene of such accident or as close thereto as possible, but
shall forthwith return to and in every event shall remain at the scene of such
accident until he or she has fulfilled the requirements of §
73.32 of this chapter. Every such stop shall be made without obstructing
traffic more than is necessary.
(Prior Code, § 331.02)  Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-4-2
§ 73.32  DUTY TO GIVE INFORMATION AND RENDER AID.
   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in injury to or
death of any person or damage to any vehicle which is driven or attended by any
person shall give his or her name, address and the registration number of the
vehicle he or she is driving and shall upon request and if available exhibit
his or her driver’s license to the person struck or the driver or occupant of
or person attending any vehicle collided with and shall render to any person
injured in such accident reasonable assistance, including the carrying, or the
making arrangements for the carrying of such person to a physician, surgeon or
hospital for medical or surgical treatment if it is apparent that such
treatment is necessary or if such carrying is requested by the injured person.
(Prior Code, § 331.03)  Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-4-3
§ 73.33  COLLISION WITH UNATTENDED VEHICLE.
   The driver of any vehicle which collides with any vehicle which is
unattended shall immediately stop and shall then and there either locate and
notify the operator or owner of such vehicle of the name and address of the
driver and owner of the vehicle striking the unattended vehicle or shall leave
in a conspicuous place in the vehicle struck a written notice giving the name
and address of the driver and of the owner of the vehicle doing the striking
and a statement of the circumstances thereof.
(Prior Code, § 331.04)  Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-4-4
§ 73.34  COLLISION WITH FIXTURES UPON STREET OR HIGHWAY.
   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting only in damage
to fixtures or other property legally upon or adjacent to a highway shall take
reasonable steps to locate and notify the owner or person in charge of such
property of such fact and of his or her name and address and of the
registration number of the vehicle he or she is driving and shall, upon request
and if available, exhibit his or her driver’s license and shall make report of
such accident when and as required.
(Prior Code, § 331.05)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-4-5
§ 73.35  IMMEDIATE REPORTS OF ACCIDENTS.
   The driver of a vehicle involved in an accident resulting in injury to or
death of any person or total property damage to an apparent extent of an amount
set by Council from time to time or more shall immediately, by the quickest
means of communication, whether oral or written, give notice of such accident
to the Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 331.06)  Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-4-6
§ 73.36  WHEN DRIVER UNABLE TO REPORT.
   Whenever the driver of a vehicle is physically incapable of making an
immediate report of an accident as required in §
73.35 of this chapter and there was another occupant in the vehicle at the time
of the accident capable of making a report, such occupant shall make or cause
to be made such report not made by the driver.
(Prior Code, § 331.07)  Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-4-8
§ 73.37  GARAGES TO REPORT BULLET DAMAGE.
   The person in charge of any garage or repair shop to which is brought any
motor vehicle which shows evidence of having been struck by any bullet, shall
report to the Police Department within 24 hours after such motor vehicle is
received, giving the engine number, registration number and the name and
address of the owner or operator of such vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 331.08)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-4-12
§ 73.38  ACCIDENT REPORTS CONFIDENTIAL.
   (A)   All accident reports made by persons involved in accidents or by
garages shall be without prejudice to the individual so reporting and shall be
for the confidential use of the Police Department or other city agencies or the
appropriate state agencies having use for the records for accident prevention
purposes, or for administration of the laws of the state relating to the
deposit of security and proof of financial responsibility by persons driving or
the owners of motor vehicles; except that, the Police Department may disclose
the identity of the person involved in an accident when such identity is not
otherwise known or when such person denies his or her presence at such
accident.
   (B)   No such report shall be used as evidence in any trial, civil or
criminal, arising out of an accident; except that, the Police Department shall
furnish upon the demand of any person who has, or claims to have made a report
or upon demand of any court, a certificate showing that a specified accident
report has or has not been made to the Department solely to prove a compliance
or a failure to comply with the requirement that such report be made to the
Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 331.09)  (Ord. passed 4-2-1984)
§ 73.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Unless otherwise provided for in §§
73.01 through
73.17 of this chapter, any person violating any provision of §§
73.01 through
73.17 of this chapter shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time to
time; upon a second conviction within one year thereafter, shall be fined in an
amount set by Council from time to time; and, upon a third or subsequent
conviction, shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time to time.
      (2)   Any person violating §
73.05 of this chapter shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time to
time or imprisoned not more than ten days, or both; upon a second conviction
within one year thereafter, shall be fined in an amount set by Council from
time to time or imprisoned not more than 20 days, or both; and, upon a third or
subsequent conviction, shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time to
time or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both.
      (3)   Whoever violates §
73.16 of this chapter shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time to
time.
(Prior Code, § 345.99)
      (4)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
73.17 of this chapter shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time to
time. No court costs or other fees shall be assessed for a violation of §
73.17 of this chapter. Enforcement of §
73.17 of this chapter shall be accomplished only as a secondary action when a
driver of a passenger vehicle has been detained for probable cause of violating
another subchapter of this code.
(Prior Code, § 345.35)
   (C)   (1)   Any person violating the provisions of §
73.30 of this chapter, after being involved in an accident resulting in
physical injury, but not death, to any person, shall be imprisoned for not more
than 30 days, or fined in an amount set by Council from time to time or both.
(Prior Code, § 331.99)
      (2)   Any person failing to stop or comply with such requirements under
such circumstances, as per §
73.31 of this chapter, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 331.02)
Statutory reference:
   Related penalty provisions, see W.Va. Code §§ 17C-4-1, 17C-15-6, 17C-15-36a
CHAPTER 74:  LICENSES AND REGISTRATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
74.01   Registration, certificate or title required
   
74.02   Registration required
   
74.03   Display of registration plates
   
74.04   Operation of vehicle without evidence of registration; use of temporary
facsimile
   
74.05   Improper use of registration card, plate or permit
   
74.06   Driver or motorcycle license required
   
74.07   Persons exempt from license
   
74.08   Display of license
   
74.09   Certain acts prohibited
   
74.10   Driving under suspension or revocation
   
74.11   Owner or operator allowing another to drive
Commercial Drivers
   
74.25   Definitions
   
74.26   Limitation on number of driver’s licenses
   
74.27   Employer responsibilities
   
74.28   Commercial driver’s license required
   
74.29   Exemptions
   
74.30   Drivers prohibited from operating with alcohol in system
 
   
74.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Uniform Commercial Driver’s License Act, see W.Va. Code Art. 17E-1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 74.01  REGISTRATION, CERTIFICATE OR TITLE REQUIRED.
   No person shall drive or move and no owner shall knowingly permit to be
driven or moved upon any street or highway any vehicle of a type required to be
registered under W.Va. Code Ch. 17-A, which is not registered or for which a
certificate of title has not been issued or applied for or for which the
appropriate fee has not been paid when and as required, except as otherwise
permitted by the provisions therein; provided that, in the event of the sale of
a vehicle by a person other than a registered dealer, the person purchasing the
same may, for a period of not more than ten days, operate such vehicle under
the registration of its previous owner and display the registration thereof;
provided further that, he or she shall have and display on the demand of any
proper officer the consent in writing of such previous owner so to use such
registration.
(Prior Code, § 351.01)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17A-3-1
§ 74.02  REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   Every owner upon receipt of a registration card shall write his or her
signature thereon with pen and ink in the space provided. Every such
registration card shall, at all times, be carried in the vehicle to which it
refers or shall be carried by the person driving or in control of such vehicle
who shall display the same upon demand of a police officer or any officer or
employee of the Department of Motor Vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 351.02)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17A-3-13
§ 74.03  DISPLAY OF REGISTRATION PLATES.
   (A)   Registration plates issued for vehicles required to be registered
shall be attached to the rear thereof; except that, on truck tractors and road
tractors designed and constructed to pull trailers or semi-trailers, the
registration plate shall be mounted to the front.
   (B)   Every registration plate shall, at all times, be securely fastened in
a horizontal position to the vehicle for which it is issued so as to prevent
the plate from swinging and at a height of not less than 12 inches from the
ground, measuring from the bottom of such plate, in a place and position to be
clearly visible and shall be maintained free from foreign materials and in a
condition to be clearly legible.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (B) above, an owner of a
motor vehicle with a Class G registration, as defined in W.Va. Code § 17A-10-1,
may choose to:
      (1)   Display a standard, Class G registration plate in a horizontal
position; or
      (2)   Display a specially designed Class G registration plate in a
vertical position.
(Prior Code, § 351.03)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17A-3-15
§ 74.04  OPERATION OF VEHICLE WITHOUT EVIDENCE OF REGISTRATION; USE OF
TEMPORARY FACSIMILE.
   (A)   No person shall operate or park, nor shall an owner knowingly permit
to be operated or parked upon any street or highway any vehicle required to be
registered unless there is attached thereto and displayed thereon or is in the
possession of the operator when and as required by this traffic code, a valid
registration card and registration plate or plates issued therefor by the
Department of Motor Vehicles for the current registration year, except as
otherwise expressly permitted in W.Va. Code Ch. 17-A.
   (B)   In the event that the registration plate or plates originally issued
are lost, destroyed or stolen, a temporary facsimile of the plate or plates,
showing the number of the same, may be attached to the vehicle by the owner for
a period of not more than 15 days, or until a new plate or plates are issued by
the Department whichever is earlier; provided that, no such facsimile shall be
used and no such vehicle shall be driven upon the streets or highways of the
municipality until the owner has notified in writing the State Police of the
loss of such registration plate or plates.
(Prior Code, § 351.04)  Penalty, see §
74.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17A-9-2
§ 74.05  IMPROPER USE OF REGISTRATION CARD, PLATE OR PERMIT.
   No person shall lend to another any certificate of title, registration card,
registration plate, special plate or permit issued to him or her if the person
desiring to borrow the same would not be entitled to the use thereof, nor shall
any person knowingly permit the use of any of the same by one not entitled
thereto, nor shall any person display upon a vehicle any registration card,
registration plates or permit not issued for such vehicle or not otherwise
lawfully used thereon under this traffic code.
(Prior Code, § 351.05)  Penalty, see §
74.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17A-9-3
§ 74.06  DRIVER OR MOTORCYCLE LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   No person, except those hereinafter expressly exempted, shall
drive any motor vehicle upon a street or highway in the municipality or upon
any subdivision street, as used in W.Va. Code § 8A-1-2, when the use of such
subdivision street is generally used by the public unless the person has a
valid driver’s license under the provisions of the West Virginia Code for the
type or class of vehicle being driven.
      (2)   Any person licensed to operate a motor vehicle as provided in the
West Virginia Code may exercise the privilege thereby granted as provided in
the West Virginia Code and, except as otherwise provided by law, shall not be
required to obtain any other license to exercise such privilege by any county,
municipality or local board or body having authority to adopt local police
regulations.
   (B)   No person, except those hereinafter expressly exempted, shall drive
any motorcycle upon a street or highway in the municipality or upon any
subdivision street, as used in W.Va. Code Art. 8-24 when the use of such
subdivision street is generally used by the public unless the person has a
valid motorcycle license or a valid license which has been endorsed under W.Va.
Code § 17B-2-7b for motorcycle operation or has a valid motorcycle instruction
permit.
(Prior Code, § 351.06)  Penalty, see §
74.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17B-2-1
§ 74.07  PERSONS EXEMPT FROM LICENSE.
   The following persons are exempt from the license required under §
74.06 of this chapter:
   (A)   Any person while operating a motor vehicle in the armed services of
the United States while in the performance of his or her official duties;
   (B)   A non-resident who is at least 16 years of age and who has in his or
her immediate possession a valid driver’s license issued to the person in the
person’s home state or country unless the Commissioner determines the person’s
home state or country does not extend the same privileges to a resident of the
state, may operate a motor vehicle in the state only as a non-commercial driver
for a period not to exceed 90 days in any one calendar year;
   (C)   A non-resident who is at least 16 years of age, who has in the
person’s immediate possession a valid driver’s license issued to the person in
the person’s home state or country and who is employed in the state, or owns,
maintains or operates a place or places of business in the state, or engages in
any trade, profession or occupation in the state, in addition to the driving
privileges extended under division (B) above, unless the Commissioner
determines the person’s home state or country does not extend the same
privileges to a resident of the state, may operate a motor vehicle in the state
only as a non- commercial driver in traveling to and from the person’s place or
places of employment, place or places of business or place or places at which
the person engages in the trade, profession or occupation and in the discharge
of the duties of the person’s employment, business, trade, profession or
occupation if the duties are such that, if performed by a resident of the state
over the age of 18 years of age, the resident would not be required under the
provisions of W.Va. Code Ch. 17B to obtain a Class A, B, C or D driver’s
license. However, this division (C) shall not exempt any person who is required
to obtain a West Virginia driver’s license in accordance with the provisions of
W.Va. Code § 17B-2-1a;
   (D)   A non-resident who is at least 18 years of age and who has in his or
her immediate possession a valid commercial driver’s license issued to the
person in his or her home state or country and which meets the requirements of
the Federal Commercial Motor Vehicle Act of 1986, Title XI of Pub. Law No. 99-
570, being 100 Stat. 3207-171, 49 U.S.C. App. 2701 and unless the Commissioner
determines the person’s home state or country does not extend the same
privilege to a resident of the state may operate a motor vehicle in the state
either as a commercial driver subject to the age limits applicable to
commercial driver in the state, or as a non-commercial driver subject to the
limitations imposed on non- resident drivers in divisions (B) and (C) above;
and
   (E)   Any person who is a student, properly enrolled and registered in an
accredited school, college or university in the state, who is at least 16 years
of age and who has in his or her immediate possession a valid driver’s license
issued to the person in the person’s home state, notwithstanding the
limitations of division (B) and (C) above may operate motor vehicle in the
state only as non-commercial driver; provided that, the state of which the
person is a resident shall extend the same privileges to residents of the
state. This exemption shall be canceled immediately when the student is
graduated from school, college or university or is expelled or ceases to be a
student.
(Prior Code, § 351.07)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17B-2-2
§ 74.08  DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every licensee shall have his or her driver’s license in such person’s
immediate possession at all times when operating a motor vehicle and shall
display the same, upon demand of a magistrate, municipal judge, circuit court
judge, peace officer or an employee of the Division of Motor Vehicles. However,
no person charged with violating this subchapter shall be convicted if such
person produces in court or the office of the arresting officer a driver’s
license theretofore issued to such person and valid at the time of such
person’s arrest.
(Prior Code, § 351.08)  Penalty, see §
74.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17B-2-9
§ 74.09  CERTAIN ACTS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall commit any one of the following acts:
   (A)   Display or cause or permit to be displayed or have in his or her
possession any fictitious or fraudulently altered driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or non-operator’s identification;
   (B)   Lend his or her driver’s or commercial driver’s license or non-
operator’s identification to any other person or knowingly permit the use
thereof by another;
   (C)   Display or represent as one’s own any driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or non-operator’s identification not issued to him or her;
   (D)   Use a false or fictitious name in any application for a driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or non-operator’s identification or knowingly make
a false statement or knowingly conceal a material fact or otherwise commit a
fraud in any such application;
   (E)   Permit any unlawful use of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or non-operator’s identification issued to him or her; and/or
   (F)   Do any act forbidden or fail to perform any act required by this
traffic code or W.Va. Code Ch. 17B.
(Prior Code, § 351.09)  Penalty, see §
74.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17B-4-1
§ 74.10  DRIVING UNDER SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle on any public street or highway of the
municipality at a time when his or her privilege so to do has been lawfully
suspended or revoked.
(Prior Code, § 351.10)  Penalty, see §
74.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17B-4-3
§ 74.11  OWNER OR OPERATOR ALLOWING ANOTHER TO DRIVE.
   No person shall authorize or knowingly permit a motor vehicle owned by him
or her or under his or her control to be driven upon any street or highway by
any person who is not authorized hereunder or in violation of any of the
provisions of this traffic code.
(Prior Code, § 351.11)  Penalty, see §
74.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17B-4-4
COMMERCIAL DRIVERS
§ 74.25  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL.
      (1)   Any substance containing any form of alcohol, including, but not
limited to, ethanol, methanol, propanol and isopropanol;
      (2)   Beer, ale, port or stout and other similar fermented beverages
(including sake or similar products) of any name or description containing 0.5%
or more of alcohol by volume, brewed or produced from malt, wholly or in part,
or from any substitute therefor;
      (3)   Distilled spirits or that substance known as ethyl alcohol, ethanol
or spirits of wine in any form (including all dilutions and mixtures thereof
from whatever source or by whatever process produced); or
      (4)   Wine of not less than 0.5% of alcohol by volume.
   ALCOHOL CONCENTRATION.
      (1)   The number of grams of alcohol per 100 milliliters of blood;
      (2)   The number of grams of alcohol per 210 liters of breath;
      (3)   The number of grams of alcohol per 67 milliliters of urine; or
      (4)   The number of grams of alcohol per 86 milliliters of serum.
   COMMERCIAL DRIVER INSTRUCTION PERMIT. A permit issued pursuant to W.Va. Code
§ 17E-1-9(d).
   COMMERCIAL DRIVER LICENSE. A license issued in accordance with the
requirements of W.Va. Code Art. 17E-1 to an individual which authorizes the
individual to drive a class of commercial motor vehicle.
   COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE. A motor vehicle designed or used to transport
passengers or property:
      (1)   If the vehicle has a gross combination vehicle weight rating of
26,001 pounds or more inclusive of a towed unit(s) with a gross vehicle weight
rating of more than 10,000 pounds;
      (2)   If the vehicle has a gross vehicle weight rating of more than
26,001 pounds or more;
      (3)   If the vehicle is designed to transport sixteen or more passengers,
including the driver; or
      (4)   If the vehicle is of any size transporting hazardous materials, as
defined in this subchapter.
   CONVICTION. An unvacated adjudication of guilt; a determination that a
person has violated or failed to comply with the law in a court of original
jurisdiction or by an authorized administrative tribunal or proceeding; an
unvacated forfeiture of bail or collateral deposited to secure the person’s
appearance in court; a plea of guilty or nolo contendere accepted by the court
or the payment of a fine or court cost, or violation of a condition of release
without bail regardless of whether or not the penalty is rebated, suspended or
probated.
   DISQUALIFICATION. Any of the following three actions:
      (1)   The suspension, revocation or cancellation of a driver’s license by
the state or jurisdiction of issuance;
      (2)   Any withdrawal of a person’s privilege to drive a commercial motor
vehicle by a state or other jurisdiction as the result of a violation of state
or local law relating to motor vehicle traffic control other than parking or
vehicle weight, except as to violations committed by a special permittee on the
coal resource transportation system or vehicle defect violations; or
      (3)   A determination by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
that a person is not qualified to operate a commercial motor vehicle under 49
C.F.R. part 391.
   DRIVE. To drive, operate or be in physical control of a motor vehicle in any
place open to the general public for purposes of vehicular traffic. For
purposes of §
74.30 of this chapter, DRIVE includes operation or physical control of a motor
vehicle anywhere in the municipality.
   DRIVER. Any person who drives, operates or is in physical control of a
commercial motor vehicle, in any place open to the general public for purposes
of vehicular traffic or who is required to hold a commercial driver’s license.
   DRIVER LICENSE. A license issued by a state to an individual which
authorizes the individual to drive a motor vehicle of a specific class.
   EMPLOYEE. Any operator of a commercial motor vehicle, including full time,
regularly employed drivers; casual, intermittent or occasional drivers; leased
drivers and independent, owner-operator contractors (while in the course of
operating a commercial motor vehicle) who are either directly employed by or
under lease to drive a commercial motor vehicle for an employer.
   EMPLOYER. Any person, including the United States, a state or a political
subdivision of a state, who owns or leases a commercial motor vehicle, or
assigns a person to drive a commercial motor vehicle.
   FARM VEHICLE. Includes a motor vehicle or combination vehicle registered to
the farm owner or entity operating the farm and used exclusively in the
transportation of agricultural or horticultural products, livestock, poultry
and dairy products from the farm or orchard on which they are raised or
produced to markets, processing plants, packing houses, canneries, railway
shipping points and cold storage plants and in the transportation of
agricultural or horticultural supplies and machinery to such farms or orchards
to be used thereon.
   FARMER. Includes owner, tenant, lessee, occupant or person in control of the
premises used substantially for agricultural or horticultural pursuits, who is
at least 18 years of age with two years licensed driving experience.
   FARMER VEHICLE DRIVER. The person employed and designated by the farmer to
drive a farm vehicle as long as driving is not his or her sole or principal
function on the farm, who is at least 18 years of age with two years’ licensed
driving experience.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled, and every vehicle
which is propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires, but
not operated upon rails.
   OUT-OF-SERVICE ORDER. A temporary prohibition against driving a commercial
motor vehicle as a result of a determination by a law enforcement officer, an
authorized enforcement officer of a federal, state, Canadian, Mexican, county
or local jurisdiction, including any special agent of the Federal Motor Carrier
Safety Administration pursuant to 49 C.F.R. §§ 386.72, 392.5, 395.13 and 396.9,
or compatible laws or the North American uniform out-of-service criteria that
an imminent hazard exists.
   VIOLATION OF AN OUT-OF-SERVICE ORDER.
      (1)   The operation of a commercial motor vehicle during the period the
driver was placed out of service; or
      (2)   The operation of a commercial motor vehicle by a driver after the
vehicle was placed out of service and before the required repairs are made.
(Prior Code, § 353.01)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17E-1-3
§ 74.26  LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF DRIVER’S LICENSES.
   No person who drives a commercial motor vehicle shall have more than one
driver license at one time, except during the ten-day period beginning on the
date the person is issued a driver’s license.
(Prior Code, § 353.02)  Penalty, see §
74.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17E-1-4
§ 74.27  EMPLOYER RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Each employer must require the applicant to provide the information
specified in W.Va. Code § 17E-1-5.
   (B)   No employer may knowingly allow, permit or authorize a driver to drive
a commercial motor vehicle during any period:
      (1)   In which the driver has a driver’s license suspended, revoked or
canceled by a state; has lost the privilege to drive a commercial motor vehicle
in a state, or has been disqualified from driving a commercial motor vehicle;
      (2)   In which the driver has more than one driver’s license at one time;
      (3)   During any period in which the driver, or the commercial motor
vehicle he or she is driving or the motor carrier operation, is subject to an
out-of-service order;
      (4)   In violation of federal, state or local law or regulation
pertaining to railroad highway grade crossings; or
      (5)   During any period the driver is in violation of any provision of 49
C.F.R. part 382 related to controlled substances and alcohol use and testing.
(Prior Code, § 353.03)  Penalty, see §
74.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17E-1-6
§ 74.28  COMMERCIAL DRIVER’S LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Except when driving under a commercial driver’s instruction permit
accompanied by the holder of a commercial driver’s license valid for the
vehicle being driven, no person shall drive a commercial motor vehicle unless
the person holds a commercial driver’s license and applicable endorsements
valid for the vehicle they are driving.
   (B)   No person shall drive a commercial motor vehicle while their driving
privilege is suspended, revoked, canceled, expired, subject to a
disqualification or in violation of an out-of-service order.
   (C)   Drivers of a commercial motor vehicle must have a commercial driver’s
license in their possession at all times while driving.
(Prior Code, § 353.04)  Penalty, see §
74.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17E-1-7
§ 74.29  EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Farmers. Bona fide farmers or farm vehicle drivers, as defined,
operating a vehicle otherwise covered by the commercial driver’s license
requirements may be exempted from the provisions of this subchapter only if the
vehicle used is:
      (1)   Driven by a farmer or farm vehicle driver;
      (2)   Used only to transport either agricultural products, farm
machinery, farm supplies, to or from a farm;
      (3)   Not used in the operation of a common or contract motor carrier;
and
      (4)   Used within 150 miles of the qualifying farm. Farmers who wish to
be exempted from the commercial driver’s license requirements must apply to the
Division of Motor Vehicles for a certificate of exemption.
   (B)   Military personnel. Military personnel, including the national guard
and reserve, are exempt from the provision of this subchapter, only:
      (1)   When in uniform;
      (2)   Operating equipment owned by the United States Department of
Defense, except during declared emergencies or disaster situations;
      (3)   On duty; and
      (4)   In possession of a valid classified military driver’s license for
the class of vehicle being driven.
   (C)   Firefighting and rescue equipment.
      (1)   Operators of vehicles authorized to hold an authorized emergency
vehicle permit for use of red signal lights only are exempt from the provisions
of this subchapter while the authorized emergency vehicle permit is in force.
      (2)   Vehicles in this class include, but are not limited to,
firefighters and rescue equipment:
         (a)   Owned and operated by state, county and municipal fire
departments;
         (b)   Owned and operated by state, county and municipal civil defense
organizations;
         (c)   Owned and operated by a manufacturer engaged in a type of
business that requires firefighter equipment to protect the safety of their
plants and its employees; and
         (d)   Owned and operated by volunteer fire departments.
   (D)   Operators of off-road construction and mining equipment. Operators of
equipment which, by its design, appearance and function, is not intended for
use on a public road, including, without limitation, motorscrapers, backhoes,
motorgraders, compactors, excavators, tractors, trenches and bulldozers, are
exempt from the provisions of this subchapter; provided that, the exemption
recognized by this division (D) shall not be construed to permit the operation
of such equipment on any public road, except such operation as may be required
for a crossing of such road; provided, however, that, no such equipment may be
operated on a public road for a distance exceeding 500 feet from the place
where such equipment entered upon the public road.
   (E)   Exempt vehicles. The Motor Carrier Safety Improvement Act of 1999,
being 49 U.S.C. 113 et seq., exempts vehicles used exclusively for personal use
such as the occasional transportation of personal property by individuals not
for compensation and not in the furtherance of a commercial enterprise.
(Prior Code, § 353.05)  Penalty, see §
74.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17E-1-8
§ 74.30  DRIVERS PROHIBITED FROM OPERATING WITH ALCOHOL IN SYSTEM.
   (A)   In addition to any other penalties provided by the West Virginia Code
or these codified ordinances, any person who drives, operates or is in physical
control of a commercial motor vehicle while having an alcohol concentration in
his or her blood, breath or urine of 0.04% or more, by weight, shall be
imprisoned for not less than 24 hours, nor more than 30 days, and shall be
fined in an amount set by Council from time to time. A person convicted of a
second or any subsequent offense under the provisions of this division (A)
shall be imprisoned for a period of 30 days, and the court may, in its
discretion, impose a fine in an amount set by Council from time to time.
   (B)   A person who violates the provisions of division (A) above shall be
treated in the same manner set forth in W.Va. Code § 17C-19-3, as if he or she
had been arrested for driving under the influence of alcohol or of any
controlled substance.
   (C)   In addition to any other penalties provided by the West Virginia Code
or these codified ordinances, a person who drives, operates or is in physical
control of a commercial motor vehicle having any measurable alcohol in such
person’s system or who refuses to take a preliminary breath test to determine
such person’s blood alcohol content as provided by W.Va. Code § 17E-1-15 shall
be placed out of service for 24 hours by the arresting law enforcement officer.
(Prior Code, § 353.06)  Penalty, see §
74.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17E-1-14
§ 74.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
70.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   General. Whoever violates any provision of §§
74.01 through
74.11 of this chapter for which no other penalty is provided shall be fined in
an amount set by Council from time to time; for a second or subsequent
violation of the same provision such person shall be fined in an amount set by
Council from time to time or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both.
      (2)   Driving under suspension or revocation.
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in W.Va. Code § 17B-4-3(b) or (d),
or divisions (B)(2)(b) or (B)(2)(c) below, whoever drives a motor vehicle on
any street or highway of the municipality at a time when his or her privilege
so to do has been lawfully suspended or revoked shall, for the first offense,
be fined in an amount set by Council from time to time; for the second offense,
such person, shall be imprisoned for a period of ten days and, in addition to
such mandatory jail sentence, shall be fined in an amount set by Council from
time to time; for the third or any subsequent offense, such person shall be
imprisoned for a period of 30 days and, in addition to such mandatory jail
sentence, shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time to time. A
record of the conviction of any person under this division (B) upon a charge of
driving a vehicle while the license of such person was suspended lawfully shall
be sent to the state’s Department of Motor Vehicles.
         (b)   Any person who drives a motor vehicle on any public highway at a
time when his or her privilege to do so has been lawfully revoked for driving
under the influence of alcohol, controlled substances or other drugs, or for
driving while having an alcoholic concentration in his or her blood of 0.08% or
more, by weight, or for refusing to take a secondary chemical test of blood
alcohol content, for the first offense shall be imprisoned 30 days and in
addition to the mandatory jail sentence, shall be fined in an amount set by
Council from time to time; for the second offense, shall be imprisoned 30 days
and in addition to the mandatory jail sentence, shall be fined in an amount set
by Council from time to time; for the third or any subsequent offense, the
person is guilty of a felony and shall be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
         (c)   Any person who drives a motor vehicle on any public highway at a
time when his or her privilege to do so has been lawfully suspended for driving
while under the age of 21 years with an alcohol concentration in his or her
blood of 0.02% or more, by weight, but less than 0.08%, by weight, shall be
imprisoned for 24 hours or shall be fined not less than $50, nor more than
$500, or both.
         (d)   An order for home detention by the court pursuant to the
provisions of W.Va. Code Art. 62-1IB may be used as an alternative sentence to
any period of incarceration required by this subchapter.
      (3)   Additional penalties. Whoever violates §§
74.02, 74.03, 74.05, 74.09 or 74.11 of this chapter shall be fined in an amount
set by Council from time to time or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both.
(Prior Code, § 351.99)
   (C)   Unless another penalty is provided in §§
74.25 through
74.30 of this chapter, whoever violates any provision of §§
74.25 through
74.30 of this chapter shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time to
time, or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both; except that, for the
second violation of §
74.28 of this chapter, the offender shall be fined in an amount set by Council
from time to time or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both. For the third
or any subsequent conviction for violation of §
74.28 of this chapter, the offender shall be fined in an amount set by Council
from time to time, or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both.
(Prior Code, § 353.99)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17E-1-25
CHAPTER 75:  TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
75.001   Reckless driving
   
75.002   Hazardous driving
   
75.003   Speed limits
   
75.004   Turning and starting; signals
   
75.005   Right-of-way
   
75.006   Unattended motor vehicle
   
75.007   Backing a vehicle
   
75.008   Drivers’ view and control to be unobstructed by load or persons
   
75.009   Passengers in seat with operator
   
75.010   Passengers on running board
   
75.011   Following authorized emergency vehicles
   
75.012   Approaching authorized emergency vehicles
   
75.013   Driving over fire hose
   
75.014   Funeral processions
   
75.015   Opening door of vehicle on traffic side
   
75.016   Boarding or alighting from vehicle
   
75.017   Unlawful riding
   
75.018   Squealing tires, cracking exhaust noises
   
75.019   Taking, injuring or tampering with vehicle
   
75.020   Driving upon sidewalk, street lawn or curb
   
75.021   Shortcutting; avoiding traffic-control devices
   
75.022   Coasting prohibited
   
75.023   Driving through safety zone
   
75.024   Driving upon street posted as closed for repair
   
75.025   Obstruction of traffic
   
75.026   Vehicle security
   
75.027   Littering from a motor vehicle
   
75.028   Electronic communications devices; hands-free features
   
75.029   Driving under the influence
Driving on Right; Passing
   
75.040   Driving upon right side of roadway; exceptions
   
75.041   Passing to right when proceeding in opposite directions
   
75.042   Overtaking, passing to left; driver’s duties
   
75.043   Overtaking and passing upon right
   
75.044   Overtaking, passing to left of center
   
75.045   Additional restrictions on driving upon left side of roadway
   
75.046   Hazardous or no passing zones
   
75.047   One-way roadways and rotary traffic islands
   
75.048   Driving in and marked lanes or continuous lines of traffic
   
75.049   Following too closely
   
75.050   Driving upon divided roadways
   
75.051   Entering and exiting controlled-access highway
Special Stops
   
75.065   Driving across grade crossing
   
75.066   Stops at dangerous grade crossings
   
75.067   Stopping at grade crossing
   
75.068   Moving heavy equipment across grade crossings
   
75.069   Through streets and stop intersections
   
75.070   Driving onto roadway from place other than roadway; stopping at
sidewalk
   
75.071   Stopping for school bus; signs and warning lights; sale of school bus
   
75.072   Stopping for passenger van; signs and warning lights
   
75.073   Obstructing intersection or crosswalk
Commercial and Heavy Vehicles
   
75.085   Oversize or overweight vehicles
   
75.086   Projecting loads on passenger vehicles
   
75.087   Maximum width, height and length
   
75.088   Loads dropping or leaking
   
75.089   Towing requirements
 
   
75.999   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prohibit driving under the influence, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-5
(21)
   Authority to specify different courses for turns, see W.Va. Code § 17C-8-5
   Compliance with state law, see W.Va. Code § 17C-5-11a
   Implied consent, see W.Va. Code § 17C-5A
   Minimum speed regulations, see W.Va. Code § 17C-6-3(a)
   One-way streets, see W.Va. Code § 17C-2-8(4)
   Oversized buses, see W.Va. Code § 17C-17-2(b)
   Regulate speed, see W.Va. Code §§ 17C-2-8, 17C-6-3
   Special speed limitations, see W.Va. Code §§ 17C-6-4 et seq.
   Through streets and stop intersections, see W.Va. Code §§ 17C-2-8(a)(6),
17C-12-5
   Turning of vehicles, see W.Va. Code § 17C-2-8(a)(9)
   Use of radar, see W.Va. Code § 17C-6-7
   Weight limits on local streets, see W.Va. Code § 17C-2-8(a)(7)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 75.001  RECKLESS DRIVING.
   (A)   No person shall drive any vehicle upon any street or highway, or upon
any residential street, or in any parking area, or upon the ways of any
institution of higher education, whether public or private or upon the property
of the Board of Education, or upon any property within the municipal park and
public recreation system, in willful or wanton disregard for the safety of
persons or property.
   (B)   The provisions of division (A) above shall not apply to those areas
which have been temporarily closed for racing sport events or which may be set
aside by the municipality within the park and recreation system for exclusive
use by motorcycles or other recreational vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 333.02)  Penalty, see §
75.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-5-3
§ 75.002  HAZARDOUS DRIVING.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle or motorcycle without
exercising reasonable and ordinary control over such vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle or motorcycle in a weaving or
zigzag course unless such irregular course is necessary for safe operation or
in compliance with law.
   (C)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle or motorcycle without giving
his or her full time and attention to the operation of such vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 333.03)  Penalty, see §
75.999
§ 75.003  SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   Maximum speed limits.
      (1)   No person may drive a vehicle on a street or highway at a speed
greater than is reasonable and prudent under the existing conditions and the
actual and potential hazards. In every event, speed shall be so controlled as
may be necessary to avoid colliding with any person, vehicle or other
conveyance on or entering the streets and highways in compliance with legal
requirements and the duty of all persons to use due care.
      (2)   (a)   Where no special hazard exists that requires lower speed for
compliance with division (A)(1) above, the speed of any vehicle not in excess
of the limits specified in this subchapter or established as hereinafter
authorized is lawful, but any speed in excess of the limits specified below in
this subsection or established as hereinafter authorized is unlawful:
            1.   Fifteen mph in a school zone during school recess or while
children are going to or leaving school during opening or closing hours. A
school zone is all school property, including school grounds and any street or
highway abutting such school grounds and extending 125 feet along such street
or highway from the school grounds. Such speed restriction does not apply to
vehicles traveling on a controlled-access highway which is separated from the
school or school grounds by a fence or barrier approved by the Division of
Highways;
            2.   Twenty-five mph in any business or residence district; and
            3.   Fifty-five mph on open country highways, except as otherwise
provided by this section.
         (b)   The speeds set forth in this subchapter may be altered as
authorized in W.Va. Code Art. 17C-6.
      (3)   The driver of every vehicle shall, consistent with the requirements
of division (A)(1) above, drive at an appropriate reduced speed when
approaching and crossing an intersection or railway grade crossing, when
approaching and going around a curve, when approaching a hill crest, when
traveling upon any narrow or winding roadway and when special hazard exists
with respect to pedestrians or other traffic or by reason of weather or highway
conditions.
      (4)   The speed limit on controlled-access highways and interstate
highways, where no special hazard exists that requires a lower speed, shall be
not less than 55 mph and the speed limits specified in division (A)(2) above do
not apply.
(Prior Code, § 335.01)
   (B)   Slow speed. No person shall drive a motor vehicle at such a slow speed
as to impede the normal and reasonable movement of traffic, except when reduced
speed is necessary for safe operation or in compliance with law.
(Prior Code, § 335.02)
   (C)   Special speed limitations.
      (1)   (a)   Subject to all other speed restrictions of this traffic code,
no person shall drive a vehicle not designed for carrying passengers and
equipped with pneumatic tires at a speed in excess of:
            1.   Twenty mph in any business district;
            2.   Twenty-five mph in any residence district;
            3.   Forty mph on open country highway; and
            4.   Trucks licensed at 8,000 pounds gross vehicle weight or less
shall be permitted the same speed as passenger cars.
         (b)   No person shall drive any vehicle equipped with other than
pneumatic tires at a speed greater than a maximum of ten mph.
      (2)   No person shall drive a vehicle over any bridge or other elevated
structure constituting a part of a street or highway at a speed which is
greater than the maximum speed which can be maintained with safety to such
bridge or structure, when such structure is so signposted.
(Prior Code, § 335.03)
   (D)   Racing on streets and highways prohibited. No person shall engage in,
or aid or abet by serving as lookout or timer or in any other capacity
whatever, any speed race, as defined herein, on any public street or highway in
the municipality. For the purposes of this division (D), SPEED RACE means:
      (1)   The operation of a motor vehicle in speed acceleration competition
with another motor vehicle or motor vehicles;
      (2)   The operation of a motor vehicle in speed acceleration competition
against time; or
      (3)   The operation of a motor vehicle in speed competition with another
motor vehicle or motor vehicles where the speed exceeds the lawful speed limit.
(Prior Code, § 335.04)
   (E)   Prima facie evidence of speed by radar. The speed of a motor vehicle
may be proved by evidence obtained by use of any device designed to measure and
indicate or record the speed of a moving object by means of microwaves, when
such evidence is obtained by members of the Police Department. The evidence so
obtained shall be accepted as prima facie evidence of the speed of such
vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 335.05)  Penalty, see §
75.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code §§ 17C-6-1, 17C-6-3a(a), 17C-6-4, 17C-6-
5, 17C-6-7, 17C-6-8(a)
§ 75.004  TURNING AND STARTING; SIGNALS.
   (A)   General. The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection
shall do so as provided in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 339.01)
   (B)   Right turns. Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall
be made as close as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 339.02)
   (C)   Left turns on two-way roadways. At any intersection where traffic is
permitted to move in both directions on each roadway entering the intersection,
an approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of
the roadway nearest the centerline thereof and by passing to the right of such
centerline where it enters the intersection and after entering the intersection
the left turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection to the right of the
centerline of the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable the left turn
shall be made in that portion of the intersection to the left of the center of
the intersection.
(Prior Code, § 339.03)
   (D)   Left turns on other than two-way roadways. At any intersection where
traffic is restricted to one direction on one or more of the roadways, the
driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at any such intersection shall
approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand lane lawfully available to
traffic moving in the direction of travel of such vehicle and after entering
the intersection the left turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection,
as nearly as practicable, in the left-hand lane lawfully available to traffic
moving in such direction upon the roadway being entered.
(Prior Code, § 339.04)
   (E)   Specified turns at intersections. Council or other designated traffic
authority may cause markers, buttons or signs to be placed within or adjacent
to intersections and thereby require and direct that a different course from
that specified in this subchapter be traveled by vehicles turning at an
intersection, and when markers, buttons or signs are so placed no driver of a
vehicle shall turn a vehicle at an intersection other than as directed and
required by such markers, buttons or signs.
(Prior Code, § 339.05)
   (F)   “U” turns restricted.
      (1)   No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite
direction upon any curve, or upon the approach to, or near the crest of a
grade, where such vehicle cannot be seen by the driver of any other vehicle
approaching from either direction within 500 feet.
      (2)   No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite
direction within an intersection, or upon any street in a business district, or
upon a freeway, expressway or controlled-access highway, or where authorized
signs are erected to prohibit such movement, or at any other location unless
such movement can be made with reasonable safety to other users of the street
and without interfering with the safe operation of any traffic that may be
affected by such movement.
(Prior Code, § 339.06)
   (G)   Starting vehicle. No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped,
standing or parked unless and until such movement can be made with reasonable
safety.
(Prior Code, § 339.07)
   (H)   Signals before changing course, turning or stopping.
      (1)   No person shall turn a vehicle at an intersection unless the
vehicle is in proper position upon the roadway as required in divisions (B)
through (E) above, or turn a vehicle to enter a private road or driveway or
otherwise turn a vehicle from a direct course or move right or left upon a
roadway unless and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety. No
person shall so turn any vehicle without giving an appropriate signal in the
manner hereinafter provided in the event any other traffic may be affected by
such movement.
      (2)   A signal of intention to turn right or left when required shall be
given continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by the
vehicle before turning.
      (3)   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle
without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided herein to the
driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear when there is opportunity to give
such signal.
(Prior Code, § 339.08)
   (I)   Signals to be given by hand and arm or signal device. Any stop or turn
signal when required herein shall be given either by means of the hand and arm
or by a signal lamp or lamps or mechanical signal device, but when a vehicle is
so constructed or loaded that hand-and-arm signal would not be visible both to
the front and rear of such vehicle then such signals must be given by such a
lamp or lamps or signal device.
(Prior Code, § 339.09)
   (J)   Hand and arm signals. All signals herein required given by hand and
arm shall be given from the left side of the vehicle in the following manner
and such signals shall indicate as follows:
      (1)   Left turn: hand and arm extended horizontally;
      (2)   Right turn: hand and arm extended upward; and
      (3)   Stop or decrease speed: hand and arm extended downward.
(Prior Code, § 339.10)  Penalty, see §
75.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code §§ 17C-8-1 through 17C-8-10
§ 75.005  RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Right-of-way at intersections.
      (1)   The driver of a vehicle approaching an intersection shall yield the
right-of-way to a vehicle which has entered the intersection from a different
street or highway.
      (2)   When two vehicles enter an intersection from a different street or
highway at approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left
shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle on the right.
      (3)   The right-of-way rules declared in divisions (A)(1) and (A)(2)
above are modified at through streets or highways and otherwise as hereinafter
stated in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 341.01)
   (B)   Right-of-way when turning left. The driver of a vehicle within an
intersection intending to turn to the left shall yield the right-of-way to any
vehicle approaching from the opposite direction which is within the
intersection or so close thereto as to constitute an immediate hazard, but such
driver, having so yielded and having given a signal when and as required by
this traffic code may make such left turn and the drivers of all other vehicles
approaching the intersection from the opposite direction shall yield the right-
of-way to the vehicles making the left turn.
(Prior Code, § 341.02)
   (C)   Right-of-way at through street or highway or stop intersections.
      (1)   The driver of a vehicle shall stop as required by §
75.069 of this chapter at the entrance to a through street or highway and shall
yield the right-of-way to other vehicles which have entered the intersection
from such through streets or highways or which are approaching so closely on
such through street or highway as to constitute an immediate hazard, but the
driver having so yielded may proceed.
      (2)   The driver of a vehicle shall likewise stop in obedience to a stop
sign as required herein at an intersection where a stop sign is erected at one
or more entrances thereto although not a part of a through street or highway
and shall proceed cautiously, yielding to vehicles not so obliged to stop which
are within the intersection or approaching so closely as to constitute an
immediate hazard, but may then proceed.
(Prior Code, § 341.03)
   (D)   Driving onto roadway from private road or driveway; duty to yield. The
driver of a vehicle about to enter or cross a street or highway from a private
road or driveway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on
the street or highway.
(Prior Code, § 341.04)
   (E)   Right-of-way of emergency vehicle.
      (1)   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle
equipped with at least one flashing lighted lamp of a color authorized by §
73.04(O) of this chapter, which is visible under normal atmospheric conditions
from a distance of 500 feet to the front of such vehicle other than a police
vehicle when operated as an authorized emergency vehicle, and when the driver
is giving audible signal by siren, exhaust whistle or bell, the driver of every
other vehicle shall yield the right-of-way and shall immediately drive to a
position parallel to, and as close as possible to, the right-hand edge or curb
of the roadway clear of any intersection and shall stop and remain in such
position until the authorized emergency vehicle has passed, except when
otherwise directed by a police officer.
      (2)   This subchapter shall not operate to relieve the driver of an
authorized emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the
safety of all persons using the street or highway.
(Prior Code, § 341.05)
   (F)   Turning into private driveway, alley or building.
      (1)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn into a private road or
driveway, alley or building from a public street or highway shall be governed
by the following rules:
         (a)   Approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as
close as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway;
         (b)   Upon a roadway where traffic is proceeding in opposite
directions, approach for a left turn and a left turn shall be made from that
portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the center line thereof; and
         (c)   Upon a roadway where traffic is restricted to one direction,
approach for a left turn and a left turn shall be made as close as practicable
to the left-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the driver of any vehicle entering a
private road or driveway, alley or building to yield the right-of-way to
pedestrians lawfully using the sidewalk or sidewalk area extending across any
alleyway, private road, driveway or building.
(Prior Code, § 341.06)  Penalty, see §
75.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code §§ 17C-9-1 through 17C-9-5
§ 75.006  UNATTENDED MOTOR VEHICLE.
   No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit it to stand
unattended without first stopping the engine, locking the ignition, removing
the key and effectively setting the brake thereon and, when standing upon any
grade, turning the front wheels to the curb or side of the street or highway.
(Prior Code, § 349.01)  Penalty, see §
75.999
§ 75.007  BACKING A VEHICLE.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless such movement can be
made with reasonable safety and without interfering with other traffic.
(Prior Code, § 349.02)  Penalty, see §
75.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-14-2
§ 75.008  DRIVERS’ VIEW AND CONTROL TO BE UNOBSTRUCTED BY LOAD OR PERSONS.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded as to obstruct
the view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle or as to interfere
with the driver’s control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (B)   No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in such position as to interfere
with the driver’s view ahead or to the sides or to interfere with his or her
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 349.03)  Penalty, see §
75.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-14-4
§ 75.009  PASSENGERS IN SEAT WITH OPERATOR.
   No more than three persons including the operator shall ride or be permitted
by such operator to ride in the seat with the operator of any motor vehicle
while such motor vehicle is being operated on the streets or highways of the
municipality: provided, however, that, the limitation of this subchapter shall
not apply to a truck cab or truck crew compartment properly designed for the
occupancy of four persons including the operator, and so designated on the
registration card by the Division of Motor Vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 349.04)  Penalty, see §
75.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-14-5
§ 75.010  PASSENGERS ON RUNNING BOARD.
   No passenger shall ride, nor shall the operator permit any passenger to
ride, on the running boards of any motor vehicle while such vehicle is being
operated on the streets or highways of the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 349.05)  Penalty, see §
75.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-14-6
§ 75.011  FOLLOWING AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   The driver of any vehicle other than one on official business may not follow
any authorized emergency vehicle traveling in response to a fire alarm or other
emergency closer than 500 feet or drive into or park such vehicle within the
block where such authorized emergency vehicle has stopped in answer to a fire
alarm or other emergency.
(Prior Code, § 349.06)  Penalty, see §
75.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-14-9
§ 75.012  APPROACHING AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   The driver of any vehicle approaching a stationary authorized emergency
vehicle, when the authorized emergency vehicle is giving a signal by displaying
alternately flashing red, red and white, blue, or red and blue lights or amber
or yellow warning lights, shall:
   (A)   Proceed with due caution, yield the right-of-way by making a lane
change not adjacent to that of the authorized emergency vehicle, if possible
with regard to safety and traffic conditions, if on a highway having at least
four lanes with not less than two lanes proceeding in the same direction as the
approaching vehicle and reduce speed to a safe level for road conditions; or
   (B)   Proceed with due caution, reduce the speed of the vehicle, maintaining
a safe speed not to exceed 15 mph on any non-divided highway or street and 25
mph on any divided highway depending on road conditions, if changing lanes
would be impossible or unsafe.
(Prior Code, § 349.06)  Penalty, see §
75.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-14-9a
§ 75.013  DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of the Fire Department
when laid down on any street or private driveway to be used at any fire or
alarm of fire, without the consent of the Fire Department official in command.
(Prior Code, § 349.07)  Penalty, see §
75.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-14-10
§ 75.014  FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      FUNERAL DIRECTOR and FUNERAL ESTABLISHMENT. Have the same meaning as set
forth in W.Va. Code § 30-6-3.
      FUNERAL ESCORT. A person or entity that provides escort services for
funeral processions, including law enforcement personnel and agencies.
      FUNERAL ESCORT VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle that escorts a funeral
procession.
      FUNERAL LEAD VEHICLE. Any authorized law enforcement or non-law
enforcement motor vehicle or a funeral escort vehicle being used to lead and
facilitate the movement of a funeral procession. A funeral hearse may serve as
a FUNERAL LEAD VEHICLE.
      FUNERAL PROCESSION. Two or more vehicles accompanying the body of a
deceased person, or traveling to the church, chapel, cemetery or other location
at which the funeral service or final disposition is to be held, including a
funeral lead vehicle or a funeral escort vehicle.
   (B)   Funeral procession right-of-way.
      (1)   Regardless of any traffic-control device or right-of-way provisions
prescribed by state or local ordinance, pedestrians and operators of all
vehicles, except as stated in division (B)(3) below, shall yield the right-of-
way to any vehicle which is part of a funeral procession being led by a funeral
escort vehicle or a funeral lead vehicle.
      (2)   When the funeral lead vehicle lawfully enters an intersection,
either by reason of a traffic- control device or at the direction of law
enforcement personnel, the remaining vehicles in the funeral procession may
follow through the intersection regardless of any traffic-control devices or
right-of-way provisions prescribed by state or local law.
      (3)   Funeral processions have the right-of-way at intersections
regardless of traffic-control devices subject to the following conditions and
exceptions:
         (a)   Operators of vehicles in a funeral procession shall yield the
right-of-way to an approaching emergency vehicle giving an audible or visible
signal;
         (b)   Operators of vehicles in a funeral procession shall yield the
right-of-way when directed to do so by a police officer; and
         (c)   Operators of vehicles in a funeral procession must exercise due
care when participating in a funeral procession.
   (C)   Driving in procession.
      (1)   All vehicles comprising a funeral procession shall follow the
preceding vehicle in the funeral procession as closely as is practical and
safe.
      (2)   Any ordinance, law or rule stating that motor vehicles shall be
operated to allow sufficient space enabling any other vehicle to enter and
occupy such space without danger is not applicable to vehicles in a funeral
procession.
   (D)   Liability. Liability for any death, personal injury or property damage
suffered on or after 7-1-1999 by any person in a funeral procession may not be
imposed upon a funeral director or funeral establishment or their employees or
agents unless the death, personal injury or property damage is proximately
caused by the negligent or intentional act of a funeral director or funeral
establishment or his, her or its employees or agents.
   (E)   Equipment. All non-law enforcement funeral escort vehicles and funeral
lead vehicles may be equipped with at least one lighted circulation flashing
lamp exhibiting an amber or purple light or lens. Flashing amber or purple
lights may be used when such vehicles are used in a funeral procession.
(Prior Code, § 349.08)  Penalty, see §
75.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code Art. 17C-23
§ 75.015  OPENING DOOR OF VEHICLE ON TRAFFIC SIDE.
   No person shall open the door of a motor vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, nor shall any
person leave a door open on the side of a motor vehicle available to moving
traffic for a period of time longer than is necessary to load or unload
passengers.
(Prior Code, § 349.09)  Penalty, see §
75.999
§ 75.016  BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM VEHICLE.
   No person shall board or alight from any vehicle while such vehicle is in
motion.
(Prior Code, § 349.10)  Penalty, see §
75.999
§ 75.017  UNLAWFUL RIDING.
   No person shall ride on any vehicle upon any portion thereof not designated
or intended for the use of passengers when the vehicle is in motion. This
provision shall not apply to an employee engaged in the necessary discharge of
a duty or to persons riding within truck bodies in space intended for
merchandise.
(Prior Code, § 349.11)  Penalty, see §
75.999
§ 75.018  SQUEALING TIRES, CRACKING EXHAUST NOISES.
   (A)   General. No person shall unnecessarily race the motor of any vehicle
and no person shall operate any motor vehicle, except in an emergency, in such
a manner that the vehicle is so rapidly accelerated or started from a stopped
position that the exhaust system emits a loud, cracking or chattering noise
unusual to its normal operation or whereby the tires of such vehicle squeal or
leave tire marks on the roadway, commonly called “peeling”.
   (B)   Engine brakes and compression brakes. The use of any engine brake,
compression brake or mechanical brake, which is activated or operated by the
compression of a motor vehicle, is prohibited within the city limits. Emergency
response vehicles shall be exempted from the foregoing prohibition.
(Prior Code, § 349.12)  (Ord. passed 8-25-2003)  Penalty, see §
75.999
§ 75.019  TAKING, INJURING OR TAMPERING WITH VEHICLE.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall drive a vehicle, not his or her own, without
consent of the owner thereof, and with intent temporarily to deprive such owner
of his or her possession of such vehicle, but without intent to steal the
vehicle. The consent of the owner of a vehicle to its taking or driving shall
not in any case be presumed or implied because of such owner’s consent on a
previous occasion to the taking or driving of such vehicle by the same or a
different person.
      (2)   Any person who assists in, or is a party or accessory to or an
accomplice in any such unauthorized taking or driving, shall also be guilty of
a violation of this subchapter.
   (B)   (1)   No person either individually or in association with one or more
persons shall willfully injure or tamper with any vehicle or break or remove
any part or parts of or from a vehicle without the consent of the owner.
      (2)   No person with intent to commit any malicious mischief, injury or
other crime shall climb into or upon a vehicle whether it is in motion or at
rest or with like intent attempt to manipulate any of the levers, starting
mechanism, brakes or other mechanism or device of a vehicle while the same is
at rest and unattended or with like intent set in motion any vehicle while the
same is at rest and unattended.
(Prior Code, § 349.13)  Penalty, see §
75.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code §§ 17A-8-4, 17A-8-6
§ 75.020  DRIVING UPON SIDEWALK, STREET LAWN OR CURB.
   (A)   No person shall drive any vehicle, other than a bicycle, upon a
sidewalk or sidewalk area, except upon a permanent or duly authorized temporary
driveway.
   (B)   No person shall drive a vehicle on a street lawn area or the curb of a
street, except upon a permanent or duly authorized temporary driveway or when
otherwise lawfully authorized.
(Prior Code, § 349.14)  Penalty, see §
75.999
§ 75.021  SHORTCUTTING; AVOIDING TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle across public or private
property marked with signs “No Through Traffic” or words of similar import for
the purpose of passing from one roadway to another.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle across public or private
property for the purpose of avoiding compliance with a traffic-control device.
   (C)   It shall be prima-facie evidence of a violation of this subchapter for
the operator of a motor vehicle to cross public or private property as provided
herein without using the service of such property, stopping the engine or both.
(Prior Code, § 349.15)  Penalty, see §
75.999
§ 75.022  COASTING PROHIBITED.
   The operator of any motor vehicle when traveling on a down grade on any
street, alley or highway shall not coast with the gears of such vehicle in
neutral.
(Prior Code, § 349.16)  Penalty, see §
75.999
§ 75.023  DRIVING THROUGH SAFETY ZONE.
   No operator of a vehicle shall drive the same over or through a safety zone.
(Prior Code, § 349.17)  Penalty, see §
75.999
§ 75.024  DRIVING UPON STREET POSTED AS CLOSED FOR REPAIR.
   No person shall drive upon, along or across a street or highway, or any part
thereof, which has been closed in the process of its construction,
reconstruction or repair, and posted with appropriate signs by the authority
having jurisdiction to close such street or highway.
(Prior Code, § 349.18)  Penalty, see §
75.999
§ 75.025  OBSTRUCTION OF TRAFFIC.
   No person shall operate, stop, stand or park any motor vehicle on any street
or alley within the municipality so as to obstruct or hinder the free flow of
motor vehicle traffic, except in compliance with a lawful order of a police
officer or in compliance with a traffic-control sign, signal or marking.
(Prior Code, § 349.19)  Penalty, see §
75.999
§ 75.026  VEHICLE SECURITY.
   Every owner or registrant of a motor vehicle shall maintain security upon
such vehicle as required by W.Va. Code Art. 17D-2A, and no person shall
knowingly drive or operate on any street within the municipality any motor
vehicle upon which security is required by such article unless the security is
provided, and violation of any of the provisions of W.Va. Code Art. 17D-2A
including failure to have a certificate of insurance, if required, shall
constitute a violation under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 349.20)  Penalty, see §
75.999
§ 75.027  LITTERING FROM A MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any driver or passenger of a motor vehicle or other
conveyance to place, deposit, dump, throw or cause to be placed, deposited,
dumped or thrown, any litter from a motor vehicle or other conveyance in or
upon any public or private highway, road, street or alley; any private
property; any public property; or the waters of the state or within one hundred
feet of the waters of the state, except in a proper litter or other solid waste
receptacle.
   (B)   For purposes of this subchapter, LITTER means all waste material
including, but not limited to, any garbage, refuse, trash, disposable package,
container, can, bottle, paper, ashes, cigarette or cigar butt, carcass of any
dead animal or any part thereof or any other offensive or unsightly matter, but
not including the wastes of primary processes of mining, logging, sawmilling,
farming or manufacturing.
   (C)   When there is more than one occupant in a motor vehicle or other
conveyance and it can not be determined which occupant is responsible for
violating this subchapter, the driver shall be presumed to be responsible for
the violation.
(Prior Code, § 349.21)  Penalty, see §
75.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-14-14
§ 75.028  ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS DEVICES; HANDS-FREE FEATURES.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (C) below, a person may not drive or
operate a motor vehicle on a public street or highway while:
      (1)   Texting; or
      (2)   Using a cell phone or other electronic communications device,
unless the use is accomplished by hands-free equipment.
   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CELL PHONE. A cellular, analog, wireless or digital telephone.
      DRIVING OR OPERATING A MOTOR VEHICLE. Operating a motor vehicle, with the
motor running, including while temporarily stationary because of traffic, a
traffic-control device or other momentary delays, but does not include
operating a motor vehicle after the driver has moved the vehicle to the side
of, or off, a highway and halted in a location where the vehicle can safely
remain stationary.
      ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION DEVICE. A cell telephone, personal digital
assistant, electronic device with mobile data access, laptop computer, pager,
broadband personal communication device, two-way messaging device, electronic
game or portable computing device. For the purposes of this subchapter, an
ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION DEVICE does not include:
         (a)   Voice radios, mobile radios, land mobile radios, commercial
mobile radios or two way radios with the capability to transmit and receive
voice transmissions utilizing a push-to-talk or press-to-transmit function; or
         (b)   Other voice radios used by a law enforcement officer, an
emergency services provider, an employee or agent of public safety
organizations, first responders, amateur radio operators (HAM) licensed by the
Federal Communications Commission and school bus operators.
      ENGAGING IN A CALL. When a person talks into or listens on an electronic
communication device, but shall not include when a person dials or enters a
phone number on a pushpad or screen to initiate the call.
      HANDS-FREE ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION DEVICE. An electronic communication
device that has an internal feature or function, or that is equipped with an
attachment or addition, whether or not permanently part of such electronic
communication device, by which a user engages in a call without the use of
either hand or both hands.
      HANDS-FREE EQUIPMENT. The internal feature or function of a hands-free
electronic communication device or the attachment or addition to a hands-free
electronic communication device by which a user may engage in a call or text
without the use of either hand or both hands.
      TEXTING. Manually entering alphanumeric text into, or reading text from,
an electronic communication device, and includes, but is not limited to, short
message service, e-mailing, instant messaging, a command or request to access a
World Wide Web page or engaging in any other form of electronic text retrieval
or entry, for present or future communication. For purposes of this subchapter,
TEXTING does not include the following actions:
         (a)   Reading, selecting or entering a telephone number, an extension
number or voicemail retrieval codes and commands into an electronic device by
the pressing the device in order to initiate or receive a phone call or using
voice commands to initiate or receive a telephone call;
         (b)   Imputing, selecting or reading information on a global
positioning system or navigation system; or
         (c)   Using a device capable of performing multiple functions,
including fleet management systems, dispatching devices, smart phones, citizens
band radios or music players, for a purpose that is not otherwise prohibited in
this subchapter.
      USING A CELL PHONE OR OTHER ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION DEVICE. Holding in a
person’s hand or hands an electronic communication device while:
         (a)   Viewing or transmitting images or data;
         (b)   Playing games;
         (c)   Composing, sending, reading, viewing, accessing, browsing,
transmitting, saving or retrieving e-mail, text messages or other electronic
data; or
         (d)   Engaging in a call.
   (C)   Division (A) above shall not apply to:
      (1)   A law enforcement officer, a firefighter, an emergency medical
technician, a paramedic or the operator of an authorized emergency vehicle in
the performance of their official duties;
      (2)   A person using an electronic communication device to report to
appropriate authorities a fire, a traffic accident, a serious road hazard or a
medical or hazardous materials emergencies; and
      (3)   The activation or deactivation of hands-free equipment or a
function of hands-free equipment.
   (D)   Driving or operating a motor vehicle on a public street or highway
while texting shall be enforced as a primary offense as of 7-1-2012. Driving or
operating a motor vehicle on a public street or highway while using a cell
phone or other electronic communication device without hands-free equipment
shall be enforced as a secondary offense as of 7-1-2012, and as a primary
offense as of 7-1-2013 for purposes of citation.
   (E)   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall be construed to authorize
seizure of a cell phone or electronic device by any law enforcement agency.
(Ord. passed 8-11-2014)  Penalty, see §
75.999
§ 75.029  DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Has the meaning ascribed to it in W.Va. Code Ch. 60A.
   DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF INTOXICATING LIQUOR, DRIVING OR OPERATING A
MOTOR VEHICLE WHILE INTOXICATED, FOR ANY PERSON WHO IS UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF
INTOXICATING LIQUOR TO DRIVE ANY VEHICLE. These terms or any similar term or
phrase shall be construed to mean and be synonymous with the term or phrase
WHILE UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF ALCOHOL...DRIVES A VEHICLE as the latter term or
phrase is used in this section.
   IN THIS MUNICIPALITY. Anywhere within the physical boundaries of this
municipality, including, but not limited to, publicly maintained streets and
highways, and subdivision streets or other areas not publicly maintained but
nonetheless open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-5-2)
   (B)   A warrant or indictment which charges or alleges an offense,
prohibited by the provisions of this section, and which warrant or indictment
uses any of the terms or phrases set forth in division (A) hereof, shall not
thereby be fatally defective if such warrant or indictment otherwise informs
the person so accused of the charges against him or her.
   (C)   Any person who drives a vehicle in this municipality while he or she:
      (1)   (a)   Is under the influence of alcohol;
         (b)   Is under the influence of any controlled substance;
         (c)   Is under the influence of any other drug;
         (d)   Is under the combined influence of alcohol and any controlled
substance or any other drug; or
         (e)   Has an alcohol concentration in his or her blood of 0.08% or
more, by weight; and
   (2)   When so driving does any act forbidden by law or fails to perform any
duty imposed by law in the driving of such vehicle, which act or failure
proximately causes the death of any person within one year next following such
act or failure, is guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be confined in jail for
not less than 90 days nor more than one year and shall be fined not less than
$500 nor more than $1,000.
   (D)   Any person who drives a vehicle in this municipality while he or she:
      (1)   (a)   Is under the influence of alcohol;
         (b)   Is under the influence of any controlled substance;
         (c)   Is under the influence of any other drug;
         (d)   Is under the combined influence of alcohol and any controlled
substance or any other drug; or
         (e)   Has an alcohol concentration in his or her blood of 0.08% or
more, by weight; and
   (2)   When so driving does any act forbidden by law or fails to perform any
duty imposed by law in the driving of such vehicle, which act or failure
proximately causes bodily injury to any person other than himself or herself,
is guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be confined in jail for not less than one
day nor more than one year, which jail term shall include actual confinement of
not less than 24 hours and shall be fined not less than $200 nor more than
$1,000.
   (E)   Any person who drives a vehicle in this municipality while he or she:
      (1)   (a)   Is under the influence of alcohol;
         (b)   Is under the influence of any controlled substance;
         (c)   Is under the influence of any other drug;
         (d)   Is under the combined influence of alcohol and any controlled
substance or any other drug; or
         (e)   Has an alcohol concentration in his or her blood of 0.08% or
more, by weight; and
         (2)   Is guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be confined in jail for
not less than one day nor more than six months, which jail term shall include
actual confinement of not less than 24 hours, and shall be fined not less than
$100 nor more than $500.
   (F)   Any person who, being an habitual user of narcotic drugs or
amphetamine or any derivative thereof, drives a vehicle in this municipality,
is guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be confined in jail for not less than one
day nor more than six months, which jail term shall include actual confinement
of not less than twenty-four hours, and shall be fined not less than $100 nor
more than $500.
   (G)   Any person who knowingly permits his or her vehicle to be driven in
this municipality by any other person who is:
      (1)   (a)   Under the influence of alcohol;
         (b)   Under the influence of any controlled substance;
         (c)   Under the influence of any other drug;
         (d)   Under the combined influence of alcohol and any controlled
substance or any other drug; or
         (e)   Has an alcohol concentration in his or her blood of 0.08% or
more, by weight; and
      (2)   Is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be confined in jail for not
more than six months and shall be fined not less $100 nor more than $500.
   (H)   Any person who knowingly permits his or her vehicle to be driven in
this municipality by any other person who is an habitual user of narcotic drugs
or amphetamine or any derivative thereof, is guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall
be confined in jail for not more than six months and shall be fined not less
than $100 nor more than $500.
   (I)   (1)   Any person under the age of 21 years who drives a vehicle in
this municipality while he or she has an alcohol concentration in his or her
blood of 0.02% or more, by weight, but less than 0.08%, by weight, shall, for a
first offense under this section, be guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be
fined not less than $25 nor more than $100. For a second or subsequent offense
under this section, such person is guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be
confined in jail for 24 hours, and shall be fined not less than $100 nor more
than $500. A person who is charged with a first offense under the provisions of
this section may move for a continuance of the proceedings from time to time to
allow the person to participate in the vehicle alcohol test and lock program as
provided for in W.Va. Code 17C-5A-3a. Upon successful completion of the
program, the court shall dismiss the charge against the person and expunge the
person's record as it relates to the alleged offense. In the event the person
fails to successfully complete the program, the court shall proceed to an
adjudication of the alleged offense. A motion for a continuance under this
section may not be construed as an admission or be used as evidence.
      (2)   A person arrested and charged with an offense under the provisions
of divisions (C), (D), (E), (F), (G), (H) or (I) of this section may not also
be charged with an offense under this division arising out of the same
transaction or occurrence.
   (J)   Any person who drives a vehicle in this municipality while he or she:
      (1)   (a)   Is under the influence of alcohol;
         (b)   Is under the influence of any controlled substance;
         (c)   Is under the influence of any other drug;
         (d)   Is under the combined influence of alcohol and any controlled
substance or any other drug; or
         (e)   Has an alcohol concentration in his or her blood of 0.08% or
more, by weight; and
      (2)   The person when so driving has on or within the motor vehicle one
or more other persons who are unemancipated minors who have not reached their
16th birthday, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and, shall be confined in jail
for not less than two days nor more than 12 months, which jail term shall
include actual confinement of not less than 48 hours, and shall be fined not
less than $200 nor more than $1,000.
   (K)   A person violating any provision of divisions (C), (D), (E), (F), (G),
(H) or (J) hereof shall, for the second offense under this section, be guilty
of a misdemeanor, and shall be confined in jail for a period of not less than
six months nor more than one year, and the court may, in its discretion, impose
a fine of not less than $1,000 nor more than $3,000.
   (L)   A person violating any provision of divisions (E), (F), (G), (H), (I),
(J) or (L) hereof shall, for the third or any subsequent offense under this
section, be guilty of a felony and charged under W.Va. Code 17C-5-2.
   (M)   For purposes of divisions (K) and (L) hereof relating to second, third
and subsequent offenses, the following types of convictions shall be regarded
as convictions under this section:
      (1)   Any conviction under the provisions of divisions (C), (D), (E), (F)
or (G) of this section or under a prior enactment of this section for an
offense which occurred within the ten-year period immediately preceding the
date of arrest in the current proceeding;
      (2)   Any conviction under a municipal ordinance of this state or any
other state or a statute of the United States or of any other state of an
offense which has the same elements as an offense described in divisions (C),
(D), (E), (F), (G) or (H) of this section, which offense occurred within the
ten-year period immediately preceding the date of arrest in the current
proceeding.
   (N)   A person may be charged in a warrant or indictment or information for
a second or subsequent offense under this section, if the person has been
previously arrested for or charged with a violation of this section which is
alleged to have occurred within the applicable time periods for prior offenses,
notwithstanding the fact that there has not been a final adjudication of the
charges for the alleged previous offense. In such case, the warrant or
indictment or information must set forth the date, location and particulars of
the previous offense or offenses. No person may be convicted of a second or
subsequent offense under this section unless the conviction for the previous
offense has become final.
   (O)   The fact that any person charged with a violation of divisions (C),
(D), (E) or (F) hereof, or any person permitted to drive as described under
division (G) or (H) hereof, is or has been legally entitled to use alcohol, a
controlled substance or a drug shall not constitute a defense against any
charge of violating divisions (C), (D), (E), (F), (G) or (H) hereof.
   (P)   The sentences provided herein upon conviction for a violation of this
section are mandatory and may not be subject to suspension or probation;
provided, that the court may apply the provisions of W.Va. Code §§ 62-11A-1 et
seq. to a person sentenced or committed to a term of one year or less for a
first offense under this section. An order for home detention by the court
pursuant to the provisions of W.Va. Code §§ 62-11B-1 et seq. may be used as an
alternative sentence to any period of incarceration required by this section
for a first or subsequent offense; provided, however, that for any period of
home incarceration ordered for a person convicted of second offense under this
section, electronic monitoring shall be required for no fewer than five days of
the total period of home confinement ordered and the offender may not leave
home for those five days notwithstanding the provisions of W.Va. Code § 62-11B-
5; provided further, that for any period of home incarceration ordered for a
person convicted of a third or subsequent violation of this section, electronic
monitoring shall be included for no fewer than ten days of the total period of
home confinement ordered and the offender may not leave home for those ten days
notwithstanding W.Va. Code § 62-11B-5.
(Prior Code § 333.01)  (W.Va. Code § 17C-5-2a)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code §§ 8-12-5(21), 17C-5A, 17C-5-11a
DRIVING ON RIGHT; PASSING
§ 75.040  DRIVING UPON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Upon all roadways of sufficient width a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway, except as follows:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing such movement;
      (2)   When the right half of a roadway is closed to traffic while under
construction or repair;
      (3)   Upon a roadway divided into three marked lanes for traffic under
the rules applicable thereon; or
      (4)   Upon a roadway designated and signposted for one-way traffic.
   (B)   Upon all roadways, any vehicle proceeding at less than the normal
speed of traffic at the time and place and under the conditions then existing
shall be driven in the right-hand lane then available for traffic, or as close
as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway, except when
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction or when
preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private road or
driveway.
(Prior Code, § 337.01)  Penalty, see §
75.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-7-1
§ 75.041  PASSING TO RIGHT WHEN PROCEEDING IN OPPOSITE DIRECTIONS.
   Drivers of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass each other
to the right and, upon roadways having width for not more than one line of
traffic in each direction, each driver shall give to the other at least one-
half of the main-traveled portion of the roadway as nearly as possible.
(Prior Code, § 337.02)  Penalty, see §
75.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-7-2
§ 75.042  OVERTAKING, PASSING TO LEFT; DRIVER’S DUTIES.
   The following rules shall govern the overtaking and passing of vehicles
proceeding in the same direction, subject to these limitations, exceptions and
special rules hereinafter stated.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction shall give an audible signal and pass to the left thereof at a
safe distance and shall not again drive to the right side of the roadway until
safely clear of the overtaken vehicle.
   (B)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle on audible signal and shall not increase the speed of his or
her vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 337.03)  Penalty, see §
75.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-7-3
§ 75.043  OVERTAKING AND PASSING UPON RIGHT.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass upon the right of
another vehicle only under the following conditions:
      (1)   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left turn;
      (2)   Upon a street or highway with unobstructed pavement not occupied by
parked vehicles of sufficient width for two or more lines of moving vehicles in
each direction; and
      (3)   Upon a one-way street, or upon any roadway on which traffic is
restricted to one direction of movement, where the roadway is free from
obstructions and of sufficient width for two or more lines of moving vehicles.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle upon the
right only under conditions permitting such movement in safety. In no event
shall such movement be made by driving off the pavement or main-traveled
portion of the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 337.04)  Penalty, see §
75.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-7-4
§ 75.044  OVERTAKING, PASSING TO LEFT OF CENTER.
   No vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the center of the roadway in
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction unless
such left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming traffic for a
sufficient distance ahead to permit such overtaking and passing to be
completely made without interfering with the safe operation of any vehicle
approaching from the opposite direction or any vehicle overtaken. In every
event, the overtaking vehicle must return to the right-hand side of the roadway
before coming within 100 feet of any vehicle approaching from the opposite
direction.
(Prior Code, § 337.05)  Penalty, see §
75.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-7-5
§ 75.045  ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS ON DRIVING UPON LEFT SIDE OF ROADWAY.
   (A)   No vehicle shall at any time be driven to the left side of the roadway
under the following conditions:
      (1)   When approaching the crest of a grade or upon a curve in the street
or highway where the driver’s view is obstructed within such distance as to
create a hazard in the event another vehicle might approach from the opposite
direction;
      (2)   When approaching within 100 feet of or traversing any intersection
or railroad grade crossing; and
      (3)   When the view is obstructed upon approaching within 100 feet of any
bridge, viaduct or tunnel.
   (B)   The foregoing limitations shall not apply upon a one-way roadway.
(Prior Code, § 337.06)  Penalty, see §
75.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-7-6
§ 75.046  HAZARDOUS OR NO PASSING ZONES.
   When signs or markings are in place and clearly visible to an ordinarily
observant person indicating that overtaking and passing or driving to the left
of the roadway would be especially hazardous, every driver of a vehicle shall
obey the directions thereof.
(Prior Code, § 337.07)  Penalty, see §
75.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-7-7
§ 75.047  ONE-WAY ROADWAYS AND ROTARY TRAFFIC ISLANDS.
   (A)   Upon a roadway designated and signposted for one-way traffic, a
vehicle shall be driven only in the direction designated.
   (B)   A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island shall be driven only
to the right of such island.
(Prior Code, § 337.08)  Penalty, see §
75.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-7-8(b), (c)
§ 75.048  DRIVING IN MARKED LANES OR CONTINUOUS LINES OF TRAFFIC.
   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two or more clearly marked lanes
for traffic, the following rules in addition to all others consistent herewith
shall apply.
   (A)   A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practicable entirely within a
single lane and shall not be moved from such lane until the driver has first
ascertained that such movement can be made with safety.
   (B)   Upon a roadway which is divided into three lanes a vehicle shall not
be driven in the center lane which is clearly marked as a left turn lane,
except in preparation for a left turn or where such center lane is at the time
allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the direction the vehicle is
proceeding and is signposted to give notice of such allocation.
   (C)   Official signs may be erected directing slow-moving traffic to use a
designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by traffic moving in a
particular direction regardless of the center of the roadway and drivers of
vehicles shall obey the directions of every such sign.
(Prior Code, § 337.09)  Penalty, see §
75.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-7-9
§ 75.049  FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY.
   (A)   The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more
closely than is reasonable and prudent having due regard for the speed of such
vehicles and the traffic upon and the condition of the street or highway.
   (B)   No operator of any motor truck, registered for a gross weight of more
than 8,000 pounds, bus, special mobile equipment or any motor vehicle drawing
another vehicle operating upon any roadway outside of a business or residence
district, shall follow within 200 feet of another motor truck, bus, special
mobile equipment or any motor vehicle drawing another vehicle; provided that,
this provision shall not be construed to:
      (1)   Prevent overtaking and passing;
      (2)   Apply upon any lane specially designated for the use of motor
trucks or combinations of vehicles, or within any section of a roadway posted
or marked as a “no-passing zone”;
      (3)   Apply to any convoy of vehicles of the military service of the
United States or of the state; and
      (4)   Apply to funeral processions.
   (C)   Motor vehicles being driven upon any roadway outside of a business or
residence district in a caravan or motorcade whether or not towing other
vehicles shall be so operated as to allow sufficient space between each such
vehicle or combination of vehicles so as to enable any other vehicle to enter
and occupy such space without danger. This provision shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions; or
      (2)   Any convoy of vehicles of the military service of the United States
or of the state.
(Prior Code, § 337.10)  Penalty, see §
75.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-7-10
§ 75.050  DRIVING UPON DIVIDED ROADWAYS.
   Whenever any street or highway has been divided into two roadways by leaving
an intervening space or by a physical barrier or clearly indicated dividing
section so constructed as to impede vehicular traffic, every vehicle shall be
driven only upon the right-hand roadway and no vehicle shall be driven over,
across or within any such dividing space, barrier or section, except through an
opening in such physical barrier or dividing section or space or at a crossover
or intersection established by public authority.
(Prior Code, § 337.11)  Penalty, see §
75.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-7-11
§ 75.051  ENTERING AND EXITING CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY.
   No person shall drive a vehicle onto or from any controlled-access roadway,
except at such entrances and exits as are established by public authority.
(Prior Code, § 337.12)  Penalty, see §
75.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-7-12
SPECIAL STOPS
§ 75.065  DRIVING ACROSS GRADE CROSSING.
   (A)   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad grade
crossing under any of the circumstances stated in this subchapter, the driver
of such vehicle shall stop within 50 feet, but not less than 15 feet from the
nearest rail of such railroad, and shall not proceed until he or she can do so
safely. The foregoing requirements shall apply when:
      (1)   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a railroad train;
      (2)   A crossing gate is lowered or when a human flagger gives or
continues to give a signal of the approach or passage of a railroad train;
      (3)   A railroad train approaching within approximately 1,500 feet of the
street or highway crossing emits a signal audible from such distance and such
railroad train, by reason of its speed or nearness to such crossing, is an
immediate hazard; or
      (4)   Any approaching railroad train is plainly visible and is in
hazardous proximity to such crossing.
   (B)   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around or under any
crossing gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while such gate or barrier is
closed or is being opened or closed.
(Prior Code, § 343.01)  Penalty, see §
75.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-12-1
§ 75.066  STOPS AT DANGEROUS GRADE CROSSINGS.
   Council or other designated traffic authority with the approval of the
state’s Commissioner of Highways is hereby authorized to designate particularly
dangerous highway grade crossings of railroads and to erect stop signs thereat.
When such stop signs are erected the driver of any vehicle shall stop within 50
feet, but not less than 15 feet from the nearest rail of such railroad and
shall proceed only upon exercising due care.
(Prior Code, § 343.02)  Penalty, see §
75.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-12-2
§ 75.067  STOPPING AT GRADE CROSSING.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (F) below, the driver of a
commercial motor vehicle specified in division (B) below shall not cross a
railroad track or tracks at grade unless he or she first:
         (a)   Stops the commercial motor vehicle within 50 feet of, and not
closer than 15 feet to, the tracks;
         (b)   Thereafter, listens and looks in each direction along the tracks
for an approaching train; and
         (c)   Ascertains that no train is approaching.
      (2)   When it is safe to do so, the driver may drive the commercial motor
vehicle across the tracks in a gear that permits the commercial motor vehicle
to complete the crossing without change of gears. The driver shall not shift
gears while crossing the tracks.
   (B)   The following commercial vehicles are required to stop at railroad
tracks or tracks at grade:
      (1)   Every bus transporting passengers;
      (2)   Every commercial motor vehicle transporting any quantity of a
United States Department of Transportation defined division 2.3 chlorine;
      (3)   Every commercial motor vehicle which, in accordance with United
States Department of Transportation regulations, is marked or placarded and is
required to stop in accordance with 49 C.F.R. § 392.10(a)(3);
      (4)   Every cargo tank motor vehicle, loaded or empty, used for the
transportation of any hazardous material, as defined in Federal Department of
Transportation hazardous materials rules, 49 C.F.R. parts 107 through 180;
      (5)   Every cargo tank motor vehicle transporting a commodity which, at
the time of loading, has a temperature above its flashpoint as determined by 49
C.F.R. § 173.120; and
      (6)   Every cargo tank motor vehicle, whether loaded or empty,
transporting any commodity exemption in accordance with 49 C.F.R. part 107,
subpart B.
   (C)   Any vehicle owned by an employer which, in carrying on the employer’s
business or in carrying employees to and from work, carries more than six
employees of the employer is required to stop at all railroad tracks or tracks
at grade, in accordance with division (A) above.
   (D)   All drivers of commercial motor vehicles not required to stop at
railroad tracks or tracks at grade as provided in division (A) above may not
cross a railroad track or tracks at grade unless he or she first slows the
commercial motor vehicle to a speed which will permit the commercial motor
vehicle to be stopped before reaching the nearest rail of the railroad crossing
and permit exercise of due caution to ascertain that the tracks are clear of an
approaching train.
   (E)   All drivers of commercial motor vehicles may not proceed to cross a
railroad crossing unless there is sufficient space to drive completely through
the crossing without stopping and the vehicle has sufficient undercarriage
clearance to drive completely through the crossing without stopping.
   (F)   No stop need be made at:
      (1)   Any crossing where a police officer, crossing flagger or a traffic-
control signal directs traffic to proceed;
      (2)   A streetcar crossing, or railroad tracks used exclusively for
industrial switching purposes within a business district, as defined in 49
C.F.R. § 390.5;
      (3)   A railroad grade crossing controlled by a functioning highway
traffic signal transmitting a green indication which, under local law permits
the commercial motor vehicle to proceed across the track without slowing or
stopping; or
      (4)   A railroad grade crossing which is marked with a sign indicating
that the rail line is out of service.
   (G)   Any person driving a vehicle specified in this subchapter or a vehicle
that requires a commercial driver’s license who fails to comply with the
requirements of this subchapter is guilty of a misdemeanor; provided that, if
the electric or mechanical signal device is malfunctioning, this division (G)
shall not apply.
(Prior Code, § 343.03)  Penalty, see §
75.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-12-3
§ 75.068  MOVING HEAVY EQUIPMENT ACROSS GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (A)   No person shall operate or move any crawler-type tractor, steam
shovel, derrick, roller or any equipment or structure having a normal operating
speed of ten or less mph or a vertical body or load clearance of less than one-
half inch per foot of the distance between any two adjacent axles or in any
event, of less than nine inches, measured above the level surface of a roadway,
upon or across any tracks at a railroad grade crossing without first complying
with this subchapter.
   (B)   Notice of any such intended crossing shall be given to a station agent
of such railroad and a reasonable time be given to such railroad to provide
proper protection at such crossing.
   (C)   Before making any such crossing the person operating or moving any
such vehicle or equipment shall first stop the same not less than 15 feet, nor
more than 50 feet, from the nearest rail of such railroad and while so stopped
shall listen and look in both directions along such track for any approaching
train, and for signals indicating the approach of a train, and shall not
proceed until the crossing can be made safely.
   (D)   No such crossing shall be made when warning is given by automatic
signal or crossing gates or a flagger or otherwise of the immediate approach of
a railroad train or car. If a flagger is provided by the railroad, movement
over the crossing shall be under his or her direction.
(Prior Code, § 343.04)  Penalty, see §
75.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-12-4
§ 75.069  THROUGH STREETS AND STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Council or other designated traffic authority may designate through
streets or highways and erect stop signs at specified entrances thereto or may
designate any intersection as a stop intersection and erect like signs at one
or more entrances to such intersection.
   (B)   Every such sign shall bear the word “Stop” in letters not less than
six inches in height and such sign shall at nighttime be rendered luminous by
steady or flashing internal illumination, or by a fixed floodlight projected on
the face of the sign, or by efficient reflecting elements on the face of the
sign.
   (C)   Every stop sign shall be erected as near as practicable to the nearest
line of the crosswalk on the near side of the roadway.
   (D)   Every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop sign shall stop before
entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or in the event
there is no crosswalk shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but, if none,
then at the point nearest the intersecting street or highway where the driver
has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting street or highway before
entering the intersection, except when directed to proceed by a police officer
or traffic-control signal.
(Prior Code, § 343.05)  Penalty, see §
75.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-12-5
§ 75.070  DRIVING ONTO ROADWAY FROM PLACE OTHER THAN ROADWAY; STOPPING AT
SIDEWALK.
   The driver of a vehicle within a business or residence district emerging
from any alley, driveway or building shall stop such vehicle immediately prior
to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area extending across any
alleyway or private driveway, and shall yield the right-of-way to any
pedestrian as may be necessary to avoid collision, and upon entering the
roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on such
roadway.
(Prior Code, § 343.06)  Penalty, see §
75.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-12-6
§ 75.071  STOPPING FOR SCHOOL BUS; SIGNS AND WARNING LIGHTS; SALE OF SCHOOL
BUS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle upon meeting or overtaking from either
direction any school bus which has stopped for the purpose of receiving or
discharging any school children shall stop the vehicle before reaching such
school bus when there is in operation on such school bus flashing warning
signal lights, as referred to in W.Va. Code § 17C-12-8 and such driver shall
not proceed until such school bus resumes motion, or is signaled by the school
bus driver to proceed or the visual signals are no longer actuated. This
subchapter applies wherever the school bus is receiving or discharging
children, including, but not limited to, any street, highway, parking lot,
private road or driveway; provided that, the driver of a vehicle upon a
controlled access highway need not stop upon meeting or passing a school bus
which is on a different roadway or adjacent to such highway and where
pedestrians are not permitted to cross the roadway. If the identity of the
driver cannot be ascertained, then any such owner or lessee of the vehicle in
violation of this division (A) shall be subject to the penalty provided for a
violation of this division (A); provided, however, that, such conviction shall
not subject such owner or lessee to further administrative or other penalties
for such offense, notwithstanding other provisions of the West Virginia Code or
this traffic code to the contrary.
   (B)   Every bus used for the transportation of school children shall bear
upon the front and rear thereof a plainly visible sign containing the words
“school bus” in letters not less than eight inches in height. When a contract
school bus is being operated upon a street or highway for purposes other than
the actual transportation of children either to or from school, all markings
thereon indicating “school bus” shall be covered or concealed. Any school bus
sold or transferred to another owner by a county board of education, agency or
individual, shall have all flashing warning lights disconnected and all
lettering removed or permanently obscured, except when sold or transferred for
the transportation of school children.
(Prior Code, § 343.07)  Penalty, see §
75.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-12-7
§ 75.072  STOPPING FOR PASSENGER VAN; SIGNS AND WARNING LIGHTS.
   (A)   Every passenger van used for the transportation of children shall bear
upon the front and rear thereof a plainly visible sign containing the warning
“Caution: Loading and Unloading Passengers” in letters not less than six inches
in height. Every such passenger van shall be equipped with either flashing
warning signal lights as are contemplated and referred to in W.Va. Code § 17C-
12-8, or a red caution flag which the driver or some other adult must use by
exiting the passenger van and displaying while assisting in the loading or
unloading of passengers. Such vehicles may also be equipped with a white
flashing strobotron warning light that meets the requirements set forth in
W.Va. Code § 17C-15-26(e).
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle, upon meeting or overtaking from any direction
any passenger van which has stopped for the purpose of loading or unloading
passengers, shall stop his or her vehicle before reaching the passenger van
when there is in operation on the passenger van flashing warning signal lights
or when an adult is outside the passenger van with a red caution flag and
assisting with the loading or unloading of passengers. The driver of a vehicle
may not proceed until he or she is signaled by the passenger van driver to
proceed, the passenger van flashing signal lights are no longer actuated, or
the passenger resumes motion. This subchapter applies whenever the passenger
van is loading or unloading children on any street, highway, parking lot,
private road or driveway; provided that, the driver of a vehicle upon a
controlled access highway need not stop upon meeting or passing a passenger van
which is on a different roadway or adjacent to the highway and where
pedestrians are not permitted to cross the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 343.08)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-12-7(a.)
§ 75.073  OBSTRUCTING INTERSECTION OR CROSSWALK.
   No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicle he or she is operating without obstructing the passage
of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic-control signal
indication to proceed.
(Prior Code, § 343.09)  Penalty, see §
75.999
COMMERCIAL AND HEAVY VEHICLES
§ 75.085  OVERSIZE OR OVERWEIGHT VEHICLES.
   (A)   Use of state route.
      (1)   No person shall operate or move a vehicle or combination of
vehicles of a size or weight of vehicle or load exceeding the maximum specified
in W.Va. Code Art. 17C-17 upon any state route within the municipality, except
pursuant to special written permit issued by the Commissioner of Highways, or
upon any local truck route. Every such permit shall be carried in the vehicle
or combination of vehicles to which it refers and shall be open to inspection
by any police officer.
      (2)   No holder of a permit issued by the Commissioner of Highways shall
be required to obtain any local permit or license or pay any local fee or
charge for movement on any state route within the municipality; however, it
shall be unlawful to operate any such vehicle or combination of vehicles upon
any roadway within the municipality which is not a state route, except as
provided in division (C) below.
   (B)   Use of local streets. No person shall operate a vehicle exceeding a
size as specified in §
75.087 of this chapter or exceeding a gross weight of five tons, upon any
street in the municipality other than a state route, except those local streets
designated as a truck route and marked as such by appropriate traffic signs,
and except when such operation is necessary to load or unload property, to go
to or from the usual place of storage of such vehicle or to perform any other
legitimate business or act other than passage through the municipality.
Operators of vehicles so deviating from either a state route or a designated
truck route within the municipality shall confine such deviation to that
required in order to accomplish the purpose of the departure.
   (C)   Local permit and conditions.
      (1)   Upon application and for good cause, the Police Chief may issue a
local permit authorizing an applicant to move an oversize or overweight vehicle
or combination of vehicles upon local streets.
      (2)   No permittee shall be required to obtain a special permit from the
Commissioner of Highways for the movement of the vehicle or combination of
vehicles on streets or highways under local jurisdiction; however, the approval
of the Commissioner of Highways shall be required for movement upon state
routes as provided in division (A) above.
      (3)   The Police Chief may grant a permit for a single or round trip, or
for such period of time, not to exceed one year, as the Police Chief, in his or
her discretion, deems advisable, or for the duration of any construction
project. The Police Chief may limit or prescribe terms or conditions of
operation for such vehicle or combination of vehicles by designating the route,
hours, speed or such other restrictions as may be necessary for the
preservation of the public peace, property, health and safety. The Police Chief
may require the posting of bond or other security necessary to compensate for
any damage to a roadway or road structure.
      (4)   For each such permit, the Police Chief shall charge an amount set
by Council from time to time, and for each hour of time or any part thereof
spent by each police officer in supervising the movement of such vehicle, the
applicant shall pay an amount as set by Council from time to time.
      (5)   Signs shall be posted indicating “no thru trucks - gross weight 5
tons” or words of similar import to apprise drivers of the limitations imposed
by this subchapter. No driver shall disobey the instructions indicated on any
such sign.
      (6)   Violation of any of the limitations, terms or conditions of the
permit granted by the Police Chief shall be cause for immediate revocation or
suspension of such permit, and denial of request for any future permit. Such
violation shall also subject the violator to the penalty prescribed by §
75.999 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 347.01)  Penalty, see §
75.999
§ 75.086  PROJECTING LOADS ON PASSENGER VEHICLES.
   (A)   No passenger-type vehicle shall be operated on any street or highway
with any load carried thereon extending beyond the line of the fenders of the
left side of such vehicle, nor extending more than six inches beyond the line
of the fenders on the right side thereof.
   (B)   A motor home, travel trailer or truck camper may exceed the maximum
width prescribed in §
75.087 of this chapter, if the excess width is attributable to an appurtenance
that does not exceed more than six inches beyond the body of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 347.02)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-17-3
§ 75.087  MAXIMUM WIDTH, HEIGHT AND LENGTH.
   (A)   A vehicle, including any load thereon, may not exceed a height of 13
feet six inches, but the owner or owners of such vehicles shall be responsible
for damage to any bridge or highway structure and to municipalities for any
damage to traffic-control devices or other highway structures where such
bridges, devices or structures have a vehicle clearance of less than 13 feet
six inches.
   (B)   A motor vehicle, including any load thereon, may not exceed a length
of 40 feet extreme overall dimension, inclusive of front and rear bumpers;
except that, a motor home may not exceed a length of 45 feet, exclusive of
front and rear bumpers.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided in this division (C) or in division (D)
below, a combination of vehicles coupled together may not consist of more than
two units and no combination of vehicles including any load thereon shall have
an overall length, inclusive of front and rear bumpers, in excess of 55 feet,
except as provided in W.Va. Code § 17C-17-11b, and except as otherwise provided
in respect to the use of a pole trailer as authorized in W.Va. Code § 17C-17-5.
The limitation that a combination of vehicles coupled together may not consist
of more than two units may not apply to:
      (1)   A combination of vehicles coupled together by a saddle-mount device
used to transport motor vehicles in a drive-away service when no more than
three saddle mounts are used, if equipment used in the combination meets the
requirements of the safety regulations of the United States Department of
Transportation and may not exceed an overall length of more than 75 feet; or
      (2)   A combination of vehicles coupled together, one of which is a
travel trailer or folding camping trailer having an overall length, exclusive
of front and rear bumpers, not exceeding 65 feet.
   (D)   A combination of two vehicles coupled together, one of which is a
motor home, or a combination of vehicles coupled together, one of which is a
travel trailer or folding camping trailer, may not exceed an overall length,
exclusive of front and rear bumpers of 65 feet.
   (E)   Notwithstanding the provisions of divisions (A), (B), (C) and (D)
above, the Commissioner of Highways may designate, upon his or her own motion
or upon the petition of an interested party, a combination vehicle length not
to exceed 70 feet.
   (F)   The length limitations for truck tractor-semi-trailer combinations and
truck tractor-semi- trailer-trailer combinations operating on the national
system of interstate and defense highways and those classes of qualifying
federal-aid primary system highways so designated by the United States
Secretary of Transportation and those highways providing reasonable access to
and from terminals, facilities for food, fuel, repairs and rest and points of
loading and unloading for household goods carriers from such highways and
further, as to other highways so designated by the state’s Commissioner of
Highways, shall be as follows: the maximum length of a semi-trailer unit
operating in a truck tractor-semi-trailer combination shall not exceed 48 feet
in length, except where semi-trailers have an axle spacing of not more than 37
feet between the rear axle of the truck tractor and the front axle of the semi-
trailer, such semi-trailer shall be allowed to be not more than 53 feet in
length and the maximum length of any semi- trailer or trailer operating in a
truck tractor-semi-trailer-trailer combination may not exceed 28 feet in length
and in no event shall any combinations exceed three units, including the truck
tractor; provided that, nothing herein contained shall impose an overall length
limitation as to commercial motor vehicles operating in truck tractor-semi-
trailer or truck tractor-semi-trailer-trailer combinations.
   (G)   The total outside width, exclusive of safety equipment authorized by
the United States Department of Transportation, of any vehicle or the load
thereon may not exceed 96 inches, except as otherwise provided in W.Va. Code
Art. 17C-17; provided that, any vehicle with a total outside width of 102
inches, exclusive of safety equipment authorized by the United States
Department of Transportation, may be operated on any street or highway
designated by the United States Department of Transportation or the
Commissioner of the Department of Highways or on any street or highway having a
minimum lane width of ten feet.
   (H)   Motor homes, travel trailers, truck campers and motor buses with a
total outside width of 102 inches, excluding safety equipment authorized by the
United States Department of Transportation may operate on any street or
highway.
(Prior Code, § 347.03)  Penalty, see §
75.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code §§ 17C-17-2, 17C-17-4
§ 75.088  LOADS DROPPING OR LEAKING.
   (A)   No vehicle or combination of vehicles shall be operated on any street
or highway unless such vehicle or combination of vehicles is so constructed or
loaded as to prevent any of its load from dropping, sifting, leaking or
otherwise escaping therefrom, except that sand may be dropped for the purpose
of securing traction, or water or other substance may be sprinkled on a roadway
in cleaning or maintaining such roadway.
   (B)   No person shall operate on any street or highway any vehicle or
combination of vehicles with any load unless such load and any covering thereon
is securely fastened so as to prevent such covering or load from becoming
loose, detached or in any manner a hazard to other users of the street or
highway.
(Prior Code, § 347.04)  Penalty, see §
75.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-17-6
§ 75.089  TOWING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   When one vehicle is towing another the drawbar or other connection
shall be of sufficient strength to pull all weight towed thereby and such
drawbar or other connection shall not exceed 15 feet from one vehicle to the
other, except the connection between any two vehicles transporting poles, pipe,
machinery or other objects of structural nature which cannot readily be
dismembered.
   (B)   When one vehicle is towing another and the connection consists of a
chain, rope or cable, there shall be displayed upon such connection a white
flag or cloth not less than 12 inches square.
(Prior Code, § 347.05)  Penalty, see §
75.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-17-7
§ 75.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
70.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Whoever violates §
75.002 of this chapter shall for a first offense be fined not less than an
amount set by Council from time to time, or imprisoned not less than five, nor
more than 30, days; for a second or subsequent offense shall be fined in an
amount set by Council from time to time, or imprisoned not less than ten, nor
more than 30, days, or both.
(Prior Code, § 333.99)
   (C)   (1)   General. Whoever violates any provision of §
75.003 of this chapter for which no other penalty is provided shall be fined in
an amount set by Council from time to time; upon a second conviction within one
year thereafter shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time to time;
and upon a third or subsequent conviction, shall be fined in an amount set by
Council from time to time.
      (2)   Speeding.
         (a)   Unless otherwise provided in this division (C)(2), any person
who violates the provisions of §
75.003(A) of this chapter shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time
to time; upon a second conviction within one year thereafter, shall be fined in
an amount set by Council from time to time; and, upon a third or subsequent
conviction within two years thereafter, shall be fined in an amount set by
Council from time to time; provided that, if such third or subsequent
conviction is based upon a violation of the provisions of §
75.003(A) of this chapter where the offender exceeded the speed limit by 15 mph
or more, then the person shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time
to time or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both.
         (b)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
75.003(A)(2)(a) of this chapter shall be fined in an amount set by Council from
time to time; provided that, if such conviction is based upon a violation of
the provisions of §
75.003(A)(2)(a) of this chapter where the offender exceeded the speed limit by
15 mph or more in the presence of one or more children, then the person shall
be fined in an amount set by Council from time to time, or imprisoned not more
than 30 days, or both.
      (3)   Street racing. Whoever violates §
75.003(D) of this chapter shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time
to time; for a second offense fined in an amount set by Council from time to
time, or by imprisonment for not less than six days, nor more than 30 days, or
both; and for a third and each subsequent offense fined in an amount set by
Council from time to time, or by imprisonment for not more than 30 days or
both. For the purposes of this subchapter, a forfeiture of bail or collateral
deposited to secure such person’s appearance in court, which forfeiture has not
been vacated, shall be equivalent to a final conviction. If at the time of any
violation of the provisions of §
75.003(D) of this chapter by any person as an operator of a motor vehicle, such
person was not entitled to operate a motor vehicle in the state because his or
her operator’s or chauffeur’s license, or privilege to drive in the state if
such person be a non-resident, had earlier been suspended or removed, then in
addition to the penalties provided for in this subchapter, the provisions of §
74.10 of this chapter shall be applicable.
(Prior Code, § 335.99)
   (D)   Whoever violates any provision of §
75.004 of this chapter shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time to
time; upon a second conviction within one year thereafter shall be fined in an
amount set by Council from time to time; and upon a third or subsequent
conviction, shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 339.99)
   (E)   Whoever violates any provision of §
75.005 of this chapter shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time to
time; upon a second conviction within one year thereafter shall be fined in an
amount set by Council from time to time; and, upon a third or subsequent
conviction, shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 341.99)
   (F)   (1) General. Whoever violates any provision of §§
75.006 through
75.027 of this chapter for which no other penalty is provided shall be fined in
an amount set by Council from time to time; upon a second conviction within one
year thereafter shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time to time;
and, upon a third or subsequent conviction, shall be fined in an amount set by
Council from time to time.
      (2)   Approaching authorized emergency vehicles.
         (a)   Any person who violates §
75.012 of this chapter shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time to
time or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both fined and imprisoned.
         (b)   If violation of §
75.012 of this chapter results in property damage in addition to any other
penalty imposed, driving privileges of the persons causing the property damage
shall be suspended for 90 days.
         (c)   If violation of §
75.012 of this chapter results in injury to another person in addition to any
other penalty imposed, the driving privileges of the person causing the injury
shall be suspended for six months.
         (d)   If violation of §
75.012 of this chapter results in the death of another person in addition to
any other penalty imposed, the driving privileges of the person causing the
death shall be suspended for two years.
         (e)   Any person who violates §
75.012 of this chapter and, while doing so, also violates other provisions
shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Taking, injuring or tampering with vehicle. Whoever violates §
75.019 of this chapter shall, for a first offense, be fined in an amount set by
Council from time to time or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both.
      (4)   Vehicle security. Whoever violates §
75.026 of this chapter shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time to
time or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both.
(Prior Code, § 349.99)
   (G)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
75.028(A) of this chapter is guilty of a traffic offense and, upon conviction
thereof, shall for a first offense be fined in an amount set by Council from
time to time; for a second offense be fined in an amount set by Council from
time to time; and for a third or subsequent offense be fined in an amount set
by Council from time to time. No court costs or other fees shall be assessed
for a violation of §
75.028(A) of this chapter.
   (H)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
75.040 through
75.051 of this chapter shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time to
time; upon a second conviction within one year thereafter shall be fined in an
amount set by Council from time to time; and, upon a third or subsequent
conviction, shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 337.99)
   (I)   (1)   Driving onto roadway from place other than roadway. Whoever
violates §
75.070 of this chapter shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time to
time; upon a second conviction within one year thereafter, shall be fined in an
amount set by Council from time to time; and, upon a third or subsequent
conviction, shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time to time.
      (2)   Stopping for school bus or passenger van. Any driver acting in
violation of §§
75.071(A) or 75.072(B) of this chapter shall be fined in an amount set by
Council from time to time, or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both. If the
identity of the driver cannot be ascertained, then any such owner or lessee of
the vehicle in violation of §§
75.071(A) or 75.072(B) of this chapter shall be fined in an amount set by
Council from time to time; provided, however, that, such conviction shall not
subject such owner or lessee to further administrative or other penalties for
such offense, notwithstanding other provisions of this traffic code to the
contrary.
(Prior Code, § 343.99)  (Ord. passed 8-11-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Related penalty provisions, see W.Va. Code §§ 17A-11-1, 17C-6-1, 17C-6-8,
17C-9-6, 17C-14-9a, 17D-2A-9
CHAPTER 76:  PARKING RULES
Section
General Provisions
   
76.01   Parking on streets or highways
   
76.02   Police may remove illegally stopped vehicles
   
76.03   Prohibited stopping, standing or parking
   
76.04   Vehicles parked on private property
   
76.05   Manner of angle and parallel parking
   
76.06   Accessible parking
   
76.07   Abandoned motor vehicles
   
76.08   Parking for certain purposes
   
76.09   Truck loading zones
   
76.10   Bus stops and taxicab stands
   
76.11   Parking in alleys and narrow streets; exceptions
   
76.12   Registered owner prima facie liable for unlawful parking
   
76.13   Notice to owner
Parking Meters
   
76.25   Marking spaces; erecting meters
   
76.26   Time limits; illegal parking
   
76.27   Slugs; tampering
   
76.28   Parking within spaces
   
76.29   Notice to owner or operator; payment of penalty
 
   
76.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority to maintain vehicle parking facilities, see W.Va. Code §§ 8-16-1,
8-16-2
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 76.01  PARKING ON STREETS OR HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   Upon any street or highway outside of a business or residence
district, no person shall stop, park or leave standing any vehicle, whether
attended or unattended, upon the paved or main-traveled part of the street or
highway when it is practicable to stop, park or so leave such vehicle off such
part of the street or highway, but in every event an unobstructed width of the
street or highway opposite a standing vehicle shall be left for the free
passage of other vehicles and a clear view of such stopped vehicles shall be
available from a distance of 200 feet in each direction upon such highway or
street.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to the driver of any vehicle which is
disabled while on the paved or main-traveled portion of a street or highway in
such a manner and to such extent that it is impossible to avoid stopping and
temporarily leaving such disabled vehicle in such position.
(Prior Code, § 361.01)  Penalty, see §
76.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-13-1
§ 76.02  POLICE MAY REMOVE ILLEGALLY STOPPED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle standing upon a street or
highway in violation of §
76.01 of this chapter, such officer is hereby authorized to move such vehicle
or require the driver or other person in charge of the vehicle to move the
same, to a position off the paved or main-traveled part of such street or
highway.
   (B)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle unattended upon any bridge
or causeway or in any tunnel where such vehicle constitutes an obstruction to
traffic, such officer is hereby authorized to provide for the removal of such
vehicle to the nearest garage or other place of safety.
(Prior Code, § 361.02)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-13-2
§ 76.03  PROHIBITED STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary
to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law or the
directions of a police officer or traffic-control device, in any of the
following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
      (5)   In a properly designated fire lane;
      (6)   On a crosswalk;
      (7)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      (8)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign
or traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
      (9)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless a
different length is indicated by signs or markings;
      (10)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      (11)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and on
the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75 feet
of such entrance (when properly signposted);
      (12)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (13)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
      (14)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a street or
highway or within a street or highway tunnel;
      (15)   At any place where signs prohibit stopping, standing or parking,
or where the curbing or street is painted yellow or red, or at any place in
excess of the maximum time limited by signs;
      (16)   Within 20 feet of any mail receptacle served regularly by a
carrier using a motor vehicle for daily deliveries, if such parking interferes
with or causes delay in the carrier’s schedule;
      (17)   Upon any controlled-access highway;
      (18)   At any place on any street or highway where the safety and
convenience of the traveling public is thereby endangered;
      (19)   Over or across any lines or marks established by the municipality
to indicate parking spaces.
      (20)   In front of a wheelchair accessible ramp or curb cut which is part
of a sidewalk designed for use by the general public when the ramp or curb cut
is properly marked with blue paint.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any such prohibited area or away from a curb such distance as is unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 361.03)  Penalty, see §
76.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code 17C-13-3
§ 76.04  VEHICLES PARKED ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No driver of a vehicle shall stop, park or leave standing unattended any
vehicle on a private road or driveway or on private property without having
express or implied permission from the owner, tenant or lessee of such land.
The owner, tenant or lessee of such private road or driveway or private
property may move, or have moved, any vehicle stopped, parked or left standing
unattended on his or her private road, driveway or private property as above
prohibited without any liability for the cost of moving any vehicle, nor shall
he or she be liable to the owner of the vehicle for any damage done to such
vehicle in moving it, unless the owner, tenant or lessee of such private road
or driveway or private property was negligent in removing or authorizing the
removal of the vehicle. The owner of such vehicle shall be responsible to the
persons removing such vehicle for paying all removal costs. Any person who
removes any vehicle under the provisions of this subchapter shall notify the
State Police of such action, and, in addition notify the Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 361.04)  Penalty, see §
76.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-14-13
§ 76.05  MANNER OF ANGLE AND PARALLEL PARKING.
   (A)   Every vehicle stopped or parked upon a roadway where there is an
adjacent curb shall be stopped or parked with the curb-side wheels of such
vehicle parallel with and not more than 18 inches from the curb, unless it is
impossible to approach so close to the curb; in such case the stop shall be as
close to the curb as possible and only for the time necessary to discharge and
receive passengers or to load or unload merchandise.
   (B)   This subchapter does not apply to streets or parts thereof where angle
parking is lawfully permitted. However, no angle parking shall be permitted on
a state or federal-aid route unless approved by the state’s Commissioner of
Highways.
   (C)   Upon streets where angle parking is permitted, no person shall stop,
stand or park a vehicle other than at the angle to the curb or edge of the
roadway as is indicated by appropriate signs or marks.
   (D)   No vehicle shall be stopped or parked on a road or street with the
vehicle facing in a direction other than the direction of travel on that side
of the road or street.
(Prior Code, § 361.05)  Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.06  ACCESSIBLE PARKING.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACCESSIBLE PARKING. Formerly known as HANDICAPPED PARKING. The present
phrase consistent with language within the American with Disabilities Act
(ADA), being 42 U.S.C. 12101 et seq.
      COMMERCIAL FACILITY. A facility whose operations affect commerce and
which are intended for non-residential use by a private entity.
      MOBILITY IMPAIRMENT. A person who is a citizen of West Virginia and, as
determined by a physician, allopath or osteopath licensed to practice in West
Virginia:
         (a)   Cannot walk 200 feet without stopping to rest;
         (b)   Cannot walk without the use of or assistance from a brace, cane,
crutch, prosthetic device, wheelchair, other assistive device or another
person;
         (c)   Is restricted by lung disease to such an extent that the
person’s force (respiratory) expiratory volume for one second, when measured by
spirometry, is less than one liter or the arterial oxygen tension is less than
60 mm/hg on room air at rest;
         (d)   Uses portable oxygen;
         (e)   Has a cardiac condition to such an extent that the person’s
functional limitations are classified in severity as Class III or Class IV
according to standards established by the American Heart Association; or
         (f)   Is severely limited in his or her ability to walk because of an
arthritic, neurological or other orthopedic physical condition.
      PLACE(S) OF PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION. A facility or facilities operated by a
private entity whose operations affect commerce and fall within at least one of
the following categories:
         (a)   Inns, hotels, motels and other places of lodging;
         (b)   Restaurants, bars or other establishments serving food or drink;
         (c)   Motion picture houses, theaters, concert halls, stadiums or
other places of exhibition or entertainment;
         (d)   Auditoriums, convention centers, lecture halls or other places
of public gatherings;
         (e)   Bakeries, grocery stores, clothing stores, hardware stores,
shopping centers or other sales or rental establishments;
         (f)   Laundromats, dry cleaners, banks, barber and beauty shops,
travel agencies, shoe repair shops, funeral parlors, gas or service stations,
offices of accountants and attorneys, pharmacies, insurance offices, offices of
professional health care providers, hospitals or other service establishments;
         (g)   Terminals, depots or other stations used for public
transportation;
         (h)   Museums, libraries, galleries or other places of public display
or collection;
         (i)   Parks, zoos, amusement parks or other places of recreation;
         (j)   Public or private nursery, elementary, secondary, undergraduate
or post-graduate schools or other places of learning and day care centers,
senior citizen centers, homeless shelters, food banks, adoption agencies or
other social service establishments; and
         (k)   Gymnasiums, health spas, bowling alleys, golf courses or other
places of exercise or recreation.
      PUBLIC ENTITY. State or local government or any department, agency,
special purpose district or other instrumentality of a state or local
government.
      PUBLIC FACILITY. All or any part of any buildings, structures, sites,
complexes, roads, parking lots or other real or personal property, including
the site where the facility is located.
      REMOVABLE WINDSHIELD PLACARD. (Permanent or temporary.) A two-sided,
hanger style placard measuring three inches by nine and one-half inches, with
all of the following on each side:
         (a)   The international symbol of access, measuring at least three
inches in height, centered on the placard, in white on a blue background for
permanent designations and in white on a red background for temporary
designations;
         (b)   An identification number measuring one inch in height;
         (c)   An expiration date in numbers measuring one inch in height; and
         (d)   The seal or other identifying symbol of the issuing authority.
      SPECIAL REGISTRATION PLATE. A registration plate that displays the
international symbol of access in a color that contrasts with the background,
in letters and numbers the same size as those on the plate, and which may be
used in lieu of a regular registration plate.
   (B)   An accessible parking space should comply with the provisions of the
Americans with Disabilities Act accessibility guidelines, contained in 28
C.F.R. part 36, App. A, § 4.6 (https://www.ada.gov/1991standards/adastd94-
archive.pdf). In particular, the parking space should be a minimum of eight
feet wide with an adjacent eight-foot access aisle for vans having side mounted
hydraulic lifts or ramps or a five-foot access aisle for standard vehicles.
Access aisles should be marked using diagonal two- to four-inch-wide strips
spaced every 12 or 24 inches apart or other appropriate markings denoting that
the space is a no-parking zone. All accessible parking spaces should have a
signpost in front or adjacent to the accessible parking space displaying the
international symbol of access sign mounted at a minimum of eight feet above
the pavement or sidewalk and the top of the sign. Lines or markings on the
pavement or curbs for parking spaces and access aisles may be in any color,
although blue is the generally accepted color for accessible parking.
   (C)   A vehicle from any other state, United States territory or foreign
country displaying an officially issued special registration plate, placard or
decal bearing the international symbol of access shall be recognized and
accepted as meeting the requirements of this subchapter, regardless of where
the plate, placard or decal is mounted or displayed on the vehicle.
   (D)   Free stopping, standing or parking places marked with the
international symbol of access shall be designated in close proximity to all
public entities including state, county and municipal buildings and facilities,
places of public accommodation and commercial facilities. These parking places
shall be reserved solely for persons with a mobility impairment at all times.
   (E)   (1)   Any person whose vehicle properly displays a valid, unexpired
special registration plate or removable windshield placard may park the vehicle
for unlimited periods of time in parking zones unrestricted as to length of
parking time permitted; provided that, this privilege does not mean that the
vehicle may park in any zone where stopping, standing or parking is prohibited
or which creates parking zones for special types of vehicles or which prohibits
parking during heavy traffic periods during specified rush hours or where
parking would clearly present a traffic hazard. To the extent any provision of
any ordinance of any political subdivision of the state is contrary to the
provisions of this subchapter, the provisions of this subchapter take
precedence and apply.
      (2)   The parking privileges provided for in this division (E) apply only
during those times when the vehicle is being used for the loading or unloading
of a person with a mobility impairment.
   (F)   Any person whose vehicle does not display a valid, special
registration plate or removable windshield placard may not stop, stand or park
a motor vehicle in an area designated, zoned or marked for accessible parking
with signs or instructions displaying the international symbol of access,
either by itself or with explanatory text. The signs may be mounted on a post
or a wall in front of the accessible parking space and instructions may appear
on the ground or pavement, but use of both methods is preferred. Accessible
parking spaces for vans having an eight-foot adjacent access aisle should be
designated as “van accessible”, but may be used by any vehicle displaying a
valid special registration plate or removable windshield placard. These spaces
are intended solely for persons with a mobility impairment, as defined in this
subchapter; provided that, any person in the act of transporting a person with
a mobility impairment as defined in this subchapter, may stop, stand or park a
motor vehicle not displaying a special registration plate or removable
windshield placard in the area designated for accessible parking by the
international symbol of access for the limited purposes of loading or unloading
a passenger with a mobility impairment; provided, however, that, the vehicle
shall be promptly moved after the completion of this limited purpose.
   (G)   All signs that designate areas as “accessible parking” or that display
the international symbol of access shall also include the words “Up to $500
fine”.
   (H)   No person may stop, stand or park a motor vehicle in an area
designated or marked off as an accessible aisle to a van-accessible parking
space or regular accessible parking space.
   (I)   Parking enforcement personnel who otherwise enforce parking violations
may issue citations for violations of this subchapter and shall reference the
number on the vehicle’s license plate, since the driver normally will not be
present.
   (J)   Law enforcement agencies may establish a program to use trained
volunteers to collect information necessary to issue citations to persons who
illegally park in designated accessible parking spaces. Any law enforcement
agency choosing to establish a program shall provide for workers’ compensation
and liability coverage. The volunteers shall photograph the illegally parked
vehicle and complete a form, to be developed by supervising law enforcement
agencies, that includes the vehicle’s license plate number, date, time and
location of the illegally parked vehicle. The photographs must show the vehicle
in the accessible space and a readable view of the license plate. Within the
discretion of the supervising law enforcement agency, the volunteers may issue
citations or the volunteers may submit the photographs of the illegally parked
vehicle and the form to the supervising law enforcement agency, who may issue a
citation, which includes the photographs and the form, to the owner of the
illegally parked vehicle. Volunteers shall be trained on the requirements for
citations for vehicles parked in marked, zoned or designated accessible parking
areas by the supervising law enforcement agency.
   (K)   The municipality in enforcing this subchapter shall retain all fines
and associated late fees. These revenues shall be used first to fund the
provisions of division (J) above, if adopted by the municipality or otherwise
shall go into the municipality’s General Revenue Fund.
(Prior Code, § 361.06)  Penalty, see §
76.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-13-6
§ 76.07  ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle, or major part thereof, which
is inoperative and which has been abandoned on public property for any period
of time over five days, other than in an enclosed building or in a licensed
salvage yard or at the business establishment of a demolisher; or any motor
vehicle, or major part thereof, which has remained on private property without
consent of the owner or person in control of the property for any period of
time over five days; or any motor vehicle, or major part thereof, which is
unattended, discarded, deserted and unlicensed and is not in an enclosed
building, a licensed salvage yard or the actual possession of a demolisher;
provided that, a motor vehicle, or major part thereof, shall not be considered
an ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE if:
         (a)   The owner of the motor vehicle is storing the motor vehicle on
the owner’s property;
         (b)   The motor vehicle is being stored for the purpose of using its
parts on other motor vehicles owned by the owner;
         (c)   The owner owns other motor vehicles similar to the motor vehicle
being stored; and
         (d)   The owner is a business licensed to do business in the state and
not in the primary business of offering motor vehicles or parts thereof for
sale.
      ENCLOSED BUILDING. A structure surrounded by walls or one continuous wall
and having a roof enclosing the entire structure and includes a permanent
appendage thereto.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle which is or was self-propelled, including, but
not limited to, automobiles, trucks, buses and motorcycles.
      PERSON. A natural person, corporation, firm, partnership, association or
society and the plural as well as the singular.
   (B)   Abandonment of motor vehicle prohibited. No person shall, within the
municipality, abandon a motor vehicle or major part thereof upon the right-of-
way of any public highway, upon any other public property or upon any private
property without the consent of the owner or person in control of the property,
or upon property owned or controlled by that person, unless it be at a licensed
salvage yard or at the business establishment of a demolisher, or a business
licensed to do business in the state and not in the primary business of
offering motor vehicles or parts thereof for sale.
(Prior Code, § 361.07)  Penalty, see §
76.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code §§ 17-24A-1, 17-24A-2
§ 76.08  PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES.
   No person shall park any vehicle upon any street within the municipality for
the principal purpose of:
   (A)   Displaying such vehicle for sale;
   (B)   Displaying advertising;
   (C)   Washing, greasing or repairing such vehicle, except repairs made
necessary by an emergency; and/or
   (D)   Relieving the crowded condition of any parking lot, used car lot,
automobile sales lot, repair garage, automobile sales agency or used car sales
agency.
(Prior Code, § 361.08)  Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.09  TRUCK LOADING ZONES.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or length of
time other than for the expeditious unloading and delivering or pickup and
loading of materials in any place marked as a truck loading zone during hours
when the provisions applicable to such zones are in effect. In no case shall
the stop for loading and unloading of materials exceed 30 minutes.
(Prior Code, § 361.09)  Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.10  BUS STOPS AND TAXICAB STANDS.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle other than a bus in a
bus stop, or other than a taxicab in a taxicab stand when any such stop or
stand has been officially designated and appropriately posted; except that, the
driver of a passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the purpose of
and while actually engaged in loading or unloading passengers when such
stopping does not interfere with any bus or taxicab waiting to enter or about
to enter such zone, and then only for a period not to exceed three minutes, if
such stopping is not prohibited therein by posted signs.
   (B)   The operator of a bus shall not stop, stand or park such vehicle upon
any street at any place for the purpose of loading or unloading passengers or
their baggage other than at a bus stop so designated and posted as such, except
in case of an emergency.
   (C)   The operator of a bus shall enter a bus stop on a public street in
such a manner that the bus when stopped to load or unload passengers or baggage
shall be in a position with the right front wheel of such vehicle not further
than 18 inches from the curb and the bus approximately parallel to the curb so
as not to unduly impede the movement of other vehicular traffic.
   (D)   The operator of a taxicab shall not stand or park such vehicle upon
any street at any place other than in a taxicab stand so designated and posted
as such. This provision shall not prevent the operator of a taxicab from
temporarily stopping in accordance with other stopping or parking provisions at
any place for the purpose of and while actually engaged in the expeditious
loading or unloading of passengers.
(Prior Code, § 361.10)  Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.11  PARKING IN ALLEYS AND NARROW STREETS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle upon a street, other
than an alley, in such a manner or under such conditions as to leave available
less than ten feet of the width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular
traffic; except that, a driver may stop temporarily during the actual loading
or unloading of passengers or when directed to by a police officer or traffic-
control signal.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided by law, no person shall stop, stand or
park a vehicle within an alley, except while actually loading and unloading,
and then only for a period not to exceed 30 minutes.
(Prior Code, § 361.11)  Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.12  REGISTERED OWNER PRIMA FACIE LIABLE FOR UNLAWFUL PARKING.
   (A)   In any hearing on a charge of illegally parking a motor vehicle,
testimony that a vehicle bearing a certain license plate was found unlawfully
parked as prohibited by the provisions of this traffic code, and further
testimony that the records of the Department of Motor Vehicles shows that the
license plate was issued to the defendant, shall be prima facie evidence that
the vehicle which was unlawfully parked was so parked by the defendant.
   (B)   A certified copy of registration from the Department of Motor Vehicles
shall be proof of such ownership.
(Prior Code, § 361.12)
§ 76.13  NOTICE TO OWNER.
   (A)   When a police officer of the city has placed on any vehicle a notice
to the owner or operator thereof that a vehicle has been in violation of any of
the provisions of this subchapter and such notice instructs such owner or
operator to report to police headquarters in the municipal building in regard
to such violation, each such owner or operator may, within 24 hours of the time
when such notice was attached to such vehicle, pay to the police officer on
duty at the municipal building, as a penalty for and in full satisfaction of
such violation, that sum of money which Council by appropriate resolution and
order may prescribe as the minimum fine for such violation.
   (B)   The minimum fine for each such violation, after so fixed by Council,
shall be printed on the reverse side of the notice which the police officer
places on the offending vehicle.
   (C)   The failure of such owner or operator to make such payment within 24
hours shall render such owner or operator subject to the penalties hereinafter
provided for a violation of the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 361.13)  (Ord. passed 4-2-1984)
PARKING METERS
§ 76.25  MARKING SPACES; ERECTING METERS.
   On streets where parking is limited in time, the Police Department, at the
direction of Council, shall cause parking spaces, approximately 20 feet in
length, to be marked by lines on the curb or pavement or by other appropriate
markings and on the sidewalk adjacent to each such parking space or at such
other place as Council may direct, cause to be erected a parking meter, which,
upon the deposit of a coin as hereinafter provided, will indicate the duration
of the legal parking period and the time when such period has elapsed.
(Prior Code, § 363.01)  (Ord. passed 4-2-1984)
§ 76.26  TIME LIMITS; ILLEGAL PARKING.
   (A)   Between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on every day of the week,
except Sunday and legal holidays, when any vehicle shall be parked in any
parking meter space, the person parking such vehicle shall immediately deposit
a coin of the United States, as indicated by the legend on the parking meter
adjacent to such parking meter space, in payment of the fee hereby imposed for
such parking privilege; and failure to do so shall constitute a violation of
this subchapter. Such vehicle shall not be permitted to remain parked in any
such parking space beyond the parking time limit fixed for such space. Whenever
a parking meter shall display a sign or signal showing illegal parking of a
vehicle in such parking space, it shall be prima facie evidence that such
vehicle has been parked in violation of this subchapter.
   (B)   No person shall cause, allow or permit any vehicle registered in his
or her name to be parked where a parking meter has been installed, in violation
of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 363.02)  (Ord. passed 4-2-1984)  Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.27  SLUGS; TAMPERING.
   No person shall deposit or cause to be deposited in any parking meter any
slug, device or metallic substitute for such required coin of the United
States. No person shall injure, tamper with, open or willfully break, destroy
or impair the usefulness of any parking meter installed under the terms of this
subchapter, or for any person, other than those duly authorized, to remove
coins from any parking meter.
(Prior Code, § 363.03)  (Ord. passed 4-2-1984)  Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.28  PARKING WITHIN SPACES.
   No person shall park any vehicle across any line or marking designating a
parking space, or to park a vehicle in any way that it shall not be wholly
within the parking space as designated by the lines or markings, and in such
manner that such vehicle shall not be alongside of or next to the parking meter
adjacent to such parking space.
(Prior Code, § 363.04)  (Ord. passed 4-2-1984)  Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.29  NOTICE TO OWNER OR OPERATOR; PAYMENT OF PENALTY.
   When a police officer of the city has placed on any vehicle a notice to the
owner or operator thereof that such vehicle has been parked in violation of a
provision of this subchapter and instructing such owner or operator to report
to police headquarters in regard to such violation, each such owner or operator
may, within 24 hours of the time when such notice was attached to such vehicle,
pay to the police officer on duty at the municipal building, as a penalty for
and in full satisfaction of such violation, the sum in an amount set by Council
from time to time. The failure of such owner or operator to make such payment
within 24 hours shall render such owner or operator subject to the penalties
hereinafter provided for a violation of the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 363.05)  (Ord. passed 4-2-1984)
§ 76.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
70.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   General. Whoever violates any provision of §§
76.01 through
76.13 of this chapter for which no other penalty is provided shall be fined in
an amount set by Council from time to time; upon a second conviction within one
year thereafter, shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time to time;
and, upon a third or subsequent conviction, shall be fined in an amount set by
Council from time to time.
      (2)   Accessible parking.
         (a)   Any person who knowingly exercises, or attempts to exercise
these privileges at a time when the vehicle is not being used for the loading
or unloading of a person with a mobility impairment, upon first conviction
thereof, per §
76.06(E) of this chapter, in addition to any other penalty he or she may
otherwise incur, shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time to time;
upon second conviction thereof, in addition to any other penalty he or she may
otherwise incur, shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time to time;
and, upon third and subsequent convictions thereof, in addition to any other
penalty he or she may otherwise incur, shall be fined in an amount set by
Council from time to time.
         (b)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
76.06(F) of this chapter shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time
to time; upon second conviction thereof, in addition to any other penalty he or
she may otherwise incur, shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time
to time; and, upon third and subsequent convictions thereof, in addition to any
other penalty he or she may otherwise incur, shall be fined in an amount set by
Council from time to time.
         (c)   Any person, including a driver of a vehicle displaying a valid
removable windshield placard or special registration plate, who violates the
provisions of §
76.06(H) of this chapter shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time
to time; upon second conviction thereof, in addition to any other penalty he or
she may otherwise incur, shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time
to time; and, upon third and subsequent convictions thereof, in addition to any
other penalty he or she may otherwise incur, shall be fined in an amount set by
Council from time to time.
      (3)   Abandoned and junk vehicles. Whoever violates §
76.07 of this chapter shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time to
time or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both.
(Prior Code, § 361.99)
   (C)   Any person violating any of the foregoing provisions of §
76.27 of this chapter, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine in
an amount set by Council from time to time or by imprisonment in the county
jail for not more than 30 days or by both such fine and imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 363.03)  (Ord. passed 4-2-1984)
CHAPTER 77:  RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
All-Terrain Vehicles, Utility Vehicles and Recreational Apparatus
   
77.01   Purpose
   
77.02   Definitions
   
77.03   Prohibition
   
77.04   Allowable use
   
77.05   Applicability of rules of operation
   
77.06   Administrative liabilities; disclaimer
Bicycles
   
77.20   Compliance; code application
   
77.21   Obedience to traffic rules; exceptions
   
77.22   Riding upon seats; number of persons
   
77.23   Attaching bicycle or sled to vehicle
   
77.24   Riding on roadways and bicycle paths
   
77.25   Carrying articles
   
77.26   Lights and reflector on bicycle; signal device; brakes
   
77.27   Reckless operation; control, course and speed
   
77.28   Bicycle helmets for children
 
   
77.99   Penalty
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES, UTILITY VEHICLES AND RECREATIONAL APPARATUS
§ 77.01  PURPOSE.
   The city has determined that in order to protect the safety, health and
welfare of its citizens, that it must regulate and in certain instances
prohibit the use and operation of all-terrain vehicles, utility vehicles and
other related recreational vehicles upon any street, road, avenue, alley, way,
sidewalk, parking lot or right-of-way within the city’s corporate limits and
upon all other real property which is publicly owned, leased or controlled.
(Ord. passed 10-15-2019)
§ 77.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE (ATV) and UTILITY VEHICLES (UTV). Any motor vehicle
designed for off-highway use and designed for operator use only with no
passengers having a seat or saddle designed to be straddled by the operator,
and handlebars or steering wheel for steering control as defined in W.Va. Code
§ 17A-1-1(ii) or the same type of off-highway motor vehicle, or golf cart,
designed and equipped with a “buddy seat” for purposes of carrying a single
passenger in addition to the operator of said vehicle.
   OTHER MOTORIZED RECREATION APPARATUS. Go-cart, unregistered off road
motorized dirt bikes, whether two or three wheeled, snowmobile as defined by
W.Va. Code § 17A-1-1(mm); or other related vehicles or motorized apparatus used
for the principal purpose of recreation other than all-terrain vehicle, utility
vehicles, as hereinbefore defined, and which motorized apparatus is not for the
general transportation of persons or goods.
(Ord. passed 10-15-2019)
§ 77.03  PROHIBITION.
   (A)   No person shall operate, ride upon or use any motorized recreational
apparatus or ATV or UTV for transportation or recreational purpose, within or
upon the public streets, roads, alleys, ways, sidewalks and crosswalks or upon
any other real property, which is publicly owned, leased or controlled, within
corporate limits of the city, except as herein permitted.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly permit another person to operate, ride upon
or use any motorized recreational apparatus or ATV or UTV for transportation or
recreational purposes, within or upon the public streets, roads, alleys, ways,
sidewalks and crosswalks or upon any other real property, which is publicly
owned, leased or controlled, within the corporate limits of the city, except as
herein permitted.
   (C)   A parent, custodian or guardian of a minor under the age of 16 years
or a minor over the age of 16, but not holding or possessing a valid operator’s
license commits an offense hereunder if said parent, custodian of guardian
knowingly permits or by insufficient control allows said minor to operate or
use an ATV, UTV or any other motorized recreational apparatus for
transportation or recreational purposes, within or upon the public streets,
roads, alleys, ways, sidewalks and crosswalks or upon any other real property,
which is publicly owned, leased or controlled, within the corporate limits of
the city. The term KNOWINGLY includes knowledge that the parent, custodian or
guardian should reasonably be expected to have concern with the whereabouts of
said minor in his or her custody. This requirement is intended to hold a
neglectful or careless parent, custodian or guardian up to a reasonable
community standard of parental responsibility through an objective test. It
shall, therefore, be no defense that the parent or guardian was completely
indifferent to the activities or conduct of such minor.
(Ord. passed 10-15-2019)  Penalty, see §
77.99
§ 77.04  ALLOWABLE USE.
   An all-terrain vehicle (ATV) or utility vehicle (UTV) shall be permitted
within or upon the public streets, roads, alleys, ways and crosswalks within
the corporate limits of the city between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.,
eastern standard time; provided that:
   (A)   The ATV or UTV is equipped with taillights and headlights in proper
working order and that the same are illuminated at all times while on the
public streets;
   (B)   The ATV or UTV is equipped with brake lights in working order;
   (C)   The owner of the ATV or UTV shall be financially responsible and shall
maintain liability insurance on the ATV or UTV in the minimum amount set forth
in W.Va. Code § 17D-4-2;
   (D)   The operator of said ATV or UTV must hold a valid general operator’s
license, pursuant to W.Va. Code § 17B-2-1, and an ATV/UTV permit issued by the
city at a cost of $50 annually to be paid by the owner/owners of said
recreational vehicle. Such permit must be displayed on the front of the ATV or
UTV;
   (E)   Any operator or passenger, must wear size appropriate protective
helmet and eyewear that meets the current performance specifications
established by the American Standard Institute standard z-90.1, and United
States Department of Transportation Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No.
218 or Snell safety standards for protective headgear for vehicle users.
Excluding the operation of a golf cart;
   (F)   Any ATV or UTV carrying a passenger, other than the operator of the
ATV or UTV, must be properly designed and equipped with a “buddy seat” if the
manufacturing standards for said ATV allow and intend for a passenger, in
addition to the operator, to ride upon said ATV or UTV. However, in no event
shall more than two persons be seated or saddled upon an ATV or UTV while being
operated on public roads;
   (G)   An ATV or UTV carrying a passenger under the age of 18 must be
operated by an individual 18 years of age or older;
   (H)   All vehicles covered in this subchapter shall be operated no faster
than five mph inside the corporate limits of the city; and
   (I)   Any and all persons with an issued permit by the city agrees to be
stopped at any time and for any reasons to verify if said vehicle has valid
insurance and operator has valid operator’s license.
(Ord. passed 10-15-2019)  Penalty, see §
77.99
§ 77.05  APPLICABILITY OF RULES OF OPERATION.
   In addition to the regulations set forth in §
77.04 of this chapter, every person operating an ATV or UTV upon the public
streets, roads, alleys, ways, sidewalks and crosswalks within the corporate
limits of the city shall be subject to all duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle by the provisions of W.Va. Code Ch. 17C except those provisions of that
Ch. 17C which, by their nature, can have no application.
(Ord. passed 10-15-2019)  Penalty, see §
77.99
§ 77.06  ADMINISTRATIVE LIABILITIES; DISCLAIMER.
   Nothing contained within this subchapter is intended nor shall it be
construed, so as to create or form the basis for any civil or administrative
liability whatsoever on the part of the city, or any of its officers,
officials, employees or agents for any injury or damage resulting to any person
whomsoever, as a consequence of any action or inaction on the part of the city
as related in any manner to the enforcement or non-enforcement of this
subchapter by the city’s officers, officials, agents or employees.
(Ord. passed 10-15-2019)
BICYCLES
§ 77.20  COMPLIANCE; CODE APPLICATION.
   (A)   No person shall do any act forbidden or fail to perform any act
required in this subchapter.
   (B)   The parent of any child and the guardian of any ward shall not
authorize or knowingly permit any such child or ward to violate any of the
provisions of this traffic code.
   (C)   These regulations applicable to bicycles shall apply whenever a
bicycle is operated upon any street or highway or upon any path set aside for
the exclusive use of bicycles subject to those exceptions stated herein.
(Prior Code, § 373.01)  Penalty, see §
77.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-11-1
§ 77.21  OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC RULES; EXCEPTIONS.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the
rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle by this traffic code, except as to special regulations in this
subchapter and except as to those provisions of this traffic code which, by
their nature, can have no application.
(Prior Code, § 373.02)  Penalty, see §
77.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-11-2
§ 77.22  RIDING UPON SEATS; NUMBER OF PERSONS.
   (A)   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than upon or
astride a permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   (B)   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped.
(Prior Code, § 373.03)  Penalty, see §
77.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-11-3
§ 77.23  ATTACHING BICYCLE OR SLED TO VEHICLE.
   No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, skateboard, roller skates, sled
or toy vehicle shall attach the same or himself or herself to any vehicle upon
a roadway.
(Prior Code, § 373.04)  Penalty, see §
77.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-11-4
§ 77.24  RIDING ON ROADWAYS AND BICYCLE PATHS.
   (A)   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near to
the right side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when passing
a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (B)   Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two
abreast, except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use
of bicycles.
   (C)   Whenever a usable path for bicycles has been provided adjacent to a
roadway, bicycle riders shall use such path and shall not use the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 373.05)  Penalty, see §
77.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-11-5
§ 77.25  CARRYING ARTICLES.
   No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle or article
which prevents the driver from keeping at least one hand upon the handlebars.
(Prior Code, § 373.06)  Penalty, see §
77.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-11-6
§ 77.26  LIGHTS AND REFLECTOR ON BICYCLE; SIGNAL DEVICE; BRAKES.
   (A)   Every bicycle when in use at nighttime shall be equipped with a lamp
on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least
500 feet to the front and with a red reflector on the rear of a type approved
by the Department of Motor Vehicles which shall be visible from all distances
from 50 feet to 300 feet to the rear when directly in front of lawful upper
beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle. A lamp emitting a red light visible
from a distance of 500 feet to the rear may be used in addition to the red
reflector.
   (B)   No person shall operate a bicycle unless it is equipped with a bell or
other device capable of giving a signal audible for a distance of at least 100
feet; except that, a bicycle shall not be equipped with nor shall any person
use upon a bicycle any siren or whistle.
   (C)   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will enable the
operator to make the braked wheels skid on dry, level, clean pavement.
(Prior Code, § 373.07)  Penalty, see §
77.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-11-7
§ 77.27  RECKLESS OPERATION; CONTROL, COURSE AND SPEED.
   No person shall operate a bicycle:
   (A)   Without due regard for the safety and rights of pedestrians and
drivers and occupants of all other vehicles, and so as to endanger the life,
limb or property of any person while in the lawful use of the streets or
sidewalks or any other public or private property;
   (B)   Without exercising reasonable and ordinary control over such bicycle;
   (C)   In a weaving or zigzag course unless such irregular course is
necessary for safe operation in compliance with law;
   (D)   Without both hands upon the handle grips, except when necessary to
give the required hand and arm signals, or as provided in §
77.25 of this chapter; and/or
   (E)   At a speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions
then existing.
(Prior Code, § 373.08)  Penalty, see §
77.99
§ 77.28  BICYCLE HELMETS FOR CHILDREN.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purposes of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BICYCLE. A human-powered vehicle with wheels designed to transport, by
the action of pedaling, one or more persons seated on one or more saddle seats
on its frame. Such term also includes a human-powered vehicle, and any
attachment to such vehicle designed to transport by pedaling when the vehicle
is used on a public roadway, public bicycle path or other public right-of-way,
but does not include a tricycle.
      OPERATOR. A person who travels on a bicycle seated on a saddle seat from
which that person is intended to and can pedal the bicycle.
      OTHER PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any right-of-way other than a public roadway
or public bicycle path that is under the jurisdiction and control of the state
or the municipality and is designed for use and used by vehicular or pedestrian
traffic.
      PASSENGER. Any person who travels on a bicycle in any manner, except as
an operator.
      PROTECTIVE BICYCLE HELMET. A piece of headgear which meets or exceeds the
impact standards for protective bicycle helmets set by the American National
Standards Institute (ANSI) or the Snell Memorial Foundation’s standards for
protective headgear or American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) for
use in bicycling.
      PUBLIC BICYCLE PATH. A right-of-way under the jurisdiction and control of
the state or the municipality for use primarily by bicycles and pedestrians.
      PUBLIC ROADWAY. A right-of-way under the jurisdiction and control of the
state or the municipality for use primarily by motor vehicles.
      TRICYCLE. A three-wheeled human-powered vehicle designed for use as a toy
by a single child under the age of six years, the seat of which is no more than
two feet from ground level.
   (B)   Requirements for helmet use.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person under 15 years of age to operate or
be a passenger on a bicycle or any attachment to a bicycle used on a public
roadway, public bicycle path or other public right-of-way unless at all times
when the person is so engaged he or she wears a protective bicycle helmet of
good fit, fastened securely upon the head with the straps of the helmet.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any parent or legal guardian of a person under
15 years of age to knowingly permit such person to operate or be a passenger on
a bicycle or on any attachment to a bicycle used on a public roadway, public
bicycle path or other public right-of-way unless at all times when the person
is so engaged he or she wears a protective bicycle helmet of good fit, fastened
securely upon the head with the straps of the helmet.
   (C)   Sale of bicycle helmets. Any helmet sold or offered for sale for use
by operators and passengers of bicycles shall be conspicuously labeled in
accordance with the standard described in division (A) above, which shall
constitute the manufacturer’s certification that the helmet conforms to the
applicable safety standards.
   (D)   Civil actions. A violation of division (B) above is not admissible as
evidence of negligence or contributory negligence or comparative negligence in
any civil action or proceeding for damages, and shall not be admissible in
mitigation of damages.
(Prior Code, § 373.09)  Penalty, see §
77.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code §§ 17C-11A-3, 17C-11A-4, 17C-11A-5, 17C-
11A-6
§ 77.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
70.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any violation of the regulations set forth in §§
77.01 through
77.06 of this chapter shall constitute the commission of a misdemeanor offense,
and the Police Department for the city or any other law enforcement of any
other policing agency exercising proper jurisdiction within the corporate
limits of the city, is hereby authorized and empowered to issue a citation and
to charge any persons who violates the regulations contained in §§
77.01 through
77.06 of this chapter, jurisdiction thereof being in the Municipal Court.
      (2)   Except as provided in the provisions of division (B)(3) below and
in addition to any other legal remedy for violation of civil or criminal
provisions, any person who violates the provisions of §§
77.01 through
77.06 of this chapter or who owns or has control over an all-terrain vehicle,
utility vehicle or other motorized recreational apparatus and knowingly permits
it to be used in violation of the provisions of §§
77.01 through
77.06 of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time to time.
      (3)   Any parent, legal guardian or person who has actual responsibility
for a child under 18 years of age who knows or should have known the child is
operating or is a passenger on an all-terrain vehicle or utility vehicle
without a helmet as required by the provisions of §§
77.01 through
77.06 of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be
subject to the following penalties:
         (a)   For a first offense, a fine in an amount set by Council from
time to time;
         (b)   For a second offense, a fine in an amount set by Council from
time to time;
         (c)   For a third and subsequent offense, a fine in an amount set by
Council from time to time and revocation of permit for one year; and
         (d)   Serious offenses (i.e., reckless driving or DUI, while operating
an ATV or UTV in town) are grounds for an automatic revocation of ATV/UTV
permit for not less than two years up to five years.
   (C)   (1)   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
70.99 of this traffic code, any parent or legal guardian violating any
requirement set forth in §
77.28(B) of this chapter shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time
to time or be required to perform two hours in community service related to a
child injury prevention program which includes injury prevention education or
both fined and required to perform such community service. Notwithstanding the
provisions of W.Va. Code § 8-11-1, no court costs may be assessed to any person
violating the requirements of §
77.28(B) of this chapter.
      (2)   In the case of a first violation of §
77.28(B) of this chapter, the court may waive the fine upon receipt of
satisfactory proof that the person has a helmet or within a reasonable time
from the date of the violation, purchased or otherwise obtained, a protective
bicycle helmet.
      (3)   It is an absolute defense to a charge for a violation of §
77.28 of this chapter that a parent or legal guardian is unable to pay for the
protective bicycle helmet. Inability to pay may be demonstrated by the filing
of a financial affidavit in accordance with the provisions of W.Va. Code § 59-
2-l(c). Any person who demonstrates inability to pay shall be referred to the
Governor’s highway safety program for assistance in obtaining the appropriate
helmet or helmets.
(Prior Code, § 373.99)  (Ord. passed 10-15-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Related penalty provisions, see W.Va. Code § 17C-11A-7
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
91.   ANIMAL CONTROL
      
92.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
CHAPTER 90:  HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Property maintenance; quarantine
   
90.02   Drug and gang houses
Junk Vehicles; Household Appliances
   
90.15   Statement of policy
   
90.16   Definitions
   
90.17   Interpretation
   
90.18   Motor vehicle abandonment
   
90.19   Junked motor vehicles
   
90.20   Tires; inoperative or abandoned household appliances
   
90.21   Removal by city
   
90.22   Notification to owner and lienholder
   
90.23   Disposal
   
90.24   Proceeds from sale
   
90.25   Injunctive relief; additional remedy
Nuisances
   
90.40   Regulations supplemental to other provisions
   
90.41   Nuisances prohibited
   
90.42   Nuisances defined and declared
   
90.43   Maintenance of premises
   
90.44   Dangerous conditions
   
90.45   Inspections, investigations and complaints; enforcement officer
   
90.46   Right to enter private premises; duty of occupants
   
90.47   Notice to cease and desist; notice to abate; appeal
   
90.48   Recourse of city when notice to abate is ignored
   
90.49   Committing or maintaining nuisance
 
   
90.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Abatement of nuisances, see W.Va. Code § 16-3-6
   Power to abate, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-5(23)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01  PROPERTY MAINTENANCE; QUARANTINE.
   (A)   Accumulation of garbage; refuse; waste.
      (1)   The owner or occupant of vacant and/or unimproved lots, parcels or
tracts of land shall keep the same clear and free from all accumulations of
ashes, rubbish, garbage, refuse, waste matter, weeds, filth, underbrush and
other growth which are unsightly, offensive, obnoxious or which constitute a
fire hazard. No owner or occupant shall fail to remove from the lots, parcels
or tracts of land, ashes, rubbish, garbage, refuse, waste matter, weeds, filth,
underbrush or other growth which is unsightly, offensive, obnoxious or which
constitutes a fire hazard, within ten days after written notice from the City
Manager, Chief of Police or Fire Chief, directing such removal. In the event
such owner or occupant of the lots, parcels or tracts of land fails to obey
such written notice within two days after receipt of the written notice, the
city may cause such lots, parcels or tracts of land to be cleared at the
expense of the owner or occupant. Such removal by the city shall not relieve
the owner or occupant from any criminal remedy for a violation of this
subchapter.
      (2)   No person occupying or owning property within the city shall allow
such property to be in an unclean condition, free of cesspools, stagnant water,
open drains, from which sewer gas or other unwholesome emanations may escape,
nor shall there be permitted to be deposited and remain on any property the
contents of any privy vaults or any unreasonable accumulation of manure. All
kennels, hog styes, chicken houses, privies, cellars or other buildings and
enclosures shall be frequently cleaned and kept free of offensive and noisome
stenches and substances.
(Prior Code, § 1105.01)
   (B)   Quarantine. No person having been exposed to any infectious or
contagious diseases shall appear upon the streets, roads, alleys or public
places in and about the city and no person placed under quarantine or living or
resorting in any place under quarantine shall depart from the bounds of
quarantine or tear down, destroy or remove signs and notices of quarantine.
(Prior Code, § 1105.02)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.02  DRUG AND GANG HOUSES.
   (A)   Certain properties declared a public nuisance.
      (1)   (a)   Any premises used for the illegal felony possession, storage
or delivery of or trafficking in controlled substances is hereby declared to be
a public nuisance; provided that, a public nuisance or violation of this
subchapter shall be deemed to exist when:
            1.   Any of the following offenses defined in West Virginia Code
are committed, in whole or in part, on the premises: manufacture of a
controlled substance, possession of a controlled substance with intent to
deliver, delivery of a controlled substance, any felony offense established in
W.Va. Code § 61-2-10b committed while under the influence of a controlled
substance, any felony offense established under W.Va. Code Ch. 60A while in
possession of a firearm, or any felonious assault or battery - whether with or
without a deadly weapon - committed while under the influence of an illegal
substance; and
            2.   The premises is used for two or more such offenses or
incidents within a 24 consecutive month period.
         (b)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not be deemed to be
applicable to any hospital, clinic or residential drug treatment facility that
is either licensed, certified or otherwise subject to supervision or inspection
by the state.
      (2)   Any person who owns, manages or controls any premises and who fails
to implement reasonable and warranted abatement measures identified in the
notice issued pursuant to division (B) below within the 30-day period following
the notice, or within any other agreed upon period, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor as provided in division (B) below and subject to a fine according
to the schedule set forth in §
90.99 of this chapter.
      (3)   Upon the commission of any act specified in division (A)(1) above,
the city will notify the owner of the premises upon which the act or acts were
committed, in writing, that an act triggering potential designation of the
premises as a public nuisance occurred on the premises.
   (B)   Order of abatement.
      (1)   The Chief of Police, City Manager, Zoning Enforcement Officer or
designee may bring an action to abate a public nuisance described by this
subchapter in the city’s Municipal Court by filing a complaint therein. Such
complaint shall identify with specificity the premises alleged to be a public
nuisance, the activity occurring thereupon which constitutes a violation under
division (A) above, and the frequency with which said activity has occurred
upon the premises. Upon the filing of a complaint, the Municipal Court shall
serve written notice of process upon each owner of the premises, his or her
tenants or any residents of the premises if known, and shall post a conspicuous
notice on the front door of any dwelling located upon the premises that a
complaint has been filed pursuant to this subchapter, and identifying the date
and time of any hearing on the complaint scheduled by the Municipal Court. For
purposes of service of process, compliance with the requirements of this
subchapter shall establish sufficient notice for the Municipal Court to hear
the complaint and render an order of liability under this subchapter. The
Municipal Court shall deem the premises a public nuisance if the complaining
officer establishes by a preponderance of the evidence that the premises was
used in the commission of those activities set forth in division (A) above.
      (2)   Upon a finding by the Municipal Court that the premises is a public
nuisance under this subchapter, the Municipal Court shall issue an order of
abatement requiring the defendants to take measures reasonably calculated to
prevent the recurrence of the illegal activity.
      (3)   The Municipal Court may issue a search warrant to the Chief of
Police, City Engineer or representative of the city to ensure compliance with
the order of abatement or any other order of the Municipal Court issued
pursuant to this subchapter.
      (4)   If any person in control of any premises deemed a public nuisance
under this subchapter, to whom an order of abatement is issued under this
subchapter, fails to implement the directives of the order of abatement within
30 days of its issuance, that person is guilty of a misdemeanor and is subject
to the penalty established in §
90.99 of this chapter.
      (5)   Any person in control of any premises whereupon any person engages
in manufacture of a controlled substance, possession of a controlled substance
with intent to deliver, delivery of a controlled substance, any felony offense
established in W.Va. Code § 61-2-10b committed while under the influence of a
controlled substance, or any felony offense established under W.Va. Code Ch.
60A while in possession of a firearm is guilty of a misdemeanor if he or she
knew or was willfully ignorant of such offenses being committed on the premises
and took no action to prevent or abate such activity, or participated in such
activity, and is subject to the penalty established in §
90.99 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 12-9-2019)  Penalty, see §
90.99
JUNK VEHICLES; HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCES
§ 90.15  STATEMENT OF POLICY.
   Council recognizes and declares that abandoned motor vehicles, junked motor
vehicles, old vehicle tires and certain abandoned or inoperative household
appliances constitute a public nuisance and hazard to both adults and children
and therefore are dangerous and constitute a clear and present danger; that
such abandoned motor vehicles, junked motor vehicles, old vehicle tires and
certain abandoned or inoperative household appliances serve as harborage and
breeding places for rodents, mosquitoes, fleas, ticks, mice, rats and other
insects, pests and flies injurious to the public health, safety and general
welfare; that abandoned motor vehicles and junked motor vehicles serve
frequently as temporary or permanent places of human residence unconducive to
public health, safety and welfare; that the accumulation and storage of any of
such items or parts thereof on private or public property, including, but not
limited to, highways, is hereby found to create a condition tending to reduce
the value of private property and to promote blight and deterioration which if
permitted to remain will continue to destroy the natural beauty of the city and
have adverse economic and social effects; that such abandoned motor vehicles,
junked motor vehicles, old vehicle tires and certain abandoned or inoperative
household appliances constitute an attractive nuisance creating a hazard to the
health and safety of minors; that such items are nearly always located on
public highways, rights-of-way or within sight of such highway rights-of-way
and on private property within a reasonable proximity thereto; that all such
visual pollution is a deterrent to economic development; and that it is in the
public interest and welfare to provide for a program to eliminate the unsightly
practice of abandoning motor vehicles, old vehicle tires and certain abandoned
or inoperative household appliances. In view of these findings, Council
declares it to be the public policy of the city to eliminate the present danger
resulting from abandoned motor vehicles, junked motor vehicles, old vehicle
tires and certain abandoned or inoperative household appliances and to
eliminate the visual pollution resulting from these items, and that in order to
provide for the public health, safety and welfare, and quality of life, to
enact legislation to that end by providing expeditious means and methods for
effecting the disposal of abandoned motor vehicles, junked motor vehicles, old
vehicle tires and certain abandoned household appliances. Council further finds
and declares that the presence of an abandoned or inoperative household
appliance or any part thereof, on private or public property, including, but
not limited to, highways, except as expressly hereinafter permitted, is a
public nuisance injurious to the public health, safety and general welfare
which shall be abated as such by the methods provided in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 1109.01)
§ 90.16  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE. A refrigerator, deepfreeze, range, stove,
automatic dishwasher, clothes washer, clothes dryer, trash compactor,
television set, radio, air conditioning unit, commode or bed springs, to which
no person claims ownership and which is not in an enclosed building, a licensed
salvage yard or the actual possession of a demolisher.
   ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle, or major part thereof, which is
inoperative and which has been abandoned on public or private property for any
period of time over five days, other than in an enclosed building or in a
licensed salvage yard or at the business establishment of a demolisher, or any
motor vehicle, or major part thereof, which has remained illegally on public or
private property for any period of time over five days, or any motor vehicle,
or major part thereof, which has remained on private property without consent
of the owner or person in control of the property for any period of time over
three days, or any motor vehicle, or major part thereof, which is unattended,
discarded, deserted and unlicensed and is not in an enclosed building, a
licensed salvage yard or the actual possession of a demolisher.
   DEMOLISHER. Any person licensed by the state’s Commissioner of Highways
whose business, to any extent or degree, is to convert a motor vehicle or any
part thereof or an inoperative household appliance into processed scrap or
scrap metal, or into saleable parts, or otherwise to wreck or dismantle
vehicles or appliances.
   ENCLOSED BUILDING. A structure surrounded by walls or one continuous wall,
and having a roof enclosing the entire structure and includes a permanent
appendage thereto.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE. A motor vehicle, or any part thereof, other than an
on-premises farm utility vehicle, which is discarded, wrecked, ruined, scrapped
or dismantled, cannot pass the State inspection required by W.Va. Code Art.
17C-16, and is either not serving a functional purpose or use or is not in an
enclosed building, a licensed salvage yard or the actual possession of a
demolisher.
   LICENSED SALVAGE YARD. A salvage yard licensed under W.Va. Code Art. 17-23.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle which is or was self-propelled, including, but not
limited to, automobiles, trucks, buses and motorcycles.
   OLD VEHICLE TIRE. A pneumatic tire in which compressed air is designed to
support a load, but which because of wear, damage or defect can no longer
safely be used on a motor vehicle and which is either not serving a functional
purpose or use or is not in an enclosed building, a licensed salvage yard or
the actual possession of a demolisher.
(Prior Code, § 1109.02)
§ 90.17  INTERPRETATION.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall be liberally construed to accomplish
the objectives and purposes hereof.
(Prior Code, § 1109.03)
§ 90.18  MOTOR VEHICLE ABANDONMENT.
   No person shall, within the city, abandon a motor vehicle upon the right-of-
way of any public highway, upon any other public property or upon any private
property which he or she does not own, lease, rent or otherwise control unless
it be at a licensed salvage yard or at the business establishment of a
demolisher.
(Prior Code, § 1109.04)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.19  JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   No person shall place or deposit any junked motor vehicle upon the right-of-
way of any public highway or upon other public property; nor shall any person
place or deposit any junked motor vehicle upon any private property which he or
she does not own, lease, rent or otherwise control unless it be at a licensed
salvage yard or at the business establishment of a demolisher.
(Prior Code, § 1109.05)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.20  TIRES; INOPERATIVE OR ABANDONED HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCES.
   No person shall place or deposit any old vehicle tire or inoperative or
abandoned household appliance upon the right-of-way of any public highway or
upon any other public property nor abandon the same upon any private property
which he does not own, lease, rent or otherwise control, unless it be a
licensed salvage yard or at the business establishment of a demolisher.
(Prior Code, § 1109.06)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.21  REMOVAL BY CITY.
   When the Police Department has knowledge of or discovers or finds any
abandoned motor vehicle, any junked motor vehicle, old vehicle tire or
inoperative or abandoned household appliance on either public or private
property, it shall take the same into its custody and possession and, for this
purpose, the Police Department may employ its own personnel, equipment and
facilities or, subject to the availability of funds for such purpose, may hire
persons, equipment and facilities for the purpose of removing, preserving and
storing abandoned motor vehicles, junked motor vehicles, old vehicle tires or
inoperative or abandoned household appliances; provided that, before taking any
abandoned motor vehicle or junked motor vehicle into custody and possession
from private property, the Police Department shall give the private property
owner and the owner of such motor vehicle, if ascertainable, 30 days’ notice by
registered or certified mail that such action will be taken unless the motor
vehicle is restored to a functional use.
(Prior Code, § 1109.07)
§ 90.22  NOTIFICATION TO OWNER AND LIENHOLDER.
   (A)   The Police Department, having taken into its custody and possession an
abandoned motor vehicle, or junked motor vehicle shall, within seven days after
taking custody and possession thereof, notify the last known registered owner
of such motor vehicle and all lienholders of record that such motor vehicle has
been taken into custody and possession, such notification to be by registered
or certified mail, return receipt requested. The notice shall contain a
description of such motor vehicle, including the year, make, model,
manufacturer’s serial or identification number or any other number which may
have been assigned to such motor vehicle by the state’s Commissioner of Motor
Vehicles and any distinguishing marks; set forth the location of the facility
where such motor vehicle is being held and the location where such motor
vehicle was taken into custody and possession; inform the owner and any
lienholders of record of their right to reclaim such motor vehicle within ten
days after the date notice was received by the owner or lienholders, upon
payment of all towing, preservation and storage charges resulting from taking
and placing such motor vehicle into custody and possession, and state that the
failure of the owner or lienholders of record to exercise his, her or their
right to reclaim such motor vehicle within such ten-day period shall be deemed
a waiver by the owner and all lienholders of record of all right, title and
interest in such motor vehicle and of their consent to the sale or disposal of
the abandoned motor vehicle or junked motor vehicle at a public auction or to a
licensed salvage yard or demolisher.
   (B)   If the identity of the last registered owner of the abandoned motor
vehicle or junked motor vehicle cannot be determined, or if the certificate of
registration or certificate of title contains no address for the owner, or if
it is impossible to determine with reasonable certainty the identity and
addresses of all lienholders notice shall be published as a Class I legal
advertisement in compliance with the provisions of W.Va. Code Art. 59-3, and
the publication area shall be this county and such notice shall be sufficient
to meet all requirements of notice pursuant to this subchapter. Any notice by
publication may contain multiple listings of abandoned motor vehicles and
junked motor vehicles. The notice shall be published within seven days after
such motor vehicle is taken into custody and possession and shall have the same
contents required for a notice pursuant to division (A) above; except that, the
ten-day period shall run from the date such notice is published as aforesaid.
   (C)   The consequences and effect of failure to reclaim an abandoned motor
vehicle or junked motor vehicle within the ten-day period after notice is
received by registered or certified mail or within ten days after the notice is
published in a newspaper as aforesaid shall be set forth in such notice.
(Prior Code, § 1109.08)
§ 90.23  DISPOSAL.
   (A)   If an abandoned motor vehicle or junked motor vehicle is not reclaimed
as provided in §
90.22 of this chapter, the Police Department shall sell it either at a public
auction or to a licensed salvage yard or demolisher. The purchaser of such
motor vehicle shall take title to such motor vehicle free and clear of all
liens and claims of ownership, and shall receive a sales receipt from the
Police Department. The sales receipt at such sale shall be sufficient title
only for purposes of transferring such motor vehicle to a licensed salvage yard
or to a demolisher for demolition, wrecking or dismantling, and no further
titling of such motor vehicle shall be necessary by either the purchaser at the
auction, the licensed salvage yard or the demolisher, who shall be exempt from
the payment of any fees and taxes required under W.Va. Code Art. 17A-3 (as so
provided in W.Va. Code § 17-24A-5); provided that, the purchaser at the auction
must place such motor vehicle in the possession of a licensed salvage yard or
demolisher within 20 days from the date he or she purchased such motor vehicle
and the licensed salvage yard or demolisher must demolish, wreck or dismantle
such motor vehicle within six months after taking possession of such motor
vehicle and if such licensed salvage yard or demolisher does not, such licensed
salvage yard or demolisher shall be required to pay all fees and taxes required
under W.Va. Code Art. 17A-3 (as so provided in W.Va. Code § 17-24A-5).
   (B)   When the Police Department has in its custody and possession old
vehicle tires or inoperative or abandoned household appliances collected in
accordance with this subchapter, it shall sell such property from time to time
at public auction or to a licensed salvage yard or demolisher.
(Prior Code, § 1109.09)
§ 90.24  PROCEEDS FROM SALE.
   (A)   From the proceeds of any such sale, the city shall reimburse itself
for any expenses it may have incurred in removing, towing, preserving and
storing the property and the expenses of conducting any auction and any notice
and publication expenses incurred pursuant to this subchapter.
   (B)   Any remainder from the proceeds of such sale shall be deposited in the
city treasury to be kept and maintained as a special revolving account,
designated as the “Abandoned and Junked Property Fund”; provided that, any
remainder from the proceeds of the sale of an abandoned motor vehicle or junked
motor vehicle after payment of such motor vehicle or any lienholder for 90
days, after which time, if no owner or lienholder claims the remainder, it
shall be deposited in such special fund.
   (C)   Any money so collected and deposited in such special fund shall be
used solely for the payment of auction, towing, removing, preserving, storing,
notice and publication costs which results from taking other abandoned motor
vehicles, junked motor vehicles, old vehicle tires and inoperative or abandoned
household appliances into custody and possession; provided that, whenever the
abandoned and junked vehicle fund exceeds a sum in an amount set by Council
from time to time, Council may, by resolution, transfer such excess to the
General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 1109.10)
§ 90.25  INJUNCTIVE RELIEF; ADDITIONAL REMEDY.
   In addition to all other remedies provided for in this subchapter, the City
Attorney, of his or her own volition or at the instance of any resident or
taxpayer of the city, may apply to the Circuit Court, or the judge thereof in
vacation, for an injunction to restrain, prevent or abate the maintenance and
storage of abandoned motor vehicles, junked motor vehicles, old vehicle tires
or inoperative or abandoned household appliances, in violation of any provision
of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 1109.11)
NUISANCES
§ 90.40  REGULATIONS SUPPLEMENTAL TO OTHER PROVISIONS.
   Various nuisances are defined and prohibited in other parts of the codified
ordinances, and it is the intent of Council in enacting this subchapter to make
it supplemental to those other parts in which nuisances are defined and
prohibited; and the provisions of this subchapter relating to the abatement of
nuisances shall be regarded as alternative methods and procedures for the
abatement of nuisances in those instances where other methods and procedures
for abatement are provided.
(Prior Code, § 1115.01)
§ 90.41  NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall cause, harbor, commit or maintain, or permit to be caused,
harbored, committed or maintained any nuisance as defined by the statute or
common law of the state or as defined by the codified ordinances or other
ordinance of the city at any place within the city, or at any place beyond the
city limits which is owned by the city or over which the city has a right-of-
way; or at any other place beyond the city limits, but within one mile thereof,
and not in any other incorporated municipality, wherever the powers and
authority granted by this subchapter cannot be reasonably and efficiently
exercised by confining the exercise thereof within the corporate limits of the
city.
(Prior Code, § 1115.02)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.42  NUISANCES DEFINED AND DECLARED.
   (A)   The following acts when committed, or conditions when existing, within
the city or within the area surrounding the city and within the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of Council as provided in §
90.41 of this chapter are hereby defined and declared to be nuisances:
      (1)   An act done or committed or aided or assisted to be done or
committed by any person, or any substance, being or thing kept, maintained,
placed or found in or upon any public or private place, which is injurious or
dangerous to the public health or safety;
      (2)   All buildings, bridges or other structures of whatever character
kept or maintained or which are permitted by any person owning or haying
control thereof to be kept or maintained in a condition unsafe, dangerous,
unhealthy, injurious or annoying to the public;
      (3)   All trees and other appendages of or to realty kept or maintained
or which are permitted by any person owning or having control thereof to be
kept or maintained in a condition unsafe, dangerous, unhealthy, injurious or
annoying to the public;
      (4)   All ponds or pools of stagnant water, and all foul or dirty water
or liquid when discharged through any drain, pipe or spout or thrown into or
upon any street, public place or lot to the injury or annoyance of the public;
      (5)   All obstructions caused or permitted on any street or sidewalk to
the danger or annoyance of the public, and all stones, rubbish, dirt, filth,
slops, vegetable matter or other article thrown or placed by any person on or
in any street, sidewalk or other public place, which in any way may cause any
injury or annoyance to the public;
      (6)   All sidewalks, gutters or curbstones permitted to remain in an
unsafe condition or out of repair;
      (7)   All stables, cattle yards, hog, sheep or cow pens or other places
where animals are kept or yards for poultry, permitted by the owner thereof or
the person responsible therefor to be in such a condition as to become
offensive, annoying or injurious to the public;
      (8)   All houses, buildings, structures or enclosures used for special
storage of powder, dynamite or other explosive or highly flammable substances
or gases, except those maintained pursuant to permit issued by competent
authority;
      (9)   Any litter, trash, garbage or refuse or any abandoned unlicensed
motor vehicle or any part thereof, which is or may be offensive to the
neighborhood or citizens generally; and
      (10)   Any offensive or unwholesome substance or growth of grass, weeds
or brush upon any lot or parcel of ground.
   (B)   The nuisances described in this subchapter shall not be construed as
exclusive, and any act of commission or omission and any condition which
constitutes a nuisance by statute or common law of the state is, when
committed, omitted or existing within the city or within the extraterritorial
jurisdiction of Council as provided in §
90.41 of this chapter is hereby declared to constitute a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 1115.03)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.43  MAINTENANCE OF PREMISES.
   No person owning or in possession of any lot, house, building or enclosure
shall allow or suffer to exist in or upon such premises any stagnant water,
animal or vegetable matter or other substance liable to become putrid,
offensive, annoying or unhealthy. Persons owning or in possession of any real
estate shall provide proper and adequate drainage therefor so that no
offensive, baneful or disagreeable liquids shall flow or seep into any street.
Any violation of this subchapter is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 1115.04)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.44  DANGEROUS CONDITIONS.
   No person who, being, the owner, lessee or occupant of any lot or parcel of
land, shall knowingly permit to remain thereon any structure, tree, machine or
appliance, combustible materials or any other materials or combination of
materials which create a fire hazard or a hazard to adjoining public or private
property or to persons using or occupying such adjoining public or private
property, or neglect or refuse to remove or abate the nuisance occasioned
thereby within 24 hours after such person has knowledge of the existence of
such nuisance upon any of the above described premises, owned, leased or
occupied by him or her. Any violation of this subchapter is hereby declared to
be a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 1115.05)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.45  INSPECTIONS, INVESTIGATIONS AND COMPLAINTS; ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (A)   The Chief of Police, the Fire Chief, the Building Official and, if
there is one, the city’s Health Officer, shall cause inspections to be made
from time to time within the city and, when they deem it in the interest of the
city so to do, within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city as provided
in §
90.41 of this chapter, determine whether any condition exists or activity is
being practiced which constitutes a nuisance; and each such officer shall cause
an investigation to be made upon written complaint made by any responsible
person. In the absence of the city’s Health Officer, any public health officer
having jurisdiction within the city is hereby vested with the authority
conferred by this subchapter on a City Health Officer, and he or she may
exercise such authority when authorized so to do by his or her own superiors.
   (B)   Each officer mentioned in division (A) above shall, for the purposes
of this subchapter, be designated as an “enforcement officer”.
(Prior Code, § 1115.06)
§ 90.46  RIGHT TO ENTER PRIVATE PREMISES; DUTY OF OCCUPANTS.
   When a city code enforcement official enters the premises of the property
for investigating or inspecting any structure, dwelling, or building, the
investigation shall be performed to minimize the convenience to the owner or
persons in possession and shall be consistent with the following:
   (A)   Except in exigent circumstances and as permitted by law, the
enforcement agency shall provide reasonable advance notice to the owner and
request permissions the owner to enter the property;
   (B)   If the owner cannot be located after reasonable inquiry by the code
enforcement agency as required by this subchapter, or if the owner refuses
entry, the code enforcement agency may obtain an administrative search warrant
from either the municipal court or the magistrate court located in the
jurisdiction of the municipality or county where the structure, dwelling, or
building is located. Before obtaining an administrative search warrant, a code
enforcement agency official is required to make a sworn statement and prima
facie case showing that the code enforcement agency was unable to gain access
to the structure, dwelling, or building after reasonable and good faith
efforts, and that there is a  legitimate and substantial safety concern
involving the structure, dwelling, or building that supports the requested
entry;
   (C)   If granted by the court, and if the owner can be located, the code
enforcement agency shall provide the owner a copy of the administrative search
warrant five days before entering the property. If applicable, the code
enforcement agency shall also provide the same notice to any tenant or other
person in possession of the structure, dwelling, or building; and
   (D)   Entry is for the sole purpose of inspection of the structure,
dwelling, or building for unsafe or unsanitary conditions and not for the
purpose of criminal prosecution or gathering evidence for use in any criminal
charge or proceeding unrelated to the unsafe and unsanitary condition of the
structure, dwelling, or building.
§ 90.47  NOTICE TO CEASE AND DESIST; NOTICE TO ABATE; APPEAL.
   (A)   If, at any time, an enforcement officer shall find that an activity or
practice which constitutes a nuisance is occurring within the city or within
the area surrounding the city and within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of
the city as provided in §
90.41 of this chapter, he or she shall promptly and by the most expeditious
means notify the violator to cease and desist forthwith.
(Prior Code, § 1115.08)
   (B)   If, at any time, an enforcement officer shall find that a condition
which constitutes a nuisance exists within the city or within the area
surrounding the city and within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city
as provided in §
90.41 of this chapter, he or she shall give notice in writing to the owner,
occupant or person in charge of the premises upon which such condition exists,
stating therein the condition which constitutes a nuisance and directing such
addressee to remedy the condition within the time stated in such notice, which
shall be not more than ten days; and no such owner, occupant or person in
charge shall fail to comply with the terms of such notice; provided, however,
any owner, occupant or person in charge may, within two days from the service
thereof, appeal to Council, in which case the terms of such notice shall be
stayed pending action of Council, which shall be final; provided further,
however, that, if the enforcement officer shall state in such notice that the
condition which constitutes a nuisance is such as to be an imminent hazard to
the health, safety or welfare of the public or any person within or near the
premises upon which such nuisance exists, then the addressee shall comply with
the terms of such notice.
(Prior Code, § 1115.09)
§ 90.48  RECOURSE OF CITY WHEN NOTICE TO ABATE IS IGNORED.
   (A)   Upon the failure of any person to whom notice has been given pursuant
to §
90.47 of this chapter to comply with the terms of such notice, or with the
terms imposed by Council on appeal, as the case may be, the enforcement officer
shall forthwith direct the appropriate city officer to remedy the condition
which is the subject of such notice, and the expense incurred by the city in so
doing shall be charged to the addressee of such notice, as well as to the owner
of the premises which is the subject of such notice, jointly and severally, to
be collected as city taxes or in any other manner authorized by law for the
collection of money due the city.
   (B)   Abatement by the city of any condition which constitutes a nuisance
and reimbursement to the city of expenses incurred thereby shall not bar
prosecution for maintenance of a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 1115.10)
§ 90.49  COMMITTING OR MAINTAINING NUISANCE.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be considered to prohibit any police
officer from arresting any person for committing or maintaining a nuisance when
such arrest is made pursuant to law.
(Prior Code, § 1115.11)
§ 90.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, §§ 1105.99, 1109.99)
   (B)   (1)   Each day that a violation of §
90.02 of this chapter continues shall be considered a separate and distinct
offense. No person shall be found in violation of §
90.02(B)(5) of this chapter unless the abatement measures ordered under §
90.02(B) of this chapter were reasonable and warranted, and that the defendant
knowingly failed to implement them.
      (2)   Upon a finding of liability under §
90.02 of this chapter, the defendant shall be fined not less than $100 and not
more than $1,000 per offense.
      (3)   Any fine imposed under §
90.02 of this chapter shall be considered a lien upon the premises determined
to be a public nuisance under §
90.02 of this chapter, and the city shall cause to be recorded in the office of
the Clerk of the County Commission a notice of lien if any fine imposed under §
90.02 of this chapter is not paid under such terms established by the city’s
Municipal Court.
(Ord. passed 12-9-2019)
CHAPTER 91:  ANIMAL CONTROL
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Cruelty to animals
   
91.02   Nuisance conditions prohibited
   
91.03   Barking and howling dogs
   
91.04   Hunting prohibited
   
91.05   Keeping hogs restricted
   
91.06   Animals at large
   
91.07   Livestock
Dogs
   
91.20   “Dog” defined
   
91.21   Annual head tax imposed
   
91.22   Running at large prohibited; leash required
   
91.23   Impoundment; notice; redemption; costs
   
91.24   Unclaimed impounded dogs
   
91.25   Rabid dogs
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances, see §§
90.40 through
90.49
   Offenses Against Public Peace, see Ch. 133
   Offenses Against Public Safety, see Ch. 134
   Property maintenance; quarantine, see §
90.01
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate the keeping of animals, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-5(26)
   Authority to prevent ill-treatment of animals, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-5(27)
   Diseases among domestic animals, see W.Va. Code Art. 19-9
   Disposing of dead animals, see W.Va. Code § 16-9-3
   Dogs generally, see W.Va. Code Art. 19-20
   Domestic animal tax, see W.Va. Code § 8-13-10
   Hunting, see W.Va. Code Art. 20-2
   Vaccination of dogs, see W.Va. Code Art. 19-20A
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01  CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   No person shall cruelly mistreat, abandon or withhold proper
sustenance, including food, water, shelter or medical treatment, necessary to
sustain normal health and fitness or to end suffering or abandon any animal to
die, or intentionally, knowingly or recklessly leave an animal unattended and
confined in a motor vehicle when physical injury to or death of the animal is
likely to result, or ride an animal when it is physically unfit, or bait or
harass any animal for the purpose of making it perform for a person’s
amusement, or cruelly chain any animal or use, train or possess any
domesticated animal for the purpose of seizing, detaining or maltreating any
other domesticated animal.
      (2)   No person, other than a licensed veterinarian or a person acting
under the direction or with the approval of a licensed veterinarian, shall
knowingly and willfully administer or cause to be administered to any animal
participating in any contest any controlled substance or any other drug for the
purpose of altering or otherwise affecting such animal’s performance.
      (3)   Any person convicted of a violation of this division (A) shall
forfeit his or her interest in any such animal and all interest in such animal
shall vest in the Humane Society or county pound in which the conviction was
rendered, and such person shall, in addition to any fine imposed, be liable for
any costs incurred or to be incurred by the humane society or county pound as a
result.
      (4)   For the purpose of this division (A), CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE has the
same meaning ascribed to it by W.Va. Code § 60A-1-101(e).
      (5)   The provisions of this division (A) do not apply to lawful acts of
hunting, fishing, trapping or animal training or farm livestock, poultry,
gaming fowl or wildlife kept in private or licensed game farms if kept and
maintained according to usual and accepted standards of livestock, poultry,
gaming fowl or wildlife or game farm production and management, nor to humane
use of animals or activities regulated under and in conformity with the
provisions of the Animal Welfare Act, being 7 U.S.C. 2131 et seq. and the
regulations promulgated thereunder, as both such statutes and regulations are
in effect on the effective date of this division (A).
(Prior Code, § 505.01)
   (B)   Dogs and cats. No person shall cruelly, or needlessly beat, torture,
torment, mutilate, kill or willfully deprive necessary sustenance, to any dog
or cat, irrespective of whether any such dog or cat is his or her own or that
of another person. No person shall impound or confine any dog or cat in any
place unprotected from the elements or fail to supply the same with a
sufficient quantity of food and water, or abandon to die any maimed, sick or
diseased dog or cat or be engaged in or employed at dogfighting, or pitting one
dog or cat to fight against another dog or cat or any similar cruelty to any
dog or cat, or receive money for the admission of any person, or use, train or
possess a dog or cat for the purpose of seizing, detaining or maltreating any
other dog or cat.
(Prior Code, § 505.02)  Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 61-8-19
§ 91.02  NUISANCE CONDITIONS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall keep or harbor any animal or fowl in the municipality so as
to create noxious, or offensive odors or unsanitary conditions which are a
menace to the health, comfort or safety of the public.
(Prior Code, § 505.03)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03  BARKING OR HOWLING DOGS.
   No person shall keep or harbor any dog within the municipality which, by
frequent and habitual barking, howling or yelping, creates unreasonably loud
and disturbing noises of such a character, intensity and duration as to disturb
the peace, quiet and good order of the municipality. Any person who shall allow
any dog habitually to remain, be lodged or fed within any dwelling, building,
yard or enclosure, which he or she occupies or owns, shall be considered as
harboring such dog.
(Prior Code, § 505.04)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04  HUNTING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall hunt, kill or attempt to kill any animal or fowl by the use
of firearms, bow and arrow, air rifle or any other means within the corporate
limits of the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 505.05)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05  KEEPING HOGS RESTRICTED.
   No person shall keep any hog within 200 feet of any residence, other than
the residence of the owner, within the city. This subchapter does not apply to
pigs and hogs being transported through the city.
(Prior Code, § 505.06)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06  ANIMALS AT LARGE.
   No person shall allow or permit any horse, cow, swine, goat, chicken or
other domestic animal or fowl to run at large upon any of the roads, streets or
alleys of the city.
(Prior Code, § 505.07)
§ 91.07  LIVESTOCK.
   (A)   No person shall keep, possess, feed or maintain any live animal within
the city other than domesticated household pets (such as as dogs and cats),
except in those instances when an individual or entity owns or leases ten
contiguous acres of real estate within the city limits. Except as set forth in
the preceding sentence, livestock shall not be permitted within the city.
   (B)   LIVESTOCK will be defined as cattle, goats, mules, sheep, horses,
chickens and other fowl, rabbits for commercial purposes and swine (hogs and
pigs) including varieties that are commonly kept as pets (such as pot-bellied
pigs and the like).
   (C)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, domesticated pet rabbits and
domesticated pot-bellied pigs will be allowed and shall be limited to two
domesticated pets per household.
   (D)   In the event of any conflict between this subchapter and §§
91.01 through
91.06 of this chapter, this provision shall control and supersede the noted
provisions.
(Ord. passed - -2018)  Penalty, see §
91.99
DOGS
§ 91.20  “DOG” DEFINED.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, DOG means a dog of either sex, unless
otherwise specified.
(Prior Code, § 507.01)  (Ord. passed 4-19-1982)
§ 91.21  ANNUAL HEAD TAX IMPOSED.
   (A)   There is hereby imposed upon each person keeping within the city a dog
above the age of six months an annual head tax on each dog so kept by him or
her in an amount set by Council from time to time whether male or female.
   (B)   Each person who keeps within the city a dog above the age of six
months shall report each such dog to the Assessor of the county at the time of
the annual assessment of personal property is made; provided that, when any
person any person within the city acquires a dog above the age of six months,
or when a dog kept by him or her within the city attains the age of six months,
such person shall then report such dog to the Assessor of the county.
   (C)   Each person reporting a dog to the County Assessor, pursuant to
division (B) above, shall pay to the Assessor the amount of the head tax
prescribed in division (A) above, for each dog he or she is required to report,
and he or she shall then attach to the collar of each such dog the proper
registration tag furnished to him or her by the Assessor, and retain within his
or her possession the certificate of registration furnished to him or her by
the Assessor for each such dog.
   (D)   The annual head tax on dogs imposed by division (A) above is for a
fiscal year rather than a calendar year.
(Prior Code, § 507.02)  (Ord. passed 4-19-1982)
§ 91.22  RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED; LEASH REQUIRED.
   No owner of any dog shall permit such dog to run at large within the city.
Any dog found running at large within the city shall be secured and confined
and shall be held for a period of five days, during which time the owner of
such dog may claim the same upon the payment of a sum in an amount set by
Council from time to time for each day that the dog is held in confinement, and
after such period of five days has expired, if such dog has not been claimed
and the fee above provided paid, then such dog shall be shot or otherwise
destroyed.
(Prior Code, § 507.03)  (Ord. passed 4-19-1982)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.23  IMPOUNDMENT; NOTICE; REDEMPTION; COSTS.
   (A)   General. The police or other persons designated by the City Manager
for such purpose shall cause to be seized and impounded any dog at large in the
city or not wearing a vaccination tag as required by W.Va. Code § 19-20A-4;
provided that, if a dog found in violation of this subchapter is rabid, vicious
or otherwise constitutes a danger to human life or limb the officer whose duty
it is to impound such dog may destroy it by shooting, if it cannot safely be
captured and made secure.
(Prior Code, § 507.04)
   (B)   Notice; redemption; costs.
      (1)   If the owner or person in charge of any dog impounded under the
provisions of this subchapter is known to the impounding officer, the
impounding officer shall promptly notify him or her of such impoundment, so as
to inform him or her of:
         (a)   The dog impounded and a description thereof;
         (b)   The date of impoundment;
         (c)   The place of impoundment;
         (d)   The reason for impoundment;
         (e)   The procedure for redemption of his or her dog;
         (f)   The costs of redemption; and
         (g)   The consequences of failure to redeem the impounded dog.
      (2)   If the owner or person in charge of any dog impounded under the
provisions of this subchapter is unknown to the impounding officer and cannot
be ascertained by reasonable effort within 24 hours, the officer shall, within
two days following such impoundment, post notices on the City Hall bulletin
board and at three other public places within the city, each such notice to
contain all the information required by divisions (B)(1)(a) through (B)(1)(g)
above.
(Prior Code, § 507.05)
   (C)   Redemption of impounded dog; costs.
      (1)   The owner or person entitled to possession of any dog impounded
under the provisions of this subchapter may redeem such dog at any time prior
to the sale or other disposition thereof upon satisfactory proof of his or her
right to possession and payment of:
         (a)   The expense, if any, incurred in making the impoundment;
         (b)   The expense incurred for sustenance, shelter and care of the
impounded dog;
         (c)   The expense incurred for giving notice;
         (d)   The expense incurred for advertising a sale, retention of an
auctioneer and related items; and
         (e)   Any other expense actually incurred; provided that, no dog shall
be redeemed for less than a fee in an amount set by Council from time to time
for each day such dog was impounded.
      (2)   No impounded dog shall be sold, destroyed or otherwise disposed of
except by release to its owner or some other person lawfully entitled to its
custody until not less than five days have elapsed since its impoundment.
(Prior Code, § 507.06)  (Ord. passed 4-19-1982)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.24  UNCLAIMED IMPOUNDED DOGS.
   Impounded dogs not redeemed by their owners or others entitled to their
custody within five days of their impoundment may be disposed of in accordance
with the law governing the pound; provided that, no dog shall be destroyed,
except in a humane manner, and no dog shall be destroyed if a responsible
person applies for release to his or her custody and he or she agrees to
provide the dog with a home and subsistence and to abide by the requirements of
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 507.07)  (Ord. passed 4-19-1982)
§ 91.25  RABID DOGS.
   (A)   No person shall own, keep or harbor any dog known by him or her, or
which, in the exercise of reasonable diligence, he or she should know, to be
suffering with rabies. Any person who shall be convicted of a violation of this
division (A) shall be compelled to destroy such animal, in addition to any
penalty which may be adjudged against him or her.
   (B)   Any police officer shall kill, by shooting, any dog known by him or
her to be suffering with rabies.
(Prior Code, § 507.08)  (Ord. passed 4-19-1982)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   (a)   Whoever violates §
91.01(A) of this chapter shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time
to time or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both, for a first offense. Any
person convicted of a second or subsequent violation of §
91.01(A) of this chapter shall be imprisoned for not more than 30 days or fined
in an amount set by Council from time to time, or both. The incarceration set
forth in this division (B)(1)(a) shall be mandatory unless the provisions of
division (B)(1)(c) below are complied with.
         (b)   Notwithstanding any provision of this code to the contrary, no
person who has been convicted of a violation of the provisions of §
91.01(A) of this chapter may be granted probation until the defendant has
undergone a complete psychiatric or psychological evaluation and the court has
reviewed such evaluation. Unless the defendant is determined by the court to be
indigent, he or she shall be responsible for the cost of said evaluation.
         (c)   For any person convicted of a violation of division (B)(1)(a)
above, the court may, in addition to the penalties provided in this subchapter,
impose a requirement that he or she complete a program of anger management
intervention for perpetrators of animal cruelty. Unless the defendant is
determined by the court to be indigent, he or she shall be responsible for the
cost of the program.
         (d)   In addition to any other penalty which can be imposed for a
violation of §
91.01(A) of this chapter, a court shall prohibit any person so convicted from
possessing, owning or residing with any animal or type of animal for a period
of five years following entry of a conviction. A violation under this division
(B)(1)(d) is punishable by a fine in an amount set by Council from time to time
and forfeiture of the animal.
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates §
91.01(B) of this chapter shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time
to time.
         (b)   Whoever violates §
91.01(B) of this chapter shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time
to time or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both. In addition, the Humane
Officer may remove the dog or cat involved and place it in the pound and such
dog or cat shall not be returned to the owner or perpetrator of the act of
cruelty, but shall be put up for adoption to a desirable home or given into the
care of a humane society or upon the recommendation of a licensed veterinarian
shall be humanely destroyed.
(Prior Code, § 505.99)
   (C)   Any such owner convicted or permitting a dog to run at large within
the city, per §
91.22 of this chapter, shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time to
time upon the first such conviction, in an amount set by Council from time to
time upon the second such conviction and in an amount set by Council from time
to time upon the third or any subsequent such conviction.
(Prior Code, § 507.03)  (Ord. passed 4-19-1982)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 61-8-19
CHAPTER 92:  FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
   
92.01   National Fire Codes adopted; conflicts
 
   
92.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of technical codes by reference, see W.Va. Code § 8-11-4(b)
   State Fire Code, see W.Va. Code § 15A-11-3
§ 92.01  NATIONAL FIRE CODES ADOPTED; CONFLICTS.
   (A)   Codes adopted. There is hereby adopted, and incorporated by reference
as if set out at length herein, for the purpose of prescribing rules and
regulations to improve public safety by providing the control of fire hazards,
regulating the installation, use and maintenance of equipment regulating the
use of structures, premises and open areas, and providing for the abatement of
fire hazards, those certain codes known as the National Fire Codes, Volumes 1
through 16, 1979 Edition, published by the National Fire Protection
Association, and the B.O.C.A. Basic Fire Prevention Code, Fifth Edition, 1981,
published by the Building Officials and Code Administrators (BOCA)
International, Inc.
(Prior Code, § 1515.01)
   (B)   Conflicts. When any provision of this subchapter, or any provision of
any code adopted herein by this chapter, is found to conflict with any other
ordinance or code of the city, the provision which establishes the higher
standard shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 1515.02)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter or provision of the Fire
Codes adopted herein shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time to
time, or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both. Each day a violation
continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 1515.99)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   TAXATION
      
111.   LIQUOR CONTROL, CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES AND MARIJUANA
      
112.   AMUSEMENTS AND LEISURE
      
113.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
CHAPTER 110:  TAXATION
Section
Municipal Business License Tax
   
110.01   License required
   
110.02   Revocation
   
110.03   Issuance by Council
   
110.04   Issuance by City Clerk
   
110.05   Minimum charge
   
110.06   License year
   
110.07   Transfers
   
110.08   Annual license fees
   
110.09   Term license fees
Business and Occupation Tax
   
110.20   Authority to levy
   
110.21   Definitions
   
110.22   Privilege tax imposition
   
110.23   Exemptions
   
110.24   Certain businesses
   
110.25   Assessment limited to subjects taxed by state
   
110.26   Computation of taxes; returns and remittances
   
110.27   Erroneous computation
   
110.28   Failure to make return; incomplete or erroneous return
   
110.29   Records
   
110.30   Appeal; correction of assessment
   
110.31   Tax cumulative
   
110.32   Method of payment
   
110.33   Tax a personal obligation and lien; penalty
   
110.34   Collection by suit; injunction
   
110.35   Tax lien; liability of purchaser
   
110.36   Final settlements; user personally responsible
   
110.37   Certificate to Clerk of County Commission of Assessment of Taxes
   
110.38   Collection by distraint
   
110.39   Administration by City Treasurer
   
110.40   Authorization to inspect returns
   
110.41   Returns and amount of payments confidential
   
110.42   Tax credits
   
110.43   Amount of credit allowed; tax credits for new, expanding businesses
   
110.44   Qualified investment
   
110.45   Other disqualifications for forfeiture of tax credit
   
110.46   Taxpayers responsible to keep records of investment credit property
tax credits for new businesses
   
110.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority to levy, see W.Va. Code §§ 8-13-4, 8-13-5
   Business and occupation tax, see W.Va. Code Art. 11-13
   Business franchise registration certificate tax, see W.Va. Code Art. 11-12
   Collection of taxes, see W.Va. Code §§ 8-13-15 et seq.
   Limitation on municipal tax, see W.Va. Code § 11-12-4
MUNICIPAL BUSINESS LICENSE TAX
§ 110.01  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall, without a city license, engage in or prosecute,
within the city, any of the businesses, activities, trades or employments, or
exercise any of the following privileges:
      (1)   Keep a hotel or eating house;
      (2)   Keep for public use or resort, any bowling alley, pool table,
billiard table, bagatelle table or any table of like kind;
      (3)   Exhibit any circus, menagerie, circus and menagerie combined,
theatrical performances, street or other carnival, or public show, to which
admission is charged for money or reward, except any educational, literary,
dramatic, musical or benevolent society, or volunteer fire company, not
conducted for private profit, unless professional or paid talent, other than
director, is employed in such performance or exhibition;
      (4)   Run or operate for profit a merry-go-round, or roller coaster,
scenic railway or like device, or keep for public use or resort a shooting
gallery, skating rink, or run or operate a crane rack, doll baby rack, knife
rack, striking machine, jingle board, punch board, artful dodger, candy wheel,
or other scheme or device by which merchandise or other things of value are
disposed of by game of chance, or like device, or human laundry device, or dip
device;
      (5)   Act as hawker or peddler; provided that, bona fide farmers vending
farm products shall not be required to have a license;
      (6)   Act as auctioneer;
      (7)   Practice the business of a real estate agent, stock broker or other
broker by buying and selling for others stock securities or any other property
for a commission or reward;
      (8)   Practice the business of money broker, buying or selling
undercurrent or depreciated money or funds, or exchanging one kind of money for
another for benefit or reward;
      (9)   Practice the business of pawnbroker by lending money or other
things for profit, for or on an account of personal property deposited with the
lender in pledge;
      (10)   Sell or offer for sale merchants’ trading stamps, premium stamps
or stamps or certificates of like nature, or to undertake to redeem such stamps
or certificates in money or goods;
      (11)   Carry on the business of junk dealer, or act as agent, solicitor,
canvasser or salesperson, for any junk dealers;
      (12)   Sell pistols, revolvers, dirks, sling shots, billies, Bowie
knives, metallic or other false knuckles, or weapons of like kind;
      (13)   Maintain any slot machine, or other automatic device, which for
the same profit or reward, in each case, and without any violation of law,
furnishes music or exhibits pictures, or provides facilities for weighing, or
supplies merchandise or other thing, or renders any service, but no slot
machine or other automatic device with respect to which, or its operations,
service or supplies, there is any element of chance, (being a gaming table
within the meaning of the West Virginia Code) shall be provided a license;
      (14)   Solicit or carry on or practice the business of a collection
agency or association, whether it be a person, firm or corporation;
      (15)   Manufacture, sell or distribute, either at retail or wholesale,
any and all preparations of every kind, character or nature, commonly known as
soft drinks, including bevo, pable, milo, moxie, ginger ale, near-beer, coco-
cola, pop, grape juice and all other preparations of like nature and character;
      (16)   Keep or maintain for public use or resort, a taxicab stand or any
place of like character;
      (17)   Act as a fortune teller, palmist, phrenologist, spiritualist,
medium, clairvoyant, mind reader or perform the art or profession of telling
the past or forecasting the future;
      (18)   Engage or conduct in the transient business of selling goods,
wares and merchandise and commonly known as “itinerant vending”; or
      (19)   Manufacture, sell or distribute, either at wholesale or retail,
non-intoxicating beer.
   (B)   Nothing in this subchapter, and no license or payment under the
provisions hereof, shall be taken to legalize any act which otherwise may be in
violation of law, or exempt any person from any penalty prescribed for such
violations.
(Prior Code, § 741.01)
§ 110.02  REVOCATION.
   Licenses may be revoked by Council for violation of the terms, and
conditions of the same or the provisions of this subchapter, at a meeting of
Council of which the holder of such license shall have been given at least ten
days’ notice.
(Prior Code, § 741.02)
§ 110.03  ISSUANCE BY COUNCIL.
   Every person desiring a city license to keep for public use or resort, a
bowling alley, pool table, billiard table, bagatelle table or any table of like
character shall apply in writing to Council specifying the place of which the
same shall be kept and conducted, and, if Council sees fit to grant the same,
shall enter an order authorizing the City Clerk to issue such a license.
(Prior Code, § 741.03)
§ 110.04  ISSUANCE BY CITY CLERK.
   Subject to the exceptions contained in the preceding subchapter, the City
Clerk shall issue a license to all persons applying therefor, who pay the fees
hereinafter provided. No license shall be valid until the fee or tax has been
paid in full.
(Prior Code, § 741.04)
§ 110.05  MINIMUM CHARGE.
   Licenses shall be issued for the current fiscal year, except in instances
where the schedules or charges are fixed for shorter or other periods of less
than a year, but in all other cases the amount of the charge shall be the
yearly license rate or charge and licenses shall be issued for the time or
periods for which the charges have been made. If a license is granted for a
period of less than one year, the tax shall computed from the annual tax in
proportion to such time as the license has to run, unless specifically
otherwise provided; and, provided further that, no license for any purpose or
for any length of time shall be issued for less than an amount set by Council
from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 741.05)
§ 110.06  LICENSE YEAR.
   The license year shall begin on July 1 of each year and end on June 30 of
the following year.
(Prior Code, § 741.06)
§ 110.07  TRANSFERS.
   Any one desiring to transfer or assign a license for which the assent of
Council must be had prior to issue, shall likewise apply to Council for
permission for such assignment or transfer, specifying the person to whom such
transfer is to be made and, if Council shall approve of the same, shall enter
an order of record allowing such transfer, whereupon the City Clerk shall issue
a new license to the licensee for the unexpired term upon the surrender of the
old license and payment of his or her fee.
(Prior Code, § 741.07)
§ 110.08  ANNUAL LICENSE FEES.
   The annual license fees or charges for all businesses of any kind and nature
located within the city shall be an amount set by Council from time to time. In
addition thereto, any business with vending machines shall pay an additional
amount set by Council from time to time for each vending machine; any business
with video machines shall pay an additional amount set by Council from time to
time for each video machine; any business with jukeboxes shall pay an
additional amount set by Council from time to time for each jukebox; any
business selling packaged beer shall pay an additional amount set by Council
from time to time; any business with pool tables shall pay an additional amount
set by Council from time to time for each pool table; any business with a beer
license shall pay an additional amount set by Council from time to time; any
business with a wine license shall pay an additional amount set by Council from
time to time; and any business with an Alcohol Beverage Control Commission
license shall pay an additional amount set by Council from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 741.09)  (Ord. passed 6-3-1996)
§ 110.09  TERM LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   The license tax to operate a roller-coaster, merry-go-round, scenic
railway or like device shall be for one week, in an amount set by Council from
time to time each; for three months, in an amount set by Council from time to
time each; six months, in an amount set by Council from time to time each; one
year, in an amount set by Council from time to time each. The license fee to
operate doll baby rack, cane rack, knife rack, striking machine, jingle board,
punch board, artful dodger, candy wheel or other schemes or devices by which
merchandise or other things of value is disposed of, by game or chance or like
device, or human laundry device, or dip device, in an amount set by Council
from time to time for one week; for three months, in an amount set by Council
from time to time; for six months, in an amount set by Council from time to
time; and for one year, in an amount set by Council from time to time.
   (B)   The license fee to conduct a theatrical performance of any kind shall
be in an amount set by Council from time to time for each week; provided,
however, that, in lieu of the fees for conducting a theatrical performance, as
above set out, a theater, opera house or other permanent place for public shows
may be kept or maintained upon the payment of the fees for such theater, opera
house or other permanent place for public shows as follows: for three months,
the fee shall be in an amount set by Council from time to time; for six months,
in an amount set by Council from time to time; and for one year, in an amount
set by Council from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 741.10)
BUSINESS AND OCCUPATION TAX
§ 110.20  AUTHORITY TO LEVY.
   (A)   The city pursuant to the provisions of W.Va. Code Ch. 8, Art. 13, § 5,
as amended, hereby adopts a tax and re-enacts such existing tax not
inconsistent herewith on the following enumerated business activities or
occupations for the use of such municipality in accordance with the plenary
power granted by the legislature of the state in such code provisions.
   (B)   This tax and the re-enactment thereof shall be operative as of the
first day of the current fiscal year and each thereafter unless further
annulled.
(Prior Code, § 745.01)  (Ord. passed 9-10-1990)
§ 110.21  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BANKING BUSINESS or FINANCIAL ORGANIZATION. Any bank, banking association,
trust company, industrial loan company, small loan company or licensee,
building and loan association, savings and loan association, financial company,
investment company, investment broker or dealer and any other similar business
organization at least 90% of the assets of which consists of intangible
personal property and at least 90% of the gross receipts of which consists of
dividends, interest and other charges derived from the use of money or credit.
   BUSINESS. Includes all activities engaged in or caused to be engaged in with
the object of gain or economic benefit, either direct or indirect. BUSINESS
shall not include a casual sale by a person who is not engaged in the business
of selling the type of property involved in such casual sale. BUSINESS shall
include the production of natural resources or manufactured products which are
used or consumed by the producer or manufacturer and shall include the
activities of a banking business or financial organization.
   COLLECTOR. The City Treasurer or his or her authorized agent.
   CONTRACTING. Includes the furnishing of work, or both materials and work, in
the fulfillment of a contract for the construction, alteration, repair,
decoration or improvement of a new existing building or structure, or any part
thereof, or for the alteration, improvement or development of real property.
   GROSS INCOME. The gross receipts of the taxpayer received as compensation
for personal services and the gross receipts of the taxpayer derived from
trade, business, commerce or sales, and the value proceeding or accruing from
the sale of tangible property value proceeding or accruing from the sale of
tangible property (real or personal), or service, or both, and all receipts by
reason of the investment of the capital of the business engaged in, including
interest, discount, rentals, royalties, fees or other emoluments however
denominated and without any deductions on account of cost of property sold,
costs of material used, labor costs, taxes, royalties, interest or discount
paid or any other expense whatsoever. GROSS INCOME of a banking or financial
business is specified in §
110.24 of this chapter.
   GROSS PROCEEDS OF SALE. The value, whether in money or other property,
actually proceeding from the sale of tangible property, without any deduction
on account of the cost of property sold or expenses of any kind. The terms
GROSS INCOME and GROSS PROCEEDS OF SALES shall not be construed to include cash
discounts allowed and taken on sales; the proceeds of sale of goods, wares or
merchandise returned by customers when the sale price is refunded, either in
cash or by credit; the amount allowed as “trade-in-value” for any article
accepted as part payment for any article sold; excise taxes imposed by the
state; or money or other property received or held by a professional person for
the sole use and benefit of a client or another person or money received by the
taxpayer on behalf of a bank or other financial institution for the repayment
of a debt of another.
   SALE, SALES or SELLING. Includes any transfer of the ownership of or title
to property, whether for money or in exchange for other property.
   SELLING AT WHOLESALE or WHOLESALE SALES. Sales of any tangible personal
property for the purpose of resale in the form of tangible personal property;
sales of machinery and supplies or materials which are to be directly consumed
or used by the purchaser in the conduct of any business or activity which is
subject to the tax imposed by this subchapter; sales of any tangible personal
property to the United States of America, its agencies and instrumentalities or
the state, its institutions or political subdivisions.
   SERVICE BUSINESS OR CALLING. Includes all activities engaged in or other
persons for a consideration, which involve the rendering of a service as
distinguished from the production or sale of tangible property, but shall not
include the services rendered by an employee to his or her employer.
   TAX YEAR or TAXABLE YEAR. The year beginning July 1 of each calendar year
and ending June 30 of each succeeding calendar year.
   TAXPAYER. Any person liable for any tax hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 745.015)  (Ord. passed 9-10-1990)
§ 110.22  PRIVILEGE TAX IMPOSITION.
   (A)   There is hereby levied and shall be collected annual privilege taxes
against the persons, on account of the business or other activities, and in the
amounts to be determined by the application of rates against values or gross
income as set forth in this subchapter.
   (B)   If any person liable for any tax under §
110.24 of this chapter shall ship or transport his products or any part thereof
out of the city without making sale of such products, the value of the products
in the condition or form in which they exist immediately before transportation
out of the city shall be the basis for the assessment of the tax imposed in
those sections. The City Treasurer shall prescribe equitable and uniform rules
for ascertaining such value.
   (C)   In determining value, however, as regards sales from one to another of
affiliated companies or persons, or under other circumstances where the
relation between the buyer and the seller is such that the gross proceeds from
the sale are not indicative of the true value of the subject matter of the
sale, the City Treasurer shall prescribe uniform and equitable rules for
determining the value upon which such privilege tax shall be levied,
corresponding as nearly as possible to the gross proceeds from the sale of
similar products of like quality or character where no common interest exists
between the buyer and the seller, but the circumstances and conditions are
otherwise similar.
   (D)   Gross income included in the measure of the tax under §
110.24 of this chapter shall neither be added, nor deducted in computing the
tax levied under the other sections of this subchapter.
   (E)   A person exercising any privilege taxable under §
110.24 of this chapter and engaging in the business of selling his or her
natural resources or manufactured products at retail in the city shall be
required to make returns of the gross proceeds of such retail sales and pay the
tax imposed in §
110.24 of this chapter for the privilege of engaging in the business of selling
such natural resources or manufactured products at retail in the city. But any
person exercising any privilege taxable under §
110.24 of this chapter and engaging in the business or selling his or her
natural resources or manufactured products to manufacturers, wholesalers or
jobbers, and, in the case of limestone, sand, gravel or other mineral products,
to commercial consumers, shall not be required to pay the tax imposed in §
110.24 of this chapter for the privilege of selling such natural resource
products or manufactured products at wholesale.
   (F)   Manufacturers exercising any privilege taxable under §
110.24(B) of this chapter shall not be required to pay the tax imposed in §
110.24(C) of this chapter for the privilege of selling their manufactured
products for delivery outside of the city, but the gross income derived from
the sale of such manufactured products out of the city shall be included in
determining the measure of the tax imposed on such manufacturer in §
110.24(B) of this chapter.
   (G)   A person exercising privileges taxable under the others sections of
this subchapter, producing timber or other natural resource products, the
production of which is taxable under §
110.24(A) of this chapter, and using or consuming the same in his or her
business shall be deemed to be engaged in the business of producing natural
resource products for sale, profit or commercial use, and shall be required to
make returns on account of the production of the business showing the gross
proceeds or equivalent in accordance with uniform and equitable rules for
determining the value upon which such privilege tax shall be levied,
corresponding as nearly as possible to the gross proceeds from the sale of
similar products of like quality or character by other taxpayers, which rules
the City Treasurer shall prescribe.
(Prior Code, § 745.02)  (Ord. passed 9-10-1990)
§ 110.23  EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   Insurance companies which pay the state a tax upon premiums; provided
that, this exemption shall not extend to that part of the gross income of
insurance companies which is received for the use of real property, other than
property in which any such company maintains its office or offices, in the
city, whether such income be in the form of rentals or royalties;
   (B)   Non-profit cemetery companies organized and operated for the exclusive
benefit of their members;
   (C)   Fraternal societies, organizations and associations organized and
operated for the exclusive benefit of their members and not for profit;
provided, that this exemption shall not extend to that part of the gross income
arising from the sale of alcoholic liquor, food and related services, of such
fraternal societies, organizations and associations which are licensed as
private clubs under the provisions of W.Va. Code Art. 60-7;
   (D)   Corporations, associations and societies organized and operated
exclusively for religious or charitable purposes;
   (E)   Production credit association, organized under the provisions of the
Federal Farm Credit Act of 1933, being 12 U.S.C. 2001 et seq.;
   (F)   Any credit union organized under the provisions of W.Va. Code Ch. 31
or any other chapter; provided, further, that, the exemptions of this section
shall not apply to corporations or cooperative associations organized under the
provisions of W.Va. Code Art. 19-4; and
   (G)   Gross income arising from the sale of radio and television
broadcasting time.
(Prior Code, § 745.03)  (Ord. passed 9-10-1990)
§ 110.24  CERTAIN BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Production of coal and other natural resource products.
      (1)   Upon every person engaging or continuing within the city in the
business of producing for sale, profit or commercial use, any natural resource
products, the amount of such tax to be equal to the value of the articles
produced, as shown by the gross proceeds derived from the sale thereof by the
producer, except as otherwise provided, multiplied by the respective rates as
follows.
      (2)   Coal, 1%; limestone or sandstone quarried or mined, 0.66%; oil,
1.31%; natural gas in excess of the value of $5,000, 6%; blast furnace slag,
1.31%; sand, gravel or other mineral products, not quarried or mined, 1.31%;
timber, 0.66%; other natural resource products, 0.66%. The measure of this tax
is the value of the entire production in the city regardless of the place of
sale, or the fact that the delivery may be made to points outside of the city.
(Prior Code, § 745.04)
   (B)   Manufactured or compounded products.
      (1)   Upon every person engaging or continuing within the city in the
business of manufacturing, compounding or preparing for sale, profit or
commercial use, either directly or through the activity of others in whole or
part, any article or articles, substance or substances, commodity or
commodities or electric power not produced by public utilities taxable under
provisions of this subchapter, the amount of tax to be equal to the value of
the article, substance, commodities or electric power manufactured, compounded
or prepared for sale, as shown by the gross proceeds derived from the sale
thereof by the manufacturer or person compounding or preparing the same, except
as hereinafter provided; multiplied by the rate of 0%. The measure of this tax
is the value of the entire product manufactured, compounded or prepared in the
city for sale, profit or commercial use, regardless of the place of sale or the
fact that deliveries may be made to points outside the city.
      (2)   It is further provided, however, that in those instances in which
the same person partially manufactures products within the city and partially
manufactures such products outside the city, the measure of this tax under this
section shall be that proportion of the sale price of the manufactured product
that the payroll cost of manufacturing within the city bears to the entire
payroll cost of manufacturing the product; or, at the option of the taxpayer,
the measure of this tax under this division (B) shall be the proportion of the
sales value of articles that the cost of operations in the city bears to the
full cost of manufacture of the articles.
(Prior Code, § 745.05)
   (C)   Business of selling tangible property; sales exempt. Upon every person
engaging or continuing within the city in the business of selling any tangible
property whatsoever, real or personal, including the sale of food and the
services incident to the sale of foods in hotels, restaurants, cafeterias,
confectioneries and other public eating houses, except sales by any person
engaging or continuing in the business of horticulture, agriculture or grazing
or of selling stocks, bonds or other evidences of indebtedness, there is
likewise hereby levied, and shall be collected, a tax equivalent to 0.44% of
the gross income of the business; except that, in the business of selling at
wholesale, the tax shall be equal to 0.15% of the gross income of the business.
(Prior Code, § 745.06)
   (D)   Public service or utility business.
      (1)   Upon every person engaging or continuing within the city in a
public service or utility business, except railroad, railroad car, express,
water companies, pipeline, telephone and telegraph companies, water carriers by
steam boat or steam ship and motor vehicle carriers, there is hereby levied and
shall be collected taxes on account of the business engaged in equal to the
gross income of the business multiplied by the respective rates as follows.
      (2)   Street and inter-urban and electric railways, 0.3%; water
companies, 1.32%, except as to income received by municipally owned water
plants; electric light and power companies, 4% on sales and demand charges for
domestic purposes and commercial lighting; and 4% on sales and demand charges
for all other purposes, except as to income received by municipally owned
plants producing or purchasing electricity and distributing the same; natural
gas companies, 3% on the gross income, such gross income for this purpose to be
determined by deducting from the gross income from all sales of gas to
consumers, the amount of the tax paid by the taxpayer under division (A) above
of the production of the same tax; and on all other public service or utility
businesses, 3%.
(Prior Code, § 745.07)
   (E)   Business of contracting. Upon every person engaging or continuing
within the city in the business of contracting, the tax shall be equal to 2% of
the gross income derived from contracts entered into after 1-1-1996.
(Prior Code, § 745.08)
   (F)   Business of operating amusements. Upon every person engaging or
continuing within the city in the business of operating a theater, opera house,
moving picture show, vaudeville, amusement park, dance hall, skating rink,
racetrack, radio broadcasting station or any other place at which amusements
are offered to the public, the tax shall be equal to 0.5% of the gross income
of the business.
(Prior Code, § 745.09)
   (G)   Business of furnishing property for hire.
      (1)   Upon every person engaging or continuing within the city in the
business of furnishing any real or tangible personal property which has a tax
situs in the city, or any interest therein, for hire, loan, lease or otherwise,
whether the return be in the form of rentals, royalties, fees or otherwise, the
tax shall be 1% of the gross income of any such activity.
      (2)   The term TANGIBLE PERSONAL PROPERTY, as used herein, shall not
include money or public security.
(Prior Code, § 745.10)
   (H)   Service business or calling not otherwise specifically taxed. Upon
every person engaging or continuing within the city in any service business or
calling not otherwise specifically taxed under this subchapter, unless exempted
by some provision of this subchapter, there is likewise hereby levied and shall
be collected a tax equal to 1% of the gross income of any such business.
(Prior Code, § 745.11)
   (I)   Banking and other financial business.
      (1)   Upon every person engaging or continuing within the city in the
business of banking or financial business, the tax shall be equal to 1% of the
gross income received from interest, premiums, discounts, dividends, service
fees or charges, commissions, fines, rents from real or tangible personal
property, however denominated, royalties, charges for bookkeeping or data
processing, receipts from check sales, charges or fees and receipts from the
sale of tangible personal property; provided that, gross income shall not
include interest received on the obligations of the United States, its agencies
and instrumentalities; interest received on the obligations of this or any
other state, territory or possession of the United States or any political
subdivision of any of the foregoing or of the District of Columbia; or interest
received on investments or loans primarily secured by first mortgages or deeds
of trust on residential property occupied by non-transients; provided that, all
interest derived on activities exempt under this provision, shall be reported,
as to amounts, on the return of a person taxable under the provisions of this
section.
      (2)   Persons taxed pursuant to the provisions of this section shall not
be taxed under divisions (A) through (H) above, inclusive of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 745.12)
   (J)   Tax credit for industrial expansion; regulations.
      (1)   There shall be allowed as a credit against any tax imposed by this
subchapter the amount determined under W.Va. Code Art. 11-13C relating to tax
credit for industrial expansion.
      (2)   The City Treasurer shall prescribe such regulations, not
inconsistent with any corresponding regulations prescribed by the state’s Tax
Commissioner, as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this section.
(Prior Code, § 745.13)  (Ord. passed 10-21-1980; Ord. passed 12-17-1982; Ord.
passed 9-10-1990; Ord. passed 3-4-1996; Ord. passed - -2016; Ord. passed 11-12-
2019)
§ 110.25  ASSESSMENT LIMITED TO SUBJECTS TAXED BY STATE.
   This subchapter shall not be construed to assess a tax upon any person,
business, occupation, service or property upon which the state does not impose
an annual privilege tax under the provisions of W.Va. Code Art. 11-13.
(Prior Code, § 745.14)  (Ord. passed 10-21-1980)
§ 110.26  COMPUTATION OF TAXES; RETURNS AND REMITTANCES.
   The taxes due hereunder shall be due and payable as follows:
   (A)   For taxpayers whose tax under this subchapter exceeds an amount set by
Council from time to time per month, the tax should be due and payable in
monthly installments on or before the last day of the month following the month
in which the tax accrued. The taxpayer shall, on or before the last day of each
month, make out a return upon a form prescribed by the City Treasurer showing
the gross proceeds of sales or gross income of business, trade or calling and
compute the amount of tax for which he or she is liable for the preceding
month, sign the return and mail it, together with a remittance in the form
required by §
110.32 of this chapter, for the amount of the tax to the office of the City
Treasurer;
   (B)   For taxpayers whose tax under this subchapter does not exceed an
amount set by Council from time to time per month, the tax shall be due and
payable in quarterly installments within 30 days from the end of the quarter in
which it accrued. The taxpayer shall, within 30 days from the expiration of
each quarter, make out a return upon a form prescribed by the City Treasurer
showing the gross proceeds of sales or gross income of business, trade or
calling and compute the amount the tax for which he or she is liable for such
quarter, sign the return and mail it, together with a remittance in the form
required by §
110.32 of this chapter, for the amount of the tax to the office of the City
Treasurer;
   (C)   The City Treasurer, if he or she deems it necessary to ensure payment
of the tax, may require a return and payment under this section on other than
quarterly periods; and
   (D)   If for any reason it is not practicable for the individual taxpayer to
make the oath, the oath may be made by any duly authorized agent.
(Prior Code, § 745.15)  (Ord. passed 10-21-1980)
§ 110.27  ERRONEOUS COMPUTATION.
   If the taxpayer shall make any error in computing the tax assessable against
him or her, the City Treasurer shall correct such error or reassess the
property amount of taxes, and notify the taxpayer of his or her action by
mailing to him or her promptly a copy of the corrected assessment, and any
additional tax for which such taxpayer may be liable shall be paid within 15
days after the receipt of such statement. If the amount already paid exceeds
that which should have been paid on the basis of the tax so computed, the
excess so paid shall be immediately refunded to the taxpayer upon the
requisition of the City Treasurer and shall be payable out of any funds
available for this purpose. The taxpayer may, at his or her election, apply an
overpayment credit to taxes subsequently accruing hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 745.16)  (Ord. passed 10-21-1980)
§ 110.28  FAILURE TO MAKE RETURN; INCOMPLETE OR ERRONEOUS RETURN.
   If any person fails or refuses to make a return, either in whole or in part,
or if the City Treasurer has reasonable grounds to believe that any return made
is incorrect or is so deficient as not to form the basis of a satisfactory
assessment of the tax, he or she may proceed as he or she deems best to obtain
information on which to base the assessment of the tax. The City Treasurer may,
by himself or herself or his or her duly appointed agent, make examination of
the books, records and papers, and audit the accounts of any such person,
including bank accounts, and may take the evidence on oath, of any person who
he or she may believe to be in possession of any relevant information. As soon
as possible after procuring such information as he or she may be able to obtain
as to any person making an incomplete or incorrect return, or failing or
refusing to make a return, the City Treasurer shall proceed to assess the tax
and shall notify the person assessed of the amount of the tax. The assessment
of the tax by the City Treasurer shall be final as to any person who refused to
make a return.
(Prior Code, § 745.17)  (Ord. passed 10-21-1980)
§ 110.29  RECORDS.
   A separate and complete record of the business of any taxpayer conducted
within the city shall be kept at his or her place of business, and shall not be
combined or confused with records of business carried on at other places. The
City Treasurer may require the preservation of records for a period not
exceeding five years.
(Prior Code, § 745.18)  (Ord. passed 10-21-1980)
§ 110.30  APPEAL; CORRECTION OF ASSESSMENT.
   If any person, having made a return and paid the tax as provided by this
subchapter, feels aggrieved by the assessment so made upon him or her by the
City Treasurer, he or she may apply to Council, by petition in writing, within
30 days after receipt of notice mailed to him or her by the City Treasurer
pursuant to §
110.28 of this chapter, for a hearing and a correction of the amount of the tax
so assessed upon him or her by the City Treasurer, in which petition shall be
set forth the reasons why such hearing should be granted and the amount that
such tax should be reduced. Council shall promptly consider such petition and
may grant such hearing or deny it. If denied, the petitioner shall be forthwith
notified thereof; if granted, Council shall notify the petitioner of the time
and place fixed for such hearing. After such hearing, Council may make such
order in the matter as may appear to it just and lawful and shall furnish a
copy of such order to the petitioner. Any such person improperly charged with
any tax and required to pay it may recover the amount paid, together with
interest, in any proper action or suit against the city. It shall not be
necessary for the taxpayer to protest against the payment of the tax or to make
any demand to have the same refunded to maintain such suit. Upon presentation
of a certified copy of a judgment so obtained by the petitioner, the City
Treasurer shall issue his or her warrant upon any funds available for such
purpose.
(Prior Code, § 745.19)  (Ord. passed 10-21-1980)
§ 110.31  TAX CUMULATIVE.
   The tax imposed by this subchapter shall be in addition to all other
licenses and taxes levied by law as a condition precedent to engaging in any
business, trade or calling. A person exercising a privilege taxable under this
subchapter, subject to the payment of all licenses and charges which are
conditions precedent to exercising the privilege taxes, may exercise the
privilege for the current tax year upon the condition that he or she shall pay
the tax accruing under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 745.20)  (Ord. passed 10-21-1980)
§ 110.32  METHOD OF PAYMENT.
   All remittances of taxes imposed by this subchapter shall be made to the
City Treasurer by bank draft, certified check, cashier’s check, money order or
certificate of deposit; and the City Treasurer shall issue his or her receipts
heretofore to the taxpayers and the money shall be kept and accounted for as
provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 745.21)  (Ord. passed 10-21-1980)
§ 110.33  TAX A PERSONAL OBLIGATION AND LIEN; PENALTY.
   A tax due and unpaid under this subchapter shall be a debt due the city. It
shall be a personal obligation of the taxpayer and shall be a lien upon all
property used in the business or occupation upon which such tax is imposed;
provided that, no such tax lien shall be enforceable against a purchaser
(including lien creditor) for valuable consideration without notice, unless
docketed in the office of the Clerk of the County Commission, before a deed
therefor to such purchaser or the lien of such creditor is delivered for record
to the Clerk of the County Commission. A penalty of 5% of the tax shall be
added for any default for 30 days or less, and for each succeeding 30 days
elapsing before payment there shall be an additional penalty of 1%, all of
which penalties shall be secured by the lien therein provided.
(Prior Code, § 745.22)  (Ord. passed 10-21-1980)
§ 110.34  COLLECTION BY SUIT; INJUNCTION.
   The City Treasurer may, by himself or herself, or a duly appointed agent,
collect taxes due and unpaid under this subchapter, together with all accrued
penalties, and for such purpose may exercise all the power authorized for the
collection of taxes under this subchapter and other ordinances of the city and
under the laws of the state. After delinquency shall have continued for 60
days, the City Treasurer may proceed, by himself or herself or agent, in the
Circuit Court of the county to obtain an injunction restraining the further
exercise of the privilege until full payment shall have been made of all taxes
and penalties due under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 745.23)  (Ord. passed 10-21-1980)
§ 110.35  TAX LIEN; LIABILITY OF PURCHASER.
   The tax imposed by this subchapter shall be a lien upon the property of any
person subject to the provisions hereof who shall sell out his or her business
or stock of goods or shall quit business, and such person shall be required to
make the return provided for under §
110.26 of this chapter within 30 days after the date he or she sold out his or
her business or stock of goods or quit business, and his or her successor in
business shall be required to withhold sufficient purchase money to cover the
amount of such taxes due and unpaid until such time as the former owner shall
produce a receipt from the City Treasurer showing that the taxes have been
paid. If the purchaser of a business or stock of goods shall fail to withhold
purchase money as above provided, and the taxes shall be due and unpaid after
the 30- day period allowed, he or she shall be personally liable for the
payment of the taxes accrued and unpaid on account of the operation of the
business by the former owner.
(Prior Code, § 745.24)  (Ord. passed 10-21-1980)
§ 110.36  FINAL SETTLEMENTS; USER PERSONALLY RESPONSIBLE.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation contracting with a non-resident
person, firm or corporation engaged in a business or service taxes under this
subchapter shall withhold payment in sufficient amount to cover taxes assessed
by this subchapter in the final settlement of such contracts until the receipt
of a certificate from the City Treasurer to the effect that all taxes levied
and accrued under this subchapter against the contractor have been paid.
   (B)   If any person, firm or corporation fails to withhold as provided
herein, he or she shall be personally liable for the payment of all such taxes,
and the same shall be recoverable, in the event the contractor fails to pay the
tax due and owing, by the City Treasurer by appropriate legal proceedings.
(Prior Code, § 745.25)  (Ord. passed 10-21-1980)
§ 110.37  CERTIFICATE TO CLERK OF COUNTY COMMISSION OF ASSESSMENT OF TAXES.
   The City Treasurer, for the more effective collection of the tax, may file
with the Clerk of the County Commission a certified copy of an assessment of
taxes under this subchapter for recordation which shall thereafter constitute
binding notice of the lien created by this subchapter upon all lands of the
taxpayer located in the city as against all parties whose interest arose after
such recordation. Upon payment of taxes delinquent under this subchapter, the
lien of which shall have been recorded, the City Treasurer may certify in
duplicate the fact and amount of payment and the balance due, if any, and shall
forward the certificates, one to the taxpayer and one to the Clerk of the
County Commission with the request that he or she record it in the book in
which releases are recorded. From the date that such certificate is admitted to
record the land of the taxpayer in the city shall be free from any lien for
taxes under this subchapter accrued to the date that the certificate was
issued.
(Prior Code, § 745.26)  (Ord. passed 10-21-1980)
§ 110.38  COLLECTION BY DISTRAINT.
   The City Treasurer may distrain upon any goods, chattels or intangibles
represented by negotiable evidences of indebtedness, of any taxpayer delinquent
under this subchapter for the amount of all taxes and penalties accrued and
unpaid hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 745.27)  (Ord. passed 10-21-1980)
§ 110.39  ADMINISTRATION BY CITY TREASURER.
   The administration of this subchapter is vested in and shall be exercised by
the City Treasurer, who shall prescribe forms and reasonable rules or procedure
in conformity with this subchapter for the making of returns and for the
ascertainment, assessment and collection of the taxes imposed hereunder; and
the enforcement of any of the provisions of this subchapter in any courts of
the state shall be under the exclusive jurisdiction of the City Treasurer, who
shall require the assistance of and act through the City Attorney.
(Prior Code, § 745.28)  (Ord. passed 10-21-1980)
§ 110.40  AUTHORIZATION TO INSPECT RETURNS.
   The City Manager, in the exercise of sound discretion and at the instance of
the City Treasurer, may make written request to the state’s Tax Commissioner to
allow the duly authorized agent of the city to inspect and make copies of state
gross sales tax returns filed in the Commissioner’s office by taxpayers of the
city, for the purpose of securing information for municipal tax purposes;
provided that, before such agent may inspect and make copies of any returns, he
or she shall pay in advance, or furnish sufficient security for, such
reasonable cost and expense as may be necessary to obtain such information.
(Prior Code, § 745.29)  (Ord. passed 10-21-1980)
§ 110.41  RETURNS AND AMOUNT OF PAYMENTS CONFIDENTIAL.
   All information contained in the returns provided for in this subchapter and
the amounts paid under the provisions hereof shall be confidential. No officer
or employee of the city shall make known any such information for any purpose
other than for the enforcement of this subchapter and of the laws of the state
and the United States of America.
(Prior Code, § 745.30)  (Ord. passed 10-21-1980)
§ 110.42  TAX CREDITS.
   For the purpose of §§
110.42 through
110.46 of this chapter, all terms shall have the same meaning that they have
when used in similar contexts in other sections of this subchapter, and the
following definitions shall also apply.
   ANNEXED BUSINESS. Includes existing commercial, wholesale, retail,
manufacturing, service business which is brought within the corporate limits of
the city by any of annexation and minor boundary adjustments. ANNEXED
BUSINESSES include only those entities, which after annexation are subject to
the city’s business and occupation tax and at the time prior to annexation were
not paying such tax.
   BASE YEAR RECEIPTS. The year’s gross receipts immediately prior to business
expansion and application for expanding business tax credit.
   EXPANDING BUSINESS. Any business (commercial, wholesale, retail,
manufacturing or service business) which exists within the corporate limits of
the city may apply for expanding business tax credits hereunder if, and only
if, said business:
      (1)   Creates two new jobs, as defined herein, within the corporate
boundaries of the city;
      (2)   Hires two new employees, as defined herein, within the corporate
boundaries of the city; or
      (3)   Makes a qualified investment of at least an amount set by Council
from time to time within the corporate boundaries of the city prior to making
application for said EXPANDING BUSINESS tax credit.
   INCREMENTAL RECEIPT. The incremental difference between the gross receipts
of the year prior to and the three years following the business expansion.
   NEW BUSINESS. Any new commercial, wholesale, retail, manufacturing or
service business which physically locates its principal place of business
within the corporate limits of the city or within specified commercial zones of
the city, either by purchase of real property or by virtue of a lease of five
years or more duration, and which is subject to the city’s business and
occupational tax and is not currently paying such tax. No commercial entity
which has conducted business within the corporate limits of the city currently
or in the past, and which changes its name or changes its business structure
shall be considered a NEW BUSINESS under this section.
   NEW EMPLOYEE. A person who is hired and employed in a new business or
annexed business who was not previously employed within the corporate limits of
the city by such business. A NEW EMPLOYEE must be employed at least 120 hours
per month at a wage not less than the federal minimum wage or must work at
least six months during the taxable year.
   NEW JOB. A job which did not exist in the business of the taxpayer within
the corporate limits of the city prior to a qualified investment being made;
provided, this job is directly attributable to the qualified investment and
filled by a new employee, as defined herein.
   USE. Property is said to be in use when the property is placed in a
condition or state of readiness for a specifically assigned function from which
new jobs have been created within the city.
(Prior Code, § 745.31)  (Ord. passed 3-18-2000)
§ 110.43  AMOUNT OF CREDIT ALLOWED; TAX CREDITS FOR NEW, EXPANDING BUSINESSES.
   (A)   New businesses.
      (1)   Any taxpayer who conducts a new business in the city or is annexed
into the city that is subject to the tax imposed by this subchapter shall be
allowed a credit against the assessed business and occupation tax in accord
with the “new business” portion of the table.
      (2)   The administration of §§
110.42 through
110.46 of this chapter is vested in, and shall be exercised by the City
Manager, who, in connection therewith, shall prescribe all necessary forms. The
City Manager may prescribe all necessary rules and regulations that are in
conformity with §§
110.42 through
110.46 of this chapter for making returns and for the ascertainment, assessment
and collection of all taxes imposed hereunder. The City Manager shall also
prescribe such regulations as are necessary to verify the taxpayers continued
entitlement to claim such credit, and verify proper good faith application of
credit allowed.
(Prior Code, § 745.32)
   (B)   Expanding businesses.
      (1)   Any taxpayer who has an existing business within the corporate
limits of the city that is subject to the tax imposed by this subchapter shall
be allowed a credit against the incremental receipts assessed business and
occupation tax in accord with the “expanding business” portion of the table,
assuming that the taxpayer has met the criterion of §
110.42 of this chapter.
      (2)   Expanding businesses receive the tax credit on the incremental
receipts while continuing to pay the full assessment of business and
occupational tax on the base year receipts over the three year tax credit
period.
(Prior Code, § 745.34)  (Ord. passed 3-18-2000)
§ 110.44  QUALIFIED INVESTMENT.
   (A)   The qualified investment in property purchased or leased for business
growth shall be the cost of each property purchased or leased for the purpose
of business expansion, which is placed in service and use in the city by the
tax payer during the initial taxable year.
   (B)   In determining the qualified investment of business, 100% of the cost
expended for each of the following may be included in the total amount:
      (1)   Real property and improvements thereto, having a useful life of
five or more years after placed in service and use within the city;
      (2)   Real property and improvements theretofore tangible personal
property acquired by written lease for a period of five or more years after
placed in service and use within the city; and
      (3)   Depreciable or amortizable tangible personal property having a
useful life of five or more years after property is placed in service or use
within the city.
   (C)   The cost of purchased property may not include the value of property
given in trade or exchange for the property purchased.
   (D)   Qualified investment property may not include repair costs unless
capitalized for federal income tax purposes, vehicles purchased prior to the
use and service of the qualified investment within the city, or wages and/or
benefits paid to any new or existing employee.
(Prior Code, § 745.33)  (Ord. passed 3-18-2000)
§ 110.45  OTHER DISQUALIFICATIONS FOR FORFEITURE OF TAX CREDIT.
   (A)   If, during any taxable year in which a tax credit is being taken, the
average number of employees employed in positions directly attributable to the
qualified investment is reduced by 10%, the tax credit created herein shall be
forfeited for that year and for each eligible year thereafter where the number
of employees remains 10% below the number of jobs created as a result of the
qualified investment.
   (B)   No application for a tax incentive will be considered and no credit
will be otherwise granted to any business who at the time the application is
submitted, or any time during the life of the tax incentive program, is or
becomes delinquent in payment of city business and occupation tax, city water
and city sewer or city service fees.
   (C)   The City Manager shall be empowered by the City Council to rescind the
above tax incentive program to any business that becomes delinquent in any of
the above listed fees and after due notice fails to bring its account current.
   (D)   Financial institutions, public utilities, the local cable company and
owners of residential and commercial rental property, including multi-family
apartment units, are excluded from this credit program.
 
                  Tax Credit Year 1 Tax Credit Year 2 Tax Credit Year 3
New business       50%               25%               15%
Expanding business 100%              50%               25%
 
(Prior Code, § 745.35)  (Ord. passed 3-18-2000; Ord. passed 5-10-2000)
§ 110.46  TAXPAYERS RESPONSIBLE TO KEEP RECORDS OF INVESTMENT CREDIT PROPERTY
TAX CREDITS FOR NEW BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Every taxpayer who claims the credit herein provided shall maintain
sufficient records to establish the following facts for each item of qualified
property:
      (1)   Its identity;
      (2)   Its actual or reasonably determined cost (see §
110.44 of this chapter);
      (3)   The month and taxable year it was placed in service or use in the
city;
      (4)   The amount of credit taken;
      (5)   The date it was disposed of or ceased to be qualified property for
the tax credit; and
      (6)   The employment levels for the taxable quarter in which credit is
being taken.
   (B)   Any taxpayer who does not maintain such records shall be treated as
having forfeited the remaining tax credit herein provided for unless special
arrangements have been made with the City Manager.
(Prior Code, § 745.36)  (Ord. passed 3-18-2000)
§ 110.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 741.99)
   (B)   (1)   No person shall refuse to make the return provided to be made in
§
110.26 of this chapter or make any false or fraudulent return or false
statement in any return, with intent to defraud the city or to evade the
payment of the tax, or any part thereof, imposed by §§
110.20 through
110.46 of this chapter, or for the president, vice president, secretary or
treasurer of any corporation to make or permit to be made for any corporation
or association any false return, or any false statement in any return required
in §§
110.20 through
110.46 of this chapter, with the intent to evade the payment of any tax
hereunder. Any person violating any of the provisions of §
110.26 of this chapter, on conviction thereof, shall be fined in an amount set
by Council from time to time or imprisoned not exceeding 30 days, or punished
by both fine and imprisonment.
      (2)   In addition to the foregoing penalties, any person who shall
knowingly swear to or verify any false or fraudulent return, or any return
containing any false or fraudulent statement with the intent aforesaid, shall
be guilty of the offense of false swearing and, on conviction thereof, shall be
punished in the manner provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 745.99)  (Ord. passed 10-21-1980)
CHAPTER 111:  LIQUOR CONTROL, CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES
AND MARIJUANA
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Retail tax for intoxicating liquor
   
111.02   Wine distributors and retailers
Liquor Control, Controlled Substances and Marijuana
   
111.15   Definitions
   
111.16   Applicability
   
111.17   Prohibited acts generally
   
111.18   Unlawful sale or possession
   
111.19   Unlawful purchase from state agency
   
111.20   Intoxication or drinking in public places; illegal possession
   
111.21   Non-intoxicating beer license; acts prohibited; unlawful purchase
   
111.22   Private clubs; acts prohibited; unlawful purchase
   
111.23   Wine dealers; acts prohibited; unlawful purchase
   
111.24   Controlled substances and marijuana; violations
 
   
111.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority to levy, see W.Va. Code §§ 8-13-4, 8-13-7, 60-7-7
   Authority to regulate liquor sales, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-5(20)
   Local option, see W.Va. Code Art. 60-5
   Non-intoxicating beer, see W.Va. Code Art. 11-16
   Search warrants, see W.Va. Code § 60-6-18
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01  RETAIL TAX FOR INTOXICATING LIQUOR.
   Pursuant to W.Va. Code § 8-13-7, there is hereby imposed a tax of 5% of the
retail purchase price of any and all intoxicating liquors purchased from the
Alcohol Beverage Control Commissioner or from any person licensed to sell wine
at retail to the public under the provision of W.Va. Code Art. 60-8, within the
corporate boundaries of the municipality. Such tax shall be levied upon the
purchaser of such intoxicating liquor or wine and shall be added to any
collected with the retail purchase price of such intoxicating liquor or wine.
Such tax shall be received by the municipality from the state treasury pursuant
to the rules and regulations adopted by the Alcohol Beverage Control
Commissioner; provided, however, that, such tax shall not be collected on
intoxicating liquors, other than wine sold by or purchased from holders of a
license issued under the provisions of W.Va. Code Art. 60-7.
(Prior Code, § 749.01)  (Ord. passed 6-21-1981)
§ 111.02  WINE DISTRIBUTORS AND RETAILERS.
   (A)   License required. No person shall engage in the business of
distributing or selling wine as a distributor or retailer as defined under
W.Va. Code § 60-8-2, without first obtaining a license from the City Treasurer,
nor shall a person continue to engage in any such activity after his or her
license has expired, been suspended or revoked. No person may be licensed in
more than one of such capacities at the same time.
(Prior Code, § 765.01)
   (B)   Annual fee. The City Treasurer shall collect an annual fee for
licenses issued under this section. as follows:
      (1)   An amount set by Council from time to time per year for a
distributor’s license; and
      (2)   An amount set by Council from time to time per year for a
retailer’s license.
(Prior Code, § 765.02)
   (C)   License period. The license period shall begin on July 1 of each year
and end on June 30 of the following year, and if the initial license is granted
for less than a year, the fee shall be computed in proportion to the number of
quarters remaining in the fiscal year, including the quarter in which
application was made.
(Prior Code, § 765.03)
   (D)   License restrictions. No retailer may be licensed as a private club as
provided by W.Va. Code Ch. 60-7 or as a Class A retailer dealer in non-
intoxicating beer as provided by W.Va. Code Ch.11-16. A retailer who has more
than one place of retail business shall obtain a license for each separate
retail establishment. A retailer’s license may be issued only to the proprietor
of a bona fide grocery store or wine specialty shop as defined by the West
Virginia Code.
(Prior Code, § 765.04)
   (E)   Suspension and revocation. In the event that any person’s state
license, under the applicable provisions of the West Virginia Code shall be
revoked or suspended, the City Treasurer shall suspend or revoke the licensee’s
city license for the same period of time.
(Prior Code, § 765.05)  (Ord. passed 4-5-1982)  Penalty, see §
111.99
LIQUOR CONTROL, CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES AND MARIJUANA
§ 111.15  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. Includes alcohol, beer, wine and spirits, and any liquid
or solid capable of being used as a beverage, but shall not include non-
intoxicating beer.
   BEER. Any beverage obtained by the fermentation of barley, malt, hops or any
other similar product or substitute, and containing more alcohol than that of
non-intoxicating beer.
   INTOXICATED. Having one’s faculties impaired by alcohol or other drugs to
the point where physical or mental control or both are markedly diminished.
   MANUFACTURER. Any person engaged in the manufacture of any alcoholic liquor,
including, among others, a distiller, rectifier, wine maker and brewer.
   NON-INTOXICATING BEER. All cereal malt beverages or products of the brewing
industry commonly referred to as beer, lager beer, ale and all other mixtures
and preparations produced by the brewing industry, including malt coolers and
containing at least 0.5% alcohol by volume, but not more than 4.2% of alcohol
by weight, or 6% by volume, whichever is greater, all of which are hereby
declared to be non-intoxicating and the word “liquor”, as used in this
subchapter, shall not be construed to include or embrace non-intoxicating beer
nor any of the beverages, products, mixtures or preparation included within
this definition.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, partnership, limited partnership, corporation
or voluntary association.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any place, building or conveyance to which the public has or
is permitted to have access, including restaurants, soda fountains, hotel
dining rooms, lobbies and corridors of hotels, and any highway, street, lane,
park or place of public resort or amusement. PUBLIC PLACE does not mean or
include any of the above-named places or any portion or portions thereof which
qualify and are licensed under the provisions of W.Va. Code Ch. 60 or the
codified ordinances to sell alcoholic liquors for consumption on the premises.
   SALE. Any transfer, exchange or barter in any manner or by any means, for a
consideration, and includes all sales made by any principal, proprietor, agent
or employee.
   SELLING. Includes the solicitation or receipt of orders, possession for sale
and possession with intent to sell.
   WINE. Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural
content of fruits or other agricultural products, containing sugar.
(Prior Code, § 521.01)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 60-1-5
§ 111.16  APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not prevent:
   (A)   A physician from prescribing the use of alcoholic liquors when
necessary for a bona fide patient;
   (B)   A druggist from selling, upon a prescription properly issued by a
physician, alcoholic liquors for medicinal purposes;
   (C)   A physician, dentist or veterinarian, in the legitimate practice of
his or her profession, from using and administering alcoholic liquors;
   (D)   Hospitals, sanitariums or that division of any institution which is
regularly conducted as a hospital, dispensary or infirmary from using or
administering alcoholic liquors to bona fide patients. Institutions and the
divisions thereof provided in this section may carry a stock of alcoholic
liquors sufficient for this purpose; and/or
   (E)   Religious organizations from using wine for sacramental purposes.
(Prior Code, § 521.01)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 60-6-5
§ 111.17  PROHIBITED ACTS GENERALLY.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Manufacture or sell in the city, without a license, any alcoholic
liquor, except as permitted by W.Va. Code Ch. 60;
   (B)   Aid or abet in the manufacture or sale of alcoholic liquor without a
license, except as permitted by W.Va. Code Ch. 60;
   (C)   Sell without a license any alcoholic liquor other than provided by
W.Va. Code Art. 60-6;
   (D)   Adulterate any alcoholic liquor by the addition of any drug, methyl
alcohol, crude, unrectified or impure form of ethyl alcohol, or any other
foreign or deleterious substance or liquid;
   (E)   Refill, with alcoholic liquor, any bottle or other container in which
alcoholic liquor has been sold at retail in the state;
   (F)   Advertise any alcoholic liquor in the state, except in accordance with
the rules and regulations of the state’s Alcohol Beverage Control Commissioner;
   (G)   Distribute, deal in, process or use crowns, stamps or seals required
under the authority of W.Va. Code Ch. 60, except in accordance with the rules
and regulations prescribed by the state’s Alcohol Beverage Control
Commissioner;
   (H)   Manufacture, sell, give or offer to make a sale or gift of, transport
or otherwise possess any alcoholic liquor or non-intoxicating beer except as
permitted by W.Va. Code Ch. 11 and 60; and
   (I)   Whoever violates divisions (A) through (G) above is guilty of a
misdemeanor for a first offense.
(Prior Code, § 521.03)  Penalty, see §
111.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 60-6-7
§ 111.18  UNLAWFUL SALE OR POSSESSION.
   No person licensed under W.Va. Code Ch. 60 shall:
   (A)   Sell alcoholic liquors of a kind other than that which is permissible
under W.Va. Code Ch. 60;
   (B)   Sell beer to which wine, spirits or alcohol has been added;
   (C)   Sell wine to which other alcoholic spirits have been added, otherwise
than as required in the manufacture thereof under regulations of the state’s
Alcohol Beverage Control Commissioner;
   (D)   (1)   Sell alcoholic liquors or non-intoxicating beer to a person who
is:
            (a)   Less than 21 years of age;
            (b)   An habitual drunkard;
            (c)   Intoxicated;
            (d)   Addicted to the use of any controlled substance as defined by
W.Va. Code Ch. 60A; and
            (e)   Mentally incompetent.
      (2)   It shall be a defense to a violation of division (D)(1)(a) above if
the seller shows that the purchaser:
         (a)   Produced written evidence which showed his or her age to be at
least the required age for purchase and which bore a physical description of
the person named on the writing which reasonably described the purchaser; or
         (b)   Produced evidence of other facts that reasonably indicated at
the time of sale that the purchaser was at least the required age.
   (E)   Keep on the premises covered by his or her license any alcoholic
liquor other than that which is authorized by W.Va. Code Ch. 60.
(Prior Code, § 521.04)  Penalty, see §
111.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code §§ 60-3-22, 60-6-8
§ 111.19  UNLAWFUL PURCHASE FROM STATE AGENCY.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Being under the age of 21 years, for the purpose of purchasing
alcoholic liquors from a state liquor store or an agency, misrepresent his or
her age, or for such purpose present or offer any written evidence of age which
is false, fraudulent or not actually his or her own, or illegally attempt to
purchase alcoholic liquors from a state liquor store or an agency; and/or
   (B)   Knowingly buy for, give to or furnish to anyone under the age of 21
years to whom they are not related by blood or marriage, any alcoholic liquors
from whatever source.
(Prior Code, § 521.05)  Penalty, see §
111.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 60-3-22a
§ 111.20  INTOXICATION OR DRINKING IN PUBLIC PLACES; ILLEGAL POSSESSION.
   (A)   No person shall:
      (1)   Appear in a public place in an intoxicated condition;
      (2)   Drink alcoholic liquor or non-intoxicating beer or have an open
container of alcoholic liquor or non-intoxicating beer in or on any public
sidewalk, walkway, entranceway, street, lane or other public place;
      (3)   Drink alcoholic liquor or non-intoxicating beer in a motor vehicle
on any highway, street, alley or in a public garage. No person shall possess an
open container of non-intoxicating beer or alcoholic liquor in a motor vehicle,
except in a place which can be reached only by leaving the vehicle;
      (4)   Tender a drink of alcoholic liquor to another person in a public
place;
      (5)   Possess alcoholic liquor in the amount in excess of ten gallons, in
containers not bearing stamps or seals of the state’s Alcohol Beverage Control
Commissioner, without having first obtained written authority from the
Commissioner therefor; and/or
      (6)   Possess any alcoholic liquor which was manufactured or acquired in
violation of the provisions of W.Va. Code Ch. 60.
   (B)   Whoever violates divisions (A)(5) or (A)(6) above is guilty of a
misdemeanor for a first offense.
(Prior Code, § 521.06)  Penalty, see §
111.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 60-6-9
§ 111.21  NON-INTOXICATING BEER LICENSE; ACTS PROHIBITED; UNLAWFUL PURCHASE.
   (A)   Acts prohibited by non-intoxicating beer licensee.
      (1)   No licensee under W.Va. Code Art. 11-16, his, her, its or their
servants, agents or employees shall sell, give or dispense, and no individual
shall drink or consume, in or on any licensed premises or in any rooms directly
connected therewith, non-intoxicating beer or cooler on weekdays between the
hours of 2:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m., or between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 1:00
p.m. on any Sunday, except in private clubs licensed under the provisions of
W.Va. Code Art. 60-7, where the hours shall conform with the hours of sale of
alcoholic liquors.
      (2)   No licensee, his, her, its or their servants, agents or employees
shall sell, furnish or give any non-intoxicating beer as defined in this
subchapter to any person visibly or noticeably intoxicated, or to any person
known to be insane or known to be a habitual drunkard.
      (3)   No licensee, his, her, its or their servants, agents or employees,
shall sell, furnish or give any non-intoxicating beer as defined in this
subchapter to any person who is less than 21 years of age.
      (4)   No distributor shall sell or offer to sell, and no retailer shall
purchase or receive, any non- intoxicating beer as defined in this subchapter,
except for cash; and no right of action shall exist to collect any claims for
credit extended contrary to the provisions of this division (A)(4). Nothing
herein contained shall prohibit a licensee from crediting to a purchaser the
actual price charged for packages or containers returned by the original
purchaser as a credit on any sale, or from refunding to any purchaser the
amount paid or deposited for such containers when title is retained by the
vendor.
      (5)   No brewer or distributor or brewpub or his, her, its or their
agents shall transport or deliver non-intoxicating beer, as defined in this
subchapter, to any retail licensee on Sunday.
      (6)   No brewer or distributor shall give, furnish, rent or sell any
equipment, fixtures, signs or supplies directly or indirectly or through a
subsidiary or affiliate to any licensee engaged in selling products of the
brewing industry at retail, or offer any prize, premium, gift or other similar
inducement, except advertising matter of nominal value, to either trade or
consumer buyers; provided that, a distributor may offer, for sale or rent,
tanks of carbonic gas. Nothing herein contained shall prohibit a brewer from
sponsoring any professional or amateur athletic event or from providing prizes
or awards for participants and winners in any such events; provided, however,
that, no such event shall be sponsored which permits actual participation by
athletes or other persons who are minors, unless specifically authorized by the
Non-intoxicating Beer Commissioner.
      (7)   No licensee shall permit in his or her premises any lewd, immoral
or improper entertainment, conduct or practice.
      (8)   No licensee, except the holder of a license to operate a private
club issued under the provisions of W.Va. Code Art. 60-7, or a holder of a
license for a private wine restaurant issued under the provisions of W.Va. Code
Art. 60-8, shall possess a federal license, tax receipt or other permit
entitling, authorizing or allowing such licensee to sell liquor or alcoholic
drinks other than non- intoxicating beer.
      (9)   No licensee shall obstruct the view of the interior of his or her
premises by enclosure, lattice, drapes or any means which would prevent plain
view of the patrons occupying such premises. The interior of all licensed
premises shall be adequately lighted at all times; provided that, provisions of
this division (A)(9) shall not apply to the premises of a Class B retailer, the
premises of a private club licensed under the provisions of W.Va. Code Art. 60-
7, or the premises of a private wine restaurant licensed under the provisions
of W.Va. Code Art. 60-8.
      (10)   No licensee shall manufacture, import, sell, trade, barter,
possess or acquiesce in the sale, possession or consumption of any alcoholic
liquors on the premises covered by such license or on premises directly or
indirectly used in connection therewith; provided that, the prohibition
contained in this subsection with respect to the selling or possessing or to
the acquiescence in the sale, possession or consumption of alcoholic liquors
shall not be applicable with respect to the holder of a license to operate a
private club issued under the provisions of W.Va. Code Art. 60-7, nor shall the
prohibition be applicable to a private wine restaurant licensed under the
provisions of W.Va. Code Art. 60-8, insofar as such private wine restaurant is
authorized to serve wine.
      (11)   No retail licensee shall sell or dispense non-intoxicating beer as
defined in this subchapter, purchased or acquired from any source other than a
distributor, brewer or manufacturer licensed under the laws of the state.
      (12)   No licensee shall permit loud, boisterous or disorderly conduct of
any kind upon his or her premises or permit the use of loud musical instruments
if either or any of the same may disturb the peace and quietude of the
community wherein such business is located; provided that, no licensee shall
have in connection with his or her place of business any loudspeaker located on
the outside of the licensed premises that broadcasts or carries music of any
kind.
      (13)   No person whose license has been revoked shall obtain employment
with any retailer within the period of one year from the date of such
revocation, and no retailer shall employ knowingly any such person within such
time.
      (14)   No distributor shall sell, possess for sale, transport or
distribute non-intoxicating beer, except in the original container.
      (15)   No licensee shall knowingly permit any act to be done upon the
licensed premises, the commission of which constitutes a crime under the laws
of the state or municipality.
      (16)   No Class B retailer shall permit the consumption of non-
intoxicating beer upon his or her licensed premises.
      (17)   No Class A licensee, his, her, its or their servants, agents or
employees, or any licensee by or through such servants, agents or employees,
shall allow or permit any person less than 18 years of age to loiter in or upon
any licensed premises; except, however, that the provisions of this division
(A)(17) shall not apply where such person under the age of 18 years is in or
upon such premises in the immediate company of his or her parent or parents, or
where and while such person under the age of 18 years is in or upon such
premises for the purpose of and actually making a lawful purchase of any items
or commodities therein sold, or for the purchase of and actually receiving any
lawful service therein rendered, including the consumption of any item of food,
drink or soft drink therein lawfully prepared and served or sold for
consumption on such premises.
      (18)   No distributor shall sell, offer for sale, distribute or deliver
any non-intoxicating beer outside the territory assigned to such distributor by
the brewer or manufacturer of such non-intoxicating beer or sell, offer for
sale, distribute or deliver any such non-intoxicating beer to any retailer
whose principal place of business or licensed premises is within the assigned
territory of another distributor of such non-intoxicating beer; provided that,
nothing herein shall be deemed to prohibit sales of convenience between
distributors licensed in the state wherein one such distributor sells,
transfers or delivers to another such distributor a particular brand or brands
for sale at wholesale.
      (19)   No licensee or any agent, servant or employee of any such licensee
shall knowingly violate any rule or regulation lawfully promulgated by the
Commissioner.
      (20)   Any person who violates any provision of this section, or any
rule, regulation or order lawfully promulgated by the Commissioner, or who
makes any false statement concerning any material fact in submitting
application for license or for a renewal of a license or in any hearing
concerning the revocation thereof, or who commits any of the acts herein
declared to be unlawful, shall be punished as provided in §
111.99(B) of this chapter.
      (21)   Nothing in this section, nor any rule or regulation of the
Commissioner, shall prevent or be deemed to prohibit any licensee from
employing any person who is at least 18 years of age to serve in such
licensee’s lawful employ, including the sale or delivery of non-intoxicating
beer as defined in this subchapter. With the prior approval of the
Commissioner, a licensee whose principal business is the sale of food or
consumer goods or the providing of recreation activities, including, but not
limited to, nationally franchised fast food outlets, family-oriented
restaurants, bowling alleys, drug stores, discount stores, grocery stores and
convenience stores, may employ persons who are less than 18 years of age, but
at least 16 years of age; provided that, such person’s duties shall not include
the sale or delivery of non-intoxicating beer or alcoholic liquors; provided,
however, that, the authorization to employ such persons under the age of 18
years shall be clearly indicated on the licensee’s license.
(Prior Code, § 521.07)
   (B)      Unlawful purchase of non-intoxicating beer.
      (1)   No person under the age of 21 years shall purchase, consume, sell,
possess or serve non- intoxicating beer.
         (a)   Nothing in this section, nor any rule or regulation of the
Alcohol Beverage Control Commissioner, shall prevent or be deemed to prohibit
any person who is at least 18 years of age from serving in the lawful
employment of any licensee, which may include the sale or delivery of non-
intoxicating beer. Further, nothing in this section, nor any rule or regulation
of the Commissioner, shall prevent or be deemed to prohibit any person who is
less than 18, but at least 16 years of age from being employed by a licensee
whose principal business is the sale of food or consumer goods or the providing
of recreational activities, including, but not limited to, nationally-
franchised fast food outlets, family-oriented restaurants, bowling alleys, drug
stores, discount stores, grocery stores and convenience stores; provided that,
such person shall not sell or deliver non-intoxicating beer.
         (b)   Nothing in this division (B)(1) shall prohibit a person who is
at least 18 years of age from purchasing or possessing non-intoxicating beer
when he or she is acting upon the request of or under the direction and control
of any member of a state, federal or local law enforcement agency or the
state’s Alcohol Beverage Administration while the agency is conducting an
investigation or other activity relating to the enforcement of the alcohol
beverage control statutes and the rules and regulations of the Commissioner.
      (2)   No person under the age of 21 years for the purpose of purchasing
non-intoxicating beer, shall misrepresent his or her age, or for such purpose
present or offer any written evidence of age which is false, fraudulent or not
actually his or her own, or shall illegally attempt to purchase non-
intoxicating beer.
      (3)   No person shall knowingly buy for, give to or furnish non-
intoxicating beer to anyone under the age of 21 years to whom they are not
related by blood or marriage.
(Prior Code, § 521.08)  Penalty, see §
111.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code §§ 11-16-18, 11-16-19
§ 111.22  PRIVATE CLUBS; ACTS PROHIBITED; UNLAWFUL PURCHASE.
   (A)   Acts prohibited by private club licensee.
      (1)   No person licensed under W.Va. Code Art. 60-7, or his or her agent,
employee or member thereof, on such licensee’s premises shall:
         (a)   Sell or offer for sale any alcoholic liquors other than from the
original package or container;
         (b)   Authorize or permit any disturbance of the peace; obscene, lewd,
immoral or improper entertainment, conduct or practice; gambling or any slot
machine, multiple coin console machine, multiple coin console slot machine or
device in the nature of a slot machine;
         (c)   Sell, give away or permit the sale of, gift to or the
procurement of any non-intoxicating beer, wine or alcoholic liquors for or to,
or permit the consumption of non-intoxicating beer, wine or alcoholic liquors
on the licensee’s premises, by any person less than 21 years of age;
         (d)   Sell, give away or permit the sale of, gift to or the
procurement of any non-intoxicating beer, wine or alcoholic liquors, for or to
any person known to be deemed legally incompetent, or for or to any person who
is physically incapacitated due to consumption of non-intoxicating beer, wine
or alcoholic liquor or the use of drugs;
         (e)   Sell, give or dispense non-intoxicating beer, wine or alcoholic
liquors in or on any licensed premises or in any rooms directly connected
therewith, between the hours of 3:00 a.m. and 1:00 p.m. on Sunday;
         (f)   Permit the consumption by, or serve to, on the licensed premises
any non-intoxicating beer, wine or alcoholic liquors, covered by this
subchapter, to any person who is less than 21 years of age;
         (g)   With the intent to defraud, alter, change or misrepresent the
quality, quantity or brand name of any alcoholic liquor;
         (h)   Sell or offer for sale any alcoholic liquor to any person who is
not a duly elected or approved dues paying member in good standing of the
private club or a guest of such member;
         (i)   Sell, offer for sale, give away, facilitate the use of or allow
the use of carbon dioxide, cyclopropane, ethylene, helium or nitrous oxide for
purposes of human consumption, except as authorized by the Commissioner;
         (j)   1.   Employ any person who is less than eighteen years of age in
a position where the primary responsibility for such employment is to sell,
furnish or give non-intoxicating beer, wine or alcoholic liquors to any person;
and
            2.   Employ any person who is between the ages of 18 and 21 who is
not directly supervised by a person aged 21 or over in a position where the
primary responsibility for such employment is to sell, furnish or give non-
intoxicating beer, wine or alcoholic liquors to any person.
         (k)   Violate any reasonable rule or regulation of the Alcohol
Beverage Control Commissioner.
      (2)   No licensee shall advertise in any news media or other means,
outside of the licensee’s premises, the fact that alcoholic liquors may be
purchased thereat.
(Prior Code, § 521.09)
   (B)   Unlawful purchase from private club.
      (1)   No person under the age of 21 years shall order, pay for, share the
cost of or attempt to purchase any non-intoxicating beer, wine or alcoholic
liquors from a licensee or consume any non- intoxicating beer, wine or
alcoholic liquors purchased from a private club licensee or possess any non-
intoxicating beer, wine or alcoholic liquors purchased from a licensee;
provided that, nothing in this division (B)(1) shall prohibit a person who is
at least 18 years of age from purchasing or possessing non- intoxicating beer,
wine or alcoholic liquors when he or she is acting upon the request of or under
the direction and control of any member of a state, federal or local law
enforcement agency or the state’s Alcohol Beverage Administration while the
agency is conducting an investigation or other activity relating to the
enforcement of the alcohol beverage control statutes and the rules and
regulations of the Commissioner.
      (2)   No person under the age of 21 years, for the purpose of purchasing
non-intoxicating beer, wine or alcoholic liquors from a private club licensee,
misrepresent his or her age or for such purpose present or offer any written
evidence of age which is false, fraudulent or not actually his or her own, or
illegally attempt to purchase non-intoxicating beer, wine or alcoholic liquors
from a licensee.
      (3)   No person shall knowingly buy for, give to or furnish to anyone
under the age of 21 years any non-intoxicating beer, wine or alcoholic liquors
purchased from a licensee.
(Prior Code, § 521.10)  Penalty, see §
111.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code §§ 60-7-12, 60-7-12a
§ 111.23  WINE DEALERS; ACTS PROHIBITED; UNLAWFUL PURCHASE.
   (A)   Acts prohibited by wine dealers. It shall be unlawful:
      (1)   For a distributor to sell or deliver wine purchased or acquired
from any source other than a person registered under the provisions of W.Va.
Code § 60-8-6, or for a retailer to sell or deliver wine purchased or acquired
from any source other than a licensed distributor or a farm winery as defined
in W.Va. Code § 60-1-5a;
      (2)   Unless otherwise specifically provided for by the provisions of
W.Va. Code Art. 60-8, for a licensee under W.Va. Code Art. 60-8 to acquire,
transport, possess for safe or sell wine other than in the original package;
      (3)   For a licensee, his or her servants, agents or employees to sell,
furnish or give wine to any person less than 21 years of age or to a mental
incompetent or person who is physically incapacitated due to the consumption of
alcoholic liquor or the use of drugs; provided that, the provisions of W.Va.
Code § 60-3A-25a shall apply to sales of wine;
      (4)   For a licensee to permit a person who is less than 18 years of age
to sell, furnish or give wine to any person;
      (5)   For a distributor to sell or deliver any brand of wine purchased or
acquired from any source other than the primary source of supply of the wine
which granted the distributor the right to sell such brand at wholesale. For
the purposes of this subchapter, PRIMARY SOURCE OF SUPPLY means the vintner of
the wine, the importer of a foreign wine who imports the wine into the United
States, the owner of a wine at the time it becomes a marketable product, the
bottler of a wine, or an agent specifically authorized by any of the above
enumerated persons to make a sale of the wine to a state distributor; provided
that, no retailer shall sell or deliver wine purchased or acquired from any
source other than a distributor licensed as such in the state; provided,
however, that, nothing herein is considered to prohibit sales of convenience
between distributors licensed in the state wherein one such distributor sells,
transfers or delivers to another such distributor a particular brand or brands
for sale at wholesale of which brand or brands such other distributor may be
temporarily out of stock. The Alcohol Beverage Commissioner shall promulgate
rules necessary to carry out the provision of this division (A)(5);
      (6)   For a person to violate any reasonable rule or regulation
promulgated by the Alcohol Beverage Control Commissioner under W.Va. Code Art.
60-8; and
      (7)   Nothing in this subchapter, nor any rule or regulation of the
Commissioner, shall prevent or be considered to prohibit any licensee from
employing any person who is at least 18 years of age to serve in any licensee’s
lawful employment, including the sale or delivery of wine under the provisions
of this subchapter. With the prior approval of the Commissioner a licensee
whose principal business is the sale of food or consumer goods or the providing
of recreational activities, including, but not limited to, nationally
franchised fast food outlets, family oriented restaurants, bowling alleys, drug
stores, discount stores, grocery stores and convenience stores, may employ
persons who are less than 18 years of age, but at least 16 years of age;
provided that, such person’s duties may not include the sale or delivery of
non-intoxicating beer or alcoholic liquors; provided, however, that, the
authorization to employ such persons, under the age of 18 years shall be
clearly indicated on the licensee’s license.
(Prior Code, § 521.11)
   (B)   Unlawful purchase of wine.
      (1)   No person under the age of 21 years shall purchase, consume, sell,
possess or serve wine or other alcoholic liquor.
            (a)   Nothing in this section, nor any rule or regulation of the
Alcohol Beverage Control Commissioner, shall prevent or be deemed to prohibit
any person who is at least 18 years of age from serving in the lawful
employment of any licensee, which may include the sale or delivery of wine.
Further, nothing in this section, nor any rule or regulation of the
Commissioner, shall prevent or be deemed to prohibit any person who is less
than 18, but at least 16 years of age from being employed by a licensee whose
principal business is the sale of food or consumer goods or the providing of
recreational activities, including, but not limited to, nationally franchised
fast food outlets, family-oriented restaurants, bowling alleys, drug stores,
discount stores, grocery stores and convenience stores; provided that, such
person shall not sell or deliver wine or alcoholic liquor.
            (b)   Nothing in this division (B)(1) shall prohibit a person who
is at least 18 years of age from purchasing or possessing wine or alcoholic
liquor when he or she is acting upon the request of or under the direction and
control of any member of a state, federal or local law-enforcement agency or
the state’s Alcohol Beverage Administration while the agency is conducting an
investigation or other activity relating to the enforcement of the alcohol
beverage control statutes and the rules and regulations of the Commissioner.
      (2)   No person under the age of 21 years, for the purpose of purchasing
wine or other alcoholic liquors from a licensee, shall misrepresent his or her
age, or for such purpose present or offer any written evidence of age which is
false, fraudulent or not actually his or her own, or illegally attempt to
purchase wine or other alcoholic liquors.
      (3)   No person shall knowingly buy for, give to or furnish wine or other
alcoholic liquors from any source to anyone under the age of 21 years to whom
they are not related by blood or marriage.
(Prior Code, § 521.12)
   (C)   Unlawful purchase from retail liquor licensee.
      (1)   No person under the age of 21 years shall purchase, consume, sell,
serve or possess alcoholic liquor.
            (a)   Nothing is this section, nor any rule or regulation of the
Alcohol Beverage Control Commissioner, shall prevent or be deemed to prohibit
any person who is at least 18 years of age from serving in the lawful
employment of a licensee which includes the sale and serving of alcoholic
liquor.
            (b)   Nothing in this division (C)(1) shall prohibit a person who
is at least 18 years of age from purchasing or possessing alcoholic liquor when
he or she is acting upon the request of or under the direction and control of
any member of a state, federal or local law-enforcement agency or the state’s
Alcohol Beverage Administration while the agency is conducting an investigation
or other activity relating to the enforcement of the alcohol beverage control
statutes and the rules and regulations of the Commissioner.
      (2)   No person under the age of 21 years shall, for the purpose of
purchasing liquor from a retail licensee, misrepresent his or her age, or for
such purpose present or offer any written evidence of age which is false,
fraudulent or not actually his or her own, or illegally attempt to purchase
liquor from a retail licensee.
      (3)   No person shall knowingly buy for, give to or furnish to anyone
under the age of 21 to whom he or she is not related by blood or marriage any
liquor from whatever source.
      (4)   No person while on the premises of a retail outlet shall consume
liquor or break the seal on any package or bottle of liquor.
(Prior Code, § 521.13)  Penalty, see §
111.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 60-3A-24
§ 111.24  CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES AND MARIJUANA; VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Illegal possession of controlled substances and marijuana. No person
shall:
      (1)   Consume or use any controlled substance including marijuana on any
public sidewalk, walkway, entranceway, street, lane or other public place;
      (2)   Consume or use any controlled substance including marijuana in a
motor vehicle on any highway, street, alley or in any other public place;
      (3)   Tender or sell any controlled substance including marijuana to
another person in a public place;
      (4)   Possess any controlled substance including marijuana;
      (5)   Possess any controlled substance including marijuana, which was
manufactured or acquired in violation of the provisions of W.Va. Code Ch. 60A;
and
      (6)   Possess any paraphernalia as listed in W.Va. Code § 60A-4-403a,
typically associated with the consumption of any controlled substance including
marijuana.
(Prior Code, § 521.14)
   (B)   Violations of division (A) above. Any person who is in violation of
possession of any controlled substance including marijuana in which the amount
recovered is less than 15 grams as referenced in divisions (A)(4) and (A)(5)
above and/or is in violation of the possession of paraphernalia as referenced
in division (A)(6) above, is guilty of a misdemeanor, and will be referred to
the Municipal Court.
   (C)   Medical Cannabis Act. The Medical Cannabis Act, being W.Va. Code Ch.
16A, is hereby adopted by reference.
(Prior Code, § 521.15)  (Ord. passed 1-13-2000)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates §§
111.19(A),
111.21(B) or
111.23(B)(2) or (C)(2) of this chapter shall be fined in an amount set by
Council from time to time, or imprisoned for not more than 72 hours, or both,
or, in lieu of such fine and imprisonment, may, for the first offense, be
placed on probation for not more than one year.
      (2)   Whoever violates §§
111.19(B),
111.21(B)(3) or
111.23(B)(3) or (C)(3) or (C)(4) of this chapter shall be fined in an amount
set by Council from time to time, or imprisoned for not more than ten days, or
both.
      (3)   Whoever violates §
111.20(A) of this chapter shall be sentenced in accordance with the following
options:
            (a)   Upon first offense, a fine in an amount set by Council from
time to time. If the individual, prior to conviction, agrees to voluntarily
attend the alcohol education program, the judge may delay sentencing until the
program is completed and upon completion may dismiss the charges;
            (b)   Upon conviction for a second offense, a fine in an amount set
by Council from time to time and not more than 30 days in jail or completion of
not less than five hours of alcoholism counseling at the nearest community
mental health-mental retardation center; and
            (c)   Upon third and subsequent convictions, a fine in an amount
set by Council from time to time and not less than five, nor more than 30, days
in jail or a fine in an amount set by Council from time to time and completion
of not less than five hours of alcoholism counseling at the nearest community
mental health-mental retardation center; provided that, three convictions for
public intoxication within the preceding six months shall be considered
evidence of alcoholism; provided, however, that, for the educational counseling
programs described in this division (B)(3), the community mental health-mental
retardation center may charge each participant its usual and customary fee and
shall certify in writing to the referring judicial officer the completion or
failure to complete the prescribed program for each individual. A person
charged with a violation of §
111.20(A) of this chapter who is an alcoholic shall be found not guilty by
reason of addiction and proper disposition made pursuant to W.Va. Code Art. 27-
5 and 27-6A.
      (4)   Whoever violates §
111.20(B) of this chapter shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time
to time; upon a second or subsequent violation shall be fined not in an amount
set by Council from time to time or imprisoned not more than 30 days or both.
      (5)   Whoever violates §
111.20(C) of this chapter shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time
to time, or confined in jail not more than 30 days, or both.
      (6)   Whoever violates §
111.20(D) or (E) of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor for a first offense
and shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time to time.
      (7)   Whoever violates §§
111.21(B)(1) or
111.23(B)(1) or (C)(1) of this chapter shall be fined in an amount set by
Council from time to time or imprisoned not more than 72 hours, or both, or in
lieu thereof, may, for the first offense, be placed on probation for a period
not to exceed one year.
      (8)   Whoever violates §
111.22(A) of this chapter shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time
to time, or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both.
      (9)   Whoever violates §
111.22(B)(1) or (B)(2) of this chapter shall be fined in an amount set by
Council from time to time or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both, and, in
addition, may, for the first offense, be placed on probation for a period not
to exceed one year.
      (10)   Whoever violates §
111.22(B)(3) of this chapter shall be fined in an amount set by Council from
time to time or imprisoned not more than ten days, or both.
      (11)   Any person in violation of §
111.24(B) of this chapter relating to less than 15 grams of any controlled
substance including marijuana and/or paraphernalia typically associated with
the consumption of a controlled substance including marijuana will be fined in
an amount set by Council from time to time, plus all approved court costs.
(Prior Code, § 521.99)  (Ord. passed 1-13-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code §§ 11-16-19, 60-3-22a, 60-3A-24 60-6-9,
60-7-12, 60-7-12a, 60-8-20a
CHAPTER 112:  AMUSEMENTS AND LEISURE
Section
   
112.01   Carnivals and circuses
   
112.02   Topless dancing establishments
   
112.03   Private clubs
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01  CARNIVALS AND CIRCUSES.
   (A)      Prohibitions; exceptions.
      (1)   No carnival or circus shall set up business and perform or operate
within the corporate limits of the city subject to the exceptions hereinafter
set forth.
      (2)   This section shall not be construed against a carnival or circus
passing through the corporate limits of the city en route to a destination
outside of the city.
(Prior Code, § 705.01)
   (B)   Definition. CARNIVAL or CIRCUS. A commercial amusement show, usually
traveling from place to place, having side shows, a Ferris wheel, merry-go-
rounds or other riding equipment for hire or without charge; usually having
animals and/or trapeze performers; usually having merry making devices which
are noisy and riotous; usually having entertainment with side shows, rides,
games and refreshments; usually operated as a commercial enterprise and
sometimes by a social or charitable organization.
(Prior Code, § 705.02)
   (C)   “Carnival-like” festivities; permit; fees.
      (1)   For the purpose of this section, CARNIVAL and CIRCUS shall refer to
organized commercial traveling road shows. Local charitable or non-profit
organizations may operate “carnival-like” festivities or fund-raising events
for not more than two consecutive days; provided that, all rides, amusement
devices, refreshment stands and the like are owned and operated by members of
the organization. Before a local charitable or non-profit organization may
operate a “carnival-like” festivity or fund-raising event, it shall obtain a
permit to do so from the city. The fee for such permit shall be in an amount
set by Council from time to time for each two-day period of operation.
      (2)   A local merchant or a group of local merchants may operate a
“carnival-like” show or activity or hire a “carnival-like” show or activity to
promote their business for not more than two consecutive days; provided, a
permit is obtained from the city, which permit shall be approved by the City
Manager. Such permits approved by the City Manager for such merchant operation
shall be confined to holidays and the day or days preceding or following a
holiday. The fee for such permit shall be in an amount set by Council from time
to time for each two-day period of operation.
(Prior Code, § 705.03)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.02  TOPLESS DANCING ESTABLISHMENTS.
   The existence of nude and/or topless dancing establishments and/or nude and/
or topless dancing within the city limits is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 713.01)  (Ord. passed 4-7-1997)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.03  PRIVATE CLUBS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purposes of this subchapter, the definitions of
PRIVATE CLUB, LICENSEE, APPLICANT, COMMISSIONER and CODE shall be the same as
contained in W.Va. Code § 60-7-2.
(Prior Code, § 757.01)
   (B)   License required. No licensee authorized by the state to sell
alcoholic liquors, as provided by W.Va. Code § 60-7-3, shall do so within the
corporate limits of the city without first having obtained a city license
issued by the City Clerk as hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 757.02)
   (C)   License application.
      (1)   Application for a license to operate a private club shall be made
on such forms as may be prescribed by the City Clerk and shall include:
            (a)   The name of the applicant;
            (b)   If such application be an unincorporated association, the
names and addresses of the members of its governing board;
            (c)   If such applicant be a corporation, the names and addresses
of its officers and directors;
            (d)   The place at which such applicant will conduct its operations
and whether the same is owned or leased by the applicant;
            (e)   The number of members of the applicant;
            (f)   The name or names of any national organizations with which
the applicant is affiliated and the nature of such affiliation;
            (g)   The size and nature of the dining and kitchen facilities
operated by the applicant; and
            (h)   Such other information as the City Clerk may reasonably
require which shall include, but not be limited to, the criminal records, if
any, of each member of applicant’s governing board and/or its officers and
directors who have been convicted of a felony or a crime involving moral
turpitude.
      (2)   Such application shall be verified by each member of the governing
board of the applicant if an unincorporated association or, if the applicant be
a corporation, by each of its officers and all members of its board of
directors. Such application shall be accompanied by the license fee hereinafter
prescribed.
(Prior Code, § 757.03)
   (D)   Licensing procedure.
      (1)   Upon receipt of the application referred to in division (C) above,
together with the accompanying license fee hereinafter set out, the City Clerk
may conduct such investigation as he or she may deem necessary to determine the
accuracy of the matters contained in such application. The City Clerk shall
withhold issuing such license until such time as the applicant exhibits a valid
private club license issued by the West Virginia Alcohol Beverage Control
Commissioner. Upon the exhibition thereof by the applicant, or within 30 days
thereafter, the City Clerk shall issue the city license unless it appears from
the investigation conducted by the City Clerk that the application submitted by
the applicant contains one or more material inaccuracies or false statements in
which event the City Clerk shall refuse to issue such license until such time
as the applicant has corrected such inaccuracies or false statements.
      (2)   In the event the applicant fails or refuses to correct such
inaccuracies or false statements contained in the application, the City Clerk
shall deny the application and refuse to issue the license and shall forthwith
refund to the applicant the fee accompanying his or her application. Further,
the City Clerk shall advise the Commissioner, in writing, of his or her reasons
for denying the application.
      (3)   Any license issued pursuant to an application received hereunder
shall authorize the licensee to sell alcoholic liquors at only one location
specified in the license.
      (4)   Any license issued hereunder shall expire on June 30 next following
the date of issue and may be renewed upon the same showing as required for the
issuance of the original license, together with the payment of fees hereinafter
prescribed.
      (5)   A license issued under the provisions of this subchapter shall not
be transferable with regard to either licensee or location.
      (6)   The City Clerk shall attach to any license issued hereunder a copy
of this subchapter, together with a notice advising the licensee to fully
acquaint himself or herself with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 757.04)
   (E)   Annual license fee; proration.
      (1)   The annual municipal license fee for a license issued under the
provisions of this subchapter shall be as follows:
            (a)   For a licensee having 100 members or less: in an amount set
by Council from time to time;
            (b)   For a licensee having more than 100, but less than 300
members: in an amount set by Council from time to time;
            (c)   For a licensee having 300 or more, but less than 600 members:
in an amount set by Council from time to time; and
            (d)   For a licensee having 600 or more members: in an amount set
by Council from time to time.
      (2)   The fee for any such license issued following January 1, and which
expires on June 30, of such year shall be one-half of that prescribed by
division (E)(1)(b) above; provided, however, with respect to the 1966-1967
fiscal year only, the fee for any license issued hereunder shall be one-quarter
of that prescribed by division (E)(1) above.
(Prior Code, § 757.05)
   (F)   Certain acts prohibited.
      (1)   No licensee, agent, employee or member thereof, shall do any of the
following, on such licensee’s premises:
            (a)   Sell or offer for sale any alcoholic liquors other than from
the original package or container;
            (b)   Authorize or permit any disturbance of the peace; obscene,
lewd, immoral or improper entertainment, conduct or practice;
            (c)   Sell, give away or permit the sale of, gift to, or the
procurement of any alcoholic liquors, for any minor, mental incompetent or
person who is physically incapacitated due to the consumption of alcoholic
liquor, or the use of drugs;
            (d)   Sell, give or dispense alcoholic liquors in or on any
licensed premises or in any rooms directly connected therewith, between the
hours of 2:00 a.m. and 1:00 p.m. on any Sunday;
            (e)   Permit the consumption by, or serve to, on the licensed
premises, any alcoholic liquors, covered by this section, to any person under
the age of 21 years; or
            (f)   With the intent to defraud, alter, change or misrepresent the
quality, quantity or brand name of any alcoholic liquor.
      (2)   No licensee shall advertise in any news media or other means,
outside of the licensee’s premises, the fact that alcoholic liquors may be
purchased thereat.
(Prior Code, § 757.06)
   (G)   Revocation of license. Upon final conviction of a licensee, or any
employee thereof acting within the scope of his or her employment of any
provision of this subchapter or upon final conviction of a licensee or any
employee thereof acting within the scope of his or her employment of any
violation of any municipal ordinance relating to the regulation, control and
sale of alcoholic liquors, or to the regulation and control of gambling or
prostitution, the City Clerk shall revoke the licensee’s municipal license.
Such license so revoked shall not be reissued or reinstated for a period of one
year from the date of such revocation. Upon final conviction of any licensee,
or any employee thereof acting within the scope of his or her employment, as
aforementioned, the City Clerk shall, in writing, immediately advise the
Commissioner thereof.
(Prior Code, § 757.07)  Penalty, see §
112.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to license, see W.Va. Code § 8-13-7, 60-7-7
   Private clubs, see W.Va. Code Art. 60-7
§ 112.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   The managers, performers and employees of carnivals or circuses who
violate §
112.01 of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined in an amount set by
Council from time to time. Each day or night of violation shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 705.99)
   (C)   The managers, performers, patrons and/or employees of such
establishments who violate §
112.02 of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined in an amount set by
Council from time to time and/or sentenced to incarceration in jail for not
more than 30 days. Each 24-hour period in which anyone violates §
112.02 of this chapter shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 713.99)
   (D)   Whoever violates any provision of §
112.03 of this chapter shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time to
time or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both.
(Prior Code, § 757.99)  (Ord. passed 4-7-1997)
CHAPTER 113:  PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Certificate of registration required
   
113.03   Application for certificate
   
113.04   Issuance of certificate; photograph
   
113.05   Cost of registration
   
113.06   Revocation of certificate
   
113.07   Display of certificate
   
113.08   Registration period; transfer prohibited
Statutory reference:
   Obtaining money by false pretenses, see W.Va. Code §§ 61-3-24 et seq.
   Solicitation of charitable funds, see W.Va. Code Art. 29-19
§ 113.01  DEFINITIONS.
   PEDDLER or SOLICITOR. Any person who goes from house-to-house, or from
place-to-place in person, or who calls from house-to-house or from place-to-
place by means of telephone in the city, selling or offering to sell or take
orders for goods, wares, merchandise or any other article for future delivery,
or for services to be performed in the future, or for the making, manufacturing
or repairing of any article or thing; provided, however, that, this definition
shall not include newspaper carriers or any driver operating a regular route
who solicits additional customers on such route when such solicitation is only
incidental to his or her regular duties; or any person having in the city a
bona fide and permanent address or place of business; or benevolent
organizations.
(Prior Code, § 709.01)
§ 113.02  CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage in the occupation of peddler or solicitor within the
corporate limits without having on his or her person a certificate of
registration procured from the City Manager, with the approval of the Chief of
Police.
(Prior Code, § 709.02)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.03  APPLICATION FOR CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   Any person desiring to engage in the occupation of peddler or
solicitor shall apply to the City Manager for a certificate of registration.
   (B)   Such application shall be made on a form provided by the City Manager
and shall show, and contain in addition to such other information as the City
Manager may desire, the following:
      (1)   Name and description of applicant;
      (2)   Permanent home address and local address of applicant;
      (3)   If employed, the name and address of employer;
      (4)   A photograph of the applicant taken within 90 days prior to the
date of the filing of the application, which picture shall be two inches by two
inches, showing the head and shoulders of the applicant in a clear and
distinguishing manner;
      (5)   Fingerprints; and
      (6)   A statement as to whether the applicant has been convicted of any
felony or misdemeanor involving moral turpitude, the nature of the offense, the
time committed and the punishment or penalty assessed therefor.
(Prior Code, § 709.03)
§ 113.04  ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATE; PHOTOGRAPH.
   Subject to the restrictions set forth in this chapter, the City Manager
shall issue to each applicant a certificate of registration containing a
photograph of the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 709.04)
§ 113.05  COST OF REGISTRATION.
   (A)   There shall be no fee for the certificate of registration issued
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter; except that, the applicant shall
reimburse the city for the cost incurred in the issuance of his or her
certificate.
   (B)   Such cost shall be determined and collected by the City Manager, but
in no case shall it exceed an amount set by Council from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 709.05)
§ 113.06  REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATE.
   The City Manager shall revoke any certificate of registration issued
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter for any false statement made in the
application for such certificate or for dishonest or improper dealing with the
public.
(Prior Code, § 709.06)
§ 113.07  DISPLAY OF CERTIFICATE.
   No person to whom the certificate of registration has been issued pursuant
to the provisions of this chapter shall fail, neglect or refuse to display such
certificate of registration upon demand.
(Prior Code, § 709.07)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.08  REGISTRATION PERIOD; TRANSFER PROHIBITED.
   A registration certificate issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter
shall be valid for a period of one year from date issued, providing employment
is with the same company. The certificate is not transferable.
(Prior Code, § 709.08)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
      
134.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC SAFETY
      
135.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
CHAPTER 130:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Administration and Law Enforcement
   
130.01   Refusal to aid officer
   
130.02   Obstructing or giving false information to officer; fleeing
   
130.03   False fire alarm
   
130.04   False bomb or explosive reports
   
130.05   Impersonating an official or law enforcement officer
   
130.06   Attempts
   
130.07   Citation in lieu of arrest; failure to appear
   
130.08   Falsely reporting emergency incident
 
   
130.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Bribery and corrupt practices generally, see W.Va. Code Art. 61-5A
   Crimes against public justice, see W.Va. Code Art. 61-5
   Penalty not to exceed that provided in W.Va. Code Ch. 61, see W.Va. Code §
8-12-5(58)
   Specific types of bribery, see W.Va. Code §§ 3-1-1 et seq., 15-2-17 et seq.,
18-2A-9, 61-10-15 and 61-10-22
ADMINISTRATION AND LAW ENFORCEMENT
§ 130.01  REFUSAL TO AID OFFICER.
   No person shall, when required by the Police Chief or any other officer,
refuse or neglect to assist him or her in the execution of his or her office in
a criminal case, in the preservation of the peace or in the apprehension or
securing of any person for a breach of the peace or in any case of escape or
rescue.
(Prior Code, § 501.01)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 61-5-14
§ 130.02  OBSTRUCTING OR GIVING FALSE INFORMATION TO OFFICER; FLEEING.
   (A)   No person shall by threats, menaces, acts or otherwise, forcibly or
illegally hinder or obstruct, or attempt to hinder or obstruct, any law
enforcement officer, probation officer or parole officer acting in his or her
official capacity.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall, with intent to impede or obstruct a law
enforcement officer in the conduct of an investigation of a felony offense,
knowingly and willfully make a materially false statement; provided that, the
provisions of this division (B) shall not apply to statements made by a spouse,
parent, stepparent, grandparent, sibling, half-sibling, child, stepchild or
grandchild, whether related by blood or marriage, of the person under
investigation.
      (2)   Statements made by the person under investigation may not be used
as the basis for prosecution under this division (B).
      (3)   For the purposes of this division (B), LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER
shall not include watchman, state police or college security personnel.
   (C)   No person shall intentionally flee or attempt to flee by any means
other than the use of a vehicle from any law enforcement officer, probation
officer or parole officer acting in his or her official capacity who is
attempting to make a lawful arrest of the person and who knows or reasonably
believes that the officer is attempting to arrest him or her.
   (D)   No person shall intentionally flee or attempt to flee in a vehicle
from any law enforcement officer, probation officer or parole officer acting in
his or her official capacity, after the officer has given a clear visual or
audible signal directing the person to stop.
   (E)   For purposes of this section, VEHICLE includes any motor vehicle,
motorcycle, motorboat, all-terrain vehicle or snowmobile, as those terms are
defined in W.Va. Code § 17A-1-1, whether or not it is being operated on a
public highway at the time and whether or not it is licensed by the state.
   (F)   For purposes of this section, FLEE and FLEEING do not include any
person’s reasonable attempt to travel to a safe place, allowing the pursuing
law enforcement officer, probation officer or parole officer to maintain
appropriate surveillance, for the purpose of complying with the officer’s
direction to stop.
   (G)   No person shall refuse or fail to comply with any lawful order,
direction or signal of a police officer.
(Prior Code, § 501.02)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 61-5-17
§ 130.03  FALSE FIRE ALARM.
   No person shall make, turn in or telephone, or by use of any means or method
of communication aid or abet in the making or turning in of any alarm of fire
which he or she knows to be false at the time of making such alarm.
(Prior Code, § 501.03)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 15A-10-20
§ 130.04  FALSE BOMBS OR OTHER EXPLOSIVE REPORTS.
   (A)   No person shall impart or convey or cause to be imparted or conveyed
any false information, knowing or having reasonable cause to believe such
information to be false, concerning the presence of any bomb or other explosive
device in, at, on, near, under or against any dwelling house, structure,
improvement, building, bridge, motor vehicle, vessel, boat, railroad car,
airplane or other place, or concerning an attempt or alleged attempt being made
or to be made to so place or explode any such bomb or other explosive device.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any provision of this section to the contrary, any
person violating the provisions of division (A) above for a second offense or
whose violation of the subsection results in another suffering serious bodily
injury shall be guilty of a felony and prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(Prior Code, § 501.04)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 61-6-17
§ 130.05  IMPERSONATING AN OFFICIAL OR LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall falsely represent himself or herself to be a law
enforcement officer or law enforcement official or be under the order or
direction of any such person.
      (2)   No person not a law enforcement officer or law enforcement official
shall wear the uniform prescribed for such persons, or the badge or other
insignia adopted for use by such persons with the intent to deceive another
person.
      (3)   For purposes of this section, LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER and LAW
ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL shall have the meanings set forth in W.Va. Code § 30-29-1;
except that, such terms shall not include members of the state’s Division of
Public Safety and shall not include individuals hired by non-public entities
for the provision of security services.
   (B)   No person shall falsely represent himself or herself to be an officer
or employee of the municipality, or exercise or attempt to exercise any of the
duties, functions or powers of a municipal officer. No person not a member of
the Fire Department, for the purpose of such false representation, shall wear a
uniform or part thereof similar to the uniform worn by a member of the Fire
Department.
(Prior Code, § 501.05)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 61-1-9
§ 130.06  ATTEMPTS.
   Every person who attempts to commit an offense, but fails to commit or is
prevented from committing it, shall be subject to the penalty provided in §
501.99 of this chapter if the offense is punishable by confinement in jail.
(Prior Code, § 501.06)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 61-11-8
§ 130.07  CITATION IN LIEU OF ARREST; FAILURE TO APPEAR.
   (A)   A police officer may issue a citation instead of making an arrest for
the following offenses, if there are reasonable grounds to believe that the
person being cited will appear to answer the charge:
      (1)   Any misdemeanor, not involving injury to the person, committed in a
police officer’s presence; provided that, the officer may arrest the person if
he or she has reasonable grounds to believe that the person is likely to cause
serious harm to himself or herself or others; and
      (2)   When any person is being detained for the purpose of investigating
whether such person has committed or attempted to commit shoplifting, pursuant
to §
132.01 of this chapter.
   (B)   The citation shall provide that the defendant shall appear within a
designated time.
   (C)   If the defendant fails to appear in response to the citation or if
there are reasonable grounds to believe that he or she will not appear, a
complaint may be made and a warrant shall issue. When a physical arrest is made
and a citation is issued in relation to the same offense, the officer shall
mark on the citation, in the place specified for court appearance date, the
word “arrested” in lieu of the date of court appearance.
(Prior Code, § 501.07)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 62-1-5(a)
§ 130.08  FALSELY REPORTING EMERGENCY INCIDENT.
   A person is guilty of reporting a false emergency incident when knowing the
information reported, conveyed or circulated is false or baseless, he or she:
   (A)   Initiates or circulates a false report or warning of or impending
occurrence of a fire, explosion, crime, catastrophe, accident, illness or other
emergency under circumstances in which it is likely that public alarm or
inconvenience will result or that firefighting apparatus, ambulance apparatus,
one or more rescue vehicles or other emergency apparatus might be summoned;
   (B)   Reports, by word or action, to any official or quasi-official agency
or organization having the function of dealing with emergencies involving
danger to life or property, an alleged occurrence or impending occurrence of a
fire, explosion, crime, catastrophe, accident, illness or other emergency in
which it is likely that public alarm or inconvenience will result or that
firefighting apparatus, ambulance apparatus, one or more rescue vehicles or
other emergency apparatus might be summoned, which did not occur, does not in
fact exist;
   (C)   Reports to a law enforcement officer or agency the alleged occurrence
of any offense or incident which did not in fact occur or an allegedly
impending occurrence of an offense or incident which is not in fact about to
occur or false information relating to an actual offense or incident or to the
alleged implication of some person therein; or
   (D)   Without just cause, calls or summons by telephone, fire alarm system
or otherwise, any firefighting apparatus, ambulance apparatus, rescue vehicles
or other emergency vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 501.08)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 61-6-20
§ 130.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this general offenses title for
which no other penalty is provided shall be fined in an amount set by Council
from time to time or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both. Each day such
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Whoever violates §
130.01 of this chapter shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time to
time or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates §
130.02(B) of this chapter shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time
to time or imprisoned not more than five days, or both.
      (2)   Whoever violates §
130.02(D) of this chapter shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time
to time and shall be imprisoned not more than 30 days.
   (D)   (1)   Except as provided by the provisions of division (D)(2) below,
any person who violates the provisions of §
130.03 of this chapter shall be fined for a first offense in an amount set by
Council from time to time or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both;
and, for a second and each subsequent offense, fined in an amount set by
Council from time to time, or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both.
      (2)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
130.03 of this chapter with the intent to cause injury to the person of
another, to cause destruction of the property of another or to divert the
attention of law enforcement or fire personnel to help effectuate the
commission of another crime shall be guilty of a felony and shall be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
   (E)   Whoever violates §
130.04 of this chapter shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time to
time or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both.
   (F)   Whoever violates §
130.05(A) of this chapter shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time
to time.
(Prior Code, § 501.99)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code §§ 61-1-9, 61-5-14, 61-5-17, 61-6-17
CHAPTER 131:  OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
Section
General Provisions
   
131.01   Assault and battery
   
131.02   Controlled substances
   
131.03   Intoxicating compounds
Minors
   
131.15   Contributing to delinquency or neglect of minor
   
131.16   Cruelty to children
   
131.17   Parental liability for acts of children
   
131.18   Abandoned air-tight containers
   
131.19   Tobacco usage
   
131.20   Curfew
 
   
131.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Harassing telephone calls, see §
135.24
Statutory reference:
   Contributing to delinquency of minor, see W.Va. Code § 61-8D-10 et seq.
   “Delinquent child” defined, see W.Va. Code § 49-1-202
   Jurisdiction of Municipal Court, see W.Va. Code Art. 49-4-701
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code Art. 61-2
   Uniform Controlled Substances Act, see W.Va. Code Ch. 60A
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 131.01  ASSAULT AND BATTERY.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   Assault. No person shall unlawfully attempt to commit a violent
injury to the person of another or unlawfully commit an act which places
another in reasonable apprehension of immediately receiving a violent injury.
      (2)   Battery. No person shall unlawfully and intentionally make physical
contact of an insulting or provoking nature with the person of another or
unlawfully and intentionally cause physical harm to another person.
(Prior Code, § 529.01)
   (B)   Assault and battery on school employees.
      (1)   No person shall commit an assault:
         (a)   By unlawfully attempting to commit a violent injury to the
person of a school employee while he or she is engaged in the performance of
his or her duties, is commuting to or from his or her place of employment or if
the motive for the assault is retaliation for some action taken by the employee
to supervise or discipline one or more pupils pursuant to W.Va. Code §§ 18A-5-
1 or 18A-5-1a; or
         (b)   By unlawfully committing an act which places a school employee
in reasonable apprehension of immediately receiving a violent injury while the
employee is engaged in the performance of his or her duties, is commuting to or
from his or her place of employment or if the motive for the assault is
retaliation for some action taken by the employee to supervise or discipline
one or more pupils pursuant to W.Va. Code §§ 18A-5-1 or 18A-5-1a.
      (2)   No person shall commit a battery:
         (a)   By unlawfully and intentionally making physical contact of an
insulting or provoking nature with the person of a school employee while he or
she is engaged in the performance of his or her duties, is commuting to or from
his or her place of employment or if the motive for the battery is retaliation
for some action taken by the employee to supervise or discipline one or more
pupils pursuant to W.Va. Code §§ 18A-5-1 or 18A-5-1a; or
         (b)   By unlawfully and intentionally causing physical harm to a
school employee while he or she is engaged in the performance of his or her
duties, is commuting to or from his or her place of employment or if the motive
for the battery is retaliation for some action taken by the employee to
supervise or discipline one or more pupils pursuant to W.Va. Code §§ 18A-5-1 or
18A-5-1a.
      (3)   For the purposes of this subchapter, SCHOOL EMPLOYEE means a person
employed by a county board of education whether employed on a regular full-time
basis, an hourly basis or otherwise. For the purposes of this subchapter, a
SCHOOL EMPLOYEE includes a student teacher.
(Prior Code, § 529.02)  Penalty, see §
131.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code §§ 61-2-9, 61-2-15
§ 131.02  CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   Except as authorized by W.Va. Code Ch. 60A, no person shall
manufacture, deliver or possess with intent to manufacturer or deliver, a
controlled substance classified in Schedule V under W.Va. Code §§ 60A-2-211 or
60A-2-212.
   (B) Except as authorized by W.Va. Code Ch. 60A, no person shall create,
deliver or possess with intent to deliver a counterfeit substance classified in
Schedule V under W.Va. Code §§ 60A-2-211 or 60A-2-212.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly or intentionally possess a controlled
substance as defined in W.Va. Code § 60A-1-101 unless the substance was
obtained directly from, or pursuant to, a valid prescription or order of a
practitioner while acting in the course of his professional practice, or except
as otherwise authorized by W.Va. Code Ch. 60A.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly or intentionally:
      (1)   Create, distribute or deliver, or possess with intent to distribute
or deliver, an imitation controlled substance; or
      (2)   Create, possess or sell or otherwise transfer any equipment with
the intent that such equipment shall be used to apply a trademark, trade name
or other identifying mark, imprint, number or device, or any likeness thereof,
upon a counterfeit substance, an imitation controlled substance or the
container or label of a counterfeit substance or an imitation controlled
substance. The provisions of division (D)(1) above shall not apply to a
practitioner who administers or dispenses a placebo.
(Prior Code, § 529.03)  Penalty, see §
131.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 60A-4-401
§ 131.03  INTOXICATING COMPOUNDS.
   (A)   No person shall intentionally breathe, inhale, or drink any compound,
liquid or chemical containing acetone, amylacetate, benzol or benzene, butyl
acetate, butyl alcohol, carbon tetrachloride, chloroform, cyclohexanone,
ethanol or ethyl alcohol, ethyl acetate, hexane, isopropanol or isopropyl
alcohol, isopropyl acetate, methyl “cellosolve” acetate, methyl ethyl ketone,
methyl isobutyl ketone, toluol or toluene, trichloroethylene, tricresyl
phosphate, xylol or xylene, or any other solvent, material substance, chemical
or combination thereof, having the property or releasing toxic vapors for the
purpose of inducing a condition of intoxication, stupefaction, depression,
giddiness, paralysis or irrational behavior or in any manner changing,
distorting or disturbing the auditory, visual or mental processes. For the
purposes of this section, any condition so induced shall be deemed to be an
INTOXICATED CONDITION.
   (B)   This section does not apply to:
      (1)   Any person who commits any act described herein pursuant to the
direction or prescription of a licensed physician or dentist authorized to so
direct or prescribe, including the inhalation of anesthesia for medical or
dental purposes; or
      (2)   To any alcoholic liquor or non-intoxicating beer as defined in
W.Va. Code § 60-1-5.
(Prior Code, § 529.04)  Penalty, see §
131.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 61-8-11
MINORS
§ 131.15  CONTRIBUTING TO DELINQUENCY OR NEGLECT OF MINOR.
   No person shall by any act or omission contribute to, encourage or tend to
cause the delinquency or neglect of any child, including, but not limited to,
aiding or encouraging any such child to habitually or continually refuse to
respond, without just cause, to the lawful supervision of such child’s parent,
guardian or custodian or to be habitually absent from school without just
cause.
(Prior Code, § 525.01)  Penalty, see §
131.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 61-8D-10 et seq.
§ 131.16  CRUELTY TO CHILDREN.
   (A)   No person shall cruelly ill treat, abuse or inflict unnecessary cruel
punishment upon, any infant or minor child, and no person, having the care,
custody or control of any minor child, shall willfully abandon or neglect the
minor child.
   (B)   In addition to any penalty provided under this section and any
restitution which may be ordered by the court, the court may order any person
convicted under the provisions of this section to pay all or any portion of the
cost of medical, psychological or psychiatric treatment of the victim, the need
for which results from the act or acts for which the person is convicted,
whether or not the victim is considered to have sustained bodily injury.
(Prior Code, § 525.02)  Penalty, see §
131.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 61-8D
§ 131.17  PARENTAL LIABILITY FOR ACTS OF CHILDREN.
   (A)   The custodial parent or parents of any minor child shall be personally
liable in an amount not to exceed that specified in W.Va. Code § 55-7A-2 for
damages which are the proximate result of any one or a combination of the
following acts of the minor child:
      (1)   The malicious and willful injury to the person of another;
      (2)   The malicious and willful injury or damage to the property of
another, whether the property be real, personal or mixed;
      (3)   The malicious and willful setting fire to a forest or wooded area
belonging to another; or
      (4)   The willful taking, stealing and carrying away of the property of
another, with the intent to permanently deprive the owner of possession.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, CUSTODIAL PARENT OR PARENTS means the
parent or parents with whom the minor child is living, or a divorced or
separated parent who does not have legal custody, but who is exercising
supervisory control over the minor child at the time of the minor child’s act.
   (C)   Persons entitled to recover damages under this section shall include,
but are not limited to, the state, any municipal corporation, county commission
and board of education, or other political subdivision of the state or any
person or organization of any kind or character. The action may be brought in
magistrate or another court of competent jurisdiction. Recovery hereunder shall
be limited to the actual damages, based upon direct out-of-pocket loss, taxable
court costs and interest from date of judgment. The right of action and remedy
granted herein shall be in addition to and not exclusive of any rights of
action and remedies therefor against a parent or parents for the tortious acts
of his or their children heretofore existing under the provisions of any law,
statutory or otherwise, or now so existing independently of the provisions of
this section.
(Prior Code, § 525.03)  Penalty, see §
131.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 55-7A-2
§ 131.18  ABANDONED AIR-TIGHT CONTAINERS.
   No person shall abandon any refrigerator or food freezer appliance or other
air-tight appliance having a height or length of greater then two feet without
first removing all entry doors therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 525.04)  Penalty, see §
131.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 61-2-26
§ 131.19  TOBACCO USAGE.
   (A)   Sale or gift of tobacco to persons under 18. No person, firm,
corporation or business entity may sell, give or furnish, or cause to be sold,
given or furnished, to any person under the age of 18 years:
      (1)   Any pipe, cigarette paper or any other paper prepared, manufactured
or made for the purpose of smoking any tobacco or tobacco product; or
      (2)   Any cigar, cigarette, snuff, chewing tobacco or tobacco product, in
any form.
   (B)   Use or possession of tobacco by persons under the age of 18 years. No
person under the age of 18 years shall have on or about his or her person or
premises or use any cigarette, or cigarette paper or any other paper prepared,
manufactured or made for the purpose of smoking any tobacco products, in any
form; or, any pipe, snuff, chewing tobacco or tobacco product; provided that,
minors participating in the inspection of locations where tobacco products are
sold or distributed pursuant to W.Va. Code § 16-9A-7 shall not be deemed to
violate the provisions of this division (B).
(Prior Code, § 525.05)  Penalty, see §
131.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 16-9A-3
§ 131.20  CURFEW.
   (A)   No minor under the age of 18 years shall loiter, idle, wander or play
in or upon the streets, highways, alleys, parks, playgrounds or other public
grounds, public places and public buildings, places of amusement and
entertainment, vacant lots or other unsupervised places between the hours of
11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of the following day; provided that, the provisions of
this section shall not apply to a minor accompanied by his or her parents,
guardian or other adult person having the care and custody of the minor, or
where the minor is upon an emergency errand or legitimate business directed by
his or her parent, guardian or other adult person having the care and custody
of the minor, or while the minor is legally employed and is going to or from
the place of such employment or is engaged in the duties thereof.
   (B)   Any minor violating the provisions of division (A) above shall be
deemed a delinquent child.
   (C)   No parent, guardian or other adult person having the care and custody
of a minor under the age of 18 years shall knowingly permit such minor to
loiter, idle, wander, stroll or play in or upon the public streets, highways,
roads, alleys, parks, playgrounds or other public grounds, public places and
public buildings, places of amusement and entertainment, vacant lots or other
unsupervised places between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
(Prior Code, § 525.05)  (Ord. passed 3-23-1976)  Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
130.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Whoever violates §§
131.01(A)(1) and (B)(1) or 131.03 of this chapter shall be fined in an amount
set by Council from time to time or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both.
   (C)   Whoever violates §
131.18 of this chapter shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time to
time or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both.
(Prior Code, § 529.99)
   (D)   (1)   Any firm or corporation that violates any provision of §
131.19(A) of this chapter and any individual who violates any provision of §
131.19(A)(1) of this chapter shall be fined in an amount set by Council from
time to time for the first offense. Upon any subsequent violation at the same
location or operating unit, the firm, corporation or individual shall be fined
as follows: in an amount set by Council from time to time, for the second
offense, if it occurs within two years of the first conviction; in an amount
set by Council from time to time, for the third offense, if it occurs within
two years of the first conviction; in an amount set by Council from time to
time, for the fourth offense, if it occurs within five years of the first
conviction; in an amount set by Council from time to time, for the fifth and
any subsequent offenses, if the fifth or subsequent offense occurs within five
years of the first conviction.
      (2)   Any individual who knowingly and intentionally sells, gives or
furnishes or causes to be sold, given or furnished to any person under the age
of 18 years any cigar, cigarette, snuff, chewing tobacco or tobacco product, in
any form, for the first offense shall be fined in an amount set by Council from
time to time; upon conviction thereof for a second or subsequent offense shall
be fined in an amount set by Council from time to time.
      (3)   Any person violating the provisions of §
131.19(B) of this chapter shall for the first violation be fined in an amount
set by Council from time to time and be required to serve eight hours of
community service; for a second violation, the person shall be fined in an
amount set by Council from time to time and be required to serve 16 hours of
community service; and, for a third and each subsequent violation, the person
shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time to time and be required to
serve 24 hours of community service.
(Prior Code, § 525.05)
Statutory reference:
   Fines for tobacco use, see W.Va. Code § 16-9A-2
CHAPTER 132:  OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
132.01   Shoplifting
   
132.02   Trespass
   
132.03   Petit larceny
   
132.04   Dealing with stolen goods
   
132.05   Injury or destruction of property or monuments
   
132.06   Tampering with and theft of utilities; cable television
   
132.07   Littering; deposit of garbage, junk and the like
   
132.08   Barricades and warning lights; abandonment
   
132.09   Dumpsters; unauthorized use
 
   
132.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate advertising, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-5(31)
   Related property provisions, see W.Va. Code Art. 61-3
§ 132.01  SHOPLIFTING.
   (A)   General definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CARD-NOT-PRESENT CREDIT OR DEBIT TRANSACTION. A credit or debit sale of
merchandise by telephone, mail order, internet or other means that does not
require the cardholder’s signature or physical presentation of the credit or
debit card to the merchant.
      CONCEAL. To hide, hold or carry merchandise so that, although there may
be some notice of its presence, it is not visible through ordinary observation.
      MERCANTILE ESTABLISHMENT. Any place where merchandise is displayed, held
or offered for sale, either at retail or wholesale. MERCANTILE ESTABLISHMENT
does not include adjoining parking lots or adjoining areas of common use with
other establishments.
      MERCHANDISE. Any goods, foodstuffs, wares or personal property or any
part or portion thereof of any type or description displayed, held or offered
for sale, or a shopping cart.
      MERCHANT. An owner or operator of any mercantile establishment, and
includes the merchant’s employees, servants, security agents or other agents.
      VALUE OF THE MERCHANDISE. The merchant’s stated price of the merchandise,
or in the event of altering, transferring or removing a price marking or
causing a cash register or other sales device to reflect less than the retail
value of the merchandise, as defined herein, the difference between the
merchant’s stated price of the merchandise and the altered price.
   (B)   “Shoplifting” defined.
      (1)   A person commits the offense of SHOPLIFTING if, with intent to
appropriate merchandise without paying the merchant’s stated price for the
merchandise, such person, alone or in concert with another person, knowingly:
         (a)   Conceals the merchandise upon his or her person or in another
manner;
         (b)   Removes or causes the removal of merchandise from the mercantile
establishment or beyond the last station for payment;
         (c)   Alters, transfers or removes any price marking affixed to the
merchandise;
         (d)   Transfers the merchandise from one container to another;
         (e)   Causes cash register or other sales recording device to reflect
less than the merchant’s stated price for the merchandise;
         (f)   Removes a shopping cart from the premises of the mercantile
establishment; or
         (g)   Repudiates a card-not-present credit or debit transaction after
having taken delivery of merchandise ordered from the merchant and does not
return the merchandise or attempt to make other arrangements with the vendor.
      (2)   A person also commits the offense of SHOPLIFTING if such person,
alone or in concert with another person, knowingly and with intent obtains an
exchange or refund or attempts to obtain an exchange or refund for merchandise
which has not been purchased from the mercantile establishment.
   (C)   Breach of peace; detention. An act of shoplifting, as defined herein,
is hereby declared to constitute a breach of peace and any owner of
merchandise, his or her agent or employee, or any law enforcement officer who
has reasonable ground to believe that a person has committed shoplifting, may
detain such person in a reasonable manner and for a reasonable length of time
not to exceed 30 minutes, for the purpose of investigating whether or not such
person has committed or attempted to commit shoplifting. Such reasonable
detention shall not constitute an arrest, nor shall it render the owner of
merchandise, his or her agent or employee, liable to the person detained.
   (D)   Evidence.
      (1)   Evidence of stated price or ownership of merchandise may include,
but is not limited to:
         (a)   The actual merchandise alleged to have been shoplifted;
         (b)   The unaltered content of the price tag or marking from such
merchandise; or
         (c)   Properly identified photographs of such merchandise.
      (2)   Any merchant may testify at a trial as to the stated price or
ownership of merchandise, as well as to other matters pertaining to the case.
   (E)   Civil liability.
      (1)   General rule. Any person who commits any of the acts described in
this section shall be civilly liable:
         (a)   To restore the merchandise to the mercantile establishment;
         (b)   If such merchandise is not recoverable or is damaged, for actual
damages, including the value of the merchandise involved in the shoplifting;
         (c)   For other actual damages arising from the incident, not
including the loss of time or loss of wages incurred by the mercantile
establishment or any merchant in connection with the apprehension and
processing of the suspect; and
         (d)   In all cases, for a penalty to be paid to the mercantile
establishment in the amount of $50 or double the value of the merchandise
whichever is higher.
      (2)   Costs and attorneys’ fees. A merchant who is a prevailing party
under this section is entitled to costs.
      (3)   Effect of conviction. A conviction for the offense of theft by
shoplifting is not a prerequisite to the maintenance of a civil action
authorized by this section. However, a merchant who has recovered the penalty
prescribed by §
132.99 of this chapter is not entitled to recover the penalty imposed by this
section.
      (4)   Right to demand payment. The fact that a mercantile establishment
may bring an action against an individual as provided in this section does not
limit the right of such establishment to demand, orally or in writing, that a
person who is liable for damages or a penalty under this section remit such
damages or penalty prior to the commencement of any legal action.
(Prior Code, § 533.01)  Penalty, see §
132.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code §§ 61-3A-1, 61-3A-2, 61-3A-4, 61-3A-4a,
61-3A-5, 61-3A-6
§ 132.02  TRESPASS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CONVEYANCE. Any motor vehicle, vessel, railroad car, railroad engine,
trailer, aircraft or sleeping car, and “to enter a conveyance” includes taking
apart any portion of the conveyance.
      CULTIVATED LAND. The land which has been cleared of its natural
vegetation and is presently planted with a crop, orchard, grove, pasture or
trees or is fallow land as part of a crop rotation.
      FENCED LAND.
         (a)   The land which has been enclosed by a fence of substantial
construction, whether with rails, logs, post and railing, iron, steel, barbed
wire, other wire or other material, which stands at least three feet in height.
For the purpose of this section, it shall not be necessary to fence any
boundary or part of a boundary of any land which is formed by water and is
posted with signs pursuant to the provisions of this section.
         (b)   Where lands are posted, cultivated or fenced as described
herein, then such lands, for the purpose of this section, shall be considered
as enclosed and posted.
      IN THE COURSE OF COMMITTING. An act is committed IN THE COURSE OF
COMMITTING if it occurs in an attempt to commit the offense or in flight after
the attempt or commission.
      POSTED LAND. The land upon which reasonably maintained signs are placed
not more than 500 feet apart along and at each corner of the boundaries of the
land upon which signs there appears prominently in letters of not less than two
inches in height the words “no trespassing” and in addition thereto the name of
the owner, lessee or occupant of the land. The signs shall be placed along the
boundary line of posted land in a manner and in a position as to be clearly
noticeable from outside of the boundary line. It shall not be necessary to give
notice by posting on any enclosed land or place not exceeding five acres in
area on which there is a dwelling house or property that by its nature and use
is obviously private in order to obtain the benefits of this section pertaining
to trespass on enclosed lands.
      STRUCTURE. Any building of any kind either temporary or permanent, which
has a roof over it, together with the curtilage thereof.
      TRESPASS. The willful unauthorized entry upon, in or under the property
of another, but shall not include the following:
         (a)   Entry by the state, its political subdivisions or by the
officers, agencies or instrumentalities thereof as authorized and provided by
law;
         (b)   The exercise of rights in, under or upon property by virtue of
rights-of-way or easements by a public utility or other person owning such
right-of-way or easement whether by written or prescriptive right;
         (c)   Permissive entry, whether written or oral, and entry from a
public road by the established private ways to reach a residence for the
purpose of seeking permission shall not be trespass unless signs are posted
prohibiting such entry;
         (d)   Entry performed in the exercise of a property right under
ownership of an interest in, under or upon such property; and/or
         (e)   Entry where no physical damage is done to property in the
performance of surveying to ascertain property boundaries, and in the
performance of necessary work of construction, maintenance and repair of a
common property line fence, or buildings or appurtenances which are immediately
adjacent to the property line and maintenance of which necessitates entry upon
the adjoining owner’s property.
   (B)   Trespass in structure or conveyance. Any person who knowingly enters
in, upon or under a structure or conveyance without being authorized, licensed
or invited, or having been authorized, licensed or invited is requested to
depart by the owner, tenant or the agent of such owner or tenant, and refuses
to do so, shall be fined as set out in §
132.99 of this chapter.
   (C)   Trespass on property other than structure or conveyance.
      (1)   Whoever knowingly and without being authorized, licensed or
invited, enters or remains on any property, other than a structure or
conveyance, as to which notice against entering or remaining is either given by
actual communication to such person or by posting, fencing or cultivation,
shall be fined as per §
132.99 of this chapter.
      (2)   If the offender defies an order to leave, personally communicated
to him or her by the owner, tenant or agent of such owner or tenant, or if the
offender opens any door, fence or gate, and thereby exposes animals, crops or
other property to waste, destruction or freedom, or causes any damage to
property by such trespassing on property other than a structure or conveyance,
he or she shall be subject to the penalty provided in §
132.99 of this chapter.
      (3)   If the offender is armed with a firearm or other dangerous weapon
with the unlawful and felonious intent to do bodily injury to a human being
during his commission of the offense of trespass on property other than a
structure or conveyance, such offender shall, notwithstanding the provisions of
W.Va. Code § 61-7-1, be imprisoned and fined as per §
132.99 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 132.02)  Penalty, see §
132.99
Statutory reference:
   Trespassing, see W.Va. Code §§ 61-3B-1, 61-3B-2
§ 132.03  PETIT LARCENY.
   No person shall commit petit larceny as defined in W.Va. Code § 61-3-13
within the city.
(Prior Code, § 533.03)  Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.04  DEALING WITH STOLEN GOODS.
   If any person buys or receives from another person, or aids in concealing,
or transfers to a person other than the owner thereof, any stolen goods or
other thing of value which he or she knows or has reason to believe has been
stolen, he or she shall be deemed guilty of the larceny thereof, and may be
prosecuted although the principal offender is not convicted.
(Prior Code, § 533.04)  Penalty, see §
132.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 61-3-18
§ 132.05  INJURY OR DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY OR MONUMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall unlawfully, but not feloniously, take and carry away
or destroy, tamper with, injure or deface any property, real or personal, not
his or her own.
   (B)   No person shall break down, destroy, injure, deface or remove any
monument erected for the purpose of designating the boundaries of the
municipality, tract or lot of land, or any tree marked for that purpose.
(Prior Code, § 533.05)  Penalty, see §
132.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 61-3-30
§ 132.06  TAMPERING WITH AND THEFT OF UTILITIES; CABLE TELEVISION.
   (A)   No person with intent to injure or defraud shall procure, make or
cause to be made, any pipe, tube, wire or other conductor of gas, water or
electric energy, and connect the same, or cause it to be connected, with any
main, service pipe or other pipe for conducting or supplying gas, or water or
any wires or other conductor of electric energy, in such manner as to supply
gas, water or electric energy to any lamp, motor, burner, orifice or any other
device, by or at which gas, water or electric energy is consumed, around or
without passing through the meter provided for measuring and registering the
quantity of gas, water or electric energy consumed, or in any other manner so
as to evade payment therefor, and no person, with like intent, shall injure or
alter any gas, water or electric meter, or obstruct its action.
   (B)   No person with intent to injure or defraud shall connect, or cause to
be connected, any pipe, tube, wire, electrical conductor or other instrument
with any main, service pipe or other pipe or conduit or flume for conducting
water, or with any main, service pipe or other pipe or conduit for conducting
gas, or with any main, service wire or other electric conductor used for the
purpose of conducting electric energy for light, heat or motive services, for
the purpose of taking therefrom water, gas or electric energy, without the
knowledge of the owner thereof and with intent to evade payment therefor.
   (C)   No person shall make any unauthorized connection, whether physically,
electrically, acoustically, inductively or otherwise, with any part of a CATV
system within the municipality for the purpose of enabling anyone to receive
any television signal, radio signal, picture, sound or other transmission,
without payment for the service.
   (D)   No person, without the consent of the owner, shall willfully tamper
with, remove or injure any cables, wires or equipment used for distribution of
television signals, radio signals, pictures, sound or other transmission.
(Prior Code, § 533.06)  Penalty, see §
132.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code §§ 61-3-44, 61-3-45
§ 132.07  LITTERING; DEPOSIT OF GARBAGE, JUNK AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   No person shall, without lawful authority, place or dispose of in any
manner, upon any public property or upon the premises of another, any paper,
trash, garbage, waste, rubbish, refuse, junk or any substance or material which
is or may become noxious, offensive, injurious or dangerous to the public
health, comfort or safety.
   (B)   No person shall cause or allow trash, garbage, waste, rubbish, refuse
or any other noxious or offensive materials or substances to be collected or
remain in any place to the damage or prejudice of others or of the public, or
unlawfully obstruct, impede, divert, corrupt or render unwholesome or impure,
any natural watercourse.
(Prior Code, § 533.07)  Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.08  BARRICADES AND WARNING LIGHTS; ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   No person shall abandon or knowingly permit to remain on public or
private property, any excavation, well, cesspool or structure which is in the
process of construction, reconstruction, repair or alteration unless the same
is adequately protected by suitable barricades and guarded by warning devices
or lights at night so that the condition will not reasonably prove dangerous to
life or limb.
   (B)   No person shall destroy, remove, damage or extinguish any barricade or
warning light that is placed for the protection of the public so as to prevent
injury to life or limb.
   (C)   Any owner or agent in control of a premises upon which a basement,
cellar, well or cistern has been abandoned due to demolition, failure to build
or any other reason shall cause the same to be filled to the ground surface
with rock, gravel, earth or other suitable material.
(Prior Code, § 533.08)  Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.09  DUMPSTERS; UNAUTHORIZED USE.
   No person without authorization shall dump garbage or trash, or assist in
the unauthorized dumping of garbage or trash, in a dumpster or other solid
waste container which is located on the property of another person and leased
or otherwise owned or maintained by another person. The act of throwing
isolated objects into a dumpster or other solid waste container in the
prevention or elimination of litter is specifically excepted from any penalties
under this section.
(Prior Code, § 533.09)  Penalty, see §
132.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 61-3-53
§ 132.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
130.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Penalty. A person convicted of shoplifting, per §
132.01 of this chapter, shall be punished as follows:
         (a)   First offense conviction. Upon a first shoplifting conviction:
            1.   When the value of the merchandise is less than or equal to
$500, the defendant shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time to
time; and
            2.   When the value of the merchandise exceeds $500, the defendant
shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time to time, and such fine
shall not be suspended; or the defendant shall be confined in jail not more
than 30 days, or both.
         (b)   Second offense conviction. Upon a second shoplifting conviction:
            1.   When the value of the merchandise is less than or equal to
$500, the defendant shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time to
time, and such fine shall not be suspended; or the defendant shall be confined
in jail not more than 30 days, or both; and
            2.   When the value of the merchandise exceeds $500, the defendant
shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time to time and shall be
confined in jail not more than 30 days.
      (2)   Mandatory penalty. In addition to the fines and imprisonment
imposed by this division (B), in all cases of conviction for the offense of
shoplifting, the court shall order the defendant to pay a penalty to the
mercantile establishment involved in an amount set by Council from time to
time, or double the value of the merchandise involved, whichever is higher. The
mercantile establishment shall be entitled to collect such mandatory penalty as
in the case of a civil judgment. This penalty shall be in addition to the
mercantile establishment’s rights to recover the stolen merchandise.
      (3)   Prior convictions. In determining the number of prior shoplifting
convictions for purposes of imposing punishment under this section, the court
shall disregard all such convictions occurring more than seven years prior to
the shoplifting offense in question.
(Prior Code, § 533.01)
   (C)   (1)   Trespass in structure or conveyance. Any person who knowingly
enters in, upon or under a structure or conveyance without being authorized,
licensed or invited, or having been authorized, licensed or invited is
requested to depart by the owner, tenant or the agent of such owner or tenant,
and refuses to do so, as per §
132.02(B) of this chapter, shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time
to time. If the offender is armed with a firearm or other dangerous weapon
while in the structure or conveyance, with the unlawful and felonious intent to
do bodily injury to a human being in such structure or conveyance at the time
the offender knowingly trespasses, such offender shall, notwithstanding the
provisions of W.Va. Code § 61-7-1, be subject to the penalty provided in §
130.99(A) of this code of ordinances.
      (2)   Trespass on property other than structure or conveyance.
         (a)   Whoever knowingly and without being authorized, licensed or
invited, enters or remains on any property, other than a structure or
conveyance, as to which notice against entering or remaining is either given by
actual communication to such person or by posting, fencing or cultivation, as
per §
132.02(C) of this chapter, shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time
to time.
         (b)   If the offender defies an order to leave, personally
communicated to him or her by the owner, tenant or agent of such owner or
tenant, or if the offender opens any door, fence or gate, and thereby exposes
animals, crops or other property to waste, destruction or freedom, or causes
any damage to property by such trespassing on property other than a structure
or conveyance, as per §
132.02(C) of this chapter, he or she shall be subject to the penalty provided
in §
130.99(A) of this chapter.
         (c)   If the offender is armed with a firearm or other dangerous
weapon with the unlawful and felonious intent to do bodily injury to a human
being during his or her commission of the offense of trespass on property other
than a structure or conveyance, as per §
132.02(C) of this chapter, such offender shall, notwithstanding the provisions
of W.Va. Code § 61-7-1, be imprisoned not more than 30 days, or fined in an
amount set by Council from time to time, or both.
         (d)   Notwithstanding and in addition to any other penalties provided
by law, any person who performs or causes damage to property in the course of a
willful trespass, as per §
132.02(C) of this chapter, shall be liable to the property owner in the amount
of twice the amount of such damage; provided that, the provisions of this
division (C) shall not apply in a labor dispute.
(Prior Code, § 132.02)
   (D)   Whoever violates §
132.05(B) of this chapter shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time
to time or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both.
   (E)   (1)   Any person convicted of a violation of §
132.09 of this chapter shall be subject to the following penalties:
         (a)   Upon a first conviction, the defendant shall be fined in an
amount set by Council from time to time.
         (b)   Upon a second conviction, the defendant shall be fined in an
amount set by Council from time to time.
         (c)   Upon any subsequent conviction in excess of a second conviction,
the defendant shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time to time or
imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the provisions of W.Va. Code § 61-11A-4 or W.Va.
Code § 50-3-2(a), the magistrate or court may order restitution not to exceed
the value of unauthorized solid waste services received.
(Prior Code, § 533.99)
Statutory reference:
   Property injury or destruction fines, see W.Va. Code § 61-5-33
   Shoplifting fines, see W.Va. Code § 61-3A-3
CHAPTER 133:  OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
Section
   
133.01   Disorderly conduct
   
133.02   Loitering on school property
   
133.03   Wearing masks, hoods or face coverings
   
133.04   Disturbing the peace
   
133.05   Begging
   
133.06   Loitering
 
   
133.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Breach of peace with weapon, see §
134.31(A)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to maintain order, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-5(19), (44)
   Crimes against the peace, see W.Va. Code Art. 61-6
§ 133.01  DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person shall, in a public place, any state or municipal office or
office building or any other property owned, leased, occupied or controlled by
the state or municipality, a mobile home park, a public parking area, a common
area of an apartment building or dormitory or a common area of a privately
owned commercial shopping center, mall or other group of commercial retail
establishments, disturb the peace of others by violent, profane, indecent or
boisterous conduct or language or by the making of unreasonably loud noise that
is intended to cause annoyance or alarm to another person, and who persists in
such conduct after being requested to desist by a law enforcement officer
acting in his or her lawful capacity: provided that, nothing in this division
(A) should be construed as a deterrence to the lawful and orderly public right
to demonstrate in support or protest of public policy issues.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MOBILE HOME. A moveable or portable unit, designed and constructed to be
towed on its own chassis (comprised of frame and wheels), and designed to be
connected to utilities for year-round occupancy. The term includes:
         (a)   Units containing parts that may be folded, collapsed or
telescoped when being towed and that may be expanded to provide additional
cubic capacity; and
         (b)   Units composed of two or more separately towable components
designed to be joined into one integral unit capable of being separated again
into the components for repeated towing.
      MOBILE HOME PARK. A privately-owned residential housing area or
subdivision wherein the dwelling units are comprised mainly of mobile homes and
wherein the occupants of such dwelling units share common elements for purposes
of ingress and egress, parking, recreation and other like residential purposes.
      PUBLIC PARKING AREA. An area, whether publicly or privately owned or
maintained, open to the use of the public for parking motor vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 509.01)  Penalty, see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 61-6-1b
§ 133.02  LOITERING ON SCHOOL PROPERTY.
   No person, not a student in regular attendance, shall loiter in or about any
school, school building or school grounds in violation of any posted rules or
regulations governing the use of any such school without written permission
from the principal.
(Prior Code, § 509.02)  Penalty, see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 61-6-14a
§ 133.03  WEARING MASKS, HOODS OR FACE COVERINGS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, no person, whether in a
motor vehicle or otherwise, while wearing any mask, hood or device whereby any
portion of the face is so covered as to conceal the identity of the wearer,
shall:
      (1)   Come into or appear upon any walk, alley, street, road, highway or
other thoroughfare dedicated to public use;
      (2)   Come into or appear in any trading area, concourse, waiting room,
lobby or foyer open to, used by or frequented by the general public;
      (3)   Come into or appear upon or within any of the grounds or buildings
owned, leased, maintained or operated by the state or municipality;
      (4)   Ask, request or demand entrance or admission to the premises,
enclosure, dwelling or place of business of any other person within the
municipality; or
      (5)   Attend or participate in any meeting upon private property of
another unless written permission for such meeting has first been obtained from
the owner or occupant thereof.
   (B)   The provisions of this section do not apply to any person:
      (1)   Under 16 years of age;
      (2)   Wearing a traditional holiday costume;
      (3)   Engaged in a trade or employment where a mask, hood or device is
worn for the purpose of ensuring the physical safety of the wearer;
      (4)   Using a mask, hood or device in theatrical productions, including
use in Mardi Gras celebrations or similar masquerade balls;
      (5)   Wearing a mask, hood or device prescribed for civil defense drills,
exercises or emergencies; or
      (6)   Wearing a mask, hood or device for the sole purpose of protection
from the elements or while participating in a winter sport.
(Prior Code, § 509.03)  Penalty, see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 61-6-22
§ 133.04  DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   (A)   No person shall:
      (1)   On any street, highway, public building, in or on a public or
private conveyance, or public place, engage in conduct having a direct tendency
to cause acts of violence by the person or persons at whom, individually, such
conduct is directed;
      (2)   Willfully, or being intoxicated, whether willfully or not, disrupt
any meeting of the governing body of any political subdivision of the state or
a division or agency thereof, or of any school, literary society or place of
religious worship, or any other meeting open to the public, if such disruption
prevents or interferes with the orderly conduct of such meeting or has a direct
tendency to cause acts of violence by the person or persons at whom,
individually, such disruption is directed;
      (3)   Engage in fighting or threaten to harm persons or property
unlawfully;
      (4)   Make offensively coarse utterance, gesture or display, or
communicate unwarranted and grossly abusive language to any person, which by
its very utterance or usage inflicts injury or tends to incite an immediate
breach of the peace;
      (5)   Insult, taunt or challenge another under circumstances in which
such conduct is likely to provoke a violent response;
      (6)   Hinder or prevent the movement of persons or vehicles on a public
street, road, highway right-of-way or to, from, within or upon public or
private property, so as to interfere with the rights of others, by any act
which serves no lawful and reasonable purpose;
      (7)   Create a condition which presents a risk of physical harm to
persons or property; and
      (8)   Urinate or defecate in any public place or upon the property of any
other person, except this section shall not apply to the use of restrooms and/
or bathrooms.
   (B)   Nothing described herein shall be interpreted or construed to prevent
any constitutionally protected activity including, but not necessarily limited
to, exercise of one’s constitutionally guaranteed rights of freedom of speech
or assembly. No person may be convicted under this section when his or her sole
intent for engaging in the activities for which he or she was arrested was to
exercise one or more of the rights guaranteed to him or her under the
Constitution of the United States or the State Constitution or to exercise any
other rights guaranteed to that person by law.
(Prior Code, § 509.04)  Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.05  BEGGING.
   No person shall beg or solicit contributions on any of the roads, streets,
alleys or public property in the city.
(Prior Code, § 509.05)  Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.06  LOITERING.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, the term LOITER shall include, but
is not restricted to, standing, lounging, sitting, lying or strolling about
idly, whether alone or in company with other loiterers.
   (B)   No person shall loiter on any of the sidewalks, streets, public places
or vacant lots, or in public buildings or the entranceways thereof, or in or
upon other places open to the public, and there conduct himself or herself in a
manner annoying to persons passing by or occupants of adjacent buildings; or
shall insult, threaten, intimidate or in any manner interfere with, or impede
the progress of, any other person then and there conducting himself or herself
in a lawful and orderly manner.
   (C)   No person shall loiter on any of the sidewalks, streets, public places
or vacant lots, or in public buildings or the entranceways thereof, or in or
upon other places open to the public after being ordered to forthwith depart
therefrom by a person then and there in charge of such building or place, or by
a police officer.
   (D)   No person, not the owner or tenant of any premises within the city,
shall enter after dark and loiter or sleep therein without the consent of such
owner or tenant.
   (E)   This section shall not apply to any person or assembly of persons
waiting, assembled or standing in line in an orderly manner for any lawful
purpose incident to the building or other place mentioned in this section, nor
shall it be construed to restrict the right to lawful assembly, picketing,
public speaking or other lawful means of expressing public opinion not in
contravention of other laws or ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 509.01)  (Ord. passed 8-8-1989)  Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Whoever violates §
133.01 of this chapter shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time to
time.
   (C)   Whoever violates §
133.02 of this chapter shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time to
time or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both, for a first offense. For a
second or subsequent offense, such person shall be fined in an amount set by
Council from time to time or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both.
   (D)   Whoever violates §
133.06 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction,
shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 509.99)  (Ord. passed 4-2-1990)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code §§ 61-6-14a
CHAPTER 134:  OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC SAFETY
Section
General Provisions
   
134.01   Railroads; crossings; trespassing
Synthetic Drugs
   
134.15   Definitions
   
134.16   Sale prohibited
   
134.17   Possession prohibited
   
134.18   Labeling
Weapons and Explosives
   
134.30   Definitions
   
134.31   Carrying concealed deadly weapons; without license; exceptions
   
134.32   Persons prohibited from possession
   
134.33   Possession of deadly weapons by minors
   
134.34   Machine guns
   
134.35   Display or sale of deadly weapons
   
134.36   Brandishing deadly weapons
   
134.37   Possessing deadly weapons on educational facility premises
   
134.38   Fireworks sale, possession and discharge
   
134.39   Discharging firearms
   
134.40   Throwing or shooting missiles
 
   
134.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prohibit carrying weapons, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-5(16)
   Dangerous weapons, see W.Va. Code Art. 61-7
   Railroads; grade crossings; grant of right-of-way, see W.Va. Code §§ 17-10-
7, 31-2-13
   Weapons and explosives; limitations on power to restrict ownership, see
W.Va. Code § 8-2-5a
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 134.01  RAILROADS; CROSSINGS; TRESPASSING.
   (A)   (1)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         CARRIER, RAILROAD or RAILROAD COMPANY. A common carrier by railroad.
         TRAIN or TRAINS. Engines, cars and any type of railroad equipment or
rolling stock, or any part thereof, capable of blocking any crossing of a
railroad track or tracks and any public street, road or highway.
      (2)   Blocking of crossing prohibited; time limit.
         (a)   No railroad company, except in an emergency, shall order, allow
or permit the operation of or operate its system so that a train blocks the
passage of vehicular traffic over the railroad crossing of any public street,
road or highway for a period longer than ten minutes. This division (A)(2)(a)
does not apply to an obstruction of any such street, road or highway caused by
a continuously moving train or caused by circumstances wholly beyond the
control of the railroad, but does apply to all other obstructions as aforesaid,
including, but not limited to, those caused by a stopped train or a train
engaged in switching, loading or unloading operations.
         (b)   Upon receiving notification from a law enforcement officer,
member of a fire department, operator of an emergency medical vehicle, or a
member of an emergency services provider that emergency circumstances require
the immediate clearing of a public highway railroad grade crossing, the members
of the train crew of the train, railroad car or equipment, or engine blocking
such crossing shall immediately notify the appropriate railroad dispatcher of
the pending emergency situation. Upon receipt of notice of such emergency
circumstances by the train crew or dispatcher, the railroad shall immediately
clear the crossing, consistent with the safe operation of the train.
      (3)   Responsibility of railroad company. The railroad company shall be
solely responsible for the acts of its agents and employees in violating any
provision of this division (A).
      (4)   Presumption. There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a train
is operated by the carrier whose marks, numbers, signs and symbols of
identification appear on the engine or caboose of such train.
      (5)   Service of process. Process issuing for a violation of this section
may be served upon the engineer or conductor of the train causing a violation
of the provisions of this section or any other officer, agent or attorney-in-
fact of the railroad company authorized by law to receive service of summons or
other process issuing against such railroad company.
(Prior Code, § 541.01)
   (B)   No person not a passenger or employee shall be found trespassing upon
any railroad or traction car or train of any railroad, by jumping on or off any
car or train in motion, on its arrival at or departure from any station or
depot of such railroad, or on the passage of any such car or train over any
part of such railroad; nor shall any person drive any horse or any horse-drawn
or motor-driven vehicle across or upon any railroad track or bridge, except at
public or private crossings.
(Prior Code, § 541.02)  Penalty, see §
134.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code Art. 31-2A, 61-3-43
SYNTHETIC DRUGS
§ 134.15  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DELIVER or DELIVERY. Actual, constructive or attempted transfer of
possession of synthetic cannabis and synthetic drugs, with or without
consideration, whether or not there is an agency relationship.
   KNOWLEDGE. Knows, acts knowingly or with knowledge:
      (1)   The nature or attendant circumstances of his or her conduct,
described by the section defining the offense, when he or she is consciously
aware that his or her conduct is of such nature or that such circumstances
exist. KNOWLEDGE OF A MATERIAL FACT includes awareness of the substantial
probability that such fact exists;
      (2)   The results of his or her conduct, described by the section
defining the offense, when he or she is consciously aware that such result is
likely to be caused by his or her conduct; and
      (3)   Knowledge may be inferred from the surrounding circumstances.
   MANUFACTURE. The production, preparation, propagation, compounding,
conversion or processing of synthetic cannabis or synthetic drugs, either
directly or indirectly, by extraction from substances of natural origin, or
independently by means of chemical synthesis, and includes any packaging or
repackaging of synthetic cannabis or synthetic drugs or labeling of its
container; except that, this term does not include the preparation,
compounding, packaging or labeling of synthetic cannabis or synthetic drugs as
an incident to lawful research, teaching or chemical analysis and not for sale.
   MERCHANT. An owner or operator of any retail mercantile establishment or any
agent, employee, lessee, consignee, officer, director, franchise or independent
contractor of the owner or operator.
   METHYLENEDIOXYPYROVALERONE (MDPV). A psychoactive drug with stimulant
properties which acts as a norepinephrine-dopamine reuptake inhibitor (NDRI).
Reportedly, it has been sold since around 2004 as a research chemical. It is
also known as MDPK, MAGIC, SUPER COKE and PV. In 2010, it was reportedly sold
as a legal drug alternative and marketed in the United States as “bath salts”
(under such names as Cloud 9, Ivory Wave, Ocean, Charge Plus, White Lightning,
Scarface, Hurricane Charlie, Vanella Sky, Bonzai Grow, Blue Silk, Serenity Now,
Lovey Dovey, Euphoria, Aura, Red Dove and White Dove.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, business trust, estate, trust,
partnership or association, or any other entity.
   POSSESSION. Possession may be either actual or constructive.
      (1)   ACTUAL POSSESSION means exercising physical dominion.
      (2)   CONSTRUCTIVE POSSESSION may be inferred if the defendant has intent
and capacity to maintain control and dominion over the cannabis, synthetic drug
or drug paraphernalia.
   PRODUCE or PRODUCTION. Planting, cultivating, tending or harvesting.
   SYNTHETIC CANNABIS. Includes the brand names K2 and Spice. It is a herbal
and chemical product which mimics the effects of Cannabis including, but not
limited to, synthetic cannabinoids, cannabicyclohexanol, JWH-018, JWH-073, JWH-
200, HU-210, CP-47, 497, CP 55 and 212-2.
(Ord. passed 1-14-2013)
§ 134.16  SALE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to sell, offer for sale, distribute,
deliver, trade, barter or give away any synthetic cannabinoid, substituted
cathinones, or any substance(s) marketed as synthetic drugs within the city.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any persons or corporation knowing, or under
circumstances where one reasonably should know to sell, lend, rent, lease,
give, exchange or otherwise distribute to any persons or corporation any
product containing the following chemicals: JWH-018; JWH-073; JWH-200; CP-47;
497; Cannabicyclohexanol; CP 55; 490; HU-210; or Methylenedioxypyrovalerone
which may be marketed as, Cloud 9, Ivory Wave, Ocean, Charge Plus, White
Lightning, Scarface, Hurricane Charlie, Red Dove and White Dove, spice, K-2,
Blaze and Red X Dawn, but not limited to incense, potpourri, plant fertilizers,
insect repellant or bath salts.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person to advertise or display any synthetic
cannabinoid or substituted cathinones within the city.
   (D)   It is unlawful for any person to claim or represent that a product or
substance is a synthetic cannabinoid or substituted cathinones within the city.
(Ord. passed 1-14-2013)  Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.17  POSSESSION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to use, or to possess with intent to
use, ingest, inhale or otherwise introduce into the human body any product
containing the following chemicals: JWH-018; JWH-073; JWH-200; CP-47; 497;
Cannabicyclohexanol; CP 55; 490; HU-210; or Methylenedioxypyrovalerone, which
may be marketed as, Cloud 9, Ivory Wave, Ocean, Charge Plus, White Lightning,
Scarface, Hurricane Charlie, Red Dove and White Dove, spice, K-2, Blaze and Red
X Dawn, but not limited to incense, potpourri, plant fertilizers, insect
repellant or bath salts.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to possess any synthetic cannabinoids,
substituted cathinones or any substance(s) marketed as synthetic drugs within
the city.
(Ord. passed 1-14-2013)  Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.18  LABELING.
   The fact a synthetic cannabinoid or substituted cathinones is being
marketed, sold, distributed, delivered, traded, bartered or labeled as “not for
human consumption” (or words of similar effect) or identified as having a
lawful use does not exempt a person from enforcement pursuant to this
subchapter.
(Ord. passed 1-14-2013)
WEAPONS AND EXPLOSIVES
§ 134.30  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BLACKJACK. A short bludgeon consisting, at the striking end, of an encased
piece of lead or some other heavy substance and, at the handle end, a strap or
springy shaft which increases the force of impact when a person or object is
struck. BLACKJACK includes, but is not limited to, a billy, billy club, sand
club, sandbag or slapjack.
   CONCEALED. Hidden from ordinary observation so as to prevent disclosure or
recognition. A deadly weapon is CONCEALED when it is carried on or about the
person in such a manner that another person in the ordinary course of events
would not be placed on notice that the deadly weapon was being carried.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Has the same meaning as is ascribed to that term in
W.Va. Code § 60A-1-101(e).
   DEADLY WEAPON. An instrument which is designed to be used to produce serious
bodily injury or death, or is readily adaptable to such use. The term DEADLY
WEAPON includes, but is not limited to, the instruments defined herein, or
other deadly weapons of like kind or character which may be easily concealed on
or about the person. For the purposes of W.Va. Code §§ 18-3-1a and 61-7-1a, in
addition to the definition of “knife” set forth herein, DEADLY WEAPON also
includes any instrument included within the definition of “knife” with a blade
of three and one-half inches or less in length. Additionally, for the purposes
of W.Va. Code §§ 18A-5-1a and 61-7-1a, DEADLY WEAPON includes explosives,
chemical, biological and radiological materials. Notwithstanding any other
provision of this section, the term DEADLY WEAPON does not include any item or
material owned by the school or county board, intended for curricular use, and
used by the student at the time of the alleged offense solely for curricular
purposes.
   DRUG. Has the same meaning as is ascribed to that term in W.Va. Code § 60A-
1-101(m).
   FIREARM. Any weapon which will expel a projectile by action of an explosion.
   GRAVITY KNIFE. Any knife that has a blade released from the handle by the
force of gravity or the application of centrifugal force, and when so released
is locked in place by means of a button, spring, lever or other locking or
catching device.
   KNIFE. An instrument, intended to be used or readily adaptable to be used as
a weapon, consisting of a sharp-edged or sharp-pointed blade, usually made of
steel, attached to a handle, which is capable of inflicting cutting, stabbing
or tearing wounds. KNIFE includes, but is not limited to, any dagger, dirk,
poniard or stiletto with a blade over three and one-half inches in length, any
switchblade knife or gravity knife, and any other instrument capable of
inflicting cutting, stabbing or tearing wounds. A pocket knife with a blade
three and one-half inches or less in length, a hunting or fishing knife carried
for hunting, fishing, sports or other recreational uses, or a knife designed
for use as a tool or household implement shall not be included within the term
KNIFE, as defined herein, unless such knife is knowingly used or intended to be
used to produce serious bodily injury or death.
   METALLIC OR FALSE KNUCKLES. A set of finger rings attached to a transverse
piece, to be worn over the front of the hand for use as a weapon, and
constructed in such a manner that, when striking another person with the fist
or closed hand, considerable physical damage may be inflicted upon the person
struck. The term METALLIC OR FALSE KNUCKLES includes any such instrument,
without reference to the metal or other substance or substances from which the
metallic or false knuckles are made.
   NUNCHUKA. A flailing instrument consisting of two or more rigid parts,
connected by a chain, cable, rope or other non-rigid, flexible or springy
material, constructed in such a manner as to allow the rigid parts to swing
freely, so that one rigid part may be used as a handle and the other rigid part
may be used as the striking end.
   PISTOL. A short firearm having a chamber which is integral with the barrel,
designed to be aimed and fired by the use of a single hand.
   REVOLVER. A short firearm having a cylinder of several chambers that are
brought successively into line with the barrel to be discharged, designed to be
aimed and fired by the use of a single hand.
   SWITCHBLADE KNIFE. Any knife having a spring-operated blade which opens
automatically upon pressure being applied to a button, catch or other releasing
device in its handle.
(Prior Code, § 545.01)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 61-7-2
§ 134.31  CARRYING CONCEALED DEADLY WEAPONS; WITHOUT LICENSE; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall carry a concealed deadly weapon, without a state
license or other lawful authorization established under the provisions of W.Va.
Code §§ 61-7-4 et seq.
      (2)   Whoever violates this section shall, for a first offense, be guilty
of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 545.02)
   (B)   The licensure provisions set forth in W.Va. Code Art. 61-7 shall not
apply to:
      (1)   Any person carrying a deadly weapon upon his or her own premises,
nor shall anything herein prevent a person from carrying any firearm, unloaded,
from the place of purchase to his or her home, residence or place of business
or to a place of repair and back to his or her home, residence or place of
business, nor shall anything herein prohibit a person from possessing a firearm
while hunting in a lawful manner or while traveling from his or her home,
residence or place of business to a hunting site, and returning to his or her
home, residence or place of business;
      (2)   Any person who is a member of a properly organized target-shooting
club authorized by law to obtain firearms by purchase or requisition from the
state, or from the United States for the purpose of target practice, from
carrying any pistol, as defined in §
134.30 of this chapter, unloaded, from his or her home, residence or place of
business to a place of target practice, and from any such place of target
practice back to his or her home, residence or place of business, for using any
such weapon at such place of target practice in training and improving his
skill in the use of such weapons;
      (3)   Any law enforcement officer or law enforcement official as such are
defined in W.Va. Code § 30-29-1;
      (4)   Any employee of the state’s Department of Corrections duly
appointed pursuant to the appropriate provisions, while such employee is on
duty;
      (5)   Any member of the armed forces of the United States or the militia
of the state while such member is on duty;
      (6)   Any circuit judge, including any retired circuit judge designated
senior status by the state, prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting
attorney or a duly appointed investigator employed by a prosecuting attorney;
      (7)   Any resident of another state who has been issued a license to
carry a concealed weapon by a state or a political subdivision which has
entered into a reciprocity agreement with the state; and
      (8)   Any federal law enforcement officer or federal police officer
authorized to carry a weapon in the performance of the officer’s duty.
(Prior Code, § 545.03)  Penalty, see §
134.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 61-7-6
§ 134.32  PERSONS PROHIBITED FROM POSSESSION.
   (A)   Except as provided for in this subchapter, no person shall possess a
firearm such as is defined in §
134.30 of this chapter who:
      (1)   Has been convicted in any court of a crime punishable by
imprisonment for a term exceeding one year;
      (2)   Is addicted to alcohol;
      (3)   Is an unlawful user of or addicted to any controlled substance;
      (4)   Has been adjudicated as a mental defective or who has been
involuntarily committed to a mental institution;
      (5)   Being an alien is illegally or unlawfully in the United States;
      (6)   Has been discharged from the armed forces under dishonorable
conditions;
      (7)   Is subject to a domestic violence protective order that:
         (a)   Was issued after a hearing of which such person received actual
notice and at which such person had an opportunity to participate;
         (b)   Restrains such person from harassing, stalking or threatening an
intimate partner of such person or child of such intimate partner or person, or
engaging in other conduct that would place an intimate partner in reasonable
fear of bodily injury to the partner or child; and
         (c)   1.   Includes a finding that such person represents a credible
threat to the physical safety of such intimate partner or child; or
            2.   By its terms explicitly prohibits the use, attempted use or
threatened use of physical force against such intimate partner or child that
would reasonably be expected to cause bodily injury.
      (8)   Has been convicted in any court of a misdemeanor crime of domestic
violence.
   (B)   Any person prohibited from possessing a firearm by the provisions of
division (A) above may petition the circuit court of the county in which he or
she resides to regain the ability to possess a firearm and, if the court finds
by clear and convincing evidence that the person is competent and capable of
exercising the responsibility concomitant with the possession of a firearm, the
court may enter an order allowing the person to possess a firearm if such
possession would not violate any federal law.
(Prior Code, § 545.04)  Penalty, see §
134.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 61-7-7
§ 134.33  POSSESSION OF DEADLY WEAPONS BY MINORS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this subchapter to the
contrary, a person under the age of 18 years who is not married or otherwise
emancipated shall not possess or carry concealed or openly any deadly weapon:
provided that, a minor may possess a firearm upon premises owned by such minor
or his or her family or on the premises of another with the permission of his
or her parent or guardian and in the case of property other than his or her own
or that of his family, with the permission of the owner or lessee of such
property. Nothing in this section shall prohibit a minor from possessing a
firearm while hunting in a lawful manner or while traveling from a place where
he or she may lawfully possess a deadly weapon, to a hunting site and returning
to a place where he or she may lawfully possess such weapon.
   (B)   A violation of this section by a person under the age of 18 years
shall subject the child to the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court under the
provisions of W.Va. Code §§ 49-4-701 et seq., and such minor may be proceeded
against in the same manner as if he or she had committed an act which if
committed by an adult would be a crime and may be adjudicated delinquent.
(Prior Code, § 545.05)  Penalty, see §
134.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 61-7-8
§ 134.34  MACHINE GUNS.
   No person shall carry, transport or have in his or her possession any
machine gun, submachine gun or any other fully automatic weapon unless he or
she has fully complied with applicable federal statutes and all applicable
rules and regulations of the Secretary of the Treasury of the United States
relating to such firearms.
(Prior Code, § 545.06)  Penalty, see §
134.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 61-7-9
§ 134.35  DISPLAY OR SALE OF DEADLY WEAPONS.
   No person shall publicly display and offer for rent or sale or, where the
person is other than a natural person, knowingly permit an employee thereof to
publicly display and offer for rent or sale, to any passers-by on any street,
road or alley, any deadly weapon, machine gun, submachine gun or other fully
automatic weapon, any rifle, shotgun or ammunition for same.
(Prior Code, § 545.07)  Penalty, see §
134.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 61-7-10
§ 134.36  BRANDISHING DEADLY WEAPONS.
   No person armed with a firearm or other deadly weapon, whether licensed to
carry the same or not, shall carry, brandish or use such weapon in a way or
manner to cause, or threaten, a breach of the peace.
(Prior Code, § 545.08)  Penalty, see §
134.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 61-7-11
§ 134.37  POSSESSING DEADLY WEAPONS ON EDUCATIONAL FACILITIES PREMISES.
Editor’s note:
   This former section which was derived from W.Va. Code § 61-7-1a is no longer
included in the codified ordinances. By Acts 1995, Ch. 90, the West Virginia
Legislature reclassified such offense as a felony. Charges for possessing
deadly weapons on premises of educational facilities should now be filed under
state law.
(Prior Code, § 545.09)
§ 134.38  FIREWORKS SALE, POSSESSION AND DISCHARGE.
   (A)   FIREWORKS means any combustible or explosive composition, or any
substance or combination of substances, or article prepared for the purpose of
producing a visible or an audible effect by combustion, explosion, deflagration
or detonation, and shall include blank cartridges, toy pistols, toy cannons,
toy canes or toy guns in which explosives are used, the type of unmanned
balloons which require fire underneath to propel the same, firecrackers,
torpedoes, skyrockets, Roman candles, daygo bombs or other fireworks of like
construction and any fireworks containing any explosive or flammable compound
or any tablets or other device containing any explosive substance; except that,
the term FIREWORKS shall not include:
      (1)   Model rockets and model rocket engines, designed, sold and used for
the purpose of propelling recoverable aero models and shall not include toy
pistols, toy canes, toy guns or other devices in which paper or plastic caps
manufactured in accordance with the United States Department of Transportation
regulations for packing and shipping of toy paper or plastic caps are used and
toy paper or plastic caps manufactured as provided therein, the sale and use of
which shall be permitted at all times. Each package containing toy paper or
plastic caps offered for retail sale shall be labeled to indicate the maximum
explosive content per cap; and
      (2)   The following sparklers and novelties shall not be considered
FIREWORKS and require a business registration fee be paid to be authorized to
sell, as provided in W.Va. Code § 11-12-86:
         (a)   Explosive caps designed to be fired in toy pistols, provided
that the explosive mixture of the caps shall not exceed twenty-five hundredths
of a grain for each cap;
         (b)   Snake and glow worms composed of pressed pellets of a
pyrotechnic mixture that produce a large snake-like ash when burning;
         (c)   Smoke devices consisting of a tube or sphere containing a
pyrotechnic mixture that produces white or colored smoke;
         (d)   Trick noisemakers which produce a small report designed to
surprise the user and which include:
            1.   A party popper, which is a small plastic or paper item
containing not in excess of twenty-five hundredths of a grain of explosive
mixture. A string protruding from the device is pulled to activate the device,
expelling paper streamers and producing a small report;
            2.   A string popper which is a small tube containing not in excess
of twenty-five hundredths of a grain of explosive mixture with string
protruding from both ends. The strings are pulled to activate the friction-
sensitive mixture, producing a small report; and
            3.   A snapper or drop pop, which is a small paper wrapped item
containing no more than twenty-five hundredths of a grain of explosive mixture
coated on small bits of sand. When dropped, the device produces a small report.
         (e)   Wire sparklers consisting of wire or stick coated with non-
explosive pyrotechnic mixture that produces a shower of sparks upon ignition.
These items must not exceed 100 grams of mixture per item; and
         (f)   Other sparkling devices which emit showers of sparks and
sometimes a whistling or crackling effect when burning, do not detonate or
explode, are hand-held or ground-based, cannot propel themselves through the
air and contain not more than 75 grams of chemical compound per tube or not
more than a total of 200 grams if multiple tubes are used; provided that,
sparklers and sparkler devices as provided for herein shall not be sold to
anyone below the age of 16 years old.
   (B)   (1)   Except as hereinafter provided, no person, firm, copartnership
or corporation shall offer for sale, possess, expose for sale, sell at retail,
keep with intent to sell at retail or use or explode any fireworks; provided,
permits for the supervised display of fireworks may be granted upon application
to the state’s Fire Marshal and after approval of the Police and Fire Chiefs,
and the filing of a bond by the applicant as provided hereinafter. Every such
display shall be handled by a competent operator licensed or certified as to
competency by the state’s Fire Marshal and shall be of such composition,
character and so located, discharged or fired as in the opinion of the Fire
Chief, after proper inspection, and of the Police Chief shall not be hazardous
to property or endanger any person or persons. After such privilege shall have
been granted, the sale, possession, use and distribution of fireworks for such
display shall be lawful for that purpose only. No permit granted hereunder
shall be transferable.
      (2)   The Mayor shall require a bond from the licensee in a sum not less
than $1,000 conditioned on compliance with the provisions of this section and
W.Va. Code § 15A-11-3 and the regulations of the state’s Fire Commission;
provided that, the municipality shall not be required to file such bond.
      (3)   Before any permit for a pyrotechnic display shall be issued, the
person, firm or corporation making application therefor shall furnish proof of
financial responsibility to satisfy claims for damages to property or personal
injuries arising out of any act or omission on the part of such person, firm or
corporation or any agent or employee thereof, in such amount, character and
form as the state’s Fire Marshal determines to be necessary for the protection
of the public.
(Prior Code, § 545.10)
   (C)   (1)   The legislation allows for the sale of fireworks such as Roman
candles, bottle rockets, aerial spinners and “missile type” rockets.
Previously, only handheld and ground-based sparkling devices, such as sparklers
and fountains, were permitted in the state.
      (2)   This division (C) limits the use of projectile fireworks to
Independence Day (as well as the Saturday before and the Saturday after
Independence Day), Labor Day and Memorial Day from 11:00 a.m. until 11:00 p.m.
and on New Year’s Eve from 11:00 a.m. until 12:30 a.m. on New Year’s Day.
      (3)   Further, celebration of Independence Day will permit the use of
fireworks on July 1 (or July 2 as the rain date) for the city’s Independence
Day celebration in the park.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2018)  Penalty, see §
134.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code §§ 29-3E-1, 29-3E-2(5), 29-3E-6
§ 134.39  DISCHARGING FIREARMS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge any air gun, rifle, shotgun, revolver,
pistol or other firearm within the corporate limits of the municipality.
   (B)   This section does not apply when firearms are used in self defense, in
the discharge of official duty or when otherwise lawfully authorized.
(Prior Code, § 545.11)  Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.40  THROWING OR SHOOTING MISSILES.
   No person shall throw, shoot or propel an arrow, missile, pellet, stone,
metal or other similar substance capable of causing physical harm to persons or
property, in or on any public place, in or on the property of another, or from
any private property into or onto any public place or the property of another.
This section does not apply to supervised archery ranges or instruction, nor
when otherwise lawfully authorized.
(Prior Code, § 545.12)  Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
130.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any railroad company, carrier or railroad violating the
provisions of §
134.01(A)(2)(a) of this chapter shall be fined in an amount set by Council from
time to time; upon a second conviction occurring at the same crossing within
one year thereafter, shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time to
time; and upon a third or subsequent conviction occurring at the same crossing
within one year after the first conviction, shall be fined in an amount set by
Council from time to time.
      (2)   Any railroad company, carrier or railroad violating the provisions
of §
134.01(A)(2)(b) of this chapter shall be fined in an amount set by Council from
time to time; upon a second conviction occurring at the same crossing within
one year thereafter, shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time to
time; and, upon a third or subsequent conviction occurring at the same crossing
within one year after the first conviction, shall be fined in an amount set by
Council from time to time.
      (3)   Whoever violates §
134.01(B) of this chapter shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time
to time or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both.
(Prior Code, § 541.99)
   (C)   (1)   Violation. No person shall sell, buy or possess any substance
containing synthetic cannabis or synthetic drugs, or any substance(s) marketed
as synthetic drugs, as per §§
134.15 through
134.18 of this chapter.
      (2)   Penalty. A violation of §§
134.15 through
134.18 of this chapter shall be deemed an infraction punishable by a fine in an
amount set by Council from time to time. The civil fine is subject to all
applicable court costs, assessments and surcharges. Each day of continuing
violation of §§
134.15 through
134.18 of this chapter shall be considered a separate and distinct infraction.
      (3)   Administrative fee. In addition, any person who violates any
provision of §§
134.15 through
134.18 of this chapter shall be ordered to pay an administrative fee to the law
enforcement agency for testing of the substance(s) collected.
      (4)   Forfeiture. Any items which may be seized of forfeited pursuant to
statutes or guidelines for the state may be forfeited in the same manner as
described therein for a violation of §§
134.15 through
134.18 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 1-14-2013)
   (D)   Whoever violates §
134.32 of this chapter shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time to
time or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both.
(Prior Code, § 545.99)
Statutory reference:
   Railroad fines, see W.Va. Code § 31-2A-6
CHAPTER 135:  OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
Section
Gambling
   
135.01   Gambling apparatus; keeping, exhibiting and permitting
   
135.02   Acting as lookout or guard for keeper of gambling apparatus
   
135.03   Playing on gambling apparatus; hotels and public places
   
135.04   Making wager for value; furnishing money to another for wager
   
135.05   Permitting gambling at public places
   
135.06   Cheating or fraudulent actions while gambling, making a wager
   
135.07   Pool rooms and pool tickets
   
135.08   Lotteries and raffles
Indecency and Obscenity
   
135.20   Prostitution, lewdness or assignation; operation
   
135.21   Pandering
   
135.22   Pimping
   
135.23   Profane swearing and drunkenness
   
135.24   Obscene or harassing telephone calls
   
135.25   Indecent exposure
   
135.26   Invasion of privacy by looking
   
135.27   Obscene matter; distribution to minors; sale or display
   
135.28   Exemptions from criminal liability
   
135.29   Use of obscene matter with intent to seduce minor
   
135.30   Employment or use of minor to produce obscene matter or assist in
doing sexually explicit           conduct; penalties
 
   
135.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Crimes against public policy, see W.Va. Code Art. 61-10
   Equitable remedies, see W.Va. Code Art. 61-9
   Gambling at fairs prohibited, see W.Va. Code § 19-7-8
   Gaming contracts, see W.Va. Code Art. 55-9
   Houses of ill fame, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-5(18)
   Indecent practices, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-5(19)
   Obscene literature, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-5(17)
   Pari-mutuel system of wagering at race track permitted, see W.Va. Code § 19-
23-9
GAMBLING
§ 135.01  GAMBLING APPARATUS; KEEPING, EXHIBITING AND PERMITTING.
   (A)   No person shall keep or exhibit a gaming table, commonly called an
A.B.C. or E.O. table, faro bank, keno table or any slot machine, multiple-coin
console machine, multiple-coin console slot machine or device in the nature of
a slot machine, or any other gaming table or device of like kind, under any
denomination or which has no name, whether the game, table, bank, machine or
device is played with cards, dice or otherwise, or be a partner, or concerned
in interest, in keeping or exhibiting such table, bank, machine or gaming
device of any character. Any such table, faro bank, machine or gaming device
and all money staked or exhibited to allure persons to bet at such table or
upon such gaming device, may be seized by order of the Municipal Court and the
money so seized shall be forfeited to the municipality and paid into the
Municipal Treasury and the table, faro bank, machine or gaming device shall be
completely destroyed. However, the provisions of this section shall not extend
to coin-operated non- payout machines with free play features or to automatic
weighing, measuring, musical and vending machines which are so constructed as
to give a certain uniform and fair return in value or services for each coin
deposited therein and in which there is no element of chance.
(Prior Code, § 513.01)
   (B)   No person shall knowingly permit a gaming table, bank or device, as
mentioned in division (A) above, to be kept or exhibited on any premises in his
or her occupation.
(Prior Code, § 513.02)  Penalty, see §
135.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code §§ 61-10-1, 61-10-2
§ 135.02  ACTING AS LOOKOUT OR GUARD FOR KEEPER OF GAMBLING APPARATUS.
   No person shall act as doorkeeper, guard or watch, or employ another person
to act as such, for a keeper or exhibitor of any gaming table, bank or device
as mentioned in §
135.01(A) of this chapter, nor resist, nor by any means or device, prevent,
hinder or delay the lawful arrest of such keeper or exhibitor, or the seizure
of the table, bank or device, or money exhibited or staked thereat, nor
unlawfully take the same from the person seizing it.
(Prior Code, § 513.03)  Penalty, see §
135.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 61-10-3
§ 135.03  PLAYING ON GAMBLING APPARATUS; HOTELS AND PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person shall bet or play at any gaming table, bank or device as mentioned
in §
135.01(A) of this chapter, or, at any hotel or tavern, other public place or
place of public resort, play at any game except bowling, chess or backgammon,
draughts or a licensed game, or bet on the side of those who play at any game,
whether or not the game is permitted or licensed.
(Prior Code, § 513.04)  Penalty, see §
135.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 61-10-4
§ 135.04  MAKING WAGER FOR VALUE OR FURNISHING MONEY TO ANOTHER FOR WAGER.
   No person shall, at any place, public or private, bet or wage money or other
thing of value on any game of chance, or knowingly furnish any money or other
thing of value to any other person to bet or wage on any such game.
(Prior Code, § 513.05)  Penalty, see §
135.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 61-10-5
§ 135.05  PERMITTING GAMBLING AT PUBLIC PLACES.
   No keeper of a hotel, tavern or other public place shall permit unlawful
gaming at his or her house, or at any outhouse, booth, arbor or other place
appurtenant thereto.
(Prior Code, § 513.06)  Penalty, see §
135.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 61-10-6
§ 135.06  CHEATING OR FRAUDULENT ACTIONS WHILE GAMBLING, MAKING WAGER.
   No person playing at any game or making a wager, or having a share in any
stake or wager, or betting on the hands or sides of others playing at any game
or making a wager, shall cheat or, by fraudulent means, win or acquire for
himself, herself or another, money or any other valuable thing.
(Prior Code, § 513.07)  Penalty, see §
135.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 61-10-9
§ 135.07  POOL ROOMS AND POOL TICKETS.
   POOL ROOM, wherever used in this chapter, means any room where any pool
ticket, chance voucher or certificate is sold entitling or purporting to
entitle the holder or promisee thereof, or any other person, to money or other
thing of value, contingent upon the result of any horse race, prizefight, game
of chance, game of skill or science or other sport or contest. No person shall
set up or promote or be connected with or interested in the management or
operation of any pool room. The buying, selling or transferring of tickets or
chances in any lottery is hereby prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 513.08)  Penalty, see §
135.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 61-10-10
§ 135.08  LOTTERIES AND RAFFLES.
   Except as otherwise provided by law, no person shall set up, promote or be
concerned in managing or drawing a lottery or raffle for money or other thing
of value; knowingly permit such lottery in any house under his or her control;
knowingly permit money or other property to be raffled for in such house or to
be won therein by throwing or using dice or by any other game of chance;
knowingly permit the sale in such house of any chance or ticket, or share of a
ticket in a lottery, or any writing, certificate, bill, token or other device
purporting or intended to guarantee or assure to any person or to entitle him
or her to a prize, or a share of or interest in a prize to be drawn in a
lottery. No person shall for himself or herself or any other person, buy, sell,
transfer or have in his or her possession for the purpose of sale or with
intent to exchange, negotiate or transfer, or aid in selling, exchanging,
negotiating or transferring a chance or ticket, or a share of a ticket, in a
lottery or any such writing, certificate, bill, token or device. However, this
section shall not be deemed to apply to that certain type or form of lottery or
raffle designated and familiarly known as “policy” or “numbers”.
(Prior Code, § 513.09)  Penalty, see §
135.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 61-10-11
INDECENCY AND OBSCENITY
§ 135.20  PROSTITUTION, LEWDNESS OR ASSIGNATION; OPERATION.
   (A)   Operating a place for or permitting or engaging.
      (1)   No person shall keep, set up, maintain or operate any house, place,
building, hotel, tourist camp, other structure or part thereof, or vehicle,
trailer or other conveyance for the purpose of prostitution, lewdness or
assignation; or own any place, house, hotel, tourist camp, other structure or
part thereof, or trailer or other conveyance knowing the same to be used for
the purpose of prostitution, lewdness or assignation, or let, sublet or rent
any such place, premises or conveyance to another with knowledge or good reason
to know of the intention of the lessee or rentee to use such place, premises or
conveyance for prostitution, lewdness or assignation; or offer, or offer to
secure another for the purpose of prostitution or for any other lewd or
indecent act; or receive or offer or agree to receive any person into any
house, place, building, hotel, tourist camp or other structure, or vehicle,
trailer or other conveyance for the purpose of prostitution, lewdness or
assignation, or permit any person to remain there for such purpose; or for
another or others, direct, take or transport, or offer or agree to take or
transport, or aid or assist in transporting any person to any house, place,
building, hotel, tourist camp, other structure, vehicle, trailer or other
conveyance, or to any other person with knowledge or having reasonable cause to
believe that the purpose of such directing, taking or transporting is
prostitution, lewdness or assignation; or aid, abet or participate in the doing
of any acts herein prohibited. Whoever violates this division (A)(1) shall, for
a first offense, be guilty of a misdemeanor.
      (2)   (a)   No person shall engage in prostitution, lewdness or
assignation, or solicit, induce, entice or procure another to commit an act of
prostitution, lewdness or assignation; or reside in, enter or remain in any
house, place, building, hotel, tourist camp or other structure, or enter or
remain in any vehicle, trailer or other conveyance for the purpose of
prostitution, lewdness or assignation; or aid, abet or participate in the doing
of any of the acts herein prohibited.
         (b)   Whoever violates this division (A)(2) shall, for a first or
second offense, be guilty of a misdemeanor.
         (c)   The subsequent offense provision shall apply only to the pimp,
panderer, solicitor, operator or any person benefitting financially or
otherwise from the earnings of a prostitute.
      (3)   All leases and agreements, oral or written, for letting, subletting
or renting any house, place, building, hotel, tourist camp or other structure
which is used for the purpose of prostitution, lewdness or assignation, shall
be void from and after the date any person who is a party to such an agreement
shall be convicted of an offense hereunder. TOURIST CAMP includes any temporary
or permanent buildings, tents, cabins or structures, or trailers or other
vehicles which are maintained, offered or used for dwelling or sleeping
quarters for pay.
      (4)   In the trial of any person charged with a violation of any of the
provisions of this section, testimony concerning the reputation or character of
any house, place, building, hotel, tourist camp or other structure, and of the
person or persons who reside in or frequent them, and of the defendant or
defendants, shall be admissible in evidence in support of the charge.
(Prior Code, § 517.01)
   (B)   Detention of person in place of prostitution.
      (1)   No person shall by any means keep, hold, detain or restrain any
person in a house of prostitution or other place where prostitution is
practiced or allowed; shall, directly or indirectly, keep, hold, detain or
restrain or attempt to keep, hold, detain or restrain, in any house of
prostitution or other place where prostitution is practiced or allowed, any
person by any means, for the purpose of compelling such person, directly or
indirectly, to pay, liquidate or cancel any debt, dues or obligations incurred
or said to have been incurred by such person.
      (2)   Whoever violates this section shall, for a first offense, be guilty
of a misdemeanor if the person so kept, held, detained or restrained under this
section is not a minor.
(Prior Code, § 517.02)  Penalty, see §
135.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code §§ 61-8-5, 61-8-6
§ 135.21  PANDERING.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall procure an inmate for a house of prostitution,
or by promises, threats, violence or by any device or scheme, cause, induce,
persuade or encourage a person to become an inmate of a house of prostitution,
or shall procure a place as inmate in a house of prostitution for a person. No
person shall, by promises, threats, violence or any device or scheme cause,
induce, persuade or encourage an inmate of a house of prostitution to remain
therein as such inmate; or shall, by fraud or artifice, or by duress of person
or goods, or by abuse of any position of confidence or authority, procure any
person to become an inmate of a house of ill fame, to enter any place in which
prostitution is encouraged or allowed within the municipality, or to come into
or leave the municipality for the purpose of prostitution, or shall procure any
person to become an inmate of a house of ill fame within the municipality or to
come into or leave the municipality for the purpose of prostitution; or shall
receive or give or agree to receive or give any money or thing of value for
procuring or attempting to procure any person to become an inmate of a house of
ill fame within the municipality, or to come into or leave the municipality for
the purpose of prostitution.
      (2)   It shall not be a defense to prosecution for any of the acts
prohibited in this section that any part of such act or acts shall have been
committed outside of the municipality, and the offense shall in such case be
deemed and alleged to have been committed and the offender tried and punished
in the municipality or county in which the prostitution was intended to be
practiced, or in which the offense was consummated, or any overt act in
furtherance of the offense was committed.
      (3)   Any such person shall be a competent witness in any prosecution
under this section to testify for or against the accused as to any transaction,
or as to conversation with the accused, or by the accused with another person
or persons in his or her presence, notwithstanding his or her having married
the accused before or after the violation of any of the provisions of this
section, whether called as a witness during the existence of the marriage or
after its dissolution. The act or state of marriage shall not be a defense to
any violation of this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor for the first
offense unless the inmate referred to in this section is a minor.
(Prior Code, § 517.03)  Penalty, see §
135.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 61-8-7
§ 135.22  PIMPING.
   (A)   No person knowing another person to be a prostitute, shall live or
derive support or maintenance, in whole or in part, from the earnings or
proceeds of the prostitution of such prostitute, or from money loaned or
advanced to or charged against such prostitution by any keeper or manager or
inmate of a house or other place where prostitution is practiced or allowed, or
shall tout or receive compensation for touting for such prostitution. A
prostitute shall be a competent witness in any prosecution hereunder to testify
for or against the accused as to any transaction or conversation with the
accused, or by the accused with another person or persons in the presence of
the prostitute, even if the prostitute may have married the accused before or
after the violation of any of the provisions of this section, whether called as
a witness during the existence of the marriage or after its dissolution.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall, for a first offense, be guilty of
a misdemeanor unless the prostitute referred to in this section is a minor.
(Prior Code, § 517.04)  Penalty, see §
135.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 61-8-8
§ 135.23  PROFANE SWEARING AND DRUNKENNESS.
   No person having arrived at the age of discretion shall profanely curse or
swear or get drunk in public.
(Prior Code, § 517.05)  Penalty, see §
135.99
§ 135.24  OBSCENE OR HARASSING TELEPHONE CALLS.
   (A)   No person with intent to harass or abuse another by means of telephone
shall:
      (1)   Make any comment, request, suggestion or proposal which is obscene;
      (2)   Make a telephone call, whether or not conversation ensues, without
disclosing his or her identity and with intent to harass any person at the
called number;
      (3)   Make or cause the telephone of another repeatedly or continuously
to ring, with intent to harass any person at the called number;
      (4)   Make repeated telephone calls, during which conversation ensues,
with intent to harass any person at the called number; or
      (5)   Threaten to commit a crime against any person or property.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly permit any telephone under his or her
control to be used for any purpose prohibited by this section.
   (C)   Any offense committed under this section may be deemed to have
occurred at the place at which the telephone call was made or the place at
which the telephone call was received.
(Prior Code, § 517.06)  Penalty, see §
135.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 61-8-16
§ 135.25  INDECENT EXPOSURE.
   No person shall intentionally expose his or her sex organs or anus or the
sex organs or anus of another person, or intentionally cause such exposure by
another or engage in any overt act of sexual gratification, under circumstances
in which the person knows that the conduct is likely to cause affront or alarm.
(Prior Code, § 517.07)  Penalty, see §
135.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 61-8-9
§ 135.26  INVASION OF PRIVACY BY LOOKING.
   No person shall unlawfully enter upon the property of another or secretly or
furtively peep through or attempt to peep into, through, or spy through a
window, door or other aperture of any building, structure or other enclosure of
any nature occupied by or intended for occupancy as a dwelling or dormitory,
whether or not such building, structure or enclosure be permanently situated or
transportable and whether or not such occupancy be permanent or temporary.
(Prior Code, § 517.08)  Penalty, see §
135.99
§ 135.27  OBSCENE MATTER; DISTRIBUTION TO MINORS; SALE OR DISPLAY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires
another meaning.
   ADULT. A person 18 years of age or older.
   COMPUTER. An electronic, magnetic, optical, electrochemical or other high-
speed data processing device performing logical, arithmetic or storage
functions and includes any data storage facility or communication facility
directly related to or operating in conjunction with such device. As used in
this section, COMPUTER includes file servers, mainframe systems, desktop
personal computers, laptop personal computers, tablet personal computers,
cellular telephones, game consoles and any electronic data storage device or
equipment. The term COMPUTER includes any connected or directly related device,
equipment or facility which enables the computer to store, retrieve or
communicate computer programs, computer data or the results of computer
operations to or from a person, another computer or another device, but such
term does not include an automated typewriter or typesetter, a portable hand-
held calculator or other similar device.
   COMPUTER NETWORK. The interconnection of hardware or wireless communication
lines with a computer through remote terminals, or a complex consisting of two
or more interconnected computers.
   DISPLAY. To show, exhibit or expose matter, in a manner visible to general
or invited public, including minors. As used in this article, display shall
include the placing or exhibiting of matter on or in a billboard, viewing
screen, theater, marquee, newsstand, display rack, window, showcase, display
case or similar public place.
   DISTRIBUTE. To transfer possession, transport, transmit, sell or rent,
whether with or without consideration.
   EMPLOYEE. Any individual who renders personal services in the course of a
business, who receives compensation and who has no financial interest in the
ownership or operation of the business other than his or her salary or wages.
   INTERNET. The international computer network of both federal and nonfederal
interoperable packet switched data networks.
   KNOWLEDGE OF THE CHARACTER OF THE MATTER. Having awareness of or notice of
the overall sexual content and character of matter as depicting, representing
or describing obscene matter.
   MATTER. Any visual, audio, or physical item, article, production
transmission, publication, exhibition, or live performance, or reproduction
thereof, including any two- or three-dimensional visual or written material,
film, picture, drawing, video, graphic, or computer generated or reproduced
image; or any book, magazine, newspaper or other visual or written material; or
any motion picture or other pictorial representation; or any statue or other
figure; or any recording, transcription, or mechanical, chemical, or electrical
reproduction; or any other articles, video laser disc, computer hardware and
software, or computer generated images or message recording, transcription, or
object, or any public or commercial live exhibition performed for consideration
or before an audience of one or more.
   MINOR. An unemancipated person under 18 years of age.
   OBSCENE MATTER. Matter that:
      (1)   An average person, applying contemporary adult community standards,
would find, taken as a whole, appeals to the prurient interest, is intended to
appeal to the prurient interest, or is pandered to a prurient interest;
      (2)   An average person, applying community standards, would find depicts
or describes, in a patently offensive way, sexually explicit conduct; and
      (3)   A reasonable person would find, taken as a whole, lacks serious
literary, artistic, political or scientific value.
   PARENT. Includes a biological or adoptive parent, legal guardian or legal
custodian.
   PERSON. Any adult, partnership, firm, association, corporation or other
legal entity.
   SEXUALLY EXPLICIT CONDUCT. An ultimate sexual act, normal or perverted,
actual or simulated, including sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation,
sexual bestiality, sexual sadism and masochism, masturbation, excretory
functions and lewd exhibition of the genitals.
(W.Va. Code § 61-8A-1)
   (B)   Distribution and display to minor of obscene matter; penalties;
defenses.
      (1)   Any adult, with knowledge of the character of the matter, who
knowingly and intentionally distributes, offers to distribute, or displays to a
minor any obscene matter, is guilty of a felony and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined not more than $25,000, or confined in a state correctional
facility for not more than five years, or both.
      (2)   It is a defense to a prosecution under the provisions of this
section that the obscene matter:
         (a)   Was displayed in an area from which minors are physically
excluded and the matter so located cannot be viewed by a minor from
nonrestricted areas;
         (b)   Was covered by a device, commonly known as a “blinder rack”,
such that the lower two-thirds of the cover of the material is not exposed to
view;
         (c)   Was enclosed in an opaque wrapper such that the lower two-thirds
of the cover of the material was not exposed to view;
         (d)   Was displayed or distributed after taking reasonable steps to
receive, obtain or check an adult identification card, such as a driver's
license or other technically or reasonably feasible means of verification of
age; or
         (e)   It is a defense to an alleged violation under this section that
a parent had taken reasonable steps to limit the minor’s access to the obscene
matter.
(W.Va. Code § 61-8A-2)
§ 135.28  EXEMPTIONS FROM CRIMINAL LIABILITY.
   The criminal provisions of §
135.27 do not apply to:
   (A)   A bona fide school, in the presentation of local or state approved
curriculum;
   (B)   A public library, or museum, which is displaying or distributing any
obscene matter to a minor only when the minor was accompanied by his or her
parent;
   (C)   A licensed medical or mental health care provider, or judicial or law-
enforcement officer, during the course of medical, psychiatric, or
psychological treatment or judicial or law-enforcement activities;
   (D)   A person who did not know or have reason to know, and could not
reasonably have learned, that the person to whom the obscene matter was
distributed or displayed was a minor and who took reasonable measures to
ascertain the identity and age of the minor;
   (E)   A person who routinely distributes obscene matter by the use of
telephone, computer network or the Internet and who distributes such matter to
any minor under the age of 18 years after the person has taken reasonable
measures to prevent access by minors to the obscene matter; or
   (F)   A radio or television station, cable television service or other
telecommunications service regulated by the Federal Communications Commission.
(W.Va. Code § 61-8A-3)
§ 135.29  USE OF OBSCENE MATTER WITH INTENT TO SEDUCE MINOR.
   Any adult, having knowledge of the character of the matter, who knows or
believes that a person is a minor at least four years younger than the adult,
and distributes, offers to distribute or displays by any means any obscene
matter to the person who is known or believed to be a minor at least four years
younger than the adult, and such distribution, offer to distribute, or display
is undertaken with the intent or for the purpose of facilitating the sexual
seduction or abuse of the minor, is guilty of a felony and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined not more than $25,000, or imprisoned in a state
correctional facility for not more than five years, or both. For a second and
each subsequent commission of such offense, such person is guilty of a felony
and, upon conviction, shall be fined not more than $50,000 or imprisoned in a
state correctional facility for not more than ten years, or both.
(W.Va. Code § 61-8A-4)
§ 135.30  EMPLOYMENT OR USE OF MINOR TO PRODUCE OBSCENE MATTER OR ASSIST IN
DOING SEXUALLY EXPLICIT CONDUCT; PENALTIES.
   Any adult who, with knowledge that a person is a minor or who fails to
exercise reasonable care in ascertaining the age of a minor, hires, employs or
uses such minor to produce obscene matter or to do or assist in doing any
sexually explicit conduct, is guilty of a felony and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined not more than $50,000 or confined in a state correctional
facility for not more than ten years, or both.
(W.Va. Code § 61-8A-5)
§ 135.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates §§
130.03 and
130.05 of this chapter shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time to
time.
      (2)   Whoever violates §
130.04 of this chapter shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time to
time.
(Prior Code, § 513.99)
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates §§
135.20(A)(1) or
135.25 of this chapter shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time to
time or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both.
      (2)   Whoever violates §
135.20(A)(2) of this chapter shall be fined in an amount set by Council from
time to time or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both, and for a second
offense shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time to time or
imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both.
      (3)   Whoever violates §
135.27(B) of this chapter shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time
to time or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both, for a first offense. For
a second or subsequent offense, such person shall be fined in an amount set by
Council from time to time or imprisoned not more than six months, or both.
(Prior Code, § 517.99)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   MOBILE AND MANUFACTURED HOMES; RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
152.   RENTAL REGISTRATION PROGRAM
      
153.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
154.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
      
155.   PLANNING AND ZONING
CHAPTER 150:  BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Building Official
   
150.02   State Building Code
Numbering Structures
   
150.15   Size and location of street address numbers
   
150.16   Enforcement
Vacant Buildings
   
150.30   Housing Enforcement Board, Officer
   
150.31   Unhabitable property; registration
   
150.32   Registration; fees; administrative and enforcement procedures
 
   
150.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Certification of electricians, see W.Va. Code § 29-3b-2
   Municipal inspection, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-5
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01  BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   (A)   Office established. The office of Building Official is hereby created
and the executive official in charge shall be known as the “Building Official”.
   (B)   Powers and duties. The Building Official shall enforce all provisions
of this Building and Housing Code and other ordinances and laws relating to the
construction, alteration, removal, demolition, equipment, use and occupancy of
buildings and structures. The Building Official shall submit at least annually
to Council a written statement of all permits, notices and orders issued.
   (C)   Acting official. During the temporary absence or disability of the
Building Official, the City Manager shall designate an acting Building
Official.
   (D)   Right of entry. The Building Official or any of his or her designated
agents may at any reasonable hour, enter any dwelling, multi-family dwelling,
building, structure or premises within the city to perform any duty imposed on
him or her by this Building and Housing Code; provided that, permission to
enter is obtained from the occupant or, in the case of unoccupied property,
from the owner or his or her agent. If such permission is refused or is
otherwise unobtainable, a search warrant must be obtained before such entry or
inspection is made, except in the case of an existing emergency in which case
entry may be made at any time and no search warrant is necessary. No person
shall refuse to permit such emergency entry or inspection, nor shall any person
hinder, obstruct, resist or abuse any person making or attempting to make such
entry or inspection.
(Prior Code, § 1705.01)
§ 150.02  STATE BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   Adoption.
      (1)   The Council of the city hereby amends the ordinance enacting the
Building Housing Code of the city and the ordinance providing for and
establishing permit fees, penalties and local construction standards, or any
other ordinances previously adopted concerning building codes, by adopting and
incorporating by reference, as if set out at length herein, for the purposes of
safeguarding life and property and to ensure the quality of construction of all
structures erected, renovated or removed throughout the city, that certain code
known as the “State Building Code”, set forth and defined by W.Va. Code Title
87, Series 4, as amended, as promulgated by the state’s Fire Marshal pursuant
to authority granted in W.Va. Code § 15A-11-3Art. 29-3-5b.
      (2)   The standards and requirements as set out and published by the
International Code Council, and American National Standards Institute, and the
National Fire Protection Association, as listed below, and as adopted by the
state’s Fire Commission with an effective date of 8-1-2016, shall have the same
force and effect as if set out verbatim herein:
         (a)   International Building Code 2015 (with amendments);
         (b)   International Residential Code for One- and Two-Family Dwellings
2015 (with amendments);
         (c)   International Existing Building Code 2015 (with amendments);
         (d)   International Plumbing Code 2015;
         (e)   International Mechanical Code 2015;
         (f)   International Fuel Gas Code 2015 (with amendments);
         (g)   International Property Maintenance Code 2015;
         (h)   NFPA 70/National Electric Code 2014;
         (i)   ICC/ANSI A 117.1 Standards for Accessibility and Usable
Buildings and Facilities 2009;
         (j)   ANSI/ASHRAE/IESNA Standard 90.1 2007 (for commercial buildings);
         (k)   International Energy Conservation Code 2009 (for residential
buildings); and
         (l)   International Swimming Pool and Spa Code 2015.
   (B)   Effect upon city ordinance enacting the Building and Housing Code of
the city and ordinance providing for and establishing permit fees, penalties
and local construction standards and any and all other ordinances of the city
previously enacted respecting inspections, permits or fees. The provisions of
the ordinance enacting the Building and Housing Code of the city and ordinance
providing for and establishing permit fees, penalties and local construction
standards and any and all other ordinances of the city previously adopted are
hereby amended only to the extent of the provisions of this section; however,
all provisions of previously adopted city ordinances, particularly ordinance
enacting the Building and Housing Code of the city and ordinance providing for
and establishing permit fees, penalties and local construction standards of the
city, that are not expressly amended by this section, including their
imposition of requirements for inspections, permits and fees payable to the
city, shall remain in full force and legal effect.
(Ord. passed 3-28-2011; Ord. passed 10-10-2017)
NUMBERING STRUCTURES
§ 150.15  SIZE AND LOCATION OF STREET ADDRESS NUMBERS.
   (A)   Residences.
      (1)   Each residence shall prominently display its numbered address.
      (2)   Street address numbers for residences shall not be less than three
inches in height and shall be made of durable and clearly visible material.
      (3)   The numbers shall be conspicuously placed on, above or at the side
of the main entrance so that the number is distinguishable and legible from the
street. Where the entrance of a residence is more than 50 feet from the street,
or when the entrance is not clearly visible from the street, the number shall
be placed along the walk, driveway or other suitable location as near as
conveniently possible to the street so that the number is distinguishable and
legible from the street, day or night.
      (4)   In either case described above, a second set of numbers must be
placed on a mailbox or other suitable post, or mounted at the edge of the
intersection of the driveway and street so that it is clearly visible.
   (B)   Commercial and industrial structures.
      (1)   All commercial and industrial structures shall display street
address numbers of not less than four inches in length.
      (2)   When possible, the number shall be displayed over the main entrance
of the structure.
      (3)   There shall be no other wording or numbers within two feet of the
building number.
   (C)   Apartments, townhouses, shopping centers.
      (1)   Apartments, townhouses, shopping centers or other similar groupings
where only one number is assigned shall display such number at the main
entrance way.
      (2)   Said address numbers shall have a minimum height of four inches.
      (3)   Numbers for individual units or establishments within the complex
shall be displayed on, above or to the side of the main doorway of each unit or
establishment.
(Prior Code, § 1755.01)  (Ord. passed 4-20-1999)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.16  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Whenever the city has reason to believe there has been a violation of
any provision of this subchapter, the city, through its agent or designee,
shall give notice to the person or party failing to comply and order said
person or party to take corrective action or measures within 30 days from the
date of notification.
   (B)   Each person or party shall prominently display his or her assigned
street numbers within 30 days of passage of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 1755.02)  (Ord. passed 4-20-1999)  Penalty, see §
150.99
VACANT BUILDINGS
§ 150.30  HOUSING ENFORCEMENT BOARD, OFFICER.
   (A)   There is hereby created the City Housing Enforcement Board, which
shall consist of the City Manager, the City Building Official, the City Fire
Chief or designee and one member at large to be selected by and to serve at the
will and pleasure of the Council of the city. The County Health Officer may
serve as an ex officio member of the Housing Enforcement Board, receiving
notice of meeting agenda items by providing comments to the Board, but shall
have no voting rights or privileges on the Board.
   (B)   The City Manager shall designate and appoint an officer to be known as
the City Housing Enforcement Officer. The Housing Enforcement Officer shall
exercise the powers herein granted along with any and all other powers
currently granted or as may be granted in the future to such officer pursuant
to the statutory provisions of W.Va. Code §§ 8-12-16, 8-12-16a and 8-12-16b, as
amended. The Housing Enforcement Officer shall serve at the will and pleasure
of the City Manager. The Housing Enforcement Officer may or may not be one and
the same person as the city’s Building Official.
   (C)   (1)   The Housing Enforcement Officer is charged with the
responsibility and authority to formally investigate any and all dwellings or
other buildings or structures alleged to be unfit for human habitation due to
dilapidation, defects increasing the hazard of fire, accidents or other
calamities, lack of ventilation, light or sanitary facilities or any other
conditions prevailing in any dwelling or other buildings or structures, whether
used for human habitation or not, which would cause such dwellings or other
buildings or structures to be unsafe, unsanitary, dangerous or detrimental to
the public safety or welfare. The initiation of any investigation by the
Housing Enforcement Officer may occur either:
         (a)   As a consequence of the Housing Enforcement Officer’s own
observation;
         (b)   From a citizen complaint lodged with the Housing Enforcement
Officer; or
         (c)   As referred by the City Manager.
      (2)   The Housing Enforcement Officer in conducting investigations or
discharging any duties established pursuant to this subchapter shall have the
right upon granting reasonable notice to the occupants thereof (i.e., a minimum
of 24 hours’ written notice delivered to the occupants thereof) to enter upon
and within at all reasonable times, any lots, dwellings and other buildings and
structures situated within the corporate limits of the city. Any entrance upon
or within any premises by the Housing Enforcement Officer for the purpose of
making any investigation authorized by this subchapter shall be made in a
manner as to cause the least possible inconvenience to the persons in
possession of the premises. In the event that there are no occupants of the
premises to be investigated, then reasonable written notice shall be delivered
to the owner of the premises.
   (D)   (1)   Upon any determination by the Housing Enforcement Officer that
any dwelling or other building or structure is unfit for human habitation due
to dilapidation, defects increasing the hazard of fire, accidents or other
calamities, lack of ventilation, light or sanitary facilities or any other
conditions prevailing in any dwelling or other buildings or structures, whether
used for human habitation or not, which would cause such dwellings or other
buildings or structures to be unsafe, unsanitary, dangerous or detrimental to
the public safety or welfare, the Housing Enforcement Officer then promptly
shall submit to the Housing Enforcement Board a written, preliminary report
concerning the condition of such dwelling or other building or structure and
the Housing Enforcement Board thereafter shall conduct a hearing respecting the
investigation and report.
      (2)   Written notice of not less than ten days shall be served upon both
the owner and any occupants of the premises, and which notice shall establish:
         (a)   The date, time and place for the hearing;
         (b)   The nature of the complaint;
         (c)   The opportunity of the owner and/or occupants to present
testimony and other evidence concerning the matter; and
         (d)   The possible ordering by the Housing Enforcement Board of the
razing and demolition of the dwelling or other building or structure if the
violating conditions are not abated within a reasonable period of time (i.e., a
minimum of 30 days following the hearing date and commencement of razing and
demolition).
      (3)   The hearing before the Housing Enforcement Board on the matter
shall be an informal hearing and strict rules of procedure or evidence shall be
followed or required. The owner and/or occupants may be represented by legal
counsel. Any owner or occupant of the premises involved, or their legal
counsel, or any other interested person, shall have the right to examine the
written report of the Housing Enforcement Officer and further shall have the
right to file a written answer to such report and to appear in person or by
counsel, and offer testimony and other evidence at the time and place fixed in
the notice for the hearing on the matter.
   (E)   If following the hearing, the Housing Enforcement Board determines by
a majority vote that the investigated dwelling or other building or structure
is unfit for human habitation due to dilapidation, defects increasing the
hazard of fire, accidents or other calamities, lack of ventilation, light or
sanitary facilities or any other conditions prevailing in any dwelling or other
buildings or structures, whether used for human habitation or not, which would
cause such dwellings or other buildings or structures to be unsafe, unsanitary,
dangerous or detrimental to the public safety or welfare, then the Housing
Enforcement Board shall state in writing its findings of fact in support of
such determination, and then shall issue and cause to be served upon the owner,
occupants and any other interested parties, an order requiring the owner to
undertake the following:
      (1)   The repair, alteration or improvement of the dwelling or other
building or structure within a specified time to permit the repair, alteration
or improvement of the premises so as to abate the violating conditions, said
repair, alteration or improvement period to be a minimum of 30 days; or
      (2)   The razing, demolition and removal of the dwelling or other
building or structure.
   (F)   (1)   If the owner fails to comply with the order of the Housing
Enforcement Board to repair, alter or improve, or alternatively to raze,
demolish and remove the dwelling or other building or structure, the Housing
Enforcement Board may cause said dwelling or other building or structure to be
repaired, altered or improved, or to be vacated and closed from and after the
date specified in the order of the Housing Enforcement Board for the repair,
alteration or improvement of the premises. The Housing Enforcement Officer then
shall cause to be posted upon the premises a notice bearing the following:
“This building has been determined to be unfit for human habitation due to
dilapidation, defects increasing the hazard of fire, accidents or other
calamities, lack of ventilation, light or sanitary facilities or other
conditions prevailing in the dwelling or other building or structure, whether
used for human habitation or not, which would cause such dwelling or other
building or structure to be unsafe, unsanitary, dangerous or detrimental to the
public safety or welfare. The use or occupancy of this dwelling or other
building or structure is prohibited and unlawful.”
      (2)   If the owner fails to comply with an order of the Housing
Enforcement Board to repair, alter or improve, or raze, demolish and remove,
the Housing Enforcement Board may cause such dwelling or other building or
structure to be razed, demolished and removed upon such conditions as the
Housing Enforcement Board may prescribe and at the exclusive cost and expense
of the owner thereof.
   (G)   All costs of any repairs, alterations, improvements, vacating,
closing, razing, demolition and/or removal of any dwelling or other building or
structure under orders of the Housing Enforcement Board shall constitute a lien
against the subject real estate upon which such costs were incurred. Any and
all cost incurred respecting asbestos inspection and/or abatement shall be
deemed to be a cost of any razing, demolition and/or removal. If the dwelling
or other building or structure is razed, demolished and removed by the Housing
Enforcement Board, the Board shall attempt to sell such materials from such
premises as can be salvaged and shall credit the proceeds of such sale against
the cost of the razing, demolition and removal.
   (H)   All notices or orders issued by the Housing Enforcement Board shall be
served upon the owner and/or occupants thereof in such a manner as prescribed
by the laws of the state for service of legal documents, and in addition
thereto, all such notices and orders shall be posted in a conspicuous place
upon the premises. A copy of all such complaints or orders further shall be
filed for record in the office of the Clerk of the Municipal Court and such
filing shall be deemed to have the same legal force and effect as a lis pendens
notice authorized pursuant to the laws of the state.
   (I)   Any owner or other person affected by an order issued by the Housing
Enforcement Board may petition the Municipal Court for an injunction
restraining the Housing Enforcement Board and/or the Housing Enforcement
Officer from carrying out the provisions of such order, and the Housing
Enforcement Board and/or Housing Enforcement Officer shall fully comply in all
respects with any order issued by the Municipal Court in connection with any
injunction hearing. The City Attorney shall represent the Housing Enforcement
Board and/or Housing Enforcement Officer in any such proceedings before the
County Circuit Court.
   (J)   No officer, agent or employee of the city, or any member of the
Housing Enforcement Board of the city or the Housing Enforcement Officer shall
be held personally liable for any damage incurred or alleged to have been
incurred as a result of any act required, permitted or authorized to be
performed in the discharge of duties pursuant to this subchapter or any notice
or order issued by the Housing Enforcement Board. Any suit brought against any
such officer, agent or employee of the city, or any member of the Housing
Enforcement Board or the Housing Enforcement Officer shall be defended by the
city.
(Ord. passed - -2016)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.31  UNINHABITABLE PROPERTY; REGISTRATION.
   (A)   There is hereby created the city’s Registry of Uninhabitable Property.
The owner of any real property improved by a structure that has been determined
to be uninhabitable and violates the city’s Building Code shall register their
property with the Housing Enforcement Officer, said Housing Enforcement Officer
being hereby specifically designated and appointed by the City Manager as being
the city’s Code Enforcement Officer.
   (B)   The Housing Enforcement Officer shall investigate and determine
whether any real property situated within the corporate limits violates the
provisions of the city’s Building Code.
   (C)   After inspecting property, if the Housing Enforcement Officer
determines the property is uninhabitable and violates the city’s Building Code,
then:
      (1)   The Housing Enforcement Officer shall post a written notice on the
property which shall include:
         (a)   An explanation of the violation(s);
         (b)   A description of the registration;
         (c)   The date the fee will be assessed;
         (d)   An explanation of how to be removed from the registration;
         (e)   An explanation of the appeals process; and
         (f)   A statement that if the fee is not paid, then the property is
subject to forfeiture.
      (2)   Within five business days of the inspection and the posting of
property, the Housing Enforcement Officer shall, by certified mail, send a copy
of the notice that was posted to the owner(s) of the property at the last known
address according to the county property tax records.
   (D)   Within 45 days of receipt of the notification by the owner(s), the
property owner may:
      (1)   Make and complete any repairs to the property that violate the
city’s Building Code; or
      (2)   Provide written information to the officer showing that repairs are
forthcoming in a reasonable period of time.
   (E)   After the repairs are made, the owner may request a re-inspection of
the property to ensure compliance with the applicable Building Code. If the
Housing Enforcement Officer finds the violations are fixed, the owner is not
subject to the registration and no fee will be incurred.
   (F)   The Housing Enforcement Officer may reinspect the property at any time
to determine where in the process the repairs fall.
   (G)   Within 90 days of receipt of the notification by the owner(s), the
property owner has the right to appeal the decision of the officer to the
Housing Enforcement Board.
   (H)   If an appeal is not filed within 90 days, the property is registered
and the fee is assessed to the owner(s) on the date specified in the notice.
The notice of the fee shall be recorded in the County Clerk’s office.
   (I)   If the Housing Enforcement Board affirms the registration and
assessment of the registration fee, the property owner has the right to appeal
the decision of the enforcement agency to the Municipal Court within 30 days of
the decision. If the decision is not appealed in a timely manner to the court,
then the property is registered and the fee is assessed on the date specified
in the notice. The notice of the fee shall be recorded in the County Clerk’s
office.
   (J)   After all fees are paid, and at such time as the property is no longer
determined to be uninhabitable either as a result of improvements to the
property that make the property habitable, or the uninhabitable structure being
razed and removed, the municipality shall record a release of the fee in the
County Clerk’s office.
   (K)   If an owner fails to pay the fee, then the Housing Enforcement Officer
shall annually post the written notice on the property and send the written
notice to the owner(s) by certified mail.
   (L)   If a registration fee remains delinquent for two years from the date
it was placed on record in the County Clerk’s Office, the city may take action
to receive the subject property by means of forfeiture. In the event the city
takes the steps necessary to receive the subject property, the city then
becomes the owner of record and takes the property subject to all liens and
real and personal property taxes.
   (M)   An owner subject to property registration pursuant to this section
shall be assessed a monthly fee in the amount of $0.02 per square foot of the
uninhabitable structure, said square footage to be determined from the records
maintained by the County Assessor’s office.
   (N)   Any and all funds realized from the imposition of the fee authorized
pursuant to this section are hereby declared to be dedicated to a special
account to be established by the city’s Finance Director for the purpose of
facilitating the city’s razing, demolition and removal of uninhabitable
dwellings and other buildings and structures situated within the corporate
limits, or may otherwise be expended to discharge the functions, duties and
expenses of the city’s Housing Enforcement Board and/or Housing Enforcement
Officer.
(Ord. passed - -2016)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.32  REGISTRATION; FEES; ADMINISTRATIVE AND ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   There is hereby created the city’s Registry of Vacant Buildings. For
purposes of this section, the term VACANT BUILDING means a building or other
structure that has been unoccupied for six months or longer, or unsecured and
occupied by one or more unauthorized persons for six months or longer; provided
that, a new building under construction or a building that by definition is
exempted by ordinance of the municipality, is not deemed a vacant building;
provided further, however, that, the City Council shall on a case by case
basis, upon the written request of the property owner, exempt vacant buildings
from registration upon a finding for good cause shown that a person will be
unable to occupy the buildings for a determinant period of time.
   (B)   An owner subject to property registration pursuant to this section,
shall be assessed a monthly fee in the amount of $0.01 per square foot of all
vacant buildings, said square footage to be determined from the records
maintained by the County Assessor’s office.
   (C)   Any owner subject to property registration pursuant to this section,
upon six months of their property becoming vacant, shall register his or her
property as being vacant with the city’s Housing Enforcement Officer. The
Housing Enforcement Officer shall determine the appropriate monthly fee after
conferring with the County Assessor’s office.
   (D)   In any event that the owner of a vacant building resides outside the
state, then the owner shall designate a person residing within the state who
shall be authorized to accept service of process and notices of fees due and
owing pursuant to this section on behalf of the owner and who shall be
designated by the owner as a responsible, local party or agent for the purposes
of notification in the event of any emergency affecting the public health,
safety or welfare as attributable to the owner’s vacant building.
   (E)   The city is authorized to institute a civil action against the owner
of any vacant property and/or file a lien on real property for unpaid and
delinquent vacant building registration fees. Before any lien is filed, the
city shall give notice to the property owner or owner’s agent, by certified
mail, return receipt requested, stating that the city will file the lien unless
the delinquent fees are paid by a date stated in the notice, which shall be not
less than 30 days from the date the notice is received by the owner or the
owner’s agent, which shall be the date of delivery shown on the signed
certified mail return receipt card. If service of the notice cannot be attained
by certified mail, notice may be affected by posting of the notice at the
property or by publication.
   (F)   Within 30 days of receipt of the notification by the owner(s), the
property owner has the right to appeal the decision of the officer to the
Housing Enforcement Board.
   (G)   If an appeal is not filed within 30 days, the property is registered
and the fee is assessed to the owner(s) on the date specified in the notice.
   (H)   If the Housing Enforcement Board affirms the registration and
assessment of the registration fee, the property owner has the right to appeal
the decision of the enforcement agency to the Municipal Court within 30 days of
the Board’s decision. If the decision is not appealed in a timely manner to the
Municipal Court, then the property is registered and the fee is assessed on the
date specified in the notice.
   (I)   The city shall deposit all fees collected pursuant to this section
into a special account, which funds shall be used to:
      (1)   Improve public safety efforts, especially for police and fire
personnel, who most often contend with the dangerous situations manifested in
vacant properties;
      (2)   Monitor and administer this section; and
      (3)   Repair, close or demolish a vacant structure as authorized pursuant
to §
150.30 of this chapter.
   (J)   After all fees are paid, and at such time as the property is no longer
determined to be uninhabitable either as a result of improvements to the
property that make the property habitable, or the uninhabitable structure being
razed and removed, the municipality shall record a release of the fee in the
County Clerk’s office.
   (K)   If an owner fails to pay the fee, then the Housing Enforcement Officer
shall annually post the written notice on the property and send the written
notice to the owner(s) by certified mail.
   (L)   If a registration fee remains delinquent for two years from the date
it was placed on record in the County Clerk’s Office, the city may take action
to receive the subject property, the city then becomes the owner of record and
takes the property subject to all liens and real and personal property taxes.
   (M)   An owner subject to property registration pursuant to this section
shall be assessed an annual fee in accordance with the following schedule:
 
Less Than One Year No Fee
One year           $200
Two years          $400
Three years        $600
Four years         $800
Five years         $1,600
Five years or more $1,600, plus $300 for each additional year
 
(Ord. passed - -2016)
§ 150.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no other
penalty is provided shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time to
time or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both.
(Prior Code, § 1705.99)
   (B)   If such person or party fails to comply with the duly issued order,
per §§
150.15 and
150.16 of this chapter, he or she shall be subject to a fine in an amount set
by Council from time to time, with each day that the person or party continues
to be non-compliant with §§
150.15 and
150.16 of this chapter shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 1755.02)
   (C)   (1)   The owner or other person exercising dominion or control over
any dwelling or other building or structure determined by the Housing
Enforcement Board to be unfit for human habitation, and who shall fail to
comply with any order of the Housing Enforcement Board, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in an amount set by
Council from time to time, for each offense, and in addition thereto, may be
ordered confined for a period not exceeding 30 days.
      (2)   Any occupant or lessee or any other person who fails to comply with
any order to vacate any dwelling or other building or structure, or who remains
in occupancy or possession of any building or structure that has been ordered
to be vacated, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined in an amount
set by Council from time to time, for each offense, and in addition thereto,
may be ordered confined for a period not exceeding 30 days.
      (3)   Any person who removes any notice or order of the Housing
Enforcement Board posted as required pursuant to §§
150.30 through
150.32 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time to time, for each
offense and, in addition thereto, may be ordered confined for a period not
exceeding 30 days.
      (4)   Any person who obstructs, impedes or interferes with the Housing
Enforcement Officer or any other person in their performance and discharge of
duties and requirements of §§
150.30 through
150.32 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined in an amount set by Council from time to time, for each
offense and, in addition thereto, may be ordered confined for a period not
exceeding 30 days.
(Ord. passed 4-20-1999; Ord. passed - -2016)
CHAPTER 151:  MOBILE AND MANUFACTURED HOMES;
RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
   
151.01   Purpose
   
151.02   Location of mobile homes
   
151.03   Definitions
   
151.04   Class A mobile home park requirements
   
151.05   Class B mobile home park requirements
   
151.06   Licensing
   
151.07   Exceptions to permitting requirements
   
151.08   Enforcement; removal
   
151.09   Non-conforming uses
 
   
151.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-5(30)
   Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards, see W.Va. Code § 21-
921-9-13
§ 151.01  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is:
   (A)   To prohibit the location and occupancy of mobile homes, as defined in
§
151.03 of this chapter, except within licensed mobile home parks, to assure
that sites within such mobile home parks are suitable for the location of
mobile homes by providing minimum standards for privacy, fire protection,
utility service and off-street parking; and
   (B)   To encourage the provision of affordable housing by permitting
manufactured housing, as defined in §
151.03 of this chapter, where similar dwellings constructed on-site are
permitted, subject to the requirements and procedures set forth herein to
assure similarity in exterior appearance between such manufactured homes and
site-built dwellings constructed on adjacent lots.
(Prior Code, § 1759.01)  (Ord. passed 11-10-2003)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-5(30)
§ 151.02  LOCATION OF MOBILE HOMES.
   No mobile home, as defined herein, shall be located, occupied, placed,
stored, erected or otherwise situated within the corporate limits of the city,
except in licensed mobile home parks as established by the City Council.
Recreational vehicles, as defined in §
151.03 of this chapter, shall not be located for occupancy, except within a
licensed Class B mobile home park.
(Prior Code, § 1759.02)  (Ord. passed 11-10-2003)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.03  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVED. Acceptable to the Building Official or City Manager.
   DWELLING UNIT. A single unit providing complete independent living
facilities for one or more persons, including provisions for living, sleeping,
eating, cooking and sanitation.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A factory-assembled structure, transportable in one or
more sections, designed to be used as a dwelling unit when assembled on-site
and connected to the required utilities; the term includes:
      (1)   Type I manufactured homes constructed in compliance with the
current Building Code; and
      (2)   Type II manufactured homes constructed and installed in accordance
with the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act
(42 U.S.C. 5401 et seq.).
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MOBILE HOME. A factory-assembled structure, transportable in one or more
sections, which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a
dwelling, with or without a permanent foundation, when connected to the
required utilities; and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning and
electrical systems contained therein. The term shall not include any Type I
manufactured home or a Type II manufactured home that meets all of the
following requirements.
      (1)   No horizontal dimension shall be less than 22 feet.
      (2)   The structure shall be installed on a permanent foundation, as
defined herein.
      (3)   The main roof shall have not less than a 4:12 pitch.
      (4)   The exterior wall covering shall be wood or masonry or its
appearance, and/or vertically or horizontally grooved or lapped siding. Flat or
corrugated metal shall not be used for roof or exterior wall covering.
      (5)   The lot upon which the manufactured home is located shall not be
rented or leased.
   MOBILE HOME, CLASS A. A mobile home which in the traveling mode is eight
feet or more in width or 40 feet or more in length or, when erected on site, is
not less than 320 square feet in area, and which is built in compliance with
the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act (42
U.S.C. 5401 et seq.).
   MOBILE HOME, CLASS B. A recreational vehicle, as defined herein.
   MOBILE HOME ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. Any structure located on the same lot as a
mobile home, the use of which is incidental to the residential use of the
mobile home. Examples include garages, carports, storage buildings and tool
sheds.
   MOBILE HOME LOT. A designated portion of a mobile home park designed for the
accommodation of one mobile home and its accessory buildings or structures for
the exclusive use of its occupants.
   MOBILE HOME PARK CLASS A. A facility that complies with the requirements of
§
151.04 of this chapter.
   MOBILE HOME PARK CLASS B. A facility that complies with the requirements of
§
151.05 of this chapter.
   MOBILE HOME PARK OPERATOR. A person who is in charge of the operation of a
mobile home park.
   PERMANENT FOUNDATION. An installation that includes a masonry or concrete
wall around the full perimeter of the manufactured home. The wall shall extend
vertically from an approved footing to the underside of the manufactured home,
and shall meet the following requirements.
      (1)   Where the wall is load-bearing, the foundation shall be designed by
a registered engineer or architect in accordance with State Division of Labor
regulations.
      (2)   Where the wall is non-load-bearing, the installation of footings,
bearing piers and other foundation elements shall conform to State Division of
Labor regulations; and the wall shall be constructed in accordance with the
provisions of the current building code for exterior non-load-bearing walls and
retaining walls as applicable.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, trust, partnership, public or private
association, corporation, syndicate, institution, government corporation,
department, division, bureau, agency or any other entity recognized by law.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicular type unit primarily designed as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping or travel use, which either has its
own motive power or is mounted on or drawn by another vehicle and which
qualifies for a vehicular license from the state’s Division of Motor Vehicles.
The basic entities are travel trailers, camping trailers, truck campers and
motor homes.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
(Prior Code, § 1759.03)  (Ord. passed 11-10-2003)
§ 151.04  CLASS A MOBILE HOME PARK REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The area of a mobile home park shall not be less than five contiguous
acres.
   (B)   Where a mobile home park adjoins properties used for residential
purposes, a buffer yard 50 feet in width shall be provided between the mobile
home park and such residential lots. A six-foot privacy fence or vegetative
screening shall be provided and maintained along the mobile home park side of
the required buffer yard. The fence or screening shall be continuous, except
where openings are required for ingress and egress.
   (C)   At least two means of vehicular egress shall be provided.
   (D)   Each mobile home lot shall be a minimum of 3,000 square feet in area.
The corners of each lot shall be durably marked.
   (E)   Each mobile home lot shall have not less than 32 feet of road
frontage.
   (F)   At least one off-street parking space, ten feet by 20 feet, shall be
provided on each mobile home lot. The required space may have either a paved or
stone surface.
   (G)   No mobile home shall be located closer than eight feet from an
interior lot line, or within ten feet of a street or common area. The buffer
yard required in division (B) above shall be considered a common area.
   (H)   Each mobile home shall be installed in accordance with State Division
of Labor standards.
   (I)   The mobile home park shall comply with all applicable Health
Department regulations.
   (J)   All construction, plumbing, mechanical and electrical systems shall
comply with the current Building Code of the city.
   (K)   Fire protection shall comply with NFPA 501A.
   (L)   No mobile home shall be installed on a permanent foundation, as
defined in §
151.03 of this chapter.
   (M)   No enclosed room addition shall be constructed on any mobile home.
   (N)   Porches, decks, stairs and other such appurtenances shall be
structurally freestanding and shall not be attached to a mobile home. Such
construction shall not be located within three feet of an interior lot line or
within ten feet of a street line.
   (O)   Accessory structures such as garages, carports and storage sheds shall
be located on the same lot as the mobile home and shall not be located within
ten feet of a street line or within three feet of an interior lot line. The
aggregate area of accessory structures on any lot shall not exceed 400 square
feet.
   (P)   Only mobile homes defined in §
151.03 of this chapter as “Class A” shall be permitted within a Class A mobile
home park.
   (Q)   Mobile homes shall be used as dwelling units only.
   (R)   No recreational vehicle, as defined in §
151.03 of this chapter, shall be located for occupancy within any Class A
mobile home park.
   (S)   Roads shall be constructed on a prepared subgrade. Engineering fabric
shall be installed upon the subgrade, except where the grade exceeds 10%. The
road base shall consist of two four-inch lifts of Class I aggregate in
accordance with WVDOH specifications, each compacted to not less than 95%
maximum density. Hot laid bituminous paving shall be at least 18 feet in width
and shall consist of not less than two inches of Type II base course asphalt
paving and not less than one inch of Type I wearing course asphalt paving in
accordance with WVDOH specifications, each compacted to 99-96% maximum density.
Concrete roads shall be not less than six inches in thickness, and shall
conform to WVDOH specifications. No road shall exceed 17% grade. Roads shall be
maintained free of obstructions and hazardous conditions.
(Prior Code, § 1759.04)  (Ord. passed 11-10-2003)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.05  CLASS B MOBILE HOME PARK REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A Class B mobile home park shall accommodate only Class B mobile
homes, as defined in §
151.03 of this chapter.
   (B)   The minimum number of recreational vehicle lots shall be eight, and
each lot shall have direct access to a roadway for vehicular ingress and
egress.
   (C)   The minimum area of a Class B mobile home park shall be one acre.
   (D)   A buffer yard complying with §
151.04(B) of this chapter shall be provided where required. Where a Class B
mobile home park is located within or adjacent to a Class A mobile home park,
the Class A mobile home park shall be considered a property used for
residential purposes.
   (E)   Each lot shall have an area not less than 1,200 square feet.
   (F)   The facility shall comply with all applicable Health Department
regulations and Building Code requirements.
   (G)   All utility connections shall be of the quick-connect type.
   (H)   The facility shall be located adjacent to a city-designated
recreational area such as river or stream, wooded area, hiking trail and the
like.
(Prior Code, § 1759.05)  (Ord. passed 11-10-2003)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.06  LICENSING.
   (A)   Initial approval; Class A mobile home park. A plat showing the
location and dimensions of lots, streets, common areas, buffer yards and other
features of a proposed Class A mobile home park shall be submitted with the
application for a license. The plat shall bear the seal and signature of a
licensed professional surveyor. The submission shall also include construction
plans for buildings, roads, utilities, screening, excavation and the like. The
construction plans shall be prepared, signed and sealed by a registered
professional engineer. The City Code Official and City Manager shall review the
plat and construction documents and shall prepare written comments. No changes
shall be made to the plat or construction documents without approval. The City
Council shall conduct a public hearing prior to authorizing issuance of a
license for a Class A mobile home park. Following a determination that the
proposed development meets the requirements of §
151.04 of this chapter, and would not diminish the integrity of surrounding
residential areas or be otherwise detrimental to public safety and welfare, the
Council shall direct the City Clerk to issue a license to operate. A fee in an
amount set by Council from time to time shall be assessed for the initial
licensing of a Class A mobile home park for a period of one year. The initial
license shall become effective upon occupancy of the first lot. A building
permit shall be obtained for any construction or installation regulated by the
Building Code.
   (B)   Initial approval; Class B mobile home park. Plans indicating
compliance with the requirements of §
151.05 of this chapter shall be submitted with the application for initial
licensing. The City Code Official and City Manager shall review the plat and
construction documents and shall prepare written comments. The City Council
shall conduct a public hearing prior to authorizing issuance of a license for a
Class B mobile home park. Following a determination that the proposed
development meets the requirements of §
151.05 of this chapter and would not diminish the integrity of surrounding
residential areas or be otherwise detrimental to public safety and welfare, the
Council shall direct the City Clerk to issue a license to operate. A fee in an
amount set by Council from time to time shall be assessed for the initial
licensing of a Class B mobile home park for a period of one year. The initial
license shall become effective upon occupancy of the first lot. A building
permit shall be obtained for any construction or installation regulated by the
Building Code.
   (C)   Renewal of license. Application for renewal shall be submitted not
more than 60 days, nor less than 30 days prior to the expiration date of the
initial license or most recent renewal. The fee for annual renewal shall be in
an amount set by Council from time to time for a Class A mobile home park and
in an amount set by Council from time to time for a Class B mobile home park.
Upon receipt of an application for renewal, the City Code Official shall
inspect the mobile home park, and any violations cited by the Code Official
that are the responsibility of the operator shall be corrected prior to
approval. Property maintenance or building code violations on individual lots
shall be the responsibility of the respective occupants.
   (D)   Revocation. A mobile home park license may be revoked by the City
Council for violation of the conditions of §§
151.04 or
151.05 of this chapter as applicable, following notification to the mobile park
operator and a public hearing. A mobile home park license shall be revoked in
the event of revocation of the license required by the Health Department.
   (E)   Permits for individual mobile homes. A building permit shall be
obtained prior to the location of any individual mobile home within a Class A
mobile home park. Foundation systems, utility connections, porches and decks,
accessory structures and all other construction subject to regulation under the
Building Code of the city shall be inspected and approved by the City Code
Official prior to occupancy of the mobile home. Permits shall not be required
for placement of individual recreational vehicles within a Class B mobile home
park.
   (F)   Permits for individual manufactured homes of private lots. Building
permits for manufactured homes excluded from the definition of mobile home in §
151.03 of this chapter shall be obtained in the manner prescribed by the city’s
Building Code. All aspects of construction regulated under the Building Code
shall be inspected and approved prior to occupancy of the manufactured home.
(Prior Code, § 1759.06)  (Ord. passed 11-10-2003)
§ 151.07  EXCEPTIONS TO PERMITTING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Exceptions. Where the City Council finds that there are practical
difficulties in fulfilling all of the requirements of this chapter or where
strict adherence to its provisions would serve no purpose in terms of
fulfilling the intended purpose, exceptions may be approved. Such exceptions
shall not have the effect of waiving any specific requirement(s) necessary to
provide for the health and safety of the occupants of the mobile home park or
the general public. No exception shall be granted in violation of any
applicable law.
   (B)   Permitting process. A person who wishes to allow a friend or relative
to temporarily occupy a recreational vehicle parked at his or her personal
residence may make application to the City Clerk for a permit for occupation of
a recreational vehicle on private property and upon approval of the City
Manager may allow such vehicle to remain upon his or her property and be
occupied for no more than seven days.
(Prior Code, § 1759.07)  (Ord. passed 11-10-2003)
§ 151.08  ENFORCEMENT; REMOVAL.
   In the event any mobile home is located, occupied, placed, stored, erected
or otherwise situated within the corporate limits of the city in violation of
the provisions of this chapter, the City Manager is authorized to have such
mobile home removed and transported to an appropriate storage area. The city
will not be liable to the owner thereof or any other person for damages
incurred in the transportation and storage of such mobile home, and the owner
or any other person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be liable
and responsible for all costs of removal, transportation, storage and any other
costs incident thereto.
(Prior Code, § 1759.08)  (Ord. passed 11-10-2003)
§ 151.09  NON-CONFORMING USES.
   The lawful location, occupation, placement, storage, erection or situation
of a mobile home as existing on the date of adoption of this chapter may be
continued as existing although such does not conform to all sections of this
chapter. In the event a non-conforming use is discontinued as existing for a
period of one year, the use of the same shall thereafter conform only with uses
prescribed in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1759.09)  (Ord. passed 11-10-2003)
§ 151.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in an amount set by
Council from time to time. Each day that a violation continues following
delivery of a notice of violation and the compliance deadline, as stated
therein, shall be deemed a separate offense. In addition to these penalties,
the city may institute an action for injunctive relief in the Circuit Court of
the county for any violation of this chapter. The person(s) held responsible
for the such violation will be assessed all costs and expenses incident to such
action, including reasonable attorney fees.
(Prior Code, § 1759.08)  (Ord. passed 11-10-2003)
CHAPTER 152:  RENTAL REGISTRATION PROGRAM
Section
   
152.01   Purpose
   
152.02   Scope
   
152.03   Definitions
   
152.04   Illegal conditions
   
152.05   Certificate of use and occupancy
   
152.06   Filing deadlines
   
152.07   Fees and conditions
   
152.08   Inspections
   
152.09   Certificate of use, occupancy; display, transfer, expiration
   
152.10   Notice of violation
   
152.11   Right to appeal
   
152.12   Applicability of other laws
   
152.13   Waiverability
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to promote health and safety standards for
rental housing and to secure and preserve the integrity and character of
residential districts within the city. These standards relate to the condition,
maintenance and occupancy of rental dwelling units and are intended to insure
that rental housing is safe, sanitary and suitable in accordance with
applicable provisions of the state’s Building Code and other regulations
adopted by the city.
(Prior Code, § 1767.01)  (Ord. passed 6-11-2001)
§ 152.02  SCOPE.
   (A)   This chapter applies to all rental dwelling units within the city.
This chapter shall not apply to owner-occupied dwellings wherein roomers or
borders are maintained in common living areas in accordance with other
applicable codes and ordinances. This chapter shall not apply to hotels,
motels, bed and breakfasts, dormitories, lodging and boarding houses and other
transient residential occupancies. Building housing business or commercial uses
in addition to rental dwelling units shall be subject to the provisions of the
state’s Building Code which apply to such mixed uses.
   (B)   Where a certificate of use and occupancy has been issued, in
accordance with the state’s Building Code, for any building that has been
erected, altered or converted to a residential use, said dwelling shall not be
subject to re-inspection for the purpose of rental registration for a 24-month
period following the date of issuance of said certificate.
(Prior Code, § 1767.02)  (Ord. passed 6-11-2001)
§ 152.03  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CERTIFICATE OF USE AND OCCUPANCY. The certificate issued by the Code
Official which permits the use of a building and which certifies the compliance
with the provisions of law for the use and occupancy of the building in its
several parts together with any special stipulations or conditions.
   CODE OFFICIAL. The officer or other designated authority charged with the
administration and enforcement of the Building Code of the city, or a duly
authorized representative.
   DWELLING UNIT. A single unit providing complete independent living
facilities for one or more persons, including permanent provisions for living,
sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation.
   OWNER OCCUPIED. Occupied by the actual property owner or by any person or
persons related thereto by blood, marriage or adoption and where no
remuneration is received.
   RENTAL DWELLING UNIT. Any dwelling unit that is offered in whole or part for
residential purposes and for which remuneration is received.
(Prior Code, § 1767.03)  (Ord. passed 6-11-2001)
§ 152.04  ILLEGAL CONDITIONS.
   After 120 days from the effective date of this chapter, an owner or operator
shall not rent or offer for rent any dwelling unit for use in whole or part for
human habitation unless a written application for certificate of use and
occupancy has been filed for said dwelling or a valid certificate of use and
occupancy has been issued for said dwelling unit by the Code Official
indicating that the inspection found the premises to be in substantial
compliance with the state’s Building Code.
(Prior Code, § 1767.04)  (Ord. passed 6-11-2001)
§ 152.05  CERTIFICATE OF USE AND OCCUPANCY.
   Application for a certificate of use and occupancy shall be submitted in
writing, on forms provided, to the Code Official and shall contain at least the
following information:
   (A)   For the dwelling:
      (1)   The address(es) of the dwelling units;
      (2)   The zoning district of the dwelling (when applicable);
      (3)   The number of units in the dwelling;
      (4)   The names, addresses and telephone numbers of the owners, agent or
operator, and any other person to be contacted in the event of an emergency or
non-conforming condition requiring notification; and
      (5)   Any other uses within the building.
   (B)   For each dwelling unit:
      (1)   The story on which the unit is located;
      (2)   The maximum occupancy;
      (3)   Number of off-street parking spaces available; and
      (4)   Dwelling unit identification number.
(Prior Code, § 1767.05)  (Ord. passed 6-11-2001)
§ 152.06  FILING DEADLINES.
   (A)   Initial application. An application for a certificate of use and
occupancy for a rental dwelling unit where none has previously been issued
shall be in accordance with §
152.05 of this chapter.
   (B)   Renewal application. An application for renewal of the existing
certificate of use and occupancy shall be filed at least 30 days before the
expiration date of the existing certificate of use and occupancy. Upon
receiving an application for renewal of the certificate of use and occupancy,
the Code Official shall inspect the dwelling and shall reissue a certificate of
use and occupancy within ten days following the inspection if said unit is
found to be in substantial compliance with the state’s Building Code.
(Prior Code, § 1767.06)  (Ord. passed 6-11-2001)
§ 152.07  FEES AND CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Each property owner shall be charged a compliance inspection fee in an
amount set by Council from time to time per inspection per unit. Such fee shall
be reduced by 50% for the inspection of all units in excess of 11 contained
within a single multi-family apartment building or located in separate
buildings on the same lot.
   (B)   Property owners missing scheduled inspections and failing to provide
24-hour notice shall be charged an additional fee in an amount set by Council
from time to time.
   (C)   All inspections shall be scheduled during regular business hours,
unless otherwise approved by the Code Official.
   (D)   Court appearance fees in an amount set by Council from time to time
per hour or portion thereof shall be charged to the requesting party when
scheduling is at least 24 hours in advance and in an amount set by Council from
time to time per hour or portion thereof when appearances are scheduled with
less than 24 hours of a hearing.
   (E)   Real estate pre-sale inspection fees in an amount set by Council from
time to time per hour with a one-hour minimum charge shall be assessed where an
inspection is requested to determine if a rental property is in compliance with
the state’s Building Code.
   (F)   Preparation and issuance of a duplicate certificate of use and
occupancy shall require a service charge in an amount set by Council from time
to time.
   (G)   Re-inspection fees in an amount set by Council from time to time per
unit shall be charged to the property owner for each inspection of property
requiring more than two inspections for compliance.
   (H)   Application fees in an amount set by Council from time to time shall
be charged for Board of Appeals hearings.
(Prior Code, § 1767.07)  (Ord. passed 6-11-2001)
§ 152.08  INSPECTIONS.
   The Code Official shall inspect, within one year of the effective date of
this chapter, all rental dwelling units constructed prior to the adoption of
this chapter. The owner for purposes of inspection under rental registration
shall provide the Code Official access to all areas of any building containing
rental dwelling units and the Code Official shall be accompanied by the owner
or an agent of the owner during inspection.
(Prior Code, § 1767.08)  (Ord. passed 6-11-2001)
§ 152.09  CERTIFICATE OF USE, OCCUPANCY; DISPLAY, TRANSFER, EXPIRATION.
   (A)   If, upon inspection, the rental dwelling unit is found to conform to
the requirements of this chapter, the Code Official shall issue a certificate
of use and occupancy within ten days.
   (B)   After the effective date of this chapter, either upon an initial
application or a renewal application, a two-year certificate of use and
occupancy shall be issued for the dwelling unit after the Code Official finds
the unit in substantial compliance with this chapter.
   (C)   The certificate of use and occupancy shall be transferable to
subsequent owners of the respective dwelling unit(s).
   (D)   A copy of the certificate of use and occupancy shall be available for
inspection at the city building during regular office business hours.
   (E)   Certificates of use and occupancy issued after the effective date of
this chapter shall expire two years from the date of issuance by the Code
Official unless sooner revoked.
   (F)   The owner/agent shall post a copy of the certificate of use and
occupancy in a conspicuous location in the interior of the premises or near the
interior electrical fuse or circuit box of each dwelling unit.
(Prior Code, § 1767.09)  (Ord. passed 6-11-2001)
§ 152.10  NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Where, in the course of the inspection required under this chapter,
violations are discovered on the premise which do not affect the habitability
or safety of a rental dwelling, such violations shall be cited in accordance
with the administrative provisions of the applicable code or ordinance. Such
violations shall not be construed as grounds to withhold or revoke the
certificate of use and occupancy.
   (B)   (1)   Where conditions exist which affect the habitability of the
dwelling, but which do not pose an imminent hazard to the occupants, a
certificate of use and occupancy shall be issued along with a notice of
violation. The notice of violation shall be in writing, shall be served to the
owner or agent, shall contain a description of the property sufficient for
identification and shall include:
         (a)   A statement of the reasons for which it was issued;
         (b)   A correction order specifying repairs to be made;
         (c)   A reasonable time in which repairs are to be completed; and
         (d)   A statement of the owner’s right to appeal.
      (2)   The owner shall, within the time period specified in the notice of
violation, correct all deficiencies cited in violation of the state’s Building
Code and the city code. The certificate of use and occupancy shall be revoked
and a notice to vacate issued if the dwelling is not in compliance within the
time specified in the notice of violation. However, the Code Official, may upon
written request, extend the period for compliance where the work has been
delayed despite good faith efforts to comply and where such extensions present
no immediate threat to the health or safety of the occupants of the dwelling
unit or other units or properties. A notice of violation shall not be construed
to verify substandard housing, except where conditions exist which require the
vacation of the dwelling or dwelling unit.
   (C)   Where violations are found which, in the judgment of the Code
Official, are sufficient to withhold or revoke the certificate of use and
occupancy, the Code Official shall issue a notice to vacate. The notice to
vacate:
      (1)   Shall be in writing,
      (2)   Shall be served to the owner or agent,
      (3)   Shall contain a description of the property sufficient for
identification and shall include a statement of the reasons for which it was
issued;
      (5)   Shall include a copy of any relevant notices of violation; and
      (6)   Shall include a statement of the owner’s right to appeal.
   (D)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent the Code
Official from ordering the immediate vacation of any dwelling or dwelling unit
where violations are discovered which pose an imminent threat to the health or
safety of the occupants. Appeal shall not stay an order to vacate under such
conditions.
   (E)   Occupancy of any rental dwelling unit in violation of a notice to
vacate shall subject the owner/agent and the occupants to penalties prescribed
in §
152.99 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1767.10)  (Ord. passed 6-11-2001)
§ 152.11  RIGHT TO APPEAL.
   (A)   Any property owner or agent shall have the right to appeal to the
Board of Appeals from a decision of the Code Official where it is alleged that
the intent of this chapter or the codes referenced herein have been incorrectly
interpreted, the provisions of this article do not fully apply, or an
equivalent remedy to any violation may be employed. Such appeal shall be
submitted to the Code Official within 20 days of receipt of the notice of
violation. Expect where conditions warrant immediate vacation of the dwelling,
such appeal shall stay all action on the part of the Code Official in
furtherance of the notice of violation from which the appeal was taken.
   (B)   Where a violation of the city’s Planning and Zoning Code is cited in
the notice of violation, the appeal shall be to the Zoning Appeals Board (when
applicable).
(Prior Code, § 1767.11)  (Ord. passed 6-11-2001)
§ 152.12  APPLICABILITY OF OTHER LAWS.
   This chapter is not intended to abrogate any of the rights and
responsibilities normally ascribed to the tenant or the landlord under the laws
of the state, whether set out by case law or by West Virginia Code or any other
applicable laws.
(Prior Code, § 1767.12)  (Ord. passed 6-11-2001)
§ 152.13  WAIVERABILITY.
   The minimum requirement of this chapter may not be waived either
intentionally or impliedly by either party to a rental agreement.
(Prior Code, § 1767.13)  (Ord. passed 6-11-2001)
§ 152.99  PENALTY.
   Violation of this chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor punishable by a
fine in an amount set by Council from time to time. Each day that a violation
continues after notification of the same by the Code Official a charge in an
amount set by Council from time to time will be added to the fine. The
imposition of penalties prescribed herein shall not relieve the property owner
from responsibility for full compliance with all other applicable codes and
ordinances including any and all separate fines and penalties imposed
thereunder.
(Prior Code, § 1767.99)  (Ord. passed 6-11-2001; Ord. passed 10-9-2002)
CHAPTER 153:  FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Authority
   
153.002   Intent
   
153.003   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
153.004   Applicability
   
153.005   Matters not provided for specifically
   
153.006   Interpretations
   
153.007   Definitions
   
153.008   Liability
Special Flood Hazard Areas
   
153.020   Identification
   
153.021   Descriptions
   
153.022   Changes in designation of area
   
153.023   Boundary disputes
   
153.024   Elevations prevail
   
153.025   Floodways
   
153.026   Floodway fringe
   
153.027   AE without floodway
   
153.028   Approximated floodplain (Zone A)
   
153.029   Alteration or relocation of stream
Building and Site Plan Approval
   
153.040   General
   
153.041   Basic format
   
153.042   Elevation and flood-proofing information
   
153.043   Site plan criteria
   
153.044   Restrictions to subdivision of land in SFHAs
Specific Requirements
   
153.055   General
   
153.056   Basements and lowest floors
   
153.057   Manufactured home placement
   
153.058   Appurtenant structures
   
153.059   Recreational vehicle placement
   
153.060   Fill
   
153.061   Placement of structures and other development
   
153.062   Anchoring
   
153.063   Flood protection setback
   
153.064   Storage
   
153.065   Utility and facility requirements
   
153.066   Drainage
   
153.067   Backflow preventers
Administration and Enforcement
   
153.080   Floodplain Administrator
   
153.081   Development permits; site plan approvals
   
153.082   Approval of permits and plans
   
153.083   Application procedures
   
153.084   Changes
   
153.085   Permit placards
   
153.086   Start of construction
   
153.087   Inspections, stop-work orders, violation notices and revocations
   
153.088   Certification of compliance
   
153.089   Fees
   
153.090   Appeals; review criteria
   
153.091   Government actions
 
   
153.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001  AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter have been prepared with the intention
of meeting the requirements of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42
U.S.C. 4001 et seq.), amended by the Congress of the United States through 2-
15-1975 (Pub. Law No. 91-152).
   (B)   Authority to adopt, administer and enforce this chapter is vested in
the city, pursuant to W.Va. Code §§ 8-12-14, 7-1-3n, 7-1-3v and 7-1-3kk and/or
W.Va. Code §§ 8A-4-2, 8A-5-7 and 8A-7-2.
(Ord. passed 6-11-2012)
§ 153.002  INTENT.
   The intent of this chapter is to:
   (A)   Promote the general health, welfare and safety of the city;
   (B)   Encourage the utilization of appropriate construction practices in
order to prevent or minimize flood damage in the future and protect natural
drainage;
   (C)   Minimize danger to public health and safety by protecting water supply
and sanitary sewage disposal in cooperation with the County Sanitarian;
   (D)   Assure the County Assessor obtains information concerning improvement
of real property as required by W.Va. Code § 11-3-3A;
   (E)   Assure County E-911 addresses are obtained to maintain the currency of
established emergency response dispatch systems; and
   (F)   Reduce financial burdens imposed on the city, its governmental units
and its residents, by preventing the unwise design and construction of
development in areas subject to flooding.
(Ord. passed 6-11-2012)
§ 153.003  ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter supersedes any ordinance currently in effect in flood-prone
areas. Any ordinance, however, shall remain in full force and effect to the
extent that its provisions are more restrictive.
(Ord. passed 6-11-2012)
§ 153.004  APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any contractor, person, partnership, business
or corporation to undertake or cause to be undertaken, any development, new
construction, substantial improvement, repair of substantial damage or the
placement or relocation of any structure (including manufactured homes) within
city, unless a permit application has been completed and a permit or
certificate of compliance has been obtained from the Floodplain Administrator.
In addition, where land partially or fully in the special flood hazard area is
to be subdivided, utilized for a manufactured home park or subdivision or
otherwise developed, as defined in this chapter, a site plan with elevation
data shall be submitted to, and approved by, the Floodplain Administrator prior
to any development.
   (B)   Provision of all other codes, ordinances and regulations shall be
applicable insofar as they are consistent with the provisions of this chapter
and the community’s need to minimize the hazards and damage resulting from
flooding.
(Ord. passed 6-11-2012)  Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.005  MATTERS NOT PROVIDED FOR SPECIFICALLY.
   Where conditions are encountered that are not specifically provided for
herein, the Floodplain Administrator shall determine the applicability of the
provisions of this chapter in accordance with its intent and shall require the
applicant to take appropriate measures pursuant to such determination.
(Ord. passed 6-11-2012)
§ 153.006  INTERPRETATIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following interpretations shall apply.
   (A)   Words used in the present tense include the future tense.
   (B)   The singular includes the plural.
   (C)   The plural includes the singular.
   (D)   The word “person” includes a corporation, unincorporated association
or partnership as well as an individual.
   (E)   The term “shall” or “will” is always mandatory.
   (F)   The word “building” or “structure” shall be construed as if followed
by the phrase “or part thereof.
   (G)   The word “ordinance” shall refer to this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-11-2012)
§ 153.007  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPURTENANT STRUCTURE. A structure on the same parcel of property as the
principal structure and the use of which is incidental to the use of the
principal structure. This does not include a gas or liquid storage tank.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The water surface elevation of the base flood in
relation to the datum specified on the city’s Flood Insurance Rate Map. For the
purposes of this chapter, the 100- year flood or 1% annual chance flood.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE. A certification that all development is in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   COMPENSATORY STORAGE. An artificially excavated, hydraulically equivalent
volume of storage within the special flood hazard area used to balance the loss
of natural flood storage capacity when artificial fill or structures are placed
within the special flood hazard area.
   CONTRACTOR.
      (1)   A person who in any capacity for compensation, other than as an
employee of another, undertakes, offers to undertake, purports to have the
capacity to undertake, or submits a bid to construct, alter, repair, add to,
subtract from, improve, move, wreck or demolish any building, highway, road,
railroad, structure or excavation associated with a project, development or
improvement, or to do any part thereof, including the erection of scaffolding
or other structures or works in connection therewith, where the cost of the
undertaking is $1,000 or more. CONTRACTOR includes a construction manager who
performs management and counseling services on a construction project for a
professional fee.
      (2)   CONTRACTOR does not include:
         (a)   One who merely furnishes materials or supplies without
fabricating or consuming them in the construction project;
         (b)   A person who personally performs construction work on the site
of real property which the person owns or leases whether for commercial or
residential purposes;
         (c)   A person who is licensed or registered as a professional and who
functions under the control of any other licensing or regulatory board, whose
primary business is real estate sales, appraisal, development, management and
maintenance, who acting in his or her respective professional capacity and any
employee of such professional, acting in the course of his or her employment,
performs any work which may be considered to be performing contracting work;
         (d)   A pest control operator licensed under the provisions of W.Va.
Code § 19-16-a-7 to engage in the application of pesticides for hire, unless
the operator also performs structural repairs exceeding $1,000 on property
treated for insect pests; or
         (e)   A corporation, partnership or sole proprietorship whose primary
purpose is to prepare construction plans and specifications used by the
contractors defined in this section and who employs full time a registered
architect licensed to practice in the state or a registered professional
engineer licensed to practice in the state. CONTRACTOR also does not include
employees of such corporation, partnership or sole proprietorship.
(W.Va. Code § 21-1 l-3(c))
   CRITICAL FACILITY. Any facility in which, even a slight chance of flooding
is too great a threat. Typical CRITICAL FACILITIES include hospitals, fire
stations, police stations, storage of critical records and similar facilities.
These should be given special consideration when formulating regulatory
alternatives and floodplain management plans. A CRITICAL FACILITY should not be
located in a special flood hazard area if at all possible. If a CRITICAL
FACILITY must be located in a special flood hazard area it should be provided a
higher level of protection so that it can continue to function and provide
services during a flood.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary inundation of normally dry land areas.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). The official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the special flood hazard areas
and the risk premium zones applicable to the city. A FIRM that has been made
available digitally is called a Digital Flood Insurance Rate Map (DFIRM).
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report in which the Federal Emergency
Management Agency has provided flood profiles, floodway information and water
surface elevations.
   FLOODPLAIN.
      (1)   A relatively flat or low land area adjoining a river, stream or
watercourse which is subject to partial or complete inundation; and
      (2)   An area subject to the unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of
surface waters from any source.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
area that must be reserved to discharge the base flood without increasing the
water surface elevation of that flood more than one foot at any point.
   FLOOD-PROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level
for purposes of floodplain management. FREEBOARD tends to compensate for
unknown factors that may contribute uncertainty to flood heights of any given
flood and floodway condition, such as wave action, blockage at stream crossings
and increased runoff from urbanization of the watershed. FREEBOARD also tends
to lower the cost of flood insurance.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE (HAG). The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface immediately adjacent to the development or structure foundation. This
is primarily used during insurance rating in approximated floodplains.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered HISTORIC DISTRICT;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of Interior in states without approved
programs.
   LICENSED MANUFACTURED HOME RETAILER. A business licensed to sell
manufactured homes in the state as set forth in the West Virginia State Code.
   LICENSED MANUFACTURED HOME INSTALLER. A contractor licensed to install
manufactured homes in the state as set forth in the West Virginia State Code.
   LICENSED PROFESSIONAL SURVEYOR. Any person licensed by the state’s Board of
Examiners of Land Surveyors to engage in the practice of land surveying as
defined in West Virginia State Code.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE (LAG). The lowest natural elevation of the ground
surface immediately adjacent to the proposed development or structure
foundation. The primary use of the LAG is to determine whether the structure is
located within a special flood hazard area by comparing it to the base flood
elevation.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished enclosure constructed with flood resistant materials
as defined in FEMA Technical Bulletin No. 2 and usable solely for parking of
vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement area is
not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR; provided that, such enclosure has
proper flood openings and is not built so as to render the structure in
violation of the applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a “recreational vehicle”.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction, as herein
defined, commenced on or after 11-4-1988 and including any subsequent
improvements to such structures. Any construction started after effective date
of the city’s first floodplain ordinance adopted by the city and before the
effective start date of this chapter is subject to the ordinance in effect at
the time the ordinance was issued; provided, the start of construction was
within 180 days of permit issuance.
   ONE-HUNDRED (100) YEAR FLOOD. A flood that has one chance in 100 or a 1%
chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
   PERSON. Any individual or group of individuals, corporation, partnership,
association or other entity, including state and local governments and
agencies.
   PRACTICE OF ENGINEERING.
      (1)   Any service or creative work, as described in W.Va. Code Art. 30-
13, the adequate performance of which requires engineering education, training
and experience in the application of special knowledge of the mathematical,
physical and engineering sciences to such services or creative work as
consultation, investigation, evaluation, planning and design of engineering
works and systems; planning the use of land and water; teaching of advanced
engineering subjects, engineering surveys and studies; and the review of
construction for the purpose of assuring compliance with drawings and
specifications any of which embraces such services or work, either public or
private, in connection with any utilities, structures, buildings, machines,
equipment, processes, work systems, projects and industrial or consumer
products or equipment of a mechanical, electrical, hydraulic, pneumatic or
thermal nature, insofar as they involve safeguarding life, health or property,
and including such other professional services as may be necessary to the
planning, progress and completion of any engineering services. Engineering
surveys include all survey activities required to support the sound conception,
planning, design, construction, maintenance and operation of engineered
projects.
      (2)   Any person who practices any branch of the profession of
engineering or who, by verbal claim, sign, advertisement, letterhead, card or
in any other way represents himself or herself to be a registered professional
engineer, or by using another title implies that he or she is a registered
professional engineer or that he or she is registered under W.Va. Code Art. 30-
13 or who holds himself or herself out as able to perform, or who performs any
engineering service or work or any other service designated by the practitioner
which is recognized as engineering, is considered to practice or offer to
practice engineering within the meaning and intent of W.Va. Code Art. 30-13.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. Where at least 51% of the actual cash value of a
structure, less land value, is above ground.
   REASONABLY SAFE FROM FLOODING. During the base flood, water should not
damage structures and any subsurface waters related to the base flood should
not damage existing or proposed structures.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER. A person who has been duly registered or
licensed as a registered professional engineer by the state’s Board of
Registration for professional engineers as required under W.Va. Code Art. 13 et
seq.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. To bring a structure or other development into
compliance with the requirements of this chapter or, if full compliance is not
possible, to reduce the adverse impacts of the non-compliance to the greatest
extent feasible.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. The land in the floodplain subject to a 1% or
greater chance of flooding in any given year. SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS are
designated by the Federal Emergency Management Agency in Flood Insurance
Studies and on Flood Insurance Rate Maps as Zones A, AE, AO, A1-30 and A99.
This term shall also include areas shown on other flood hazard maps that are
specifically listed or otherwise described in this chapter.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. The date the permit was issued, provided the actual
start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
placement or other improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The
actual START means either the first placement of permanent construction on a
site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns or any work beyond initial excavation, or the placement
of a manufactured home on a foundation. Although a permit must be obtained
prior to beginning, permanent construction does not include land preparation,
such as clearing, grading and filling, nor does it include the installation of
streets and/or walkways, nor does it include excavation for a basement,
footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary forms, nor does it
include the installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as
garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure. For an alteration, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STATE COORDINATING OFFICE. The West Virginia Division of Homeland Security
and Emergency Management.
   STREAM. As defined in W.Va. Code § 7-1-3U, any watercourse, whether natural
or human-made, distinguishable by banks and a bed, regardless of their size,
through which water flows continually or intermittently, regardless of its
volume.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damage condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE also means cumulative flood-related damages sustained by a
structure on two separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost
of repairs at the time of each flood event, on the average, equals or exceeds
25% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred. See
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or other
improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the
market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement.
      (2)   This term includes structures, which have incurred “substantial
damage”, as defined herein, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The
term does not, however, include any project for improvement of a structure to
correct existing violation of state or local health, sanitary or safety code
specifications which have been identified by the local code enforcement
official and which are the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions.
      (3)   Historic structures undergoing repair or rehabilitation that would
constitute a substantial improvement as defined above, must comply with all
ordinance requirements that do not preclude the structure’s continued
designation as a historic structure. Documentation that a specific ordinance
requirement will cause removal of the structure from the National Register of
Historic Places or the state’s Inventory of Historic places must be obtained
from the Secretary of the Interior or the state’s Historic Preservation
Officer. Any exemption from ordinance requirements will be the minimum
necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the structure.
      (4)   For the purpose of this definition improvement is considered to
occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural
part of the building commences whether or not that alteration affects the
external dimensions of the structure.
   TOP OF BANK. The lines depicted on the FIRM maps delineating each side of a
stream indicate the top of bank. In the field, a professional familiar with
fluvial geomorphology should document the top of bank. When a professional is
not employed, the TOP OF THE BANK may be considered to be the top of the first
significant slope landward of the waters edge when it is followed by at least
50 feet of relatively flat land.
   VIOLATION. The failure of any structure or development to be fully compliant
with all the requirements of this chapter. Any structure or other development
lacking the certifications, finished construction elevation certificate or
other evidence of compliance required by this chapter is presumed to be in
VIOLATION until such time as that documentation is provided.
(Ord. passed 6-11-2012)
§ 153.008  LIABILITY.
   The granting of a permit or approval of a subdivision or development plan in
an identified flood-prone area, shall not constitute a representation,
guarantee or warranty of any kind by the city, or by any official or employee
thereof of the practicability or safety of the proposed use, and shall create
no liability upon the city.
(Ord. passed 6-11-2012)
SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
§ 153.020  IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   The identified special flood hazard area shall be those areas of the
city which are subject to the 100-year flood, as shown on the Flood Insurance
Rate Map (FIRM) and described in the Flood Insurance Study (FIS) prepared for
the city by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) dated 10-2-2012 or
the most recent revision thereof including all digital data developed as part
of the FIS.
   (B)   The identified special flood hazard area shall also be those special
flood hazard areas identified by the city by use of historic or other technical
data and shown on an officially recognized “Local Flood Hazards Map”. These
areas shall be designated as appropriate with the level of technical data
described below and shall be managed accordingly.
(Ord. passed 6-11-2012)
§ 153.021  DESCRIPTIONS.
   The identified special flood hazard area shall consist of the following four
specific areas.
   (A)   The floodway shall be those areas of AE Zone identified as floodways
in the FIS and as shown on the FIRM. The term shall also include any floodway
areas delineated by developers in the approximated floodplain and designated as
such by the community.
   (B)   The floodway fringe shall be those areas of AE Zone for which specific
100-year flood elevations have been provided in the FIS, but which lie beyond
the floodway area.
   (C)   The AE area without floodway shall be those areas identified as an AE
Zone on the FIRM included in the FIS prepared by FEMA for which 100-year flood
elevations have been provided, but no floodway has been delineated.
   (D)   The approximated floodplain shall be those areas identified as an A
Zone on the FIRM included in the FIS prepared by FEMA and for which no 100-year
flood elevations have been provided.
(Ord. passed 6-11-2012)
§ 153.022  CHANGES IN DESIGNATION OF AREA.
   (A)   The delineation of the identified special flood hazard area may be
revised by the city where natural or man-made changes have occurred and/or more
detailed studies conducted or undertaken by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, a
River Basin Commission or other qualified agency or individual document the
necessity for such changes. However, prior to any such change, approval must be
obtained from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).
   (B)   A city’s base flood elevations may increase or decrease resulting from
physical changes affecting flooding conditions. As soon as practicable but, not
later than six months after the date such information becomes available, the
city shall notify the NFIP Administrator of the changes by submitting technical
or scientific data.
   (C)   The city may identify and regulate new local flood hazard or ponding
areas. These areas may be delineated on a Local Flood Hazard Map, using best
available topographic data and locally derived information such as flood of
record, historic high water marks or approximate study methodologies.
(Ord. passed 6-11-2012)
§ 153.023  BOUNDARY DISPUTES.
   Should a dispute concerning the location of proposed development relative to
a special flood hazard area arise, an initial determination shall be made by
the Floodplain Administrator and any party aggrieved by this decision may
appeal to the city. The burden of proof shall be on the appellant/applicant.
(Ord. passed 6-11-2012)
§ 153.024  ELEVATIONS PREVAIL.
   Elevation data certified by a licensed professional surveyor or registered
professional engineer shall be submitted in sufficient detail to allow a
thorough review by the Floodplain Administrator.
   (A)   The proposed development will automatically conform to the flood
damage reduction requirements of this chapter if the natural lowest adjacent
grade (LAG) to the proposed development is at or above the closest applicable
base flood elevation (BFE) specified in the flood insurance study. The
applicant shall be advised to apply for a Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA) from
FEMA to have the special flood hazard area designation removed from the
structure or specific area. If the difference between LAG and BFE is modest,
the applicant will also be advised to use caution during site preparation or
excavation and information concerning the preferred risk policy should be
provided.
   (B)   (1)   The proposed development shall be considered to be within the
special flood hazard area if the natural LAG to the proposed development is
below either:
         (a)   The closest applicable BFE specified in the flood insurance
study; or
         (b)   The reasonably safe from flooding elevation determined by the
city in approximate floodplains.
      (2)   The proposed development shall then be required to conform to all
appropriate flood damage reduction provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-11-2012)
§ 153.025  FLOODWAYS.
   (A)   Within any floodway area, no encroachments, including fill, new
construction, substantial improvements or other development shall be permitted
unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic analysis
performed in accordance with standard engineering practice that the proposed
encroachment would not result in any increase in flood levels within the city
during the occurrence of the base flood discharge. The resultant engineering
study shall include a cover letter, signed and sealed by the responsible
professional, providing a statement of findings in basic terms. In addition,
studies, analyses, computations and the like shall be submitted in sufficient
detail to allow a thorough technical review by the Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   Because floodways present increased risk to human life and property
due to their relatively faster and deeper flowing waters, the floodway shall be
preserved to the greatest extent possible.
      (1)   New development shall not be permitted in the floodway where
reasonable alternatives exist elsewhere. In addition to the requirements below,
the applicant shall demonstrate that there are no reasonable alternatives other
than the floodway encroachment before a permit is issued.
      (2)   When the floodway is the only reasonable alternative, the applicant
shall demonstrate that the floodway encroachment is the minimum necessary to
accomplish the project.
      (3)   All permitted uses, activities and development shall be undertaken
in strict compliance with the flood-proofing and related provisions contained
herein, and in all other applicable codes, ordinances and regulations.
      (4)   In special flood hazard areas for which no regulatory floodway has
been designated, the regulatory floodway for small, single lot development not
incorporating significant amounts of fill can, at the discretion of the city,
be determined to be the channel of the stream and the adjacent land areas to a
distance of one-half the width of the special flood hazard area as measured
from the top of the bank nearest the site to the upland limit of the 1% annual
chance special flood hazard area boundary.
(Ord. passed 6-11-2012)
§ 153.026  FLOODWAY FRINGE.
   Within any floodway fringe area any development and/or use of land shall be
permitted provided that all such uses, activities and/or development shall be
undertaken in strict compliance with the flood- proofing and related provisions
contained herein and in all other applicable codes, ordinances and regulations.
(Ord. passed 6-11-2012)
§ 153.027  AE WITHOUT FLOODWAY.
   Within any AE without floodway area, no new construction or development
shall be allowed unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative effect of the
proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development, will not increase the elevation of the 100-year flood more than
one foot at any point. This requirement can be satisfied by utilization of the
floodway where determined.
(Ord. passed 6-11-2012)
§ 153.028  APPROXIMATED FLOODPLAIN (ZONE A).
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator shall use elevation and floodway
information from federal, state or other acceptable sources when available to
determine the elevation above which development will be reasonably safe from
flooding.
   (B)   When data from an acceptable source is not available, the Floodplain
Administrator shall review, or shall cause to be reviewed, all proposed
development to determine:
      (1)   The amount being invested; and
      (2)   The specific flood risk at the site.
   (C)   The Floodplain Administrator shall then require the applicant to
determine the elevation above which the development will be reasonably safe
from flooding using elevation data, hydrologic and hydraulic analyses or other
techniques. When hydrologic and hydraulic analyses are required, they shall
only be undertaken by a registered professional engineer who shall certify that
the methods used correctly reflect currently accepted technical concepts. The
resultant study shall include a cover letter, signed by the responsible
professional, providing a statement of findings in basic terms. In addition,
studies, analyses, computations and the like shall be submitted in sufficient
detail to allow a thorough technical review by the Floodplain Administrator.
   (D)   Any development and/or use of land shall be permitted; provided that,
all such uses, activities and/or development shall be undertaken in strict
compliance with the flood-proofing and related provisions contained herein and
in all other applicable codes, ordinances and regulations.
   (E)   See appendix 4.4 for Sample “Approximated floodplain (Zone A)
techniques”.
(Ord. passed 6-11-2012)
§ 153.029  ALTERATION OR RELOCATION OF STREAM.
   (A)   Whenever a developer intends to alter or relocate a stream within the
special flood hazard area the developer shall notify in writing, by certified
mail, the city, the Floodplain Administrator, the state’s Coordinating Office,
any adjacent communities and any adjacent property owners of all such intended
activities prior to the alteration or relocation of the stream. Copies of all
required notifications must be submitted to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency (FEMA). In addition prior to issuing the local permit, the Floodplain
Administrator shall require copies of all necessary permits from those
governmental agencies from which federal or state law requires approval. See
appendix 4.5 for Sample “Stream Alteration process and contact sheet”.
   (B)   The developer shall also assure the city in writing that the flood-
carrying capacity within the altered or relocated portion of the stream will be
maintained. The Floodplain Administrator may require the applicant to
demonstrate that the altered or relocated portion of stream will provide equal
or greater conveyance than the original stream segment. If hydrologic and
hydraulic analyses are required, they shall only be undertaken by a registered
professional engineer, who shall certify that the methods used correctly
reflect currently accepted technical concepts. The resultant study shall
include a cover letter, signed by the responsible professional, providing a
statement of findings in basic terms. In addition, studies, analyses,
computations and the like shall be submitted in sufficient detail to allow a
thorough technical review by the Floodplain Administrator.
   (C)   Alteration of a stream includes placement of culverts, bridges or
other stream crossings. The Floodplain Administrator may require the use of
certain “best practice” techniques in the construction of bridges, culverts or
stream crossings to prevent damage, loss of stream crossings and localized
flooding caused by blockage. These techniques may include, but are not limited
to, wing walls, trash grates or requiring openings to be of sufficient size to
pass debris and/or anticipated future increases in flood heights.
   (D)   All new and replacement bridges, culverts and other stream crossings
shall adhere to the relevant anchoring requirements contained in this chapter.
   (E)   The developer is required to provide the city a legal agreement
detailing all scheduled inspections and maintenance to be performed on altered
or relocated watercourses including culverts, bridges and other stream
crossings. It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to transfer this
agreement to the new owner when the land associated with the watercourse
alteration is transferred. A copy of all new agreements shall be provided to
the Floodplain Administrator. Failure to transfer the agreement and provide a
signed copy to the Floodplain Administrator shall subject the violator to the
penalties set forth in §
153.999 of this chapter.
   (F)   The applicant shall submit any maps, computations or other material
required by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to revise the Flood
Insurance Study and/or Flood Insurance Rate Maps, when notified by the
Floodplain Administrator, and shall pay any fees or other costs assessed by
FEMA for this purpose.
(Ord. passed 6-11-2012)
BUILDING AND SITE PLAN APPROVAL
§ 153.040  GENERAL.
   Permits are required in order to determine whether all new construction or
substantial improvements are:
   (A)   Located in an identified floodplain, floodway or other special flood
hazard area;
   (B)   Designed (or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse or lateral movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and
hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy;
   (C)   Constructed with material and utility equipment resistant to flood
damage as outlined in FEMA Technical Bulletin No. 2 or the most recent revision
thereof;
   (D)   Constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
   (E)   Constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding;
   (F)   To comply with W.Va. Code § 11-3-3a, concerning County Assessor’s
building or real property improvement notice; and
   (G)   Approved by the county’s Health Department for Water and Sewer to
assure facilities are designed or located in compliance with the flood damage
reduction requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-11-2012)
§ 153.041  BASIC FORMAT.
   The basic format of the permit shall include the following:
   (A)   Name and address of applicant;
   (B)   Name and address of owner of land on which proposed development is to
occur;
   (C)   Names, addresses and valid state numbers of all contractors working at
the building site, or affidavits stating that work is being performed by
individuals exempt from contractor licensing as set forth in W.Va. Code Title
28, Series 2, § 3.9(b), or the most recent revision thereof;
   (D)   A description of site location sufficient to locate the project
including tax map and parcel number and most recent deed book and page number;
   (E)   A standard site plan showing size and location of the proposed
development as well as any existing buildings or structures. The site plan
shall also show all adjacent roads and watercourses with direction of flow, the
lowest adjacent grade to the proposed foundation and/or toe of fill, the base
flood elevation and the location of the floodway boundary when applicable;
   (F)   An acknowledgment that the applicant agrees to pay any and all fees
associated with the permitting process as set forth in §
153.088 of this chapter;
   (G)   An acknowledgment that the applicant agrees to allow authorized
representatives of floodplain management programs access to the development to
inspect for compliance; and
   (H)   The contract required by W.Va. Code Title 28, Series 4, and all
addendums to the contract(s) shall be presented to the Floodplain Administrator
for review within five business days of contract signing. The city does not
require and will not keep copies of the contracts or addendums. Failure to
present contract or addendums for review shall void the permit. If a licensed
contractor is not involved, or the work is of an aggregate value of less than
$10,000 including materials and labor, a brief written description of proposed
work and the estimated value will suffice.
(Ord. passed 6-11-2012)
§ 153.042  ELEVATION AND FLOOD-PROOFING INFORMATION.
   (A)   All applicants are encouraged to exceed the minimum elevation
requirements contained herein. Flood insurance rates can be lowered
significantly by increasing the elevation of the lowest floor above the
freeboard height required by this chapter.
   (B)   Depending on the type of structure involved, the following information
shall also be included in the application for work within the special flood
hazard area:
      (1)   For structures to be elevated two feet above the base flood
elevation:
         (a)   A plan showing the size of the proposed structure and its
relation to the lot where it is to be constructed;
         (b)   A determination of elevations of the base flood, existing
ground, proposed finished ground and lowest floor, certified by a registered
professional engineer or licensed professional surveyor;
         (c)   Plans showing the method of elevating the proposed structure
including details of proposed fills, pile structures, retaining walls,
foundations, erosion protection measures and the like. When required by the
Floodplain Administrator, a registered professional engineer or architect shall
prepare these plans;
         (d)   Plans showing the methods used to protect utilities (including
sewer, water, telephone, electric, gas and the like) from flooding to two feet
above the base flood elevation at the building site;
         (e)   During the course of construction, as soon as the basic elements
of the lowest floor are in place and before further vertical construction, it
is highly recommended that the applicant check for error by obtaining elevation
data completed by a registered professional engineer or licensed professional
surveyor certifying the height of the lowest floor. If a mistake in elevation
has been made, this is the best time to correct the error;
         (f)   A finished construction elevation certificate shall be prepared
by a licensed professional surveyor or others of demonstrated qualifications.
The elevation certificate shall confirm that the structure in question,
together with attendant utilities is elevated in compliance with permit
conditions; and
         (g)   A non-conversion agreement shall be signed by the applicant
whenever the city determines that the area below the first floor could be
converted to a non-conforming use (generally applies to enclosed areas below
base flood elevation that are five feet high or more). This agreement shall
state:
            1.   The area below base flood elevation shall not be converted for
use other than for parking, building access or for allowable storage as
detailed in this chapter; and
            2.   The applicant agrees to notify prospective buyers of the
existence of the non- conversion agreement. It shall be the responsibility of
the applicant to transfer the agreement at closing to the new owner via
notarized signature, a copy of all new agreements shall be provided to the
Floodplain Administrator. Failure to transfer the agreement and provide a
signed copy to the Floodplain Administrator shall subject the violator to the
penalties set forth in §
153.999 of this chapter.
      (2)   For structures to be flood-proofed to two feet above the base flood
elevation (non- residential structures only): all applicants are encouraged to
exceed the minimum flood-proofing requirements contained herein. Flood
insurance rates can be lowered significantly by increasing the level of flood-
proofing above the height required by this chapter. In order to obtain an
“elevation credited” flood insurance rate on dry flood-proofed buildings,
flood-proofing must extend at least one foot above the base flood elevation.
         (a)   Plans showing details of all flood-proofing measures, prepared
by a registered professional engineer, showing the size of the proposed
structure and its relation to the lot where it is to be constructed.
         (b)   A determination of elevations of the base flood, existing
ground, proposed finished ground, lowest floor and flood-proofing limits;
certified by a registered professional engineer or licensed professional
surveyor.
         (c)   A flood-proofing certificate, FEMA 81-65, as revised by FEMA,
shall be prepared by the registered professional engineer who prepared the
plans in division (B)(2)(a) above, stating that the finished structure,
together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities is designed so that:
            1.   The structure is water tight with walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water from the lowest structural element to two
feet above the base flood elevation; and
            2.   The structure will withstand the hydrostatic, hydrodynamic,
buoyant, impact and other forces resulting from the flood depths, velocities,
pressures and other factors associated with the base flood.
      (3)   For appurtenant structures constructed of flood resistant materials
used solely for parking of vehicles or limited storage, (appurtenant structures
only).
         (a)   A site plan prepared by a licensed professional surveyor or
others of demonstrated qualifications showing elevation of existing ground,
proposed finished ground and lowest floor. The plan shall also show details of
proposed flood resistant materials usage and the size of the proposed structure
and its relation to the lot where it is to be constructed. The location of the
floodway boundary shall be represented on the plan when a floodway is present
on the site.
         (b)   An elevation certificate, based on finished construction, must
be prepared by a licensed professional surveyor or others of demonstrated
qualifications. The elevation certificate confirm that the structure in
question, together with attendant utilities is designed so that:
            1.   Flood resistant materials as detailed in FEMA Technical
Bulletin No. 2 are used in the construction of the structure from the lowest
structural element to two feet above the base flood elevation and that all
utilities are located at least two feet above the base flood elevation;
            2.   Hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls are equalized by
allowing for automatic entry and exit of flood waters. Designs for meeting this
requirement shall either be certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect or meet or exceed the following minimum criteria:
               a.   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not
less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding shall be provided;
               b.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade; and
               c.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or
other coverings or devices; provided that, they permit the automatic entry and
exit of flood waters.
         (c)   In addition, the applicant shall sign a non-conversion agreement
and notify prospective buyers of the existence of the agreement. It shall be
the responsibility of the applicant to transfer the non-conversion agreement to
any new owner at closing via notarized signature. A signed copy of the
transferred non-conversion agreement shall be provided to the Floodplain
Administrator. Failure to transfer the agreement and provide a signed copy to
the Floodplain Administrator shall subject the violator to the penalties set
forth in §
153.999 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-11-2012)
§ 153.043  SITE PLAN CRITERIA.
   (A)   Site plans are required for all development, new construction and
substantial improvements determined to be located in a special flood hazard
area and all proposed subdivisions and manufactured home parks. These proposals
shall be reviewed by the Floodplain Administrator to assure that they are
consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.
   (B)   The owner or developer shall submit a preliminary site plan to the
Floodplain Administrator that includes the following information:
      (1)   A map showing the location of the proposed subdivision and/or
development with respect to special flood hazard areas, proposed lot sites and
fills;
      (2)   Name of registered professional engineer, licensed professional
surveyor or other qualified person responsible for providing the information
required in this section;
      (3)   Where the subdivision or manufactured home park lie partially or
completely in the special flood hazard areas, the plan map shall include
detailed information giving the location and elevation of proposed roads,
public utilities and building sites. All such maps shall also show contours at
intervals of two or five feet depending upon the slope of the land and identify
accurately the boundaries of the special flood hazard areas. A registered
professional engineer or licensed professional surveyor shall certify the site
plan;
      (4)   All subdivision proposals and other proposed new developments which
are proposed to take place either fully or partially within the approximated
floodplain and which are greater than ten lots or two acres, whichever is the
lesser, shall include base flood elevation data and shall delineate a floodway
when directed to do so by the Floodplain Administrator.
         (a)   When a Flood Insurance Study (FIS) is available from FEMA, the
data contained in that study shall be used to substantiate the base flood.
         (b)   If a FEMA Flood Insurance Study is not available the required
data may be available from an authoritative source, such as the U.S. Army Corps
of Engineers, U.S. Geological Survey, Natural Resource Conservation Service or
state and local Water Resource Department.
         (c)   If the required data is not available from other sources the
applicant shall develop the technical data using detailed methodologies
comparable to those contained in a Flood Insurance Study. This data shall be
prepared and certified by a registered professional engineer, who shall certify
that the methods used correctly reflect currently accepted technical concepts.
      (5)   Where the subdivision or other development site lies partially in
the special flood hazard area and all proposed development including fill will
take place on natural grade a significant vertical distance above the
approximated floodplain area (Zone “A”) boundary depicted on the map,
development of detailed base flood elevation data may not be necessary. In
these cases, the site plan for the proposed development must show contours at
intervals of two or five feet, depending on the slope, and clearly delineate
the area to be developed and the location of the special flood hazard boundary
area as scaled from the FEMA map. A registered professional engineer or
licensed professional surveyor shall certify the site plan.
(Ord. passed 6-11-2012)
§ 153.044  RESTRICTIONS TO SUBDIVISION OF LAND IN SFHAS.
   (A)   Subdivision of land in the special flood hazard area shall result in
lots that include a buildable portion outside of the special flood hazard area
and be served by streets within the proposed subdivision having surfaces not
lower than one foot below the elevation of the line defining the special flood
hazard area limits.
   (B)   All new structures shall be sited on the portion of the subdivided lot
that is located outside of the special flood hazard area.
(Ord. passed 6-11-2012)
SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS
§ 153.055  GENERAL.
   In order to prevent excessive damage to buildings, structures and related
utilities and facilities, the following restrictions apply to all development,
subdivision proposals, manufactured home parks, new construction and to
construction of substantial improvements and the repair of substantial damage,
to existing structures occurring in the special flood hazard area.
(Ord. passed 6-11-2012)
§ 153.056  BASEMENTS AND LOWEST FLOORS.
   (A)   Residential structures. All new construction, relocation, substantial
improvements, including repair of substantial damage, of residential structures
shall have the lowest floor, including basement, ductwork and utilities,
elevated to two feet above the base flood elevation.
   (B)   Non-residential structures. All new construction, relocation,
substantial improvements, including repair of substantial damage, of non-
residential structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement,
ductwork and utilities, elevated to two feet above the base flood elevation;
or, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, be designed so
that the structure is water-tight with walls substantially impermeable to the
passage of water from the lowest structural element to two feet above the base
flood elevation.
   (C)   Openings. For all new construction, relocation, substantial
improvements and repair of substantial damage, those fully enclosed areas below
the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking of vehicles, building
access or storage in an area other than a basement and which are subject to
flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces
on exterior walls by allowing for entry and exit of flood waters. Designs for
meeting this requirement shall either be certified by a Registered Professional
Engineer or meet or exceed the following minimum criteria.
      (1)   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less than
one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided.
      (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above
grade.
      (3)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices; provided that, they permit the automatic entry and exit
of flood waters.
   (D)   Non-conversion agreement. A non-conversion agreement shall be signed
by the applicant on all flood-proofed structures and any elevated structures
when the city determines that the area below the first floor could be converted
to a non-conforming use (generally applies to enclosed areas below base flood
elevation that are five feet high or more). This agreement shall state:
      (1)   The area below base flood elevation shall not be converted for use
other than for parking, building access or for allowable storage as detailed in
this chapter; and
      (2)   The applicant agrees to notify prospective buyers of the existence
of the non-conversion agreement. It shall be the responsibility of the
applicant to transfer the agreement at closing to the new owner via notarized
signature, a copy of all new agreements shall be provided to the Floodplain
Administrator. Failure to transfer the agreement and provide a signed copy to
the Floodplain Administrator shall subject the violator to the penalties set
forth in §
153.999 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-11-2012)
§ 153.057  MANUFACTURED HOME PLACEMENT.
   (A)   Certain unique characteristics of manufactured homes installed in
special flood hazard areas pose an elevated risk to safety and substantial
damage to property.
   (B)   Therefore:
      (1)   All manufactured homes to be sited within the special flood hazard
areas of city shall be installed by a contractor possessing a valid state
manufactured home installer’s license. The licensed manufactured home installer
shall use an installation design engineered to withstand flood hazards specific
to the particular home site. Manufactured homes to be placed or substantially
improved within the special flood hazard areas shall be installed in accordance
with the following standards.
         (a)   The lowest floor, ductwork and utilities including HVAC/heat
pump shall be elevated two feet above the base flood elevation.
         (b)   Elevation shall be on reinforced piers on a permanent
foundation, or shall use foundation elements of at least equivalent strength
engineered for use in a flood hazard area. Installation designs incorporating
dry stacked block piers shall not be used in special flood hazard areas.
         (c)   All manufactured homes shall be securely anchored to an
adequately anchored foundation system in compliance with the requirements of
W.Va. Code Title 42, Series 19, §
         (d)   Permanently attached rigid skirts and/or perimeter wall skirts
of brick or block shall have openings to prevent collapse and damage to
supporting piers. The openings shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces by allowing for entry and exit of flood waters.
Designs for meeting this requirement shall either be certified by a registered
professional engineer or meet or exceed the following minimum criteria.
            1.   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided.
            2.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade.
            3.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or
other coverings or devices; provided that, they permit the automatic entry and
exit of flood waters.
         (e)   Any additions to a manufactured home shall be similarly anchored
and vented.
      (2)   The licensed state manufactured home installer placing the unit
shall perform a site inspection and certify in writing that the manufactured
home has been installed to the standards set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-11-2012)
§ 153.058  APPURTENANT STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, appurtenant structures shall
be located out of the special flood hazard area or elevated to two feet above
the base flood elevation.
   (B)   Where appurtenant structures not connected to the principal structure
are to be located on sites below the base flood elevation, the following flood
damage reduction provisions apply.
      (1)   Use of the structure shall be restricted to parking or limited
storage.
      (2)   Structures shall be no more than 200 square feet in size and valued
at less than $5,000.
      (3)   Floors shall be at or above grade on at least one side.
      (4)   Structures shall be located, oriented and constructed to minimize
flood damage.
      (5)   Structures shall be designed (or modified) and adequately anchored
to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure resulting
from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
      (6)   Flood resistant materials as detailed in FEMA Technical Bulletin
No. 2 shall be used in the portions of the structure below BFE.
      (7)   Machinery, electric devices or appliances, and all utilities shall
be located at least two feet above the base flood elevation.
      (8)   The venting requirements contained in §
153.056 of this chapter are applicable and shall be strictly adhered to.
   (C)   A non-conversion agreement shall be signed by the applicant stating
that the use of the appurtenant structure or detached or attached garage shall
not be changed from the use permitted, acknowledging that the structure may be
subject to greater flood risk and that higher flood insurance premiums may be
possible, and that a change in use may require full compliance with this
chapter. The applicant agrees to notify prospective buyers of the existence of
this agreement. It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to transfer the
agreement at closing to the new owner via notarized signature, a copy of all
new agreements shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator. Failure to
transfer the agreement and provide a signed copy to the Floodplain
Administrator shall subject the violator to the penalties set forth in §
153.999 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-11-2012)
§ 153.059  RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PLACEMENT.
   Recreational vehicles to be placed within any special flood hazard area
shall either:
   (A)   Be on site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
   (B)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use. A recreational vehicle is
ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to
the site only by quick disconnect utilities and security devices and has no
permanently attached additions; or
   (C)   Be installed in accordance with the manufactured home placement
requirements and all other flood reduction requirements contained in this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-11-2012)
§ 153.060  FILL.
   (A)   The city officially recognizes the beneficial functions the floodplain
serves in storage and transportation of water during floods.
   (B)   Therefore:
      (1)   Placement of fill in the special flood hazard area is discouraged
and should be minimized;
      (2)   No fill shall be permitted in the floodway;
      (3)   Placement of fill in other areas of the special flood hazard area
shall be restricted to functional purposes such as elevating a structure. Fill
shall only be permitted in the same permit with the related structure or other
functional purpose. Placement of fill to dispose of spoil from excavation or to
elevate yards, parking lots, or fields will not generally be considered a
functional purpose. The Floodplain Administrator may require the developer to
provide compensatory storage before permitting fill;
      (4)   No fill shall be permitted unless it meets the requirements of §
153.025 of this chapter. All fill placed in the special flood hazard area shall
meet or exceed the following standards.
         (a)   Fill shall be used only to the extent to which it does not
adversely affect adjacent properties. The city may require the applicant to
demonstrate through engineering reports that proposed fill would not adversely
affect adjacent properties. When required, hydrologic and hydraulic analyses
shall be undertaken only by registered professional engineers who shall certify
that the technical methods used correctly reflect currently accepted technical
concepts. The resultant study shall include a cover letter, signed and sealed
by the responsible professional, providing a statement of findings in basic
terms. In addition, studies, analyses, computations and the like shall be
submitted in sufficient detail to allow a thorough technical review by the
city. During permit review the city shall consider the following issues that
have the potential to cause adverse impact to adjacent properties:
            1.   Unacceptable increases in flood heights;
            2.   Blocking drainage from adjacent property;
            3.   Deflection of flood waters onto adjacent existing structures;
            4.   Increases to stream velocity initiating or exacerbating
erosion problems; and
            5.   Other unique site conditions may be considered when
determining whether fill will cause adverse impact to adjacent property
including, but not limited to, subsidence areas, Karst topography, stream
blockages and steep topography adjacent to the channel.
         (b)   Fill shall be used only to the extent to which it does not
adversely affect the capacity of channels or floodways of any tributary to the
main stream, drainage ditch or any other drainage facility or system.
         (c)   Filled site shall be contoured to drain properly (avoid
ponding).
         (d)   Fill shall extend beyond a structure for a sufficient distance
to provide acceptable access. For residential structures, fill shall extend
laterally 15 feet beyond the building line from all points before the start of
sloping required in division (B)(4)(e) below. For non-residential structures,
fill shall be placed to provide access acceptable for intended use. At grade
access, with fill extending laterally 15 feet beyond the building line shall be
provided to a minimum of 25% of the perimeter of a non-residential structure.
         (e)   Fill shall consist of soil or rock material only. Sanitary
landfills shall not be permitted; no trash or woody debris shall be buried on
site.
         (f)   Fill material shall be compacted to provide the necessary
stability and resistance to erosion, scouring or settling. Fill compaction
standards shall be appropriate to proposed post fill use, particular attention
is necessary when fill is being used to elevate a structure.
         (g)   Fill slopes shall be no steeper than one vertical on two
horizontal, unless substantiating data justifying steeper slopes are submitted
to and approved by the Floodplain Administrator.
         (h)   Fill site and fill shall be protected from erosion.
            1.   Fill slopes exposed to flood waters with expected velocities
during the occurrence of the base flood of five feet per second or less will be
protected from erosion by covering them with grass, vines, weeds or similar
vegetative undergrowth.
            2.   Fill slopes exposed to flood waters with expected velocities
during the occurrence of the base flood of greater than five feet per second
will be protected from erosion by armoring them with stone or rock slope
protection.
         (i)   All applicants placing fill in a special flood hazard area shall
obtain a Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR) from FEMA when directed to
do so by the Floodplain Administrator before a permit can be issued. After fill
is finished the applicant shall convert the CLOMR to a Letter of Map Revision
based on Fill (LOMR-F) before a certificate of compliance can be issued.
         (j)   The applicant shall submit any maps, computations or other
material required by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to revise
the Flood Insurance Study and/or Flood Insurance Rate Maps, when notified by
the Floodplain Administrator, and shall pay any fees or other costs assessed by
FEMA for this purpose.
(Ord. passed 6-11-2012)
§ 153.061  PLACEMENT OF STRUCTURES AND OTHER DEVELOPMENT.
   All structures and other development shall be constructed or placed on the
lot so as to offer the minimum obstruction to the flow of water and shall be
designed to have a minimum obstruction effect upon the flow and height of flood
water.
   (A)   Whenever possible, structures and other development shall be
constructed with the longitudinal axis parallel to the direction of flood flow.
   (B)   So far as practicable, structures and other development shall be
placed approximately on the same flood-flow lines as those of adjoining
structures or development.
(Ord. passed 6-11-2012)  Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.062  ANCHORING.
   (A)   All structures and other development including stream crossings shall
be firmly anchored in accordance with accepted engineering practices to prevent
flotation, collapse and lateral movement, thus reducing the threat to life and
property and decreasing the possibility of the blockage of bridge openings and
other restricted sections of the watercourse.
   (B)   All air ducts, large pipes, swimming pools and storage tanks located
at or below the base flood elevation shall be firmly anchored to resist
flotation.
(Ord. passed 6-11-2012)  Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.063  FLOOD PROTECTION SETBACK.
   (A)   A flood protection setback equal to twice the width of the watercourse
channel measuring from the top of one bank to the top of the opposite bank or
50 feet, whichever is less, shall be maintained from the top of the banks of
all watercourses. To reduce erosion, natural vegetation shall be maintained in
this area. Where natural vegetation does not exist along the watercourse and
conditions for replanting are suitable, high priority shall be given to
planting vegetation in the setback area to stabilize banks, enhance flood
protection and benefit aquatic resources.
   (B)   Necessary public works and temporary construction may be exempted from
this section.
   (C)   The Floodplain Administrator may consider an appeal to the flood
protection setback requirement if the applicant demonstrates that it is
impossible to allow any development without encroachment into the flood
protection setback area. The appeal conditions shall be the minimum necessary
and shall be made only after due consideration is given to varying other siting
standards, such as side, front and back lot line setbacks.
(Ord. passed 6-11-2012)  Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.064  STORAGE.
   (A)   No materials that are buoyant, flammable, explosive or in times of
flooding could be injurious to human, animal or plant life, shall be stored
below base flood elevation.
   (B)   Storage of other material or equipment may be allowed if not subject
to major damage by floods and firmly anchored to prevent flotation or readily
removable from the area within the time available after flood warning.
   (C)   Due to the potential of masking the natural elevation and making it
more difficult to enforce this chapter, material that resembles “fill” material
shall not be considered “storage” material for purposes of this section.
(Ord. passed 6-11-2012)  Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.065  UTILITY AND FACILITY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All new or replacement water systems whether public or private, shall
be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the
systems.
   (B)   All new or replacement sanitary disposal systems, whether public or
private, shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood
waters into the systems and discharges from the systems into flood waters.
   (C)   All other new or replacement public and/or private utilities and
facilities shall be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damage.
   (D)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding.
(Ord. passed 6-11-2012)  Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.066  DRAINAGE.
   (A)   Adequate drainage shall be provided to reduce exposure to flood
hazard.
   (B)   Adequate drainage paths are required around structures on slopes
within Zones AH and AO to guide flood waters around and away from proposed
structures.
(Ord. passed 6-11-2012)  Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.067  BACKFLOW PREVENTERS.
   Backflow prevention valves should be used for all enclosed structures with
sewage or drainage facilities located in the special flood hazard area.
(Ord. passed 6-11-2012)  Penalty, see §
153.999
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 153.080  FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Code Enforcement Officer is hereby appointed as Floodplain Administrator
and is vested with the responsibility, authority and means to implement the
commitments made in the agreement with the Federal Government to administer and
implement this local law by granting or denying floodplain development permits
in accordance with its provisions. The Floodplain Administrator shall also be
responsible for submitting all required reports to FEMA concerning the city’s
participation in the National Flood Insurance Program.
(Ord. passed 6-11-2012)
§ 153.081  DEVELOPMENT PERMITS; SITE PLAN APPROVALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any contractor, person, partnership, business or
corporation to undertake or cause to be undertaken, any development or the new
construction, substantial improvement, repair of substantial damage, the
placement or relocation of any structure (including manufactured homes) within
city, unless a permit application and standard site plan has been completed,
and a permit has been obtained from the Floodplain Administrator. In addition,
where land that is either partially or fully in the special flood hazard area
is to be subdivided, utilized for a manufactured home park or subdivision or
otherwise developed, a detailed site plan shall be submitted to, and approved
by, the Floodplain Administrator prior to any development.
(Ord. passed 6-11-2012)  Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.082  APPROVAL OF PERMITS AND PLANS.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator shall review, or shall cause to be
reviewed, all permit applications and plans in order to determine whether
proposed building sites are reasonably safe from flooding.
   (B)   All permits and plans shall be approved only after it has been
determined that the proposed work to be undertaken will be in conformance with
the requirements of the state and all other applicable codes and ordinances.
   (C)   The Floodplain Administrator shall not issue a permit to any person
who does not possess a valid contractor’s license when a contractor’s license
is required by W.Va. Code § 21-11-10.
   (D)   The Floodplain Administrator, before issuance of the permit, shall
require the applicant to furnish satisfactory proof that such person is duly
licensed as a contractor under the provisions of West Virginia State Code. If
the applicant is not licensed a written affidavit that such person is not
subject to licensure as a contractor or subcontractor, as defined in W.Va. Code
§ 21-11-3, shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator and placed in the
permit file.
   (E)   The Floodplain Administrator shall require copies of all necessary
permits from those governmental agencies from which federal or state law
requires approval.
   (F)   The Floodplain Administrator shall provide a copy of all permits to
the County Assessor as required by W.Va. Code § 11-3-3A.
   (G)   The Floodplain Administrator shall provide a copy of all permits for
new structures to the County E-911 Addressing Coordinator.
   (H)   The County E-911 Addressing Coordinator shall provide a copy of all
requests for addresses for new structures to the county’s Floodplain
Administrator.
   (I)   The city shall provide sufficient space to allow the Floodplain
Administrator to keep on file in perpetuity, in a location safe from natural
hazards, all information collected during the course of the administration of
this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-11-2012)
§ 153.083  APPLICATION PROCEDURES.
   Application for a permit and/or site plan approvals shall be made, in
writing, on the forms supplied by the city and shall include all information
stipulated under §§
153.040 through
153.044 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-11-2012)
§ 153.084  CHANGES.
   After the issuance of a permit or site plan approval by the Floodplain
Administrator, no changes of any kind shall be made to the application, permit
or any of the plans, specification or other documents submitted with the
application without the written consent or approval of the Floodplain
Administrator.
(Ord. passed 6-11-2012)
§ 153.085  PERMIT PLACARDS.
   The Floodplain Administrator shall issue a permit placard, which shall be
prominently displayed on the premises during the time construction is in
progress. This placard shall show the number of the permit, the date of its
issuance and be signed by the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. passed 6-11-2012)
§ 153.086  START OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Work on the proposed development shall begin within 180 days after the
date of issuance of the permit or the permit shall expire unless a time
extension is granted, in writing, by the Floodplain Administrator. All work on
the proposed development shall be completed within 18 months of permit
issuance, at which time the permit shall expire, unless a time extension is
granted in writing by the Floodplain Administrator. The request for a time
extension shall be in writing and shall state the reasons for the extension.
   (B)   When considering an extension, the Floodplain Administrator shall
consider the following criteria:
      (1)   Has the developer diligently pursued the completion of the proposed
development during the 18 months?
      (2)   Will the granting of the extension be detrimental to public safety,
health or welfare or injurious to other property?
(Ord. passed 6-11-2012)
§ 153.087  INSPECTIONS, STOP-WORK ORDERS, VIOLATION NOTICES AND REVOCATIONS.
   (A)   Inspections.
      (1)   Upon learning of a potential violation of this chapter, the
Floodplain Administrator or staff shall investigate to determine whether a
violation has occurred.
      (2)   During the construction period, the Floodplain Administrator or
other authorized official may inspect the premises to determine that the work
is progressing in compliance with the information provided on the permit
application and with all applicable laws and ordinances.
      (3)   The Floodplain Administrator or other authorized official may
inspect any development covered by this chapter or previous ordinance to
determine whether any portion of the development has been altered to be in non-
compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Stop-work orders. The Floodplain Administrator shall immediately
issue, or cause to be issued, a “stop-work order” for any development found
ongoing without having obtained a floodplain determination or a permit.
Disregard of a stop work order shall subject the violator to the penalties
described in §
153.999 of this chapter.
   (C)   Violation notice and revocations. When it appears after investigation
that a permitted development is non-compliant with the provisions of this
chapter and/or the conditions of the permit, the Floodplain Administrator shall
notify the violator by means of written violation notice. The violation notice
shall specify the nature of the violation and request that the violation be
corrected within 15 days from the date appearing on the notice. Failure to
correct the violation within this time period shall be cause for revocation of
the permit and the governing body, or authorized employee or agent to:
      (1)   Seek an injunction in the Circuit Court of the county to restrain
the violator from continuing the violation, including, but not limited to,
requests for the removal of structures or land uses from the property involved;
and
      (2)   Seek a misdemeanor conviction in magistrate court or circuit court.
(Ord. passed 6-11-2012)
§ 153.088  CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   In areas of flood hazard it shall be unlawful to occupy, or to permit
the use or occupancy, of any building or premises, or both, or part thereof
hereafter created, erected, installed, changed, converted or wholly or partly
altered or enlarged in its use or structure until a certificate of compliance
has been issued by the local Floodplain Administrator stating that the building
or land conforms to the requirements of this chapter. Occupying or using a
building or premises in violation of this section shall subject the violator to
the penalties described in §
153.999 of this chapter.
   (B)   In areas of flood hazard, it shall be unlawful to inspect and approve
a permanent utility connection to any building or premises, or both, or part
thereof hereafter created, erected, installed or rebuilt until the inspector is
in possession of a copy of the certificate of compliance issued by the local
Floodplain Administrator stating that the particular development being
inspected conforms to the requirements of this local law. Inspection and
approval of utilities in violation of this section shall subject the violator
to the penalties described in §
153.999 of this chapter.
   (C)   In areas of flood hazard, it shall be unlawful to install a permanent
utility connection to any building or premises, or both, or part thereof
hereafter created, erected, installed or rebuilt until a certificate of
compliance has been issued by the local Floodplain Administrator stating that
the development conforms to the requirements of this chapter. Installation of
utilities in violation of this section shall subject the violator to the
penalties described in §
153.999 of this chapter.
   (D)   A certificate of compliance shall be issued by the Local Administrator
upon satisfactory completion of all development in areas of special flood
hazard.
   (E)   Issuance of the certificate shall be based upon the inspections
conducted as prescribed in this chapter or local administrative procedures, and
any finished construction elevation certificate, hydraulic data, flood-proofing
certificate or encroachment analyses which may have been required as a
condition of permit approval.
(Ord. passed 6-11-2012)  Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.089  FEES.
   (A)   A floodplain determination fee shall be assessed on all proposed
development. This shall be a flat fee approved by the city.
   (B)   Proposed development determined to be occurring in a special flood
hazard area regulated by this chapter shall be assessed an additional fee,
payable to the city based upon a set schedule approved by the city using the
estimated value of the proposed construction as determined by the Floodplain
Administrator.
   (C)   In addition, the applicant shall be responsible for reimbursing the
city for any additional costs for services necessary for review and/or
inspection of proposed development. Services include, but are not limited to,
professional engineering and surveying. The Floodplain Administrator may
require a deposit towards these additional costs. Additional costs may include
reimbursement for contracted services.
   (D)   Due to the increased cost of processing, when any work for which a
permit is required by this chapter is started or proceeded with prior to
obtaining a permit the fees above specified shall be doubled. The additional
fee is intended to partially reimburse the county for the additional cost of
processing permits for work already underway. To more fully recover this cost,
the fees above shall be tripled for every subsequent occurrence by the same
person. Payment of the increased fee shall not relieve any person from
complying fully with the requirements of this chapter in the execution of the
work or from other penalties prescribed herein.
(Ord. passed 6-11-2012)  Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.090  APPEALS; REVIEW CRITERIA.
   (A)   Whenever any person is aggrieved by a decision of the Floodplain
Administrator with respect to the provision of this chapter, it is the right of
that person to appeal to the City Council which shall be known as the Appeals
Board. Such appeal shall be filed with the City Council, in writing, within 30
days after notification of the decision. Upon receipt of such appeal, the
Appeals Board shall set a time and place not less than ten, nor more than 60,
days for the purpose of hearing the appeal. Notice of the time and place of the
hearing shall be given to all parties at which time they may appear and be
heard. The determination by the Appeals Board shall be final in all cases.
   (B)   (1)   All appeals contesting only the permit fee, the cumulative
substantial damage requirement, the flood protection setback requirement, or
the freeboard requirements, may be handled at the discretion of the Appeals
Board.
      (2)   All decisions on appeals to all other provisions of this chapter
shall adhere to the following criteria:
         (a)   Affirmative decisions shall only be issued by the Appeals Board
upon:
            1.   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
            2.   A determination that failure to grant the appeal would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
            3.   A determination that the granting of an appeal will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public
or conflict with existing locals laws or ordinance.
         (b)   An affirmative decision shall be issued only upon determination
that it is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief. Financial hardship, as a sole criterion, shall not be considered
sufficient justification to grant an appeal.
         (c)   An affirmative decision shall be issued for the repair or
rehabilitation of historic structures upon a determination that the proposed
repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s continued
designation as a historic structure and the variance is the minimum necessary
to preserve the historic character and design of the structure.
         (d)   1.   The Appeals Board shall notify the applicant in writing
over the signature of a city official that:
               a.   The issuance of a decision to allow construction of a
structure below the base flood elevation will result in increased premium rates
for flood insurance; and
               b.   Such construction below the base flood elevation increases
risk to life and property.
            2.   Such notifications shall be maintained with a record of all
decisions as required herein.
         (e)   The Appeals Board shall:
            1.   Maintain a record of all decisions including justification for
their issuance; and
            2.   Report such decisions issued in its biannual report to the
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).
         (f)   An affirmative decision shall not be granted for any
construction, development, use or activity within any floodway area that would
cause any increase in the base flood elevation.
(Ord. passed 6-11-2012)
§ 153.091  GOVERNMENT ACTIONS.
   (A)   Jurisdictional boundary changes.
      (1)   The county’s Floodplain Ordinance in effect on the date of
annexation shall remain in effect and shall be enforced by the municipality for
all annexed areas until the municipality adopts and enforces an ordinance which
meets or exceeds the requirements for participation in the National Flood
Insurance Program.
      (2)   Municipalities with existing floodplain ordinances shall pass a
resolution acknowledging and accepting responsibility for enforcing floodplain
ordinance standards prior to annexation of any area containing identified flood
hazards.
      (3)   All plats or maps of annexation shall show the special flood hazard
area boundaries, base flood elevation and location of floodway where
determined.
      (4)   In accordance with 44 C.F.R. § 59.22(a)(9)(v), all NFIP
participating communities will notify the Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA) and the State Coordinating Office in writing whenever the boundaries of
the city have been modified by annexation or the city has otherwise assumed or
no longer has authority to adopt and enforce floodplain management regulations
for a particular area. In order that all Flood Insurance Rate Maps accurately
represent the city’s boundaries, a copy of a map of the city suitable for
reproduction, clearly delineating the new corporate limits or new area for
which the city has assumed or relinquished floodplain management regulatory
authority shall be included with the notification.
   (B)   Permits for government entities. Unless specifically exempted by law,
all public utilities and municipal, county, state and federal entities are
required to comply with this chapter and obtain all necessary permits. Any
entity claiming to be exempt from the requirements of this chapter shall
provide a written statement setting forth the rationale for exemption. In
addition, the entity claiming exemption shall provide copies of all relevant
legal documentation demonstrating the exemption.
(Ord. passed 6-11-2012)
§ 153.999  PENALTY.
   Any person who fails to comply with any or all of the requirements or
provisions of this chapter or direction of the Floodplain Administrator, or any
other authorized employee of the city, shall be unlawful and shall be referred
to the prosecuting attorney who shall expeditiously prosecute all such
violators. A violator shall, upon conviction, pay a fine to the city in an
amount set by Council from time to time, plus cost of prosecution. In default
of such payment, such person shall be imprisoned for a period not to exceed ten
days. Each day during which any violation of this chapter continues shall
constitute a separate offense. In addition to the above penalties, all other
actions are hereby reserved including an action in equity for the proper
enforcement of this chapter. The imposition of a fine or penalty for any
violation of, or non-compliance with, this chapter shall not excuse the
violation or non-compliance with the chapter or permit it to continue; and all
such persons shall be required to correct or remedy such violations or non-
compliance within a reasonable time. Any structure constructed, reconstructed,
enlarged, altered or relocated in non-compliance with this chapter may be
declared by the Town Council of the city to be a public nuisance and abatable
as such.
(Ord. passed 6-11-2012)
CHAPTER 154:  STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
Section
General Provisions
   
154.01   Burning on streets prohibited; exhibitions
   
154.02   Damaging streets
   
154.03   Selling on streets without permit; exceptions
   
154.04   Excavations
   
154.05   Permanent personal property, shrubbery and trees in city rights-of-way
Fire and Police Protection; Maintenance and Service
   
154.20   Definitions
   
154.21   Charges and fees
   
154.22   Late payments; interest
   
154.23   Properties in first due area
Statutory reference:
   Action for damages occasioned by defective streets and the like, see W.Va.
Code § 17-10-17
   Connection to state road system, see W.Va. Code §§ 17-4-26 et seq.
   General power to regulate, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-5(1)
   Special charges for municipal services, see W.Va. Code § 8-13-13
   Special charges for street, cleaning and the like, see W.Va. Code § 8-13-13
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.01  BURNING ON STREETS PROHIBITED; EXHIBITIONS.
   No person shall burn or cause to be burned any papers, shavings or other
combustible matter on any of the roads, streets or alleys of the city; except
that, workers engaged in building may burn shavings, provided someone remains
in such constant attendance until the fire is fully extinguished; and,
likewise, waste paper may be burned in alleys if properly confined in iron or
other metallic boxes so as to prevent escape of flames and flying combustible
matter.
(Prior Code, § 905.01)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.02  DAMAGING STREETS.
   No person shall draw or drag over any of the paved, concrete or asphalt
streets, roads or alleys of the city any saw logs, stones, iron or other heavy
or hard substance that may tend to loosen, displace or dislodge, crush or break
any of the brick paving, concrete or asphalt covering of such roads, streets or
alleys or sidewalks therealong, or haul, propel or move over any paved concrete
or asphalt covered roads, streets or alleys any wagon, sled, drag or vehicle or
traction engine or any other thing of such weight or load or having on its
wheels such protuberances, corrugations or cogs, as to break, crush, crack,
dislodge or displace such brick paving, or concrete or asphalt covering or the
coverings of manholes, water or gas boxes or other appliances within the roads,
streets or alleys without properly timbering such roads, streets or alleys so
as to prevent injuries thereto; nor shall anyone move, haul or propel over any
of such roads, streets or alleys having brick, concrete or asphalt covering any
iron tired vehicle bearing or carrying a load in excess of 1,800 pounds at a
greater rate of speed than seven mph.
(Prior Code, § 905.02)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.03  SELLING ON STREETS WITHOUT PERMIT; EXCEPTIONS.
   No person shall sell, offer or expose for sale any goods, wares or
merchandise or other thing upon any of the roads, streets or alleys or public
grounds of the city without having first obtained a permit from the City
Manager. Such permit shall only be granted after such person has obtained a
license therefor from the City Clerk. This section shall not be applied to
sales under exclusions, sales of household goods by persons disposing of
personal effects or sales of decedent’s estates, trust property, fiduciaries or
bona fide farmers selling the products from their farms, or articles of own
manufacture, this section being intended to apply to itinerants, hawkers,
peddlers and the like.
(Prior Code, § 905.03)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.04  EXCAVATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall take up or remove any sidewalk, paving, concrete or
asphalt, macadam or other covering of any of the improved roads, streets or
alleys of the city without having first obtained a permit therefor, as is
hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Any person desiring such permit shall make application therefor in
writing to the City Clerk, specifying the exact location at which the
excavation is to be made and purpose therefor and shall make and deliver to the
City Clerk a bond in a minimum penalty in an amount set by Council from time to
time and an additional amount set by Council from time to time for each rod or
fraction thereof in excess of one rod with good personal security, payable to
the city, conditioned for the proper replacing of the brick, concrete or
macadam or asphalt covering and to repair and replace the same at any time
within a period of one year from the date thereof in case the same should
settle or become out of alignment and to indemnify and save harmless the city
for a like period of one year against any suits or claim for damages anyone may
sustain by reason thereof.
   (C)   No person shall leave open any excavation made in any of the roads
streets or alleys of the city overnight without properly barricading the same
and placing lighted red lanterns as a warning thereof.
   (D)   No person shall place upon any of the roads, streets, alleys or
sidewalks of the city any substance, obstruction, material or thing of any kind
that may cause personal injuries or injuries to property or that may cause or
endanger life, limb, person or property.
(Prior Code, § 905.04)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.05  PERMANENT PERSONAL PROPERTY, SHRUBBERY AND TREES IN CITY RIGHTS-OF-
WAY.
   (A)   No person, persons or other legal entity shall place any permanent
personal property, shrubbery or trees within the right-of-way for any city
street, road, sidewalk, utility or alley.
   (B)   Whenever the city has reason to believe there has been a violation of
any provision of this chapter, the city, through its agent or designee, shall
give notice to the person, persons or other legal entity failing to comply and
order said person, persons or other legal entity to take corrective action or
measures within ten days from the date of notification.
   (C)   If such person, persons or other legal entity fails to comply with the
duly issued order, he, she or they shall be subject to enforcement consistent
with §
10.99 of this code of ordinances, with each day that the person or party
continues to be non-compliant with the ordinance shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 905.05)  (Ord. passed 6-12-2000)  Penalty, see §
10.99
FIRE AND POLICE PROTECTION; MAINTENANCE AND SERVICE
§ 154.20  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Shinnston.
   FAMILY UNIT. Any dwelling, room and apartment owned or occupied by any
person within the city, which may require fire or police protection.
   FIRE DEPARTMENT. The city’s Volunteer Fire Department, including all of the
personnel, buildings, machinery and equipment used in the operation thereof.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MERCANTILE UNIT. Store, service station, garage, rest home, school, beauty
shop, pool room, fraternal organization, lodge, service organization,
restaurant and any other undefined structure owned or occupied by any person or
corporation within the city, which may require fire or police protection.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   WATER METERS. All meters used to measure the quantity of city water used.
(Prior Code, § 753.01)  (Ord. passed 3-16-1983)
§ 154.21  CHARGES AND FEES.
   (A)   A monthly municipal service fee in an amount set by Council from time
to time shall be imposed or levied for each family unit for the service and
facilities of the Fire and Police Departments of the city and for the
maintenance and repair of any and all streets, sidewalks and alleys within the
corporate limits of the city, such charge to be paid by the occupants or
persons occupying each such family unit, or if unoccupied, then the charge to
be paid by the titled owner of such unit.
   (B)   A monthly service fee in an amount set by Council from time to time
shall be imposed and levied for every mercantile unit, for the use of the
services and facilities of the city’s Fire and Police Departments and for the
repair and maintenance of any and all streets, alleys and sidewalks within the
corporate boundaries of the city, and such charge shall be paid by the
occupants of each mercantile unit or, if unoccupied, the charges are to be paid
by the owner of such mercantile unit.
   (C)   Such monthly charges shall be due and payable at the same times and in
the same manner as charges for water sold and furnished by the city to its
water customers.
   (D)   Of each municipal service fee collected, in an amount set by Council
from time to time per month per family unit and in an amount set by Council
from time to time per month per mercantile unit, less the Fire Department’s pro
rata share of the cost of billing, such billing cost including the cost of
postage and collection, shall be credited to the Fire Department and from the
fund so created, the Fire Department shall be responsible for paying its own
fuel. The remainder of the monthly municipal service fee collected by the city
from its family units, owners of family units, mercantile units, or owners of
mercantile units shall be apportioned by Council for use by the Police
Department and for the maintenance and repair of streets, alleys and sidewalks
within the corporate limits.
(Prior Code, § 753.02)  (Ord. passed 3-16-1983; Ord. passed 3-4-1996)
§ 154.22  LATE PAYMENTS; INTEREST.
   If such charges or fees shall not be paid within ten days after same become
due, the amount thereof, together with a penalty of 10% per annum may be
recovered by the city in a civil action instituted in the name of the city.
(Prior Code, § 753.03)  (Ord. passed 3-16-1983)
§ 154.23  PROPERTIES IN FIRST DUE AREA.
   Properties located outside of the corporate limits of the city but within
the city’s first due area shall be, and hereby are, assessed a fire fee, rate
and charge.  Said properties shall be charged a fire fee, rate and charge in
the same amount(s) as properties situate within the corporate limits of the
city.  Specifically, $7 per month per family unit and $8 per month per
mercantile unit shall be charged to properties located outside of the corporate
limits of the city, but within the city’s first due area.
(Ord. passed 9-14-2020)
CHAPTER 155:  PLANNING AND ZONING
Section
   
155.01   Regulations adopted by reference
§ 155.01  REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The city’s Planning and Zoning Codes, and any and all amendments, are hereby
adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Prior Code, Part Thirteen)  (Ord. passed 2-11-2008; Ord. passed 6-24-2013;
Ord. passed 7-14-2014)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
[Reserved]
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to West Virginia Code
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO WEST VIRGINIA CODE
W.Va. Code Cites Code Section
W.Va. Code Cites            Code Section
2-2-5                       10.07
2-2-8                       10.06
2-2-9                       10.06
2-2-10                      10.02
2-2-10(z)                   10.04
2-2-12                      10.04
Ch. 3                       37.01
3-1-1 et seq.               Ch. 130
3-1-6                       Ch. 37
3-1-27                      Ch. 37
3-1-31                      37.02
3-3-13                      Ch. 37
5-15-5                      71.08
6-2-11                      Ch. 32
6-6-7                       Charter § 8
6-9A                        Ch. 30
6-9A-4                      Charter § 13
Ch. 6B                      32.02
6B-1-1 through 6B-1-6       32.02
6B-2-4                      32.02
6B-2-5                      32.02
6B-2-7                      32.02
6B-3                        32.02
7-1-3n                      153.001
7-1-3U                      153.007
7-1-3v                      153.001
7-1-3kk                     153.001
7-12-1 et seq.              33.01
7-22-1                      31.22
8-1-5a                      31.15
8-2-5a                      Ch. 134
8-3-2                       Charter § 2
8-5-8                       Ch. 30
8-5-12                      Ch. 32
8-5-13                      Ch. 37
8-5-15a                     Ch. 37
8-5-19                      Ch. 32
8-10-1                      Ch. 34
8-10-2                      Ch. 35
8-11 et seq.                Charter § 28
8-11-1                      10.99,
                            77.99
8-11-1 et seq.              Charter § 28
8-11-4(b)                   10.01,
                            91.99
8-11-5                      Ch. 34
8-12-5                      Ch. 150
8-12-7 et seq.              Ch. 32
8-12-14                     153.001
8-12-16                     150.30
8-12-16a                    150.30
8-12-16b                    150.30
8-12-5(1)                   Ch. 154
8-12-5(3)                   Ch. 70
8-12-5(10) et seq.          Ch. 50
8-12-5(16)                  Ch. 134
8-12-5(17)                  134.99
8-12-5(18)                  134.99
8-12-5(19)                  134.99
8-12-5(19), (44)            132.02
8-12-5(20)                  Ch. 111
8-12-5(21)                  Ch. 75,
                            75.029
8-12-5(23)                  Ch. 90
8-12-5(26)                  Ch. 91
8-12-5(27)                  Ch. 91
8-12-5(30)                  Ch. 151,
                            151.01
8-12-5(31)                  Ch. 132
8-12-5(32)                  Ch. 51,
                            Ch. 52
8-12-5(38)                  33.06
8-12-5(39)                  33.06
8-12-5(45)                  Ch. 30
8-12-5(53)                  Ch. 32
8-12-5(54)                  Ch. 32
8-12-5(55)                  Ch. 32
8-12-5(56)                  Ch. 32
8-12-5(57)                  Ch. 34
8-12-5(58)                  10.99,
                            Ch. 130
8-12-7                      Ch. 34
8-13-4                      Ch. 110,
                            Ch. 111
8-13-5                      Ch. 110
8-13-5a                     Ch. 31,
                            31.47
8-13-5A                     31.22
8-13-6                      31.22
                            31.22,
8-13-7                      Ch. 111,
                            111.01,
                            112.03
8-13-10                     Ch. 91
                            31.01,
8-13-13                     34.16,
                            Ch. 154
8-13-15 et seq.             Ch. 110
8-13C-1 et seq.             31.15
                            31.24,
8-13C-6                     31.25,
                            31.26
8-13C-7                     31.24
8-14-1                      Ch. 34
8-14-2                      Ch. 34
8-14-2a                     Ch. 34
8-14-3                      Ch. 34
8-14-5                      Ch. 34
8-14-5a                     Ch. 34
8-14-6 et seq.              Ch. 34
8-15-1                      Ch. 34
8-15-1 et seq.              Charter § 20
8-15-3                      Ch. 34
8-15-4 et seq.              Ch. 34
8-15-9 et seq.              Ch. 34
8-15-11 et seq.             Ch. 34
8-16                        33.01
8-16-1                      Ch. 76
8-16-2                      Ch. 76
8-18-22                     Ch. 52
8-19                        Ch. 51
8-19-13                     Ch. 51
8-22                        Ch. 32,
                            Ch. 34
8-24                        Charter § 23
8-33                        33.07
8-34-1                      Ch. 35
8-38-1 et seq.              31.22
8A-1-2                      74.06
8A-4-2                      153.001
8A-5-7                      153.001
8A-7-2                      153.001
10-1                        33.06
10-1-2                      33.06
10-1-9                      33.06
Ch. 11                      111.17
11-1-1                      31.16
11-3-3A                     153.082
11-9                        31.16,
                            31.27
11-10                       31.16,
                            31.27
11-10-11c                   31.24
11-12                       Ch. 110
11-12-4                     Ch. 110
11-12-86                    134.38
11-13                       Ch. 110,
                            110.25
11-13C                      110.24
11-14C                      31.20
                            31.16,
11-15                       31.17,
                            31.27
11-15-1 et seq.             31.15
11-15-3c                    31.20
                            31.16,
11-15A                      31.17,
                            31.27
                            31.16,
11-15B                      31.17,
                            31.27
11-15B-1 et seq.            31.15
11-15B-33                   31.24
11-15B-34                   31.19
11-15B-35                   31.23
                            Ch. 111,
11-16                       111.02,
                            111.21
11-16-18                    111.21
11-16-19                    111.21,
                            111.99
14-2A-4                     Ch. 35
15-2-17 et seq.             Ch. 130
15-5                        Ch. 36
15A-10-20                   130.03
                            Ch. 92,
15A-11-3                    134.38,
                            150.02
16-3-6                      Ch. 90
16-9-3                      Ch. 91
16-9A-2                     131.99
16-9A-3                     131.19
16-9A-7                     131.19
16-13-16                    Ch. 52
16-13-18a                   33.03
16A                         111.24
17-4-26 et seq.             Ch. 154
17-10-7                     Ch. 134
17-10-17                    Ch. 154
17-23                       90.16
17-24-5 et seq.             Ch. 70
17-24A                      70.36
17-24A-1                    76.07
17-24A-2                    76.07
17-24A-5                    90.23
17-24A-5 et seq.            Ch. 70
Ch. 17A                     74.01,
                            74.04
17A-1-1                     130.02
17A-1-1(ii)                 77.02
17A-1-1(mm)                 77.02
17A-3                       90.23
17A-3-1                     74.01
17A-3-13                    74.02
17A-3-15                    74.03
17A-8-4                     75.019
17A-8-6                     75.019
17A-9-2                     74.04
17A-9-3                     74.05
                            70.01,
17A-10-1                    73.04,
                            74.03
17A-11-1                    75.999
Ch. 17B                     74.07,
                            74.09
17B-2-1                     74.06,
                            77.04
17B-2-1a                    74.07
17B-2-2                     74.07
17B-2-7b                    74.06
17B-2-9                     74.08
17B-4-1                     74.09
17B-4-3                     74.10
17B-4-3(b) or (d)           74.99
17B-4-4                     74.11
Ch. 17C                     73.04,
                            77.05
17C-1-1                     Ch. 70
17C-1-2                     70.01
17C-1-3                     70.01
17C-1-4                     70.01
17C-1-5                     70.01
17C-1-5a                    70.01
17C-1-6                     70.01
17C-1-7                     70.01
17C-1-8                     70.01
17C-1-12                    70.01
17C-1-13                    70.01
17C-1-15                    70.01
17C-1-16                    70.01
17C-1-17                    70.01
17C-1-21                    70.01
17C-1-22                    70.01
17C-1-24                    70.01
17C-1-25                    70.01
17C-1-26                    70.01
17C-1-29                    70.01
17C-1-30                    70.01
17C-1-31                    70.01
17C-1-32                    70.01
17C-1-33                    70.01
17C-1-35                    70.01
17C-1-36                    70.01
17C-1-37                    70.01
17C-1-38                    70.01
17C-1-39                    70.01
17C-1-40                    70.01
17C-1-41                    70.01
17C-1-42                    70.01
17C-1-43                    70.01
17C-1-44                    70.01
17C-1-45                    70.01
17C-1-46                    70.01
17C-1-47                    70.01
17C-1-48                    70.01
17C-1-49                    70.01
17C-1-50                    70.01
17C-1-51                    70.01
17C-1-52                    70.01
17C-1-53                    70.01
17C-1-54                    70.01
17C-1-55                    70.01
17C-1-60                    70.01
17C-1-62                    70.01
17C-1-64                    70.01
17C-1-65                    70.01
17C-1-66                    70.01
17C-2-1                     70.31
17C-2-3(c)                  70.32
17C-2-4                     70.33
17C-2-5                     70.34
17C-2-6                     70.35
17C-2-7                     Ch. 70
17C-2-8                     Ch. 70,
                            Ch. 75
17C-2-8(a)(2)               71.99
17C-2-8(a)(3)               Ch. 70
17C-2-8(a)(6)               Ch. 75
17C-2-8(a)(7)               Ch. 75
17C-2-8(a)(9)               Ch. 75
17C-2-8(b)                  71.99
17C-2-8(c)                  71.99
17C-2-8(4)                  Ch. 75
17C-2-9                     70.37
17C-3-2                     71.99
17C-3-3                     71.99
17C-3-4                     72.01
17C-3-4a                    72.02
17C-3-4b                    72.08
17C-3-5                     72.03
17C-3-6                     72.04
17C-3-7                     72.05
17C-3-8                     72.06
17C-3-9                     72.07
17C-4-1                     73.99
17C-4-2                     73.30,
                            73.31
17C-4-3                     73.32
17C-4-4                     73.33
17C-4-5                     73.34
17C-4-6                     73.35
17C-4-8                     73.36
17C-4-12                    73.37
17C-5-2                     75.029
17C-5-2a                    75.029
17C-5-3                     75.001
17C-5-11a                   Ch. 75,
                            75.029
17C-5A                      Ch. 75,
                            75.029
17C-5A-3a                   75.029
17C-6                       75.003
17C-6-1                     75.003,
                            75.999
17C-6-3                     Ch. 75
17C-6-3(a)                  Ch. 75
17C-6-3a(a)                 75.003
17C-6-4                     75.003
17C-6-4 et seq.             Ch. 75
17C-6-5                     75.003
17C-6-7                     Ch. 75,
                            75.003
17C-6-8                     75.999
17C-6-8(a)                  75.003
17C-7-1                     75.040
17C-7-2                     75.041
17C-7-3                     75.042
17C-7-4                     75.043
17C-7-5                     75.044
17C-7-6                     75.045
17C-7-7                     75.046
17C-7-8(b), (c)             75.047
17C-7-9                     75.048
17C-7-10                    75.049
17C-7-11                    75.050
17C-7-12                    75.051
17C-8-1 through 17C-8-10    75.004
17C-8-5                     Ch. 75
17C-9-1 through 17C-9-5     75.005
17C-9-6                     75.999
17C-10-1(a)                 71.01
17C-10-2                    71.02
17C-10-3                    71.03
17C-10-4                    71.04
17C-10-5                    71.05
17C-10-6                    71.05
17C-10-7                    71.99
17C-10-8                    71.07
17C-10A-1                   71.09
17C-10A-2                   71.09,
                            71.99
17C-11-1                    77.20
17C-11-2                    77.21
17C-11-3                    77.21
17C-11-4                    77.23
17C-11-5                    77.24
17C-11-6                    77.25
17C-11-7                    77.26
17C-11A-3                   77.28
17C-11A-4                   77.28
17C-11A-5                   77.28
17C-11A-6                   77.28
17C-11A-7                   77.99
17C-12-1                    75.065
17C-12-2                    75.066
17C-12-3                    75.067
17C-12-4                    75.068
17C-12-5                    Ch. 75,
                            75.069
17C-12-6                    75.070
17C-12-7                    75.070
17C-12-7(a.)                75.072
17C-12-8                    75.070,
                            75.072
17C-13-1                    76.01
17C-13-2                    76.02
17C-13-3                    76.03
17C-13-6                    76.06
17C-14-2                    75.007
17C-14-4                    75.008
17C-14-5                    75.009
17C-14-6                    75.010
17C-14-9                    75.011
17C-14-9a                   75.012,
                            75.999
17C-14-10                   75.013
17C-14-11                   70.15
17C-14-12                   73.04
17C-14-13                   76.04
17C-14-14                   75.027
17C-15                      70.36
17C-15-1                    73.01
17C-15-2                    73.02
17C-15-3                    73.02
17C-15-4                    73.04
17C-15-5                    73.04
17C-15-6                    73.99
17C-15-13                   Ch. 73
17C-15-14 through 17C-15-26 73.04
17C-15-26                   70.01
17C-15-26(e)                75.072
17C-15-27                   73.04
17C-15-31                   73.05
17C-15-32                   73.05
17C-15-33                   73.06
17C-15-34                   73.07
17C-15-35                   73.08
17C-15-36                   73.08
17C-15-36a                  73.15,
                            73.99
17C-15-37                   73.09
17C-15-38                   73.08
17C-15-39                   Ch. 73
17C-15-41                   73.10
17C-15-42                   73.11
17C-15-44                   73.12
17C-15-45                   73.13
17C-15-48                   73.15
17C-15-49                   73.15
                            73.14,
17C-16                      73.15,
                            90.16
17C-16-9                    73.14
17C-17                      75.085,
                            75.087
17C-17-2                    75.087
17C-17-2(b)                 Ch. 75
17C-17-3                    75.086
17C-17-4                    75.087
17C-17-5                    75.087
17C-17-6                    75.088
17C-17-7                    75.089
17C-17-11b                  75.087
17C-18-1                    70.99
17C-19-3                    74.30
17C-23                      75.014
17D-2A                      75.026
17D-2A-9                    75.999
17D-4-2                     77.04
Ch. 17E                     34.33
17E-1                       73.99,
                            74.25
17E-1-3                     74.25
17E-1-4                     74.26
17E-1-5                     74.27
17E-1-6                     74.27
17E-1-7                     74.28
17E-1-8                     74.29
17E-1-9(d)                  74.25
17E-1-14                    74.30
17E-1-15                    74.30
17E-1-25                    74.99
18-2A-9                     Ch. 130
18A-5-1                     131.01
18A-5-1a                    131.01,
                            134.30
19-4                        110.23
19-7-8                      134.99
19-9                        Ch. 91
19-20                       Ch. 91
19-20A                      Ch. 91
19-23-9                     134.99
20-2                        Ch. 91
21-9                        Ch. 151
21-9-4                      153.057
21-11-3(c)                  153.007
21-11-10                    153.082
Ch. 23                      33.01
24-1-2                      33.01
24-2-4(b)                   Ch. 51,
                            Ch. 52
24-3-8                      Ch. 51,
                            Ch. 52
27-5                        111.99
27-6A                       111.99
29-3-5b                     150.02
29-3A                       Ch. 34
29-3b-2                     Ch. 150
29-3E-1                     134.38
29-3E-2(5)                  134.38
29-3E-6                     134.38
29-19                       Ch. 113
30-13                       153.007
30-6-3                      75.014
30-29-1                     130.05,
                            134.31
30-29-4                     Ch. 35
Ch. 31                      110.23
31-2-13                     Ch. 134
31-2A                       134.01
31-2A-6                     134.99
31A-1-2                     33.01
Ch. 49                      35.25
49-1-202                    Ch. 131
49-4-04                     35.25
49-4-701                    Ch. 131
49-4-701 et seq.            134.33
49-4-712                    35.25
49-4-714                    35.25
49-4-716                    Ch. 35
49-54(b)                    130.99
Ch. 50                      35.03
50-3-2(a)                   132.99
55-7A-2                     131.17
55-9                        134.99
59-2-1(c)                   77.99
59-3                        33.01,
                            90.22
                            111.17,
Ch. 60                      111.18,
                            111.20
60-1-5                      111.15,
                            131.03
60-1-5a                     111.23
60-3-22                     111.18
60-3-22a                    111.19,
                            111.99
60-3A-24                    111.23,
                            111.99
60-3A-25a                   111.23
60-5                        Ch. 111
60-6                        111.17
60-6-5                      111.16
60-6-7                      111.17
60-6-8                      111.18,
                            111.23
60-6-9                      111.20,
                            111.99
60-6-18                     Ch. 111
                            110.23,
                            111.01,
60-7                        111.02,
                            111.21,
                            111.22,
                            112.03
60-7-2                      112.03
60-7-3                      112.03
60-7-7                      Ch. 111,
                            112.03
60-7-12                     111.22,
                            111.99
60-7-12a                    111.22,
                            111.99
                            111.01,
60-8                        111.21,
                            111.23
60-8-2                      111.02
60-8-6                      111.23
60-8-20a                    111.99
                            75.029,
                            90.02,
                            111.18,
Ch. 60A                     111.24,
                            130.99,
                            Ch. 131,
                            131.02
60A-1-101                   131.02
60A-1-101(e)                91.01,
                            134.30
60A-1-101(m)                134.30
60A-2-211                   131.02
60A-2-212                   131.02
60A-4-401                   131.02
60A-4-403a                  111.24
Ch. 61                      Ch. 130
61-1-9                      130.05,
                            130.99
61-2                        130.99,
                            Ch. 131
61-2-9                      Ch. 131,
                            131.01
61-2-10b                    90.02
61-2-15                     131.01
61-2-26                     131.18
61-3                        Ch. 132
61-3-13                     132.03
61-3-18                     132.04
61-3-24 et seq.             Ch. 113
61-3-30                     132.05
61-3-43                     134.01
61-3-44                     132.06
61-3-45                     132.06
61-3-53                     132.09
61-3A-1                     132.01
61-3A-2                     132.01
61-3A-3                     132.02
61-3A-4                     132.01
61-3A-4a                    132.01
61-3A-5                     132.01
61-3A-6                     132.01
61-3B-1                     132.02
61-3B-2                     132.02
61-5                        Ch. 130
61-5-14                     130.01,
                            130.99
61-5-17                     130.02,
                            130.99
61-5-33                     132.02
61-5A                       Ch. 130
61-6                        132.02
61-6-1b                     133.01
61-6-14a                    133.02,
                            133.99
61-6-17                     130.04,
                            130.99
61-6-20                     130.08
61-6-22                     133.03
61-7                        Ch. 134,
                            134.31
61-7-1                      132.02,
                            132.99
61-7-1a                     134.30,
                            134.37
61-7-2                      134.30
61-7-4 et seq.              134.31
61-7-6                      134.31
61-7-7                      134.32
61-7-8                      134.33
61-7-9                      134.34
61-7-10                     134.35
61-7-11                     134.36
61-8-5                      135.20
61-8-6                      135.20
61-8-7                      135.21
61-8-8                      135.22
61-8-9                      135.25
61-8-11                     131.03
61-8-16                     135.24
61-8-19                     91.01,
                            91.99
61-8A-1                     135.27
61-8A-2                     135.27
61-8A-3                     135.28
61-8A-4                     135.29
61-8A-5                     135.30
61-8D                       131.16
61-8D-10 et seq.            Ch. 131,
                            131.15
61-9                        134.99
61-10                       134.99
61-10-1                     135.01
61-10-2                     135.01
61-10-3                     135.02
61-10-4                     135.03
61-10-5                     135.04
61-10-6                     135.05
61-10-9                     135.06
61-10-10                    135.07
61-10-11                    135.08
61-10-15                    Ch. 130
61-11-8                     130.06
61-11A-4                    132.02
62-1-5(a)                   130.07
62-11A-1 et seq.            75.029
62-11B                      74.99
62-11B-1 et seq.            75.029
62-11B-5                    75.029
119-20A-4                   91.23
                            
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2020 Code
Prior Code    2020 Code
101.06        10.07
101.07        10.08
101.09        10.09
101.99        10.99
132.02        132.02
301.02        70.01
301.03        70.01
301.04        70.01
301.05        70.01
301.06        70.01
301.07        70.01
301.08        70.01
301.081       70.01
301.09        70.01
301.10        70.01
301.11        70.01
301.12        70.01
301.13        70.01
301.14        70.01
301.15        70.01
301.16        70.01
301.17        70.01
301.18        70.01
301.19        70.01
301.20        70.01
301.201       70.01
301.21        70.01
301.22        70.01
301.23        70.01
301.24        70.01
301.25        70.01
301.26        70.01
301.27        70.01
301.28        70.01
301.29        70.01
301.30        70.01
301.31        70.01
301.32        70.01
301.33        70.01
301.34        70.01
301.35        70.01
301.36        70.01
301.37        70.01
301.38        70.01
301.39        70.01
301.40        70.01
301.41        70.01
301.42        70.01
301.43        70.01
301.44        70.01
301.45        70.01
301.46        70.01
301.47        70.01
301.48        70.01
303.01        70.30
303.02        70.31
303.03        70.32
303.04        70.33
303.05        70.34
303.06        70.35
303.07        70.36
303.08        70.37
303.09        70.38
303.99        70.99
305.01        70.02
305.02        70.02
305.03        70.02
305.04        70.02
311.01        70.15
311.02        70.16
311.03        70.17
311.04        70.18
313.01        72.01
313.02        72.02
313.03        72.03
313.04        72.04
313.05        72.05
313.06        72.06
313.07        72.07
313.08        72.08
313.09        72.09
313.10        72.10
313.11        72.11
313.99        72.99
331.01        73.30
331.02        73.31,
              73.99
331.03        73.32
331.04        73.33
331.05        73.34
331.06        73.35
331.07        73.36
331.08        73.37
331.09        73.38
331.99        73.99
333.01        75.029
333.02        75.001
333.03        75.002
333.99        75.999
335.01        75.003
335.02        75.003
335.03        75.003
335.04        75.003
335.05        75.003
335.99        75.999
337.01        75.040
337.02        75.041
337.03        75.042
337.04        75.043
337.05        75.044
337.06        75.045
337.07        75.046
337.08        75.047
337.09        75.048
337.10        75.049
337.11        75.050
337.12        75.051
337.99        75.999
339.01        75.004
339.02        75.004
339.03        75.004
339.04        75.004
339.05        75.004
339.06        75.004
339.07        75.004
339.08        75.004
339.09        75.004
339.10        75.004
339.99        75.999
341.01        75.005
341.02        75.005
341.03        75.005
341.04        75.005
341.05        75.005
341.06        75.005
341.99        75.999
343.01        75.065
343.02        75.066
343.03        75.067
343.04        75.068
343.05        75.069
343.06        75.070
343.07        75.071
343.08        75.072
343.09        75.073
343.99        75.999
345.01        73.01
345.02        73.02
345.03        73.03
345.04        73.04
345.05        73.04
345.06        73.04
345.07        73.04
345.08        73.04
345.09        73.04
345.10        73.04
345.11        73.04
345.12        73.04
345.13        73.04
345.14        73.04
345.15        73.04
345.16        73.04
345.17        73.04
345.18        73.04
345.19        73.05
345.20        73.05
345.21        73.06
345.22        73.07
345.23        73.08
345.24        73.08
345.25        73.09
345.27        73.10
345.28        73.11
345.29        73.12
345.30        73.13
345.31        73.18
345.32        73.14
345.33        73.15
345.34        73.16
345.35        73.17,
              73.99
345.99        73.99
347.01        75.085
347.02        75.086
347.03        75.087
347.04        75.088
347.05        75.089
349.01        75.006
349.02        75.007
349.03        75.008
349.04        75.009
349.05        75.010
349.06        75.011,
              75.012
349.07        75.013
349.08        75.014
349.09        75.015
349.10        75.016
349.11        75.017
349.12        75.018
349.13        75.019
349.14        75.020
349.15        75.021
349.16        75.022
349.17        75.023
349.18        75.024
349.19        75.025
349.20        75.026
349.21        75.027
349.99        75.999
351.01        74.01
351.02        74.02
351.03        74.03
351.04        74.04
351.05        74.05
351.06        74.06
351.07        74.07
351.08        74.08
351.09        74.09
351.10        74.10
351.11        74.11
351.99        74.99
353.01        74.25
353.02        74.26
353.03        74.27
353.04        74.28
353.05        74.29
353.06        74.30
353.99        74.99
361.01        76.01
361.02        76.02
361.03        76.03
361.04        76.04
361.05        76.05
361.06        76.06
361.07        76.07
361.08        76.08
361.09        76.09
361.10        76.10
361.11        76.11
361.12        76.12
361.13        76.13
361.99        76.99
363.01        76.25
363.02        76.26
363.03        76.27,
              76.99
363.04        76.28
363.05        76.29
371.01        71.01
371.02        71.02
371.03        71.03
371.04        71.04
371.05        71.05
371.06        71.06
371.07        71.07
371.08        71.08
371.09        71.09
371.99        71.99
373.01        77.20
373.02        77.21
373.03        77.22
373.04        77.23
373.05        77.24
373.06        77.25
373.07        77.26
373.08        77.27
373.09        77.28
373.99        77.99
501.01        130.01
501.02        130.02
501.03        130.03
501.04        130.04
501.05        130.05
501.06        130.06
501.07        130.07
501.08        130.08
501.99        130.99
505.01        91.01
505.02        91.01
505.03        91.02
505.04        91.03
505.05        91.04
505.06        91.05
505.07        91.06
505.99        91.99
507.01        91.20
507.02        91.21
507.03        91.22,
              91.99
507.04        91.23
507.05        91.23
507.06        91.23
507.07        91.24
507.08        91.25
509.01        133.01
509.02        133.02
509.03        133.03
509.04        133.04
509.05        133.05
509.06        133.06
509.99        133.99
513.01        135.01
513.02        135.01
513.03        135.02
513.04        135.03
513.05        135.04
513.06        135.05
513.07        135.06
513.08        135.07
513.09        135.08
513.99        135.99
517.01        135.20
517.02        135.20
517.03        135.21
517.04        135.22
517.05        135.23
517.06        135.24
517.07        135.25
517.08        135.26
517.99        135.99
521.01        111.15
521.02        111.16
521.03        111.17
521.04        111.18
521.05        111.19
521.06        111.20
521.07        111.21
521.08        111.21
521.09        111.22
521.10        111.22
521.11        111.23
521.12        111.23
521.13        111.23
521.14        111.24
521.15        111.24
521.99        111.99
525.01        131.15
525.02        131.16
525.03        131.17
525.04        131.18
525.05        131.20,
              131.99
525.06        131.19
529.01        131.01
529.02        131.01
529.03        131.02
529.04        131.03
529.99        131.99
533.01        132.01
533.03        132.03
533.04        132.04
533.05        132.05
533.06        132.06
533.07        132.07
533.08        132.08
533.09        132.09
533.99        132.02,
              132.99
541.01        134.01
541.02        134.01
541.99        134.99
545.01        134.30
545.02        134.31
545.03        134.31
545.04        134.32
545.05        134.33
545.06        134.34
545.07        134.35
545.08        134.36
545.09        134.37
545.10        134.38
545.11        134.39
545.12        134.40
545.99        134.99
705.01        112.01
705.02        112.01
705.03        112.01
705.99        112.99
709.01        113.01
709.02        113.02
709.03        113.03
709.04        113.04
709.05        113.05
709.06        113.06
709.07        113.07
709.08        113.08
713.01        112.02
713.99        112.99
741.01        110.01
741.02        110.02
741.03        110.03
741.04        110.04
741.05        110.05
741.06        110.06
741.07        110.07
741.09        110.08
741.10        110.09
741.99        110.99
745.01        110.20
745.015       110.21
745.02        110.22
745.03        110.23
745.04        110.24
745.05        110.24
745.06        110.24
745.07        110.24
745.08        110.24
745.09        110.24
745.10        110.24
745.11        110.24
745.12        110.24
745.13        110.24
745.14        110.25
745.15        110.26
745.16        110.27
745.17        110.28
745.18        110.29
745.19        110.30
745.20        110.31
745.21        110.32
745.22        110.33
745.23        110.34
745.24        110.35
745.25        110.36
745.26        110.37
745.27        110.38
745.28        110.39
745.29        110.40
745.30        110.41
745.31        110.42
745.32        110.43
745.33        110.44
745.34        110.43
745.35        110.45
745.36        110.46
745.99        110.99
749.01        111.01
753.01        154.20
753.02        154.21
753.03        154.22
757.01        112.03
757.02        112.03
757.03        112.03
757.04        112.03
757.05        112.03
757.06        112.03
757.07        112.03
757.99        112.99
765.01        111.02
765.02        111.02
765.03        111.02
765.04        111.02
765.05        111.02
905.01        154.01
905.02        154.02
905.03        154.03
905.04        154.04
905.05        154.05
921.01        52.01
921.02        52.02
921.03        52.03
921.04        52.04
921.05        52.05
921.06        52.06
921.07        52.07
921.08        52.08
921.09        52.09
921.99        52.99
925.01        51.01
925.02        51.02
925.03        51.03
925.04        51.04
925.05        51.05
925.06        51.06
925.07        51.07
925.08        51.08
925.09        51.09
925.10        51.10
925.11        51.11
925.12        51.25—
              51.34
951.01        50.01
951.02        50.02
951.03        50.03
951.04        50.04
951.05        50.05
951.06        50.06
951.07        50.07
1105.01       90.01
1105.02       90.01
1105.99       90.99
1109.01       90.15
1109.02       90.16
1109.03       90.17
1109.04       90.18
1109.05       90.19
1109.06       90.20
1109.07       90.21
1109.08       90.22
1109.09       90.23
1109.10       90.24
1109.11       90.25
1109.99       90.99
1115.01       90.40
1115.02       90.41
1115.03       90.42
1115.04       90.43
1115.05       90.44
1115.06       90.45
1115.08       90.47
1115.09       90.47
1115.10       90.48
1115.11       90.49
Part Thirteen 155.01
1515.01       92.01
1515.02       92.01
1515.99       92.02
1705.01       150.01
1705.99       150.99
1755.01       150.15
1755.02       150.16,
              150.99
1759.01       151.01
1759.02       151.02
1759.03       151.03
1759.04       151.04
1759.05       151.05
1759.06       151.06
1759.07       151.07
1759.08       151.08,
              151.99
1759.09       151.09
1767.01       152.01
1767.02       152.02
1767.03       152.03
1767.04       152.04
1767.05       152.05
1767.06       152.06
1767.07       152.07
1767.08       152.08
1767.09       152.09
1767.10       152.10
1767.11       152.11
1767.12       152.12
1767.13       152.13
1767.99       152.99
              
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
-        - -         51.05
-        6-1-1955    33.04
                     50.01,
-        4-1-1958    50.02,
                     50.04,
                     50.06
-        12-30-1959  37.04
-        10-10-1960  33.03
-        9-14-1964   35.01—
                     35.13
-        5-16-1968   33.07
-        3-23-1976   131.20
                     110.24—
-        10-21-1980  110.41,
                     110.99
-        6-21-1981   111.01
-        4-5-1982    111.02
                     91.20—
-        4-19-1982   91.25,
                     91.99
-        10-4-1982   32.01
-        12-17-1982  110.24
                     34.16,
-        3-16-1983   154.20—
                     154.22
                     70.02,
                     70.38,
                     72.09—
                     72.11,
-        4-2-1984    73.38,
                     76.13,
                     76.25—
                     76.29,
                     76.99
-        10-1-1984   30.01
-        3-3-1986    37.04
-        6-5-1989    33.06
-        8-8-1989    32.02,
                     133.06
-        4-2-1990    133.99
-        9-10-1990   110.20—
                     110.24
-        4-12-1993   50.02
-        6-7-1993    51.05
-        11-1-1993   50.03
-        3-4-1996    110.24
-        6-3-1996    110.08
-        4-7-1997    112.02,
                     112.99
                     150.15,
-        4-20-1999   150.16,
                     150.99
-        12-13-1999  50.05
                     35.10,
-        1-13-2000   111.24,
                     111.99
-        3-18-2000   110.42—
                     110.46
-        6-12-2000   154.05
-        8-14-2000   10.09
-        11-13-2000  10.99
                     152.01—
-        6-11-2001   152.13,
                     152.99
-        11-13-2001  33.04
-        10-9-2002   152.99
-        8-25-2003   75.018
                     151.01—
-        11-10-2003  151.09,
                     151.99
-        1-12-2004   32.15
-        2-9-2004    51.01—
                     51.11
-        10-11-2004  51.25—
                     51.34
-        12-13-2004  33.05
                     52.01—
-        5-31-2005   52.09,
                     52.99
-        6-27-2005   31.40—
                     31.47
-        2-11-2008   155.01
-        10-27-2008  33.02
-        8-10-2009   33.01
-        9-14-2009   31.01
-        3-28-2011   150.02
-        6-13-2011   33.03
                     153.001—
                     153.008,
                     153.020—
                     153.029,
                     153.040—
-        6-11-2012   153.044,
                     153.055—
                     153.067,
                     153.080—
                     153.091,
                     153.999
                     34.30—
                     34.33,
                     35.25—
-        1-14-2013   35.28,
                     134.15—
                     134.18,
                     134.99
-        6-24-2013   155.01
                     35.02,
-        7-14-2014   35.05,
                     155.01
-        8-11-2014   75.028,
                     75.999
                     51.01—
                     51.04,
                     51.06—
-        9-29-2014   51.08,
                     51.10,
                     51.11,
                     52.09
-        12-14-2015  33.01,
                     33.07
-        12-28-2015  33.01
-        - -2015     32.03
                     110.24,
-        - -2016     150.30—
                     150.32,
                     150.99
-        10-10-2017  150.02
-        - -2018     91.07
-        7-30-2018   134.38
                     77.01—
-        10-15-2019  77.06,
                     77.99
                     31.15—
-        11-12-2019  31.28,
                     110.24
-        12-9-2019   90.02,
                     90.99
-        9-14-2020   154.23
                    
 
