WESTON, WEST VIRGINIA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Current through Ord. 2022-09, passed 4-4-2022
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING CORPORATION
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
CURRENT OFFICIALS
of the
CITY of WESTON, WEST VIRGINIA
__________
City Mayor
Kim Harrison
__________
City Council
Sherry Rogers, Ward I Councilwoman
Randy Bohan, Ward II Councilman
Debbie Gump, Ward III Councilwoman
Herb Curtis, Ward IV Councilman
__________
City Clerk
Judy Piercy
__________
City Attorney
Brian Bailey
__________
City Manager
Nate Stansberry
__________
City Secretary
Kim Marron
__________
City Attorney
Michael Seghetti
__________
City Finance Manager
Susie Johnston
CHARTER
Section
Editor’s note:
   The Charter codified herein is the most recent version of the Charter of
Weston, being that edition passed January 1, 2002. There exists a prior version
of the Charter, being that edition passed February 20, 1913, upon which several
provisions of this code of ordinances is based. Where this code of ordinances
cites and/or makes reference to the Charter, the cite and/or reference may
refer to that prior version of the Charter. These prior references are
currently being revised, to be updated at a later date. Where any provisions of
the prior Charter, dated February 20, 1913, conflict or contradict with the
provisions of this Charter, dated January 1, 2022, and/or this code of
ordinances, the more recent provisions shall prevail.
§ 1 THE CITY OF WESTON ESTABLISHED; GENERAL POWERS OF CITY.
   The inhabitants of so much of the County of Lewis as constitutes the City of
Weston at the time of the adoption of this Charter amendment are hereby
continued and shall remain a body politic and corporate by the name of “City of
Weston,” and they, their successors and those added to the city through
processes provided by law, shall have perpetual succession and a common seal as
said city, and shall succeed to all rights, powers, and responsibilities
heretofore conferred upon the City of Weston, and shall have all powers
accorded to cities by the laws of the State of West Virginia.
   The general purposes of the City of Weston are to:
      A.   Provide for public elections and evaluation of public activities;
      B.   Provide for public works, including streets and sanitary services;
      C.   Develop natural resources and the city economy;
      D.   Provide for public education and public health services;
      E.   Secure the public safety by providing police and fire protection
services; and for
      F.   All other lawful purposes declared from time to time by the Common
Council.
   The Council shall review these necessary purposes every five years and shall
revise them when necessary to benefit the citizens of the City of Weston.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2002)
§ 2 CORPORATE LIMITS.
   The corporate limits of the City of Weston shall be those in effect at the
date of final adoption of this Charter amendment. They may be altered from
time-to-time to add and include those inhabitants of Lewis County who have
entered into the body politic and corporate by annexation, election or
contract, in accord with the laws of West Virginia. A complete survey of the
city shall be completed within 12 months after adoption of this Charter
amendment.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2002)
§ 3 DIVISION OF WARDS.
   The territory of the city shall be divided into wards. The wards in
existence at the date of the final adoption of this Charter amendment shall be
continued and remain in place until such time as they may be reconstituted by
the Common Council. The boundaries of said wards, or any of them, may from
time- to-time be altered, or additional wards may be created, by ordinance of
the Common Council, duly spread upon its books, when by reason of the
acquisition of new territory by the city, or for other lawful and compelling
reason, such changes may be appropriate.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2002)
§ 4 MUNICIPAL AUTHORITIES AND OFFICERS GENERALLY.
   A.   Elected offices:
      The elected municipal authorities and officers of the city who hold
office at the date of the final adoption of this Charter amendment shall
continue in their respective offices, with their respective powers and duties,
until the 30th day of June, 2003, or until their successors shall have been
elected and qualified. Should a vacancy occur in any such office prior to the
30th day of June, 2003, the vacancy shall be filled under the provisions of
Section 12 of this Charter. After the 30th day of June, 2003, the elected
municipal authorities and officers of the city shall consist exclusively of a
Mayor and one member of Council from each ward, who together shall form a
Common Council. The Mayor shall serve as Chairperson of the Council
      The Mayor and members of Council, before entering upon the duties of
office, and within ten days of his election or appointment, give bond for the
faithful performance of his or her duties, and take and subscribe an oath to
faithfully and impartially discharge the duties of the office, and to support
the Constitutions of the United States and the State of West Virginia. The
Mayor having taken such an oath may administer the same to the Council Members
and other officers. Certificates of said oath shall be recorded in the journal
kept by the Council
   B.   Municipal terms and elections: Commencing on the 1st day of July, 2003,
the term lengths of elected municipal offices shall be four years.
   C.   Appointed officers: Commencing on July 1, 2003, the Common Council
shall appoint City officers, which shall include a City Manager, City Clerk,
City Finance Manager, City Attorney, and such others as may be deemed
appropriate from time-to-time by the Common Council.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2002)
§ 5 QUALIFICATIONS OF MAYOR AND COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   The Mayor and City Council Members, at the time of their election or
appointment, shall be residents of the city and entitled to vote for the
members of the Common Council.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2002)
§ 6 POWERS, DUTIES, AND COMPENSATION OF MAYOR.
   The Mayor shall be the chief executive and Chairperson of the Common
Council, and shall have all powers and duties granted to municipal mayors by
West Virginia law, and he or she shall be ex officio a conservator of the peace
and have the power to try persons for violations of city ordinances and to
convict and sentence persons therefor in accord with municipal ordinance. The
Mayor shall also have the power to decide all tie votes of the Common Council.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2002)
§ 7 POWERS OF COUNCIL IN GENERAL.
   The Common Council shall have all the powers requisite and necessary to
govern the city in accord with the laws of West Virginia, including those set
forth in Chapter 8, Article 12 of the Code of West Virginia. The Council also
shall prescribe by ordinance which licenses of all kinds shall be applied for
and granted, and all the terms thereof, and it shall require the payment of the
taxes thereon before delivery to the person applying for any such license.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2002)
§ 8 COMPENSATION OF MAYOR AND COUNCIL.
   The salaries of the Mayor and members of Common Council for the ensuing term
shall be determined by the Common Council prior to the beginning of the filing
period for the next election. Their salaries shall not be diminished or
increased during the term of office. The salary of Mayor is to be commensurate
with that of the office of mayor, with similar duties, in municipalities of
similar size in the region.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2002)
§ 9 TIME FOR ELECTIONS.
   The municipal election for Mayor and members of the Common Council shall be
conducted on the second Tuesday in June, 2003, and a like election conducted on
said date every four years thereafter. The Common Council shall, in advance of
every election, appoint election officers to conduct the election, and
otherwise provide for the proper conduct thereof.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2002)
§ 10 VOTING PRECINCTS.
   The Common Council shall by ordinance, in accord with the laws of West
Virginia, including those set forth in Chapter 8, Article 5, Section 13, as
amended, of the Code of West Virginia, integrate city voting precincts with the
Lewis County voting system. City precincts shall parallel the county precincts
located within the city limits to the extent that it is reasonably applicable.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2002)
§ 11 WHO IS ENTITLED TO VOTE.
   All citizens of the city shall be entitled to vote in all municipal
elections, except that no person who has not been registered as a voter as
required by law, or who is a minor, or of unsound mind, or who is under
conviction of treason, felony, or bribery in an election, or who is not a bona
fide resident of the city in which he or she offers to vote, shall be permitted
to vote at such election while such disability continues.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2002)
§ 12 HOW TIE VOTE DECIDED.
   When two or more persons shall receive an equal number of votes for Mayor or
member of Common Council, such tie shall be decided by the Common Council in
being.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2002)
§ 13 MANNER OF VOTING; CONTESTED ELECTIONS; APPLICABILITY OF STATE ELECTION
LAWS.
   In all municipal elections, the mode of voting shall be by paper ballot or
electronic voting machines. All elections in the city shall be held and
conducted, and the results thereof certified, returned, and finally determined,
and all election contests conducted, in accordance with the laws of the State
of West Virginia relating to general elections.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2002)
§ 14 INELIGIBILITY OR FAILURE TO QUALIFY.
   If anyone who shall have been duly elected Mayor or member of Common Council
shall not have been eligible as herein prescribed, or shall refuse or fail to
take the oath and give the bond required under this act, within the time
prescribed, the Council shall declare the office vacant and proceed to fill the
vacancy.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2002)
§ 15 FILLING VACANCIES IN ELECTIVE OFFICES.
   Whenever a vacancy shall occur from any cause in the office of Mayor or
member of Council, the Council shall immediately fill such vacancy by a vote of
a majority of the Council. The appointed officer shall serve until the next
scheduled election.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2002)
§ 16 WHEN COUNCIL TO DESIGNATE A COUNCIL MEMBER TO ACT AS MAYOR.
   The Common Council shall, by order, designate and appoint a Council Member
who shall act as Mayor in the absence from the city of the Mayor. While so
acting, the Mayor Pro-tem shall be vested with all the powers and duties of the
office.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2002)
§ 17 QUORUM OF COUNCIL.
   The presence of a majority of the Council shall be necessary to make a
quorum for the transaction of business.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2002)
§ 18 PROCEEDINGS OF COUNCIL MEETINGS TO BE READ, SIGNED, AND COUNTERSIGNED;
RECORDING OF AYES AND NOES.
   At meetings of the Common Council, minutes of the proceedings of the prior
meeting shall be read and corrected, if erroneous, and signed by the presiding
officer, and countersigned by the City Clerk. Upon the call of any member, the
ayes and noes upon any question shall be taken and recorded in the journal, and
the roll for that purpose shall be called alphabetically.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2002)
§ 19 PLACE AND TIME OF COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   Regular meetings of the Common Council shall be held on the first Monday of
each month except when that day is a holiday, in which event the regular
monthly meeting shall be held the following day. The time for said meetings
shall be set by order of Council, with public notice. However, the Council
shall have the power to change the regular appointed day and time of its
meetings by ordinance. The Council may by ordinance provide procedures for the
call of special meetings. No business may be conducted at either a regular or
special meeting unless a quorum is present. All meetings must be conducted in
compliance with the West Virginia Open Governmental Proceedings Law.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2002)
§ 20 POWERS AND DUTIES OF APPOINTED OFFICERS.
   1.   The City Manager shall be the chief city administrator, and shall
supervise all city services, department chiefs, and all city employees. The
City Manager, together with the City Clerk, shall develop and periodically
revise a city personnel manual with qualification statements and guidelines for
all appointed officer and employee positions. The City Manager shall conduct
his duties in accord with policies established by the Common Council.
   2.   The City Clerk shall keep a journal of the proceedings, ordinances,
acts, orders, and resolutions of the Common Council, and have charge of and
preserve the records of the city, in the city building safe or vault, if there
be one. The City Clerk shall also assist the Common Council and the City
Manager in the supervision of all city services and shall be responsible for
the keeping and periodic reporting of city record books. The City Clerk shall
be the chief election officer for the city, and shall conduct all city
elections in accord with the election laws of West Virginia.
   3.   The City Finance Manager shall assist the Common Council and the City
Manager to supervise all city financial affairs and the annual audit of city
fiscal records, and shall serve as Assessor of the value of properties for city
tax purposes.
   4.   The City Attorney shall conduct city legal business, in accord with
policies established by the Common Council, and shall advise the Mayor,
Council, and City Manager on all legal matters pertaining to the city.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2002)
§ 21 APPOINTED OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES; OFFICIAL BONDS.
   The Common Council may, by ordinance, define the duties of all appointed
municipal officers and employees and allow them reasonable compensation, and
shall require from all those whose duty it is to receive funds, assets or
property, or have charge of the same, such bonds as they shall deem necessary
or proper to ensure the faithful performance of their said duties. All officers
and employees appointed by Council shall hold their office or appointment at
the will and pleasure of the Common Council, but no appointee shall hold beyond
the current year for which he shall have been appointed without being
reappointed by the Council.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2002)
§ 22 CITY MONEYS; HOW EXPENDITURES TO BE MADE.
   All moneys belonging to the city shall be paid over to the City Financial
Manager; and no money shall be paid out by him or her except pursuant to an
appropriation by the Common Council, and upon an order signed by the Mayor and
the City Clerk.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2002)
§ 23 REGULATION OF WARDS AND EXPENDITURES FOR STREET THEREIN; SPECIAL TAXES FOR
SPECIFIC PURPOSES.
   The Common Council shall adopt ward regulations, whether general or special,
for the good of the citizens living within the wards. The Council also shall
appropriate street expenditures for each of the wards based upon equity and
need. The Council may authorize the collection of special assessments or taxes
for specific purposes.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2002)
§ 24 FUNDS MUST BE ON HAND FOR APPROPRIATIONS AND TO INCUR DEBT; CONTRACTS
INVOLVING FUTURE LEVY REQUIRES APPROVAL AT REFERENDUM.
   No money shall be appropriated, and no debt shall be contracted, for any
purpose whatever, except that the funds to meet the same shall have been first
provided by levy duly laid, in accordance with the laws of West Virginia; and
no contract shall be entered into involving or anticipating future levies,
unless all questions connected with the same shall have been first submitted to
a vote of the people and have received three-fifths of all the votes cast for
and against the same.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2002)
§ 25 REGULATION GOVERNING FRANCHISES FOR USE OF STREETS, ALLEYS, AND PUBLIC
GROUNDS.
   The Common Council shall have the power to grant franchises and the power to
compel compliance with franchise obligations in accordance with West Virginia
law.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2002)
§ 26 ANNEXATION OF TERRITORY; PROCEEDINGS.
   The city shall have the power to annex unincorporated territory to become
part of the municipality in accordance with the laws of West Virginia.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2002)
§ 27 MAYOR’S COURT DOCKET.
   A book, well bound and indexed, to be denominated the “docket”, shall be
kept in the office of the Mayor, in which shall be noted each case brought
before or tried by him or her, together with the proceedings therein, including
a statement of the complaint, the summons, the return, the fact of appearance
or non-appearance, the defense, the hearing, the judgment, the costs, in case
the judgment be one of conviction, the action taken to enforce the same. The
record of each case shall be signed by the Mayor, and the original papers, if
no appeal be taken, shall be kept together and preserved in his office; and the
Mayor shall deliver to his/her successor the docket and all books and papers
pertaining to his office.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2002)
§ 28 DUTY OF COUNCIL AS TO WHAT MAY BECOME LAWFULLY CHARGEABLE AGAINST CITY;
LEVIES; ANNUAL PUBLICATION OF REVENUES AND EXPENDITURES.
   The Common Council shall cause to be made annually and spread upon its
minute book an accurate estimate of all sums which are or may become lawfully
chargeable against the city and which ought to be paid within one year; and it
shall order a levy of so much as will in its judgment be necessary to pay the
same. Such levy shall be upon all real and personal property subject to the
state and county taxes. At least once in each year the City Council shall
publish in one or more newspapers of the city a statement of the revenue
received from the different sources, and of the expenditures upon the different
accounts, for the preceding year or portion of year, as the case may be.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2002)
§ 29 ASSESSMENT OF PROPERTY BY CITY FINANCE MANAGER IN HIS OR HER CAPACITY AS
ASSESSOR.
   It shall be the duty of the City Finance Manager, who shall be the assessor,
to make an assessment of the property within the city subject to taxation,
substantially in the manner and form in which assessments are made by the
assessor of the county, and to take all lawful steps to collect all debts,
fees, and taxes due to the city. The assessment, levy, and collection of such
taxes shall be governed by the laws of West Virginia. Every debtor shall be
personally liable for all debts owing to the municipality.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2002)
§ 30 LIEN ON REAL ESTATE FOR TAXES, ASSESSMENTS, DEBTS, FINES, AND PENALTIES;
ENFORCEMENT OF LIEN.
   There shall be a lien on all real estate within the city for the city taxes,
assessments, fines, debts, and penalties due the city from the day of the
commencement of such obligation, together with interest thereon at the rate of
six percent per annum. The city may enforce collection of said obligations by
civil action or any other remedy provided by law.
   In accordance with West Virginia law, property taxes are payable in two
installments for each tax year. Collection is made by the county sheriff, who
then pays over the sums due the city. The City Finance Manager shall keep an
accurate account of the moneys so received. The tax property tax records of the
Finance Manager shall at all times be open for inspection by any taxpayer or
attorney, and he or she shall produce said books to the Common Council for
inspection upon the order of Council.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2002)
§ 31 COUNCIL MAY INSTITUTE PROCEEDINGS FOR EMINENT DOMAIN.
   The Common Council shall have the right to institute proceedings in the name
of the city to acquire real estate by eminent domain for the purposes of the
public good.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2002)
§ 32 INCONSISTENT ACTS REPEALED.
   All acts or parts of acts inconsistent with this act are hereby repealed,
but the act shall not be construed to repeal, change, or modify any previous
acts not inconsistent with this act, or to take away any power heretofore
conferred upon the City of Weston or its officers and authorities by general
law, except so far as the same may be inconsistent with the powers hereby
conferred.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2002)
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   How code designated and cited
   
10.02   Definitions and rules of construction
   
10.03   Provisions considered as continuations of existing ordinances
   
10.04   Catchlines and headings of portions of code
   
10.05   Severability of parts of code
   
10.06   Effect of repeal or expiration of ordinance
   
10.07   Code imposes no liability for acts or omissions pursuant thereto; when
City Attorney to defend city officers and employees
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 HOW CODE DESIGNATED AND CITED.
   The ordinances embraced in this and the following chapters and sections
shall constitute and be designated “the Code of the City of Weston, West
Virginia”, and may be so cited. Such ordinances may also be cited as “the
Weston City Code”.
(Prior Code, § 1-1)
Charter reference:
   Authority to bind and print in pamphlet form all general ordinances, and
providing that transcripts thereof, certified by the City Clerk under the seal
of the city, shall be prima facie evidence in the court, see division 2 of
Charter § 20
Statutory reference:
   Authority to adopt a comprehensive code of ordinances, see W. Va. Code 8-11-
4(b)
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS AND RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Interpretation. In the construction of this code and of all other
ordinances and resolutions of the city, the following definitions and rules of
construction shall be observed, unless it shall be otherwise expressly provided
in any section, ordinance, or resolution, or unless inconsistent with the
manifest intent of the Common Council, or unless the context clearly requires
otherwise.
   (B)   General rule. All general provisions, terms, phrases, and expressions
shall be liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the
Common Council may be fully carried out. Words and phrases shall be taken in
their plain, or ordinary and usual sense, but technical words having a peculiar
and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical
import.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      AND; OR. The word “and” shall be construed to include the word “or” when
the context makes such construction appropriate, and vice versa.
      CHARTER; CITY CHARTER. The Charter of the City of Weston, West Virginia.
      CITY. Construed as if followed by the words “of Weston”.
      CITY MANAGER or MAYOR. Due to the nature of the manager-mayor plan as
defined in W. Va. Code 8-3-2 (Plan V), when the term MAYOR is used in the
context of giving the Mayor administrative control of city functions, then
Mayor shall mean CITY MANAGER. When the term MAYOR is used in the context of
giving the Mayor administrative control of City Council, then MAYOR shall mean
MAYOR. When the term MAYOR is used in the context of giving authority to
participate in political events, goodwill events, or general civic-related
events, as a social/political representative of the city, or other duties given
in the 2002 Charter, then the term MAYOR shall mean Mayor.
      CODE. The Code of the City of Weston, West Virginia.
      COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time in which any act provided by law is to be
done is computed by excluding the first day and including the last, unless the
last day is a Sunday or holiday and then it is also excluded.
      COUNCIL; COMMON COUNCIL; CITY COUNCIL. The Common Council of the City of
Weston, West Virginia.
      COUNTY. The County of Lewis, West Virginia.
      DAY. The period of time between any midnight and the midnight following.
      DAYTIME. The period of time between sunrise and sunset.
      FINANCE MANAGER. When the term “Treasurer”, “City Treasurer” or similar
titles are used concerning the handling of city finances, those terms shall
mean FINANCE MANAGER, unless clear language contradicts such definition.
      GENDER. The masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter.
      IN THE CITY. Include all territory over which the city now has, or shall
hereafter acquire, jurisdiction for the exercise of its police powers or other
regulatory powers.
      JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving a joint authority to three or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority
of such persons or officers.
      MAY. Is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      NIGHTTIME. The period of time between sunset and sunrise.
      NUMBER. The singular number includes the plural, and the plural the
singular.
      OATH. Includes an affirmation.
      OFFICERS, DEPARTMENTS, AND THE LIKE. Officers, departments, boards,
commissions, and employees referred to in this code shall mean officers,
departments, boards, commissions, and employees of the City of Weston, unless
the context clearly indicates otherwise.
      OFFICIAL TIME. Whenever certain hours are named in this code, they shall
mean Eastern Standard Time or Daylight Saving Time, as may be in current use in
the city.
      OWNER. Applied to any property, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant, or tenant by the
entirety of the whole or of a part of such property.
      PERSON. Extend and be applied to firms, partnerships, associations,
bodies politic and corporate, or any other group acting as a unit, as well as
to individuals.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes every species of property, except real and
mixed property.
      PRECEDING, FOLLOWING. Next before and next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY. Include real, personal, and mixed property.
      REAL PROPERTY. Include lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
      SHALL. Is mandatory.
      SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curb line, or the lateral
lines of a roadway where there is no curb, and the adjacent property line,
intended for the use of pedestrians. If there is no public area between the
lateral lines of the roadway and the abutting property line, then that area
immediately abutting the street line shall be construed as SIDEWALK area.
      SIGNATURE OR SUBSCRIPTION BY MARK. Includes a mark when the signer or
subscriber cannot write, such signer’s or subscriber’s name being written near
the mark by a witness who writes his or her own name near the signer’s or
subscriber’s name.
      STATE. The State of West Virginia.
      STATUTE REFERENCES. References to the Code of West Virginia shall mean
the official Code of West Virginia, 1931, as currently amended and as it may be
amended in the future.
      STREET. Include alleys, avenues, boulevards, highways, roads, lanes,
viaducts, bridges and the approaches thereto, and all other public
thoroughfares in the city, and shall mean the entire width thereof between
abutting property lines; and it shall be construed to include a sidewalk or
footpath, unless the contrary is expressed or unless such construction would be
inconsistent with the intent of the Common Council.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT. Applied to a building or land, shall include any
person holding a written or an oral lease of, or who occupies the whole or a
part of, such building or land, either alone or with others.
      TENSES. The present tense includes the past and future tenses, and the
future includes the present.
      WEEK. A week consists of seven consecutive days.
      WRITING. Includes any form of recorded message capable of comprehension
by ordinary visual means. Whenever any notice, report, statement, or record is
required or authorized by this code or other ordinance or resolution of the
city, it shall be made in WRITING in the English language, unless it is
expressly provided otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, except where otherwise provided.
(Prior Code, § 1-2)
Statutory reference:
   As to computation of time, see W. Va. Code 2-2-3
   Relating to construction of statutes, see W. Va. Code 2-2-4, 2-2-10, 2-2-10
(a), and 2-2-10(c)
§ 10.03 PROVISIONS CONSIDERED AS CONTINUATIONS OF EXISTING ORDINANCES.
   The provisions appearing in this code, so far as they are substantially the
same as those of ordinances in effect immediately preceding the effective date
of this code and included herein, shall be considered as continuations thereof
and not as new enactments.
(Prior Code, § 1-3)
§ 10.04 CATCHLINES AND HEADINGS OF PORTIONS OF CODE.
   Chapter, subchapter, section, and division headings of this code are
intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents thereof and shall not be
deemed or taken to be titles thereof, nor as any part thereof, nor, unless
expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such chapters,
subchapters, sections, or divisions, including the headings or catchlines, are
amended or reenacted.
(Prior Code, § 1-4)
§ 10.05 SEVERABILITY OF PARTS OF CODE.
   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the Common Council that the
sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases of this code are
severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, or section of this
code shall be declared unconstitutional or invalid by the valid judgment or
decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality or
invalidity shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences,
paragraphs, and sections of this code, since they would have been enacted by
the Common Council without the incorporation in this code of any such
unconstitutional or invalid phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, or section.
(Prior Code, § 1-5)
§ 10.06 EFFECT OF REPEAL OR EXPIRATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The repeal of an ordinance, or its expiration by virtue of any
provision contained therein, shall not affect any right accrued, any offense
committed, any penally or punishment incurred, or any proceeding commenced
before the repeal took effect or the ordinance expired.
   (B)   When any ordinance which repealed another shall itself be repealed,
the previous ordinance shall not be revived without express words to that
effect.
(Prior Code, § 1-6)
§ 10.07 CODE IMPOSES NO LIABILITY FOR ACTS OR OMISSIONS PURSUANT THERETO; WHEN
CITY ATTORNEY TO DEFEND CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   Nothing in this code or any other ordinance or resolution of the
Common Council shall be construed to impose any liability upon the city or upon
any person for any act or omission required or permitted thereby when such act
or omission is otherwise lawful, in good faith, and without malice or
mischievous intent and, in the case of any city officer or employee, is in line
of duty and within the scope of his or her authority.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the City Attorney to defend city officers and
employees against all claims, demands, actions, suits, prosecutions, and other
proceedings brought against them for their acts or omissions while acting in
line of duty and within the purview of division (A) above.
(Prior Code, § 1-8)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Wherever in this code or in any ordinance or resolution of the Common
Council, or in any rule, regulation, notice, or order promulgated by any
officer or agency of the city under authority duly vested in him, her, or it,
any act is prohibited or is declared to be unlawful or an offense or
misdemeanor or the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is
declared to be unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, and no specific penalty
is provided for the violation thereof, the violation of any such provision of
this code or of any such ordinance, resolution, rule, regulation, notice, or
order shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $100, or other amount deemed
appropriate by the Municipal Court, or by imprisonment not exceeding 30 days,
or by both such fine and imprisonment. Each day any violation of this code or
any such ordinance, resolution, rule, regulation, notice, or order shall
continue shall constitute, except where otherwise provided, a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 1-7)
Statutory reference:
   Penalties to be imposed for violation of ordinances, see W. Va. Code 8-11-
1 and 8-12-5(55)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   POLICIES; COMMON COUNCIL
      
31.   CITY OFFICERS
      
32.   BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
      
33.   ELECTIONS
      
34.   POLICE COURT
      
35.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
      
36.   CIVIL DEFENSE
      
37.   CIVIL DISORDERS
      
38.   GENERAL TAXATION
      
39.   TAXES CONCERNING PUBLIC UTILITIES
      
40.   FINANCES
CHAPTER 30: POLICIES; COMMON COUNCIL
Section
City Policies
   
30.01   Official bonds
   
30.02   Compensation of city officers and employees
   
30.03   When salaries and wages payable
   
30.04   Payments of city money to City Treasurer
   
30.05   Procedure for presentation and allowance of claims against city
   
30.06   Form of order on City Treasurer for payment of money
   
30.07   Procurement of supplies, services, and the like
   
30.08   Competitive bidding; when required; publication of notice
   
30.09   Same; transmitting and receiving bids, bonds, and the like
   
30.10   Fiscal reports, accounts, and the like
   
30.11   Same; form of budget system and financial accounts and records
   
30.12   Same; annual financial statement
   
30.13   Availability to public of city books and records; protection of books
and records
   
30.14   Recording of city liens for taxes, assessments, fines, and penalties
   
30.15   Right of entry for purposes of inspection
   
30.16   Conflicts of interest
   
30.17   City is participating public employer; state employees retirement
system adopted
   
30.18   Federal Social Security
   
30.19   Approval by city of attendance of employees at certain schools
   
30.20   Street Department employees defined
   
30.21   Same; sick leave
   
30.22   Same; records of sick and vacation leave
   
30.23   Regular employee defined
   
30.24   Sick leave for regular employees
   
30.25   Vacation leave for regular employees
   
30.26   Retrieval and production fees
   
30.27   National Incident Management System
   
30.28   Payment of fees required
Common Council
   
30.40   Time and place of meetings; quorum
   
30.41   Meetings to be public except when in executive session
   
30.42   Procedure when meeting lacks quorum
   
30.43   Presiding officer at meetings; member having conflicting interest may
not vote
   
30.44   Sergeant at arms
   
30.45   City Clerk to attend meetings and keep journal of Council
   
30.46   Order of business at meetings
   
30.47   Mayor’s vote; City Clerk has no vote
   
30.48   All questions require majority vote for passage
   
30.49   Requirements for appropriations and orders for payment of city money
   
30.50   Ordinance procedures generally
   
30.51   Same; attestation; record of ordinances
   
30.52   Same; ordinances to repeal, amend, or add to provisions of this code,
and records thereof
   
30.53   Resolutions and record thereof
   
30.54   Rules
   
30.55   Remission of fines and penalties
   
30.56   Personnel policies adopted
 
   
30.99   Penalty
CITY POLICIES
§ 30.01 OFFICIAL BONDS.
   (A)   Every officer, employee, or agent of the city who in the course of his
or her official duties receives, handles, or has custody of or control over
more than $100 of city funds, or other amount deemed appropriate by the
Municipal Court, negotiable instruments or securities at any time shall, before
entering upon his or her duties as such officer, employee, or agent and within
ten days of his or her election or appointment, give bond, payable to the city,
with corporate surety, in such amount not less than $500, or other amount
deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court, as shall be determined by the Common
Council, and conditioned upon the faithful performance of his or her duties, a
true accounting to give of all city funds, negotiable instruments, and
securities received or handled by him or her or coming within his or her
custody or under his or her control, and payment thereof to the city; provided,
that the bond of the City Treasurer shall be in the amount of not less than
$15,000, or other amount deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court, the bond of
the City Clerk shall be not less than $15,000, or other amount deemed
appropriate by the Municipal Court; and provided further, that during any
period when two or more positions are held by the same person, the bond for
such person shall be in the amount of not less than the highest amount required
for any one of such positions.
   (B)   The Common Council may adopt a system of blanket faithful performance
and honesty bonding as an alternative to the individual bonds provided in
division (A) above; provided, that the amounts as specified in division (A)
above for the positions named therein shall remain the same as therein
specified.
   (C)   All officers, employees, and agents of the city who, in line of duty,
are required or authorized to carry firearms, shall give bond, payable to the
city, with corporate surety, in such amount not less than $10,000, or other
amount deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court, as may be specified by the
Common Council, and conditioned upon the faithful performance of their
respective duties and the payment of any judgment or decree which may be
rendered against them for the negligent or unlawful use or handling of such
firearm and to save the city harmless from all claims and demands whatsoever
for the negligent or unlawful use or handling of such firearm.
   (D)   The City Attorney shall approve all bonds required by this section
with respect to their form and legality; and the premiums thereon shall be paid
by the city. The Common Council shall approve all bonds required by this
section with respect to their sufficiency. All bonds required by this section
shall be in the custody of the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 2-1)
§ 30.02 COMPENSATION OF CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   The Mayor, Council members, and other city officers and employees shall
receive such salaries and wages as may be provided for them from time to time
by the Common Council in the annual budget or other ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 2-2)
Charter reference:
   Reasonable compensation to city officers and employees, see
Charter § 21
Statutory reference:
   Compensation of city officers and employees, see W. Va. Code 8-5-12
§ 30.03 WHEN SALARIES AND WAGES PAYABLE.
   Payment of wages and salaries shall be paid on and for the fifteenth and
last day of each and every month unless otherwise provided by the Common
Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-3)
§ 30.04 PAYMENTS OF CITY MONEY TO CITY TREASURER.
   All taxes, fees, and other money belonging to the city shall be paid over by
the recipients thereof to the City Treasurer not less frequently than once each
week, as may be provided by resolution or order of the Common Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-4)
§ 30.05 PROCEDURE FOR PRESENTATION AND ALLOWANCE OF CLAIMS AGAINST CITY.
   Every person having a claim or demand against the city shall file with the
City Clerk an account or statement thereof, verified under oath, fully setting
forth the items. The City Clerk shall present such account or statement to the
Common Council at their first meeting thereafter, at which time such statement
or account may be allowed in whole or in part, or wholly disallowed. All
applications for refunding orders for taxes erroneously assessed shall be
verified by the affidavit of the party in whose interest the order is applied
for.
(Prior Code, § 2-5)
§ 30.06 FORM OF ORDER ON CITY TREASURER FOR PAYMENT OF MONEY.
   Orders on the City Treasurer shall be in form substantially as follows:
   No.                  .            City of Weston, W. Va.               20
      
   The City Treasurer of the City of Weston will pay to
                                        or order, the sum of                 
dollars and                 cents, appropriated by Common Council on the
             day of                           , 20          , by an order
entered in Journal No.                , page              and charge to
                        fund.
$                                
   For                                                               Subject to
taxes and other debts due city.
            Attest:                               Mayor
                  Clerk
(Prior Code, § 2-6)
§ 30.07 PROCUREMENT OF SUPPLIES, SERVICES, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Each officer and employee of the city who by purchase, lease, or
otherwise procures supplies, materials, equipment, tools, or services, or who
contracts for any such procurement, for or on behalf of the city or any office,
department, or agency thereof, shall be financially responsible for all such
transactions in excess of $100 per fiscal year, or other amount deemed
appropriate by the Municipal Court, unless such transactions conform to such
requisition procedures as may be prescribed from time to time by resolution of
the Common Council, and unless each such transaction other than of a routine
nature be first approved by a majority of the members of the Common Council.
The term ROUTINE NATURE, as used in this section, shall have the meaning
ascribed to it by resolution of the Common Council. The failure of any officer
or employee to comply with this division (A) shall be prima facie evidence of
malfeasance and grounds for dismissal.
   (B)   Unless otherwise provided by resolution of the Common Council, the
City Clerk shall administer the requisitioning procedures and shall keep a
current list of items which shall be made available at all times to department
heads on nonrequisitioned procurements of a routine nature.
(Prior Code, § 2-7)
§ 30.08 COMPETITIVE BIDDING; WHEN REQUIRED; PUBLICATION OF NOTICE.
   Every contract for the procurement of goods and services by the city shall
be by competitive bidding, and shall not be approved and let until publication
of notice of the intent to so contract and inviting sealed bids shall have
first been advertised once per week for a period two successive weeks in one
newspaper of general circulation in the city, the last of which publication
shall occur no less than five days prior to the meeting of which the bids are
to be opened and examined; providing, that the above requirement shall not
apply to any contract (including the purchase of goods and services) for a
gross amount of less than $5,000, or other amount deemed appropriate by the
Municipal Court, nor shall this section preclude the use by the city of, or be
applicable to, the purchasing of goods or services through the State Director
of the Division of Purchases, as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 2-8) (Ord. passed 5-24-1983)
§ 30.09 SAME; TRANSMITTING AND RECEIVING BIDS, BONDS, AND THE LIKE.
   The form and manner of transmitting and receiving bids under the provisions
of §
30.08, the amount of deposit or performance bond, if any, to accompany such
bids, the terms, specifications, reservation of right to reject bids, or waive
irregularities therein shall be determined by the Common Council prior to each
respective advertisement for bids and, insofar as practical, be stated in the
published notice.
(Prior Code, § 2-9)
§ 30.10 FISCAL REPORTS, ACCOUNTS, AND THE LIKE.
   All fiscal reports, settlements, accounts, and statements of the city and of
city officers shall conform to the fiscal year, which begins on July 1 of each
calendar year and terminates at the close of business June 30 of the next
succeeding calendar year.
(Prior Code, § 2-10)
Charter reference:
   Fiscal reports, accounts, and the like, see Charter §§
7 and
28
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code 8-13-17
§ 30.11 SAME; FORM OF BUDGET SYSTEM AND FINANCIAL ACCOUNTS AND RECORDS.
   The budgeting system and financial accounts and records of the city shall be
as prescribed by the Common Council in conformity with W. Va. Code Ch. 6, Art.
9; and the form and manner of keeping thereof shall be as approved or
prescribed by the State Tax Commissioner in his or her ex officio capacity as
Chief Inspector and Supervisor of Public Offices.
(Prior Code, § 2-11)
Statutory reference:
   Application of W. Va. Code Ch. 6, Art. 9 to municipalities, see W. Va. Code
8-13-18
   Approval of fiscal records, see W. Va. Code 6-9-6
§ 30.12 SAME; ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENT.
   (A)   The City Treasurer, within four weeks after the beginning of each
fiscal year, shall prepare on a form to be prescribed by the State Tax
Commissioner and cause to be published a sworn statement revealing the receipts
and expenditures of the city during the previous fiscal year arranged under
descriptive headings, the name of each person who received more than $50, or
other amount deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court, from any fund during
the previous fiscal year, together with the amount received and the purpose for
which paid, and all debts of the city, the purpose for which each debt was
contracted, its due date, and to what date the interest thereon has been paid.
Such statement shall be published as a Class I legal advertisement in
compliance with the provisions of W. Va. Code Ch. 59, Art. 3, and the
publication area for such publication shall be the city.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall transmit to any resident of the city, upon
request, a copy of any published statement for the fiscal year designated,
supplemented by a document listing the names of each person who received less
than $50, or other amount deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court, from any
fund during such fiscal year and showing the amount paid to each and the
purpose for which paid.
   (C)   The statement required by divisions (A) above shall be sworn to by the
Treasurer, the Mayor, and two Council members. As soon as practicable following
the close of the fiscal year, a copy of any statement herein required shall be
filed by the City Clerk with the State Tax Commissioner, and the Clerk of the
County Court, and the Clerk of the County Circuit Court.
(Prior Code, § 2-12)
Statutory reference:
   Failure of city officers to perform their prescribed duties thereunder, see
W. Va. Code 8-13-23(a)
§ 30.13 AVAILABILITY TO PUBLIC OF CITY BOOKS AND RECORDS; PROTECTION OF BOOKS
AND RECORDS.
   (A)   Except as may be provided otherwise by state law, this code, or other
ordinance to safeguard the security of license tax returns and other
confidential information, all records, books, maps, documents, and other papers
which are maintained on file in any city office shall be open for inspection
and use by citizens of the city and others having an interest therein during
all regular business hours, but none shall be removed from the office of its
custodian except by authority of the Mayor, the Common Council, the City Clerk,
the City Manager, or a valid subpoena duces tecum issuing from a court or
officer having jurisdiction in the premises.
   (B)   No person shall, without proper authority as provided in division (A)
above, remove from the office of its custodian any record, book, map, document,
or other paper which is maintained on file in any city office, nor shall any
person fail to return any such item to its proper custodian within the time set
by the custodian for its return.
   (C)   No person shall wilfully destroy, obliterate, secrete, deface, mark
upon, disturb the arrangement of, damage, or otherwise tamper with any record,
book, map, document, or other paper which is maintained on file in any city
office.
(Prior Code, § 2-13)
§ 30.14 RECORDING OF CITY LIENS FOR TAXES, ASSESSMENTS, FINES, AND PENALTIES.
   Liens arising under the provisions of Charter § 38 for taxes, assessments,
fines, and penalties may be presented to the County Clerk, for recording, by
any appropriate city officer.
(Prior Code, § 2-14)
§ 30.15 RIGHT OF ENTRY FOR PURPOSES OF INSPECTION.
   Whenever any officer or employee of the city is required or authorized by
statute, the provisions of this code or any ordinance or resolution, or rules
and regulations or orders issued thereunder, in order to carry out his or her
duties thereunder, to enter any premises or vehicle for the purpose of making
an inspection thereof or of anything therein contained, such officer or
employee shall have the right to enter any such premises or vehicle in
accordance with law at any reasonable time in pursuance of such duties.
(Prior Code, § 2-15)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to provide for the entering and inspection of private premises,
see W. Va. Code 8-12-15
§ 30.16 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any elective or appointive officer or
employee of the city to be interested personally, either directly or
indirectly, or as a member, manager, officer, or stockholder of any
partnership, business, firm, or corporation, in any contract furnishing
material, services, or supplies to the city, or to any contractor or workmen
for the city, or in any manner whatsoever, whereby the taxpayers of the city
shall become the paymaster, either directly or indirectly.
   (B)   Division (A) above shall not be applicable to members of boards or
commissions who receive no compensation from the city for their services as
such members.
(Prior Code, § 2-16) Penalty, see §
30.99
§ 30.17 CITY IS PARTICIPATING PUBLIC EMPLOYER; STATE EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT
SYSTEM ADOPTED.
   The Common Council, having elected on July 2, 1962, by three-fifths vote of
its members, to have the city become a participating public employer and
thereby include its eligible officers and employees in the membership of the
state employees retirement system, hereby declares that the city shall continue
to be a participating public employer and shall conform to all applicable
provisions of W. Va. Code 5-10-1 through 5-10-51.
(Prior Code, § 2-17)
Statutory reference:
   Participating within state public employees retirement system, see W. Va.
Code 5-10-16 and 8-22-1
§ 30.18 FEDERAL SOCIAL SECURITY.
   The Common Council, having heretofore elected to extend the benefits of
Title II of the Federal Social Security Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 401 et seq., to
all eligible city officers and employees, as provided in W. Va. Code 5-7-5,
hereby declares that the plan for extending those benefits as heretofore
submitted to and approved by the State Auditor in his or her capacity as the
“state agency” shall continue in full force and effect and that the city shall
conform to all applicable provisions of W. Va. Code 5-7-1 through 5-7-10.
(Prior Code, § 2-18)
§ 30.19 APPROVAL BY CITY OF ATTENDANCE OF EMPLOYEES AT CERTAIN SCHOOLS.
   In order to obtain the approval of the Common Council for the attendance of
any city employees at schools which will require financial participation by the
city, it shall be necessary for the head of the department by which such
employees are employed to give advance notice of 30 days to the Common Council
prior to the attendance of such employees at such schools.
(Prior Code, § 2-18.1) (Ord. passed 6-4-1973)
§ 30.20 STREET DEPARTMENT EMPLOYEES DEFINED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      REGULARLY EMPLOYED MEMBER OF THE WESTON STREET DEPARTMENT. One who has
been employed in that Department for a period of six consecutive months, in
each of which months he or she has worked at least 160 hours, or one who has
worked in said Department for a period of six months, non-consecutively, within
a period of seven consecutive months, and in each of which said six months he
or she shall have worked at least 160 hours.
   (B)   All regularly employed members of the city’s Street Department, a
regularly employed member being as hereinbefore defined in division (A) above,
shall be entitled to one day of sick leave per month, cumulative, to a total of
12 days in any calendar year. If such 12 days are not used in any calendar
year, they are not cumulative, and do not carry over unto any other calendar
year.
   (C)   Before a regularly employed member of the Street Department is
entitled to sick leave pay, he or she shall first notify the city’s Street
Commissioner of his or her illness or injury, as soon as reasonably
practicable, and shall thereafter produce a physician’s certificate for illness
of more than three days duration, to both the city’s Street Commissioner and
the Mayor, of his or her illness or injury.
   (D)   It shall be the duty of the city’s Street Commissioner to record, in a
permanently bound book, open to the inspection of the Mayor and Common Council,
the sick leave time granted to members of the city’s Street Department, and the
day, month, and year in which the same was granted. The Street Commissioner
shall further record the vacation time granted to members of the city’s Street
Department, and the day, month, and year in which the same was granted.
(Prior Code, § 2-18.2) (Ord. passed 1-7-1974)
§ 30.21 SAME; SICK LEAVE.
   (A)   All regularly employed members of the city’s Street Department, a
regularly employed member being as hereinbefore defined in §
30.20, shall be entitled to one day of sick leave per month, cumulative, to a
total of 12 days in any calendar year. If such 12 days are not used in any
calendar year, they are not cumulative and do not carry over into any other
calendar year.
   (B)   Before a regularly employed member of the Street Department is
entitled to sick leave pay, he or she shall first notify the city’s Street
Commissioner of his or her illness or injury, as soon as reasonably
practicable, and shall thereafter produce a physician’s certificate for illness
of more than three days duration, to both the city’s Street Commissioner and
the Mayor, of his or her illness or injury.
(Prior Code, § 2-18.3)
§ 30.22 SAME; RECORDS OF SICK AND VACATION LEAVE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the city’s Street Commissioner to record in a
permanently bound book, open to the inspection of the Mayor and Common Council,
the sick leave time granted to members of the city’s Street Department, and the
day, month, and year in which the same was granted.
   (B)   The Street Commissioner shall further record the vacation time granted
to members of the city’s Street Department, and the day, month, and year in
which the same was granted.
(Prior Code, § 2-18.4)
§ 30.23 REGULAR EMPLOYEE DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   REGULAR EMPLOYEE OF THE CITY OF WESTON. One employed in any department of
the City of Weston other than the Street Department, Fire Department, and
Police Department for a period of six consecutive months, in each of which
months he or she has worked at least five days per week (six hours or more per
day), or one who has worked in such Department for a period of six months, non-
consecutively, within a period of seven consecutive months, and in each of
which six months he or she shall have worked at least five days per week (six
hours or more per day).
(Ord. passed 10-17-1983)
§ 30.24 SICK LEAVE FOR REGULAR EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   All regularly employed persons of the city, except in the Street
Department, Fire Department, and Police Department, as hereinbefore defined in
§
30.23, shall be entitled to one day of sick leave per month, cumulative to a
total of 12 days in any calendar year. If such 12 days are not used in any
calendar year, they are not cumulative and do not carry over into any other
calendar year.
   (B)   Before any regularly employed person of the city is entitled to sick
leave pay, he or she shall first notify the department head of the department
in which he or she is employed of his or her illness or injury as soon as
reasonably practical, and shall thereafter produce a physician’s certificate of
illness of more than three days duration to both the department head aforesaid
and the Mayor, certifying his or her illness or injury.
(Ord. passed 10-17-1983)
§ 30.25 VACATION LEAVE FOR REGULAR EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   (1)   Each regular employee of the city, as hereinafter defined in §
30.23 (excluding members of the Street Department, Fire Department, and Police
Department), shall be entitled, after 12 months employment, to ten days annual
vacation.
      (2)   Each employee shall notify his or her department head of the
vacation time requested reasonably in advance of the time so designated, said
vacation time, or such thereof as may be reasonable, shall be designated and
approved by the employee’s department head. Vacation days shall not be
accumulated from calendar year to calendar year.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the department head to record in a permanently
bound book, open to the inspection of the Mayor and the Common Council, the
sick leave time granted as well as vacation time applied for and granted to
regularly employed persons of the city, except the Street Department, Fire
Department, and Police Department, and the day, month, and year in which the
same was granted.
(Ord. passed 10-17-1983)
§ 30.26 RETRIEVAL AND PRODUCTION FEES.
   (A)   The actual cost to the city for use of its employees’ time in
responding to records requests that require a search beyond a nominal amount of
time is equivalent to the rate of pay of the employee performing the search and
records production plus the portion of labor additives due that employee for
the time period during which he or she performs the search and production
functions. Each person making a records request upon the city shall be required
to pay a fee equivalent to the rate of pay of the employee performing the
search and records production plus the portion of labor additives due that
employee for the time period during which he or she performs the search and
production functions per hour of employee time spent locating and categorizing
responsive records and preparing any written response or data collection in
response to the request, in order to reimburse the city for its reasonably
expected costs.
   (B)   The actual cost to the city for reproduction of records by production
of paper copies of such records is $1 per page, or other amount deemed
appropriate by the Municipal Court. Each person making a records request upon
the city and requesting production of paper copies of such records shall be
required to pay a fee of $1 per page produced, or other amount deemed
appropriate by the Municipal Court, in order to reimburse the city for its
reasonably expected costs.
   (C)   The City Manager is authorized to promulgate and enforce rules and
regulations designed to achieve the collection of the fees authorized by this
section.
(Ord. passed 11-3-2014)
§ 30.27 NATIONAL INCIDENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM.
   The Common Council does hereby adopt and establish the National Incident
Management System (NIMS) as the municipal standard for incident management.
(Ord. passed 4-3-2006)
§ 30.28 PAYMENT OF FEES REQUIRED.
   Permits related to licenses, permits, and the like shall not be issued
unless, and until, the seeker of the license is fully paid on any municipal
fee, tax, or the like.
(Ord. 2022-08, passed 3-7-2022)
COMMON COUNCIL
§ 30.40 TIME AND PLACE OF MEETINGS; QUORUM.
   (A)   (1)   Regular meetings of the Common Council shall be held at the
Council Chamber on the first Monday of each month at 8:00 p.m. and also at such
times as may be fixed by special orders of adjournment; provided, that when the
first Monday of any month shall fall upon a holiday, the Common Council may fix
another day for such meeting.
      (2)   A majority of the Council shall be necessary for a quorum for the
transaction of business at any meeting, regular, adjourned, or special.
   (B)   (1)   Special meetings of the Common Council may be called by the
Mayor or any three members thereof.
      (2)   Whenever special meetings of the Council are called it shall be
done by a warrant directed to the Chief of Police, signed by the Mayor or three
members of the Council, and stating distinctly and by separate items the
matters of business for which the meeting is called.
      (3)   The Chief of Police shall give notice to every member then in the
city, and shall return the warrant to the City Clerk who shall enter the same
in the journal.
(Prior Code, § 2-19)
Charter reference:
   Composition of Common Council, see
Charter § 4
   Filling vacancies in office, see
Charter § 15
   Ineligibility of officers or failure to qualify, see
Charter § 18
   Oath of officers, see
Charter § 17
   Qualifications of Mayor and Council members, see
Charter § 6
Statutory reference:
   As to general corporate powers of city, see W. Va. Code 8-12-1 to 8-12-20
   Compensation of officers, regardless of charter provisions, see W. Va. Code
8-5-12
   Oath of office, see W. Va. Code 8-5-8
   Taxation and finance, see W. Va. Code 8-13-1 et seq.
§ 30.41 MEETINGS TO BE PUBLIC EXCEPT WHEN IN EXECUTIVE SESSION.
   All meetings of the Common Council shall be open to orderly members of the
public; provided, that the Council when sitting as a committee of the whole may
go into executive session and exclude all persons from attending such executive
session except those whose presence is deemed necessary by such committee of
the whole; and provided further, that the committee of the whole shall not
reconstitute itself as the Common Council until the executive session is
terminated and the meeting is again open to orderly members of the public.
(Prior Code, § 2-20)
§ 30.42 PROCEDURE WHEN MEETING LACKS QUORUM.
   It shall be lawful for any two or more members of the Common Council who
have assembled at a time appointed for a meeting thereof to recess temporarily
or to adjourn to a subsequent time, and to cause the sergeant at arms to compel
the attendance of the absent members or give notice to the absent members of
the time to which adjournment has been made, requiring their attendance at such
adjourned meeting.
(Prior Code, § 2-21)
Charter reference:
   Authority to compel attendance of absentees at meeting, see
Charter § 26
§ 30.43 PRESIDING OFFICER AT MEETINGS; MEMBER HAVING CONFLICTING INTEREST MAY
NOT VOTE.
   Meetings of the Common Council shall be presided over by the Mayor or, in
his or her absence, by the Council member chosen by the Common Council to
preside over meetings of the Council in the event of the Mayor’s absence or
disability as provided in Charter § 21-a; and in the absence of both such
persons, then by a Council member chosen by a majority of the members of the
Common Council then present.
(Prior Code, § 2-22)
§ 30.44 SERGEANT AT ARMS.
   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to attend all meetings of the
Common Council or cause a competent police officer to do so, to serve as
sergeant at arms and perform such lawful duties as may be required of him or
her.
(Prior Code, § 2-23)
§ 30.45 CITY CLERK TO ATTEND MEETINGS AND KEEP JOURNAL OF COUNCIL.
   The City Clerk shall attend all meetings of the Common Council and shall
keep, in a well-bound book, which may be known as the journal, an accurate
record of all its proceedings, which shall be fully indexed and open to the
inspection of all interested persons. Upon request of any member of the
Council, the ayes and noes on any question shall be taken and entered upon the
journal.
(Prior Code, § 2-24)
Charter reference:
   Duties of City Clerk with respect to journal, ordinances, and the like, see
Charter §§
21 and
23
   Required entry of ayes and noes in journal, see
Charter § 24
Statutory reference:
   As to journal and record of Council meetings, see W. Va. Code 8-9-3
§ 30.46 ORDER OF BUSINESS AT MEETINGS.
   (A)   (1)   At each meeting of the Common Council the roll shall be called
and members shall be recorded in the journal as present or absent.
      (2)   Then, the proceedings of the last meeting shall be read and
corrected, if erroneous, and signed by the City Clerk and the presiding officer
for the time being.
      (3)   The subsequent proceedings at any regular meeting shall then be as
follows:
         (a)   First - petitions;
         (b)   Second - unfinished business appearing upon the record;
         (c)   Third - reports of committees;
         (d)   Fourth - reports of officers;
         (e)   Fifth - consideration and allowance of compensation due officers
and employees; and
         (f)   Sixth - new business.
   (B)   The order or proceedings may be suspended or changed at any meeting,
for the time being, by a majority vote of the members of the Council present.
(Prior Code, § 2-25)
Charter reference:
   Reading and correction of minutes of preceding meeting, see
Charter § 24
Statutory reference:
   Reading and correction of minutes of preceding meeting, see W. Va. Code 8-9-
3
§ 30.47 MAYOR’S VOTE; CITY CLERK HAS NO VOTE.
   The Mayor shall be entitled to vote on all questions but the City Clerk
shall have no vote as a member of the Common Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-26)
§ 30.48 ALL QUESTIONS REQUIRE MAJORITY VOTE FOR PASSAGE.
   No money shall be appropriated by the Common Council, no contract on behalf
of the city shall be entered into or authorized, nor shall any ordinance,
resolution, motion, or order be passed unless a majority of the members be
present when the question is put, and concur therein.
(Prior Code, § 2-27)
§ 30.49 REQUIREMENTS FOR APPROPRIATIONS AND ORDERS FOR PAYMENT OF CITY MONEY.
   The Common Council shall not appropriate, or order the payment of any city
money either by check or in cash, from any fund whatsoever, except by approval
of a majority of the members of the Council at a duly constituted meeting.
Orders for the payment of money, when so approved, shall be signed by the Mayor
and City Clerk, directed to the City Treasurer; and it shall be the duty of the
City Clerk to spread upon the minutes every order for the payment of money,
showing the amount of money, to whom payable, for what purpose allowed, and the
fund from which payment is to be made.
(Prior Code, § 2-28)
Charter reference:
   Charter provisions upon which this section is based, see Charter §§
27 and
29
§ 30.50 ORDINANCE PROCEDURES GENERALLY.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any Charter provision to the contrary, which Charter
provision was in effect on July 1, 1969, it shall not be necessary, except
where otherwise provided by state law or this code, for the Common Council to
publish in a newspaper any proposed ordinance prior to the adoption thereof, or
any enacted ordinance subsequent to the adoption thereof, and any and all
ordinances shall be adopted in accordance with the following requirements,
except where different or additional requirements are specified in other
provisions of state law or this code, in which event such other different or
additional requirements shall be applicable.
      (1)   A proposed ordinance shall be read by title at not less than two
meetings of the Common Council with at least one week intervening between each
meeting, unless a member of the Council demands that the ordinance be read in
full at one or both meetings. If such demand is made, the ordinance shall be
read in full as demanded.
      (2)   At least five days before the meeting at which a proposed
ordinance, the principal object of which is the raising of revenue for the
city, is to be finally adopted, the Common Council shall cause notice of the
proposed adoption of such proposed ordinance to be published as a Class I-
O legal advertisement in compliance with the provisions of W. Va. Code Ch. 59,
Art. 3, and the publication area for such publication shall be this city. The
notice shall state the subject matter and general title or titles of such
proposed ordinance, the date, time, and place of the proposed final vote on
adoption, and the place or places within the city where such proposed ordinance
may be inspected by the public. A reasonable number of copies of the proposed
ordinance shall be kept at such place or places and be made available for
public inspection. Said notice shall also advise that interested parties may
appear at the meeting and be heard with respect to the proposed ordinance.
      (3)   A proposed ordinance shall not be materially amended at the same
meeting at which finally adopted.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any Charter provision to the contrary, which Charter
provision was in effect on July 1, 1969, the Common Council may adopt, by
ordinance, building codes, housing codes, plumbing codes, sanitary codes,
electrical codes, fire prevention codes, or any other technical codes dealing
with general public health, safety, or welfare, or a combination of the same,
or a comprehensive code of ordinances, in the manner prescribed in this
division (B). Before any such ordinance shall be adopted, the code shall be
either printed or typewritten and shall be presented in pamphlet form to the
Common Council at a regular meeting, and copies of such code shall be made
available for public inspection. The ordinance adopting such code shall not set
out such code in full, but shall merely identify the same. The vote on adoption
of such ordinance shall be the same as on any other ordinance. After adoption
of the ordinance, such code or codes shall be certified by the Mayor and shall
be filed as permanent records in the office of the City Clerk, who shall not be
required to transcribe and record the same in the ordinance book as other
ordinances are transcribed and recorded. Consistent with the provisions of
division (A) above, it shall not be necessary that any such ordinance, either
as proposed or after adoption, be published in any newspaper, and it shall not
be necessary that the code itself be so published, but before final adoption of
any such proposed ordinance, notice of the proposed adoption of such ordinance
and code shall be given by publication as herein provided for ordinances, the
principal object of which is the raising of revenue for the city, which notice
shall also state where, within the city, the code or codes will be available
for public inspection.
   (C)   The Common Council may enact an ordinance without complying with the
rules prescribed in this section only in the case of a pressing public
emergency making procedure in accordance with the provisions of this section
dangerous to the public health, safety, or morals, and by affirmative vote of
two-thirds of the members elected to the Common Council, or when otherwise
provided by state law. The nature of any such emergency shall be set out in
full in the ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 2-29)
Charter reference:
   As to appropriation of funds and incurring debt, see
Charter § 29
Statutory reference:
   As to ordinances and ordinance procedures, see W. Va. Code 8-11-1 et seq.
§ 30.51 SAME; ATTESTATION; RECORD OF ORDINANCES.
   Each ordinance, upon its final passage, shall be signed by the presiding
officer of the Common Council and attested by the City Clerk, who shall then
number it consecutively and record it in the record of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 2-30)
§ 30.52 SAME; ORDINANCES TO REPEAL, AMEND, OR ADD TO PROVISIONS OF THIS CODE,
AND RECORDS THEREOF.
   (A)   Each bill which proposes an ordinance to repeal, amend, or add to any
portion of this code, and each bill which proposes an ordinance of a general
and permanent nature suitable for inclusion in this code though constituting
new subject matter not therein contained, shall be drafted so as to specify the
specific section numbers, divisions, and the like of this code which are to be
repealed or amended and, with respect to additions and to new subject matter,
so as to provide appropriate chapter, subchapter, section, and the like,
numbers therefor; and each amendment of and addition to this code shall be set
out in full and appropriate chapter and subchapter headings and section catch-
lines shall be included.
   (B)   Upon the adoption of an ordinance to repeal, amend, or add to any
portion of this code, or to include new subject matter in this code, the City
Clerk shall separate the several chapters, subchapters, sections, and the like
of such ordinance and enter them in their proper places in each file copy of
this code and shall remove therefrom any portion so repealed or amended, and in
the margin of each insertion in the file copies of this code, he or she shall
note and initial the date of passage, effective date, and number of the
amending or repealing ordinance.
   (C)   Items removed from the file copies of this code pursuant to division
(B) above shall be maintained by the City Clerk in a separate, loose leaf
volume, arranged properly according to their respective chapters, articles,
sections, and the like, and each item so removed from the file copies of this
code shall, in the margin of each such item, be noted and initialed by him or
her to show the effective date and the number of both the enacting and
repealing or amending ordinances. The volume in which such repealed and amended
items are to be included shall be known as the “Record of Repealed and Amended
Portions of the Code of the City of Weston, West Virginia”, the purpose of
which is to enable city officers and other persons interested to ascertain the
status of this code at any given time in the past.
   (D)   The requirements of division (B) above are in addition to the
requirement that each ordinance, upon adoption, shall be included in the record
of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 2-31)
§ 30.53 RESOLUTIONS AND RECORD THEREOF.
   (A)   Each resolution shall, before its introduction, be reduced to writing
and, when adopted, shall be signed by the presiding officer and attested by the
City Clerk, who shall then date and number it and file it in his or her office
in a book for that purpose which shall be known as the “Record of Resolutions”.
   (B)   Resolutions and portions of resolutions which are repealed or amended
by subsequent resolutions or ordinances shall be noted and initialed in the
margin thereof by the City Clerk so as to show the date and number of the
repealing or amendatory ordinance or resolution, but shall not be removed from
the Record of Resolutions.
(Prior Code, § 2-32)
§ 30.54 RULES.
   (A)   The Common Council may by resolution adopt such rules as may be deemed
desirable for the conduct of its meetings, the transaction of its business, and
the official conduct of its members, and may include therein reasonable
penalties for the violation thereof; but no such rule shall be inconsistent
with the state law, the Charter, or this code.
   (B)   Such rules may include, among other subjects, the following:
      (1)   Appointment, jurisdiction, and duties of standing and special
committees of the Council;
      (2)   Attendance at meetings of the Council by members and by others;
      (3)   Investigations and hearings, and compulsory attendance thereat of
witnesses and the production of books and papers;
      (4)   Parliamentary procedure;
      (5)   Preservation of order at meetings; and
      (6)   Manner and form of petitions, applications, and other papers
intended for presentation to the Council, and procedures relating thereto.
(Prior Code, § 2-33)
§ 30.55 REMISSION OF FINES AND PENALTIES.
   The Common Council may, on proper application, remit in part or in whole any
fine or penalty imposed pursuant to authority of this code or other ordinance
which shall be made to appear unjust, illegal, or excessive. All petitions for
remissions of fines and penalties shall be verified by affidavit, and
accompanied by a transcript of the record of the case and a statement of the
evidence from the Mayor, or other officer rendering the judgment. Such
petitions shall be referred to an appropriate committee of the Common Council
for their careful investigation and report before being acted upon by the
Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-34)
§ 30.56 PERSONNEL POLICIES ADOPTED.
   The personnel policies and procedures attached to the ordinance codified
herein and made a part hereof be and they are hereby adopted as “the Personnel
Policies and Procedures of the City of Weston” applicable to all employees of
the city except elected officials, and in so far as they are not in conflict
with any express statute of the state with respect to the employment of
municipal police officers and municipal firefighters.
(Ord. passed 12-23-1987)
§ 30.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter for which no other
penalty is provided shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any violation of §
30.16(A) shall be a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, such employee or
officer shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $500, or other amount
deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court, and shall automatically be removed
from the office or position held by him or her.
(Prior Code, § 2-16)
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICERS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Oath of office
   
31.02   Limited authority to administer oaths; false swearing
   
31.03   Authority of deputies, assistants, and acting city officers
   
31.04   Dual office holding
   
31.05   Property and property insurance inventories
Specific Officers
   
31.20   Mayor
   
31.21   City Clerk, qualifications, powers and duties generally
   
31.22   Same; duties as Assessor
   
31.23   City Treasurer, powers and duties generally; records and reports
   
31.24   Same; collection and deposit of city money; how payments made from City
Treasury; consequences upon failure to City Treasurer to comply with section
   
31.25   City Attorney
   
31.26   Street Commissioner
   
31.27   City Engineer
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 OATH OF OFFICE.
   All city officers shall take the following oath, before entering upon their
duties, which shall be filed with the City Clerk and a certified copy thereof
shall be filed in the office of the county clerk: “I, (name of affiant), do
solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States and
the Constitution of the State of West Virginia, and that I will truly,
faithfully, and impartially discharge the duties of the office upon which I am
about to enter to the best of my skill and judgment.”
(Prior Code, § 2-35)
§ 31.02 LIMITED AUTHORITY TO ADMINISTER OATHS; FALSE SWEARING.
   (A)   The Mayor, the presiding officer of the Common Council or any
committee thereof, the presiding officer of any board, commission, or other
body of the city government, the City Clerk, the City Treasurer, and each other
officer, deputy, or assistant officer of the city to whom any sworn statement,
whether oral or in writing, is required to be made or submitted by any person
pursuant to any provision of the Charter, this code, or other ordinance or
resolution of the Common Council shall have authority to administer the oath so
required; provided, that nothing in this section shall be construed as
purporting to authorize the administration of any oath which, by law, is
required to be administered by a judicial officer, notary public, or other
officer authorized by statute to administer oaths, nor shall this section be
construed as purporting to authorize the taking of any acknowledgment of any
signature or seal for the purpose of recording in the office of the Clerk of
the County Court or elsewhere other than in the office of the City Clerk or
some other office of this city.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to whom an oath has been
administered pursuant to this section to knowingly make any false certificate,
affidavit, or statement, oral or written, concerning any matter whatsoever in
violation of such oath.
(Prior Code, § 2-36) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 31.03 AUTHORITY OF DEPUTIES, ASSISTANTS, AND ACTING CITY OFFICERS.
   (A)   Authority vested in and duties imposed upon city officers by state
law, the Charter, this code, or other ordinances and resolutions of the Common
Council may, when they so authorize, be exercised or performed by their
deputies, assistants, and other subordinates, to the extent not prohibited by
state law, the Charter, this code, or other ordinance or resolution of the
Common Council.
   (B)   When any city officer or employee is absent or disabled, or when any
office or position in the city government is vacant, the person designated by
competent authority to act in the place of such absent or disabled officer or
employee or to hold temporarily the vacant office or position shall have the
powers and perform the duties of such absent or disabled officer or employee or
appertaining to such vacant office or position.
(Prior Code, § 2-37)
§ 31.04 DUAL OFFICE HOLDING.
   Any city officer may be appointed or designated by the Mayor, with the
approval of the Common Council, to hold one or more other offices of the city
government concurrently, except in any case otherwise provided by state law,
the city Charter, this code, or other ordinance of the Common Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-38)
§ 31.05 PROPERTY AND PROPERTY INSURANCE INVENTORIES.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall maintain on file in his or her office an
inventory of all real property owned by or leased to the city. This inventory
shall be maintained in current status, and during January of each year shall be
revised, as may be appropriate, to show changes in value due to depreciation or
to repairs, renovations, and the like. For each building or lot such inventory
shall also show a brief description, a reference to the deed, devise, lease, or
other instrument whereby the city acquired title to or the use thereof, the
department, office, or agency charged with custody, the purpose or use, the
insurance of all types thereon, together with notes as to premiums payable and
anniversary dates, and for property owned by the city and leased to other
persons, copies of such leases, and appropriate notes as to the revenues
derived therefrom.
   (B)   Each city officer having custody of items of nonexpendable personal
property of value greater than $25, or other amount deemed appropriate by the
Municipal Court, owned by or leased to the city shall, during January of each
year, prepare in duplicate an itemized inventory of such property, showing for
each item its value and a brief description, together with identification (by
serial number, where applicable), a reference to the instrument, if any,
whereby title or use was acquired, the department, office, or agency having
custody, the purpose or use, and the insurance of all types, if any, together
with notes as to premiums payable and anniversary dates. The original copy of
each such inventory shall be filed in the office of the City Clerk before
February 1 of each year, and the duplicate copy shall be retained on file in
the office of the person who prepared it.
(Prior Code, § 2-39)
SPECIFIC OFFICERS
§ 31.20 MAYOR.
   The Mayor shall be the chief executive officer of the city and head of the
city government. He or she shall take care that all provisions of this code and
other ordinances, resolutions, and orders of the Common Council are faithfully
executed, and he or she shall faithfully perform the duties and exercise the
powers prescribed for the Mayor in the Charter. The Mayor shall also have such
additional powers and perform such additional duties as may be prescribed for
Mayors and other chief executive officers of municipalities by applicable
provisions of state law.
(Prior Code, § 2-40)
§ 31.21 CITY CLERK, QUALIFICATIONS, POWERS AND DUTIES GENERALLY.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall be custodian of the city seal and of all records,
books, documents, and papers for which the custody is not otherwise provided,
and he or she shall certify to all true copies thereof and charge such fees
therefor as may be prescribed by this code or other ordinances of the Common
Council. The City Clerk shall issue all city licenses and permits not issued by
other city officers and keep full and accurate records thereof, and he or she
shall serve as recording secretary to the Common Council. The City Clerk shall
have such other powers and perform such other duties as may be provided for
municipal clerks and recorders in applicable provisions of state law.
   (B)   (1)   Pursuant to the authority as set forth in W. Va. Code 8-10-4, as
amended, the Clerk is hereby authorized and directed, in the absence of the
Mayor and/or Municipal Judge, to issue warrants for arrest for the violation of
ordinances of the city, to administer oaths, and to accept and approve sureties
and bonds.
      (2)   The authority herein provided shall be upon the appointment and
confirmation by the governing body of such Clerk to utilize such authority,
which authority may be hereafter removed by a majority vote of and by the
governing body.
   (C)   The City Clerk is not required to be a freeholder in order to be
qualified to be the City Clerk. Also, the City Clerk shall not necessarily be a
resident of the City of Weston. The city, through its Common Council, shall
appoint to the City Clerk position whoever the Common Council deems
appropriate.
(Prior Code, § 2-41) (Ord passed 6-4-1984; Ord. passed 6-14-2021)
§ 31.22 SAME; DUTIES AS ASSESSOR.
   (A)   The City Clerk, in his or her capacity as Assessor, shall annually,
not later than March 3, procure from the County Assessor his or her certified
statement, showing in separate amount the aggregate value of all real and
personal property within the city which is subject to taxation by the city, and
showing the classification of such property for tax purposes, as provided in W.
Va. Code 11-3-6.
   (B)   Upon procurement of such list from the County Assessor, the City Clerk
shall place it before the Common Council at its next regular meeting.
(Prior Code, § 2-42)
§ 31.23 CITY TREASURER, POWERS AND DUTIES GENERALLY; RECORDS AND REPORTS.
   (A)   The City Treasurer shall have the powers and perform the duties
prescribed by the Charter for the Tax Collector and the City Collector, and he
or she shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as may be
prescribed for the office of City Treasurer by state law, the Charter, this
code and other ordinances, resolutions, and orders of the Common Council.
   (B)   The City Treasurer shall keep complete and accurate fiscal accounts
and records as required by law and in the manner prescribed by the State Tax
Commissioner and other state officers having authority to prescribe therefor,
and in accordance with directives from the Common Council; and he or she shall
render such reports as may be required of him or her by law, this code, or
other ordinance, resolution, or order of the Common Council.
   (C)   The City Treasurer shall keep all receipt books, bank books, deposit
books, cancelled cheeks, bank statements, ledger books, and all other records
pertaining to the fiscal affairs of the city which are normally in the charge
and custody of the City Treasurer in a proper place therefor in the City
Building of the city.
   (D)   The City Treasurer shall have prepared a financial statement and
record of receipts and disbursements on a current basis for delivery at each
regular meeting of the Common Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-43)
Charter reference:
   As to bond of City Collector as Treasurer, see Charter § 39
   As to bonds and oath of office generally, see
Charter § 17
   As to ineligibility or failure to qualify, see
Charter § 18
   As to powers and duties of the Tax Collector, see
Charter § 16
§ 31.24 SAME; COLLECTION AND DEPOSIT OF CITY MONEY; HOW PAYMENTS MADE FROM CITY
TREASURY; CONSEQUENCES UPON FAILURE TO CITY TREASURER TO COMPLY WITH SECTION.
   (A)   (1)   Except as may be otherwise provided by this code or by state
law, the City Treasurer shall collect all taxes, fines, special assessments,
and other money due the city, and shall receive from all city officers and
employees money paid to them for the city, and all city money so collected or
received by him or her shall be deposited promptly in a depository designated
for such purpose by the Common Council.
      (2)   He or she shall not pay out any money of the city except as it
shall have appropriated and ordered by the Common Council to be paid, and he or
she shall sign all checks, drafts, and warrants against the City Treasury or
any depository of the city only upon order so to do, signed by the Mayor and
City Clerk.
   (B)   The City Treasurer shall not accept an order for the payment of money
unless all blanks have been properly filled in. He or she shall preserve in his
or her office all orders paid by him or her to be used in making his or her
settlement with the city.
   (C)   If, when an order is presented to the City Treasurer, there are no
funds for the payment thereof, the person entitled to receive the sum of money
specified in such order may require the City Treasurer to endorse thereon or
write across the face thereof the words “Presented for Payment”, with the
proper date, and sign the same, and the order if it was due, at the time of
presentment, shall in such case be payable with legal interest from the date of
such presentment.
   (D)   No payment shall be paid in advance, except as may be provided
otherwise by the Common Council in any case and stated in the order to the City
Treasurer.
   (E)   Failure of the City Treasurer to comply with this section shall be
prima facie evidence of a cause for reprimand or suspension or grounds for
dismissal.
(Prior Code, § 2-44)
Charter reference:
   As to receipt of and payments from city money, see
Charter § 27
Statutory reference:
   As to payment of money out of Municipal Treasury, see W. Va. Code 8-13-22
§ 31.25 CITY ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The City Attorney shall be a member in good standing of the bar of the
Circuit Court of Lewis County, and shall receive such regular compensation for
his or her services as may be provided from time to time by ordinance of the
Common Council.
   (B)   The services for which the City Attorney is paid such regular
compensation shall be all administrative legal services, which shall include,
but shall not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   Advice and assistance to the city and the preparation of such
documents as may be necessary in connection with the conduct of the regular
business of the city;
      (2)   Supervision, as to legality, of the official minutes of the city;
      (3)   Advice and assistance to officers of the city;
      (4)   Approval of the legality of contracts and of all payments
thereunder; and
      (5)   Handling of all legal questions and matters arising under the
affairs of the city and rendering of legal opinions on all matters submitted by
the city.
   (C)   The City Attorney shall be paid additional compensation for the
handling of litigation, civil or criminal, and for special or unusual services
in an amount equal to the reasonable value of services involved as agreed to by
the city prior to the commencement of such services.
(Prior Code, § 2-45)
Charter reference:
   Election and term of office, see Charter §§
8 and 47
   Ineligibility or failure to qualify, see
Charter § 18
   Oath of office, see
Charter § 17
   Qualifications of City Attorney, see
Charter § 6
§ 31.26 STREET COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   The Street Commissioner shall possess such powers and perform such
duties as may be prescribed for such office by state law, this code, and other
ordinances of the city. Subject to the supervision and control of the Common
Council, the Street Commissioner shall manage and have charge of the
construction, improvement, repair, maintenance, lighting, sprinkling, cleaning,
and operation of streets, sidewalks, alleys, lanes, bridges, viaducts, and
other public ways, drains, ditches, culverts, streams and all public places and
grounds belonging to the city or dedicated to public use, except parks and
playgrounds, and buildings occupied by other departments of the city, and
except for services furnished by the State Road Commission.
   (B)   The Street Commissioner shall be head of the Street Department, and
shall have control of the employees of the Department and approve their
employment by the city.
   (C)   The Street Commissioner shall be charged with the preservation of
papers, plans, tools, appliances, and mechanical equipment pertaining to the
Street Department. He or she shall make inventory of all personal property
provided by the city for the use of his or her Department when his or her term
of office commences and shall file a copy thereof with the City Clerk and shall
make and file a similar inventory at the conclusion of his or her term of
office.
   (D)   The Street Commissioner shall be charged with the enforcement of all
the obligations of privately owned or operated public utilities enforceable by
the city and make complaint to the appropriate court for violation by such
utilities.
   (E)   The Street Commissioner shall perform such other and related duties as
may from time to time be required of him or her by the Common Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-46)
Charter reference:
   Election and term of office, see Charter §§
8 and 47
   Ineligibility or failure to qualify, see
Charter § 18
   Oath of office, see
Charter § 17
   Qualifications of Street Commissioner, see
Charter § 6
§ 31.27 CITY ENGINEER.
   The City Engineer or the officer designated by the Common Council to act in
lieu of a City Engineer, shall maintain on file in his or her office copies of
plans and specifications for street and sidewalk construction and for the
construction of other public improvements, works, and buildings not required to
be filed elsewhere, together with copies of all plans, plats, drawings, and
diagrams which by law, this code, or other ordinance require his or her
approval. He or she shall maintain a record of street grades and bench marks
within the city, and such other records of an engineering or topographical
nature as may be of use to the city or any of its officers or employees in the
discharge of official duty. Except as may be provided otherwise by law, this
code, or other ordinance, the City Engineer shall supervise all engineering,
construction, and surveying work done by or for the city, and shall perform
such other duties of a professional nature as may be required of him or her by
the Common Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-47)
CHAPTER 32: BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Codes Appeal Board
   
32.001   Board established; qualifications, term, and appointment of members;
filling vacancies
   
32.002   Meetings and records; quorum
   
32.003   Officers; rules and regulations
   
32.004   Decisions under certain technical codes which are subject to appeal;
procedure for taking appeal
   
32.005   Modifications and variances by Board; vote required; conflicts of
interest
   
32.006   Decisions of Board and information thereof and action thereon
   
32.007   Judicial review
Polk Creek Flood Control Project Board
   
32.020   Established; composition; compensation of members
   
32.021   Term of members; how vacancies filled
   
32.022   Officers
   
32.023   Meetings
   
32.024   Bank account; bond of Secretary and Treasurer
   
32.025   Bylaws, rules, and regulations
   
32.026   Powers and duties generally; Polk Creek Project Fund; supervision and
management of project
   
32.027   Same; specific
   
32.028   Contracts in name of city
Municipal Planning Commission
   
32.040   Created
   
32.041   Powers and duties
   
32.042   Appointments; officers
   
32.043   Acknowledgment and support of Council
   
32.044   Membership; term, nomination, and removal
   
32.045   Meetings; quorum
   
32.046   Planning Commission may accept gifts, funds, and donations
Fine Arts Council
   
32.060   Council established
   
32.061   Powers and duties
   
32.062   Corporation name
   
32.063   Mission statement
   
32.064   Finance
   
32.065   Membership
   
32.066   Rights and powers of members
   
32.067   Board of Directors
   
32.068   Officers
   
32.069   Committees
   
32.070   Meetings
   
32.071   Amendment
   
32.072   Dissolution
Charter Board
   
32.085   Composition, membership, and the like
   
32.086   Duties
   
32.087   Presenting the question of amendment of the charter
Historic Landmark Commission
   
32.100   Composition, membership, and the like
   
32.101   Duties
   
32.102   Certification
   
32.103   Historic District
   
32.104   Cooperation with state organizations
Cemetery Board
   
32.115   Findings
   
32.116   Board created
   
32.117   Duties
   
32.118   Composition
Ambulance Service Authority
   
32.130   Established
   
32.131   Appointment of members; terms of office
   
32.132   Organization of authority; officers
   
32.133   Powers and limitations of authority
   
32.134   Limitation of authority
CODES APPEAL BOARD
§ 32.001 BOARD ESTABLISHED; QUALIFICATIONS, TERM, AND APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS;
FILLING VACANCIES.
   (A)   There is hereby established for the city a board to be called the
“Codes Appeal Board”, consisting of five members who are qualified by
experience and training to pass upon matters pertaining to building
construction, plumbing and electrical installation, and matters pertaining
generally to housing hygiene. Members of the Board shall be nominated by the
Mayor and each nomination shall be approved or rejected by the Common Council.
Members shall serve for a term of five years and until their successors are
appointed and qualified. Any vacancy occurring in the membership of the Board
shall be filled for the unexpired term in the same manner as original
appointments are made.
   (B)   Prior to April 1 of each year, one member shall be appointed to take
office on April 1 next succeeding his or her appointment.
(Prior Code, § 2-48)
§ 32.002 MEETINGS AND RECORDS; QUORUM.
   (A)   Meetings of the Codes Appeal Board shall be held at the call of the
Chairperson and at such other times as the Board may determine. All hearings
before the Board shall be open to the public. The Board shall keep minutes of
its proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon every question, or if
absent or failing to vote, indicating such facts, and shall also keep records
of its examinations and other official action. Such minutes and such records
shall be public records.
   (B)   Three members of the Codes Appeal Board shall constitute a quorum.
(Prior Code, § 2-49)
§ 32.003 OFFICERS; RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   At its first meeting in April of each year, the Codes Appeal Board shall
elect one of its members as Chairperson and shall designate a Secretary and
such other officers as it may deem necessary. The Board shall make such rules
and regulations as may be necessary for the transaction of its business.
(Prior Code, § 2-50)
§ 32.004 DECISIONS UNDER CERTAIN TECHNICAL CODES WHICH ARE SUBJECT TO APPEAL;
PROCEDURE FOR TAKING APPEAL.
   (A)   Any person, including any city officer, aggrieved by any decision,
notice, or order of the building official, electrical inspector, plumbing
inspector, or other officer based upon or pursuant to authority of the Building
Code, the Minimum Housing Standards Code, the Electrical Code, or the Plumbing
Code, hereinafter in this division referred to collectively as the Technical
Codes, may take an appeal from such decision, notice, or order to the Codes
Appeal Board.
   (B)   An appeal may be taken within 60 days from the date of the decision,
notice, or order appealed by filing with the officer appealed from and with the
Codes Appeal Board a notice of appeal, specifying the grounds thereof, except
that in the case of a building or structure which, in the opinion of the
officer appealed from, is unsafe or dangerous, such officer may in his or her
order limit the time for such appeal to a shorter period. The officer appealed
from shall forthwith transmit to the Codes Appeal Board all the papers upon
which the action appealed from was taken.
(Prior Code, § 2-51)
§ 32.005 MODIFICATIONS AND VARIANCES BY BOARD; VOTE REQUIRED; CONFLICTS OF
INTEREST.
   (A)   The Codes Appeal Board, when so appealed to and after a public
hearing, may vary the application of any provision of a Technical Code to any
particular case when, in its opinion, the enforcement thereof would do manifest
injustice and would be contrary to the spirit and purpose of such code or the
public interest, or when, in its opinion, the interpretation of the officer
appealed from should be modified or reversed.
   (B)   A decision of the Codes Appeal Board to vary the application of any
provision of a Technical Code, or to modify any notice or order of the officer
appealed from, shall specify in what manner such variation or modification is
made, the conditions upon which it is made, and the reasons therefor; provided,
that in varying the application of any provision of any Technical Code or in
modifying any notice or order of the officer appealed from, affirmative votes
of three members shall be required. No member of the Board shall pass upon any
question in which he or she, or any corporation in which he or she is a
shareholder, is interested.
(Prior Code, § 2-52)
§ 32.006 DECISIONS OF BOARD AND INFORMATION THEREOF AND ACTION THEREON.
   (A)   The Codes Appeal Board shall in every case reach a decision without
unreasonable or unnecessary delay. Every decision of the Board shall be in
writing and shall indicate the vote upon the decision. Every decision shall be
promptly filed in the office of the officer appealed from and shall be open to
public inspection. A certified copy shall be sent by mail or otherwise to the
appellant and a copy shall be kept publicly posted in the office of the officer
appealed from for two weeks after filing.
   (B)   If a decision of the Codes Appeal Board reverses or modifies a
refusal, notice, order, or disallowance of the officer appealed from, or varies
the application of any provision of a Technical Code, the officer appealed from
shall take action immediately in accordance with such decision.
(Prior Code, § 2-53)
§ 32.007 JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   Any person, including any city officer and the Common Council, whether
previously a party to the proceeding or not, may, within 60 days after the
filing of the decision of the Code Board of Appeal in the office of the officer
appealed from, apply to the appropriate court to correct errors of law in such
decisions.
(Prior Code, § 2-54)
POLK CREEK FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT BOARD
§ 32.020 ESTABLISHED; COMPOSITION; COMPENSATION OF MEMBERS.
   There is hereby established the Polk Creek Flood Control Project Board,
which shall be composed of the Mayor, the City Clerk, a Council member
appointed by the Mayor, and two persons appointed by the Common Council who
shall not hold an elective or appointive office in the city government and who
shall serve without compensation.
(Prior Code, § 2-55)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of city to maintain flood control projects, see W. Va. Code 8-16-
1 et seq.
   Authority to place project under supervision of an appointed board, see W.
Va. Code 8-16-4
§ 32.021 TERM OF MEMBERS; HOW VACANCIES FILLED.
   The two members of the Polk Creek Flood Control Project Board appointed by
the Common Council shall serve on the Board for a term of two years, and one
such member shall be appointed each year during the month of July. The other
members of the Board shall serve for the duration of their respective offices.
Vacancies shall be filled for an unexpired term in the same manner as the
appointment.
(Prior Code, § 2-56)
§ 32.022 OFFICERS.
   The Mayor shall act as Chairperson of the Polk Creek Flood Control Project
Board. The Board shall elect a Vice Chairperson from among its members, and the
City Clerk shall act as Secretary and Treasurer of the Board. The Vice
Chairperson shall hold office as such at the will of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 2-57)
§ 32.023 MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Chairperson shall preside at and call all meetings of the Polk
Creek Flood Control Project Board. In the absence of the Chairperson, the Vice
Chairperson shall preside at the meetings.
   (B)   A majority of the Board shall constitute a quorum sufficient to do
business, each member having one vote. The Secretary and Treasurer shall keep
minutes of each meeting.
   (C)   Meetings may be called at the will of the Chairperson, it being
mandatory that the Chairperson call a meeting at least once every three months.
(Prior Code, § 2-58)
§ 32.024 BANK ACCOUNT; BOND OF SECRETARY AND TREASURER.
   The Secretary and Treasurer shall keep a bank account in the name of the
Polk Creek Project Fund, and shall be under bond in the amount of $13,000, or
other amount deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court, with a reputable
bonding company approved by the Board and shall issue checks on such Fund at
the direction of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 2-59)
§ 32.025 BYLAWS, RULES, AND REGULATIONS.
   The Polk Creek Flood Control Project Board shall have power to establish
bylaws, rules, and regulations for its own government.
(Prior Code, § 2-60)
§ 32.026 POWERS AND DUTIES GENERALLY; POLK CREEK PROJECT FUND; SUPERVISION AND
MANAGEMENT OF PROJECT.
   The custody of Polk Creek Project Fund, and the establishment, construction,
administration, operation, and maintenance of the Polk Creek Flood Control
Project shall be under the supervision and control of the Polk Creek Flood
Control Project Board.
(Prior Code, § 2-61)
§ 32.027 SAME; SPECIFIC.
   (A)   The Polk Creek Flood Control Project Board shall have the custody and
control of all money, gifts, and donations contributed to the Polk Creek Flood
Control Project and which is in the Polk Creek Project Fund. The Board shall
receive all donations and gifts for this project, and deposit all money in the
Polk Creek Project Fund.
   (B)   The Polk Creek Flood Control Project Board shall have the further
power and duty to:
      (1)   Provide all lands, easements, rights-of-way, and disposal areas
necessary for the construction of the project;
      (2)   Cause any adjustments of highways, sewers, and utilities to be made
without cost to the United States, and furnish without cost to the United
States all such pipe for drainage or other purposes as will be integrated into
the project work;
      (3)   Coordinate work with other government agencies which are interested
in the Polk Creek Flood Control Project;
      (4)   Comply with all requirements indicated in the assurances to the
United States executed by the city;
      (5)   Establish, construct, maintain, and operate the Polk Creek Flood
Control Project according to the official plans and drawings of the Corps of
Engineers of the United States Army for such project which have been designated
as Nos. 037db. 1-P1-4/1, 037db. 1-P1-82/1, and 037db. 1-P1-82/s;
      (6)   Enter into all contracts and agreements in the name of the city in
connection with the Polk Creek Flood Control Project; and
      (7)   Arrange for the location of the McCauley’s in suitable property,
determined as such by the Board.
(Prior Code, § 2-62)
§ 32.028 CONTRACTS IN NAME OF CITY.
   All valid contracts made by the Polk Creek Flood Control Project Board in
regard to the Polk Creek Flood Control Project shall be in the name of the city
and shall be binding on the city, a municipal corporation.
(Prior Code, § 2-63)
MUNICIPAL PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 32.040 CREATED.
   There is hereby created a Municipal Planning Commission, to be known as the
“Municipal Planning Commission of the City of Weston”.
(Prior Code, § 2-64) (Ord. passed 2-7-1972)
§ 32.041 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Municipal Planning Commission of the city shall act in an advisory
capacity to the Common Council and shall work toward promoting the orderly
development of the city and its environs.
   (B)   The Municipal Planning Commission shall be vested with, and shall
exercise, all of the powers, authority, and privileges granted to municipal
planning commissions by the State Legislature, as set forth in W. Va. Code 8A-
2-10 and 8A-2-11, inclusive, or as may have heretofore been granted or as may
hereafter be granted to municipal planning commissions by the State
Legislature; and shall be charged with the performance of the duties as set
forth in the said W. Va. Code Ch. 8A, Art. 2.
   (C)   Pursuant to W. Va. Code 8A-2-10, the City Council shall provide the
Planning Commission with:
      (1)   Suitable offices for the holding of meetings and the preservation
of plans, maps, documents, and accounts; and
      (2)   Appropriate money to defray the reasonable expenses of the Planning
Commission.
   (D)   Pursuant to W. Va. Code 8A-2-11, the Planning Commission shall have
the following powers and duties:
      (1)   Exercise general supervision for the administration of the affairs
of the Planning Commission;
      (2)   Prescribe rules and regulations pertaining to administration,
investigations, and hearings; provided, the rules and regulations are adopted
by the governing body;
      (3)   Supervise the fiscal affairs and responsibilities of the Planning
Commission;
      (4)   With consent from the governing body, hire employees necessary to
carry out the duties and responsibilities of the Planning Commission; provided,
the governing body sets the salaries;
      (5)   Keep an accurate and complete record of all Planning Commission
proceedings;
      (6)   Record and file all bonds and contracts;
      (7)   Take responsibility for the custody and preservation of all papers
and documents of the Planning Commission;
      (8)   Make recommendations to the appropriate governing body concerning
planning;
      (9)   Make an annual report to the appropriate governing body concerning
the operation of the Planning Commission and the status of planning within its
jurisdiction;
      (10)   Prepare, publish, and distribute reports, ordinances, and other
material relating to the activities authorized under this section;
      (11)   Adopt a seal, and certify all official acts;
      (12)   Invoke any legal, equitable, or special remedy for the enforcement
of the provisions of this section or any ordinance, rule, or regulation, or any
action taken thereunder;
      (13)   Prepare and submit an annual budget to the appropriate governing
body by February 15 of the calendar year;
      (14)   If necessary, establish advisory committees;
      (15)   Delegate limited powers to a committee composed of one or more
members of the Planning Commission;
      (16)   Contract for special or temporary services and professional
counsel with the approval of the governing body. Upon request, a county
prosecuting attorney, the County Surveyor, the County Engineer, or any other
county or city employee may render assistance and service to a Planning
Commission without compensation;
      (17)   Consider and address issues that the governing body deems
necessary or desirable for the Planning Commission to review and make
recommendations; and
      (18)   Any and all powers that the laws and regulations of the state give
to a Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 2-65) (Ord. passed 2-7-1972; Ord. 2022-09, passed 4-4-2022)
§ 32.042 APPOINTMENTS; OFFICERS.
   (A)   The following individuals are hereby appointed as members of the
Municipal Planning Commission for the terms indicated (all terms to run from
the effective date of the ordinance codifies herein).
 
W. T. Weber, Jr. (Chairperson) for a term of three years
Alma Schrader for a term of three years
Robert E. Ours for a term of two years
Richard Cooper for a term of two years
Glen McCall for a term of one year
 
   (B)   Appointments to the Municipal Planning Commission shall be made
hereafter in accordance with applicable provisions of the laws of the state and
ordinances of the city.
   (C)   (1)   The Planning Commission shall elect from its members a president
and vice president. Said election shall occur at the first regular meeting each
year. For purposes of defining when a year starts, the Planning Commission year
begins on January 1.
      (2)   The Planning Commission is free to create other offices/officers
and fill those positions via rules adopted by the Planning Commission and
approved by City Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-66) (Ord. passed 2-7-1972; Ord. 2022-09, passed 4-4-2022)
§ 32.043 ACKNOWLEDGMENT AND SUPPORT OF COUNCIL.
   (A)   The Common Council acknowledges the importance of the activities of
the Municipal Planning Commission and pledges its support toward promoting the
orderly development of the city and its environs.
   (B)   The Municipal Planning Commission so appointed shall make and
recommend for adoption by the Common Council, a comprehensive plan for the
development of the territory within its jurisdiction, together with a proposed
ordinance for its enforcement.
(Prior Code, § 2-67) (Ord. passed 2-7-1972)
§ 32.044 MEMBERSHIP; TERM, NOMINATION, AND REMOVAL.
   (A)   Membership and term of membership. The Planning Commission shall
consist of nine members. The membership makeup shall be consistent with
requirements found in W. Va. Code 8A-2-3, or subsequent code sections that
replace or alter 8A-2-3.
      (1)   One member of the Planning Commission must be a member of the
municipal governing body (i.e., the City Council), or its designee. The term of
this member shall last as long as the member holds his or her position in the
governing body.
      (2)   One member of the Planning Commission must be a member of the
Administrative Department of the municipality (e.g., the City Manager controls
the Administrative Department), or its designee. The term of this member shall
last as long as the person holds her position in the city administration.
      (3)   Other members of the Planning Commission must be:
         (a)   Residents of the municipality; and
         (b)   Qualified by knowledge and experience in matters pertaining to
the development of the municipality.
      (4)   At least three-fifths of all of the members must have been
residents of the municipality for at least three years prior to nomination or
appointment and confirmation.
      (5)   The members of the Municipal Planning Commission must fairly
represent different areas of interest, knowledge, and expertise, including, but
not limited to, business, industry, labor, government, and other relevant
disciplines.
      (6)   The Mayor of the city shall be an ex officio member and shall count
towards the nine member requirement. The Mayor shall have voting rights as any
member.
      (7)   Members shall serve without compensation, but may be reimbursed
reasonable and necessary expenses actually incurred in performance of their
official duties.
      (8)   Members shall serve three-year terms. Vacancies shall be filled for
the unexpired term and made in the manner consistent with division (B) below.
      (9)   In the event the Commission President becomes unable or unwilling
to perform the roles of President, the Vice President shall become President.
If the President’s inability to perform his or her duties results in his or her
removal, then the Vice President shall become President and the nomination and
confirmation of a replacement member shall begin.
   (B)   Nomination of members.
      (1)   Pursuant to W. Va. Code 8A-2-3(I), the nomination of members shall
be made by the administrative authority of the city. The administrative
authority of the city rests on the City Manager. The City Manager shall
nominate members of the Planning Commission. The City Manager shall defer
nomination of the City Council representative to the judgment and majority
decision of the City Council.
      (2)   Upon nomination, the governing body of the city (i.e., the City
Council) shall, by majority vote, confirm or reject nominations presented by
the City Manager.
   (C)   Removal of members.
      (1)   Pursuant to W. Va. Code 8A-2-3(k), the governing body may establish
procedures for removal of members of the Planning Commission for inactivity,
neglect of duty, or malfeasance.
      (2)   The City Council now determines that a member of the Planning
Commission may be removed from the Planning Commission for inactivity, neglect
of duty, or malfeasance. The procedure for removing a member shall be as
follows.
         (a)   Upon belief of inactivity, neglect of duty, or malfeasance, the
City Manager shall bring such issue to the attention of City Council.
         (b)   The City Council, if it finds inactivity, neglect of duty, or
malfeasance to exist, shall issue a written warning to the member at issue.
Such warning may be delivered personally or via certified mail to the member’s
last known address. The warning shall state the reasons why City Council is
considering removing the member. The warning shall further state a reasonable
time and place whereby the member may appear before the City Council and be
heard on the matter.
         (c)   After such appearance, or failure to appear as the case may be,
the City Council shall determine whether or not to remove the member. The City
Council’s discretion shall rule In determining if inactivity, neglect of duty,
or malfeasance has occurred. Such removal shall be effective immediately upon
City Council providing a majority vote to remove the member. Such removal shall
be considered a vacancy and shall be filled in the same manner as described in
division (B) above.
(Ord. 2022-09, passed 4-4-2022)
§ 32.045 MEETINGS; QUORUM.
   (A)   Regular meetings.
      (1)   Regular meetings of the Planning Commission shall be held at least
quarterly on dates to be determined as needed.
      (2)   Regular meetings will start at 4:30 p.m.
      (3)   When a meeting date falls on a legal holiday, the meeting shall be
held on the day following unless otherwise designated by the Planning
Commission.
   (B)   Special meetings.
      (1)   Pursuant to W. Va. Code 8A-2-7(b), the Planning Commission may hold
special meetings. Notice of the special meeting must:
         (a)   Be in writing;
         (b)   Include the date, time, and place of the meeting; and
         (c)   And be sent to all members at least two days before the special
meeting.
      (2)   Written notice of a special meeting is not required if the date,
time, and place of the special meeting were set at a regular meeting.
      (3)   Notice for special meetings shall, if applicable, adhere to
relevant notice requirements of the West Virginia Code and West Virginia Ethics
Commission.
   (C)   Quorum. A quorum of members must be present in order to conduct a
meeting. “Present” includes physically present or present via telephone call or
present via internet meeting programs (such as Zoom and the like). Any
attendance issues shall be resolved by the President of the Planning
Commission.
   (D)   Majority votes. When a quorum exists, a majority vote of the quorum
shall be required for motions to be passed/adopted.
(Ord. 2022-09, passed 4-4-2022)
§ 32.046 PLANNING COMMISSION MAY ACCEPT GIFTS, FUNDS, AND DONATIONS.
   Pursuant to W. Va. Code 8A-2-11, the Planning Commission is authorized to
accept gifts, funds, and donations. Said gifts, funds, and/or donations shall
be deposited with the appropriate governing body into a special nonreverting
Planning Commission fund for expenditures by the Planning Commission for the
purpose designated by the donor.
(Ord. 2022-9, passed 4-4-2022)
FINE ARTS COUNCIL
§ 32.060 COUNCIL ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Weston Fine Arts Council, hereinafter
referred to as the “Arts Council”. The Arts Council shall serve as an advisory
body to the Common Council and shall be composed of seven members, at least
three of whom are residents of the city, with the remaining four members being
residents of the county, all appointed by the Mayor, subject to confirmation by
a majority of the Common Council. The members are to be appointed for staggered
three-year terms. The members so appointed shall serve without compensation.
   (B)   In the event that vacancies may occur in membership of the Arts
Council due to death, resignation, or any other cause, the remaining members of
the Arts Council shall be enabled to act even if the vacancy causes there to be
fewer than two members who are residents of the city. Whenever any vacancy on
the Arts Council occurs, the remaining members of the Arts Council shall
promptly notify the Mayor and/or the Common Council members that a position is
vacant and it needs to be filled for the unexpired term.
(Ord. passed 3-3-2008)
§ 32.061 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Arts Council shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   The ability to promulgate and establish its own rules of procedure;
   (B)   Encourage the cooperation and coordination of projects in the field of
arts and other creative events that will enhance the cultural level and
activities of the arts in the community;
   (C)   Encourage individual and group activity in the area of creative
writing, music, drama, dance, plastic and visual art and related activity, as
well as any special historical or other special event as directed by the Common
Council;
   (D)   Cooperate with colleges and school districts in the area as well as
other groups in the use of facilities and programs, which may be available for
future use to foster a broad arts program in the community; and
   (E)   Accept or reject gifts made or offered to the Arts Council for use in
connection with the arts program. Gifts of money, or other monetary donations,
shall be [reserved].
(Ord. passed 3-3-2008)
§ 32.062 CORPORATION NAME.
   The name of this corporation shall be “the Arts Council of Weston, WV”,
hereinafter called “the Arts Council”, and created by an ordinance of the
Common Council.
(Ord. passed 3-3-2008)
§ 32.063 MISSION STATEMENT.
   The Arts Council exists to enrich the lives of the citizens of the North
Central West Virginia area by bringing arts and people together. As the
leadership organization for the arts, the Council fulfills its mission in
several ways: by supporting our member organizations in promoting artistic
opportunities; by providing financial support, and fostering coordinated
cultural planning; by offering programs to educate and develop future
audiences; by providing forums of expression for local artists; and by
advocating for arts and its member organizations at the local, state, and
national levels.
(Ord. passed 3-3-2008)
§ 32.064 FINANCE.
   All of the corporate activities of the Arts Council will be without gain or
profit, directly or indirectly, incidental or otherwise to its members.
(Ord. passed 3-3-2008)
§ 32.065 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Arts Council will consist of patrons and corporate sponsors.
Patrons are individuals interested in fostering and supporting the objectives
of the Arts Council and who pay the minimum membership dues. Corporate sponsors
are businesses or recognized groups in the community interested in the
objectives of the Arts Council. Financial support will be at the discretion of
the sponsor, but will not be less than patron dues.
   (B)   Dues for the members will be determined on an annual basis by the Arts
Council Board of Directors.
(Ord. passed 3-3-2008)
§ 32.066 RIGHTS AND POWERS OF MEMBERS.
   Patrons and sponsors will have the right to:
   (A)   Make use of the services and receive notice of the Arts Council
meetings; and
   (B)   Attend the annual Arts Council meeting in January.
(Ord. passed 3-3-2008)
§ 32.067 BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
   (A)   The Board of Directors will consist of seven members authorized by the
Common Council. Board members receive no compensation other than reimbursement
for expenditures necessary for the transaction of the Arts Council business.
The members will be appointed for one-, two-, or three-year terms.
   (B)   The term of office for any elected Director will be for three years.
Any vacancies occurring during the term of any Director will be filled
immediately by vote of the Board. The replacing Director will serve the balance
of the unexpired term.
   (C)   The duties and powers of the Board of Directors will be to:
      (1)   Initiate, control, and supervise the activities of the Arts Council
in such a manner as to accomplish the purposes of this organization, as stated
in Article II, The Mission Statement, of the Arts Council bylaws;
      (2)   To make and change regulations for the management of the business
and affairs of the Arts Council;
      (3)   To purchase and otherwise acquire for the Arts Council any
property, rights, or privileges that the Arts Council is authorized to acquire;
and
      (4)   To fix and change yearly dues and to notify the membership.
   (D)   Resignation from the Board must be in writing and received by the
Secretary. A Board member shall be dropped for excess absences from the Board
if he or she has three unexcused absences from Board meetings in a year. A
Board member may be removed for other reasons by a majority vote of the
remaining directors. Notification will be made in writing to any Board member
prior to termination. The Board member will have seven days to request a
meeting with the Board to appeal the termination.
   (E)   No Board member will vote on any item of business in which he or she
has a vested interest. The official minutes will reflect any abstaining votes.
(Ord. passed 3-3-2008)
§ 32.068 OFFICERS.
   (A)   Officers of the Arts Council will consist of a President, a Vice
President, a Secretary, and a Treasurer.
   (B)   The duties and powers of the officers will be as follows.
      (1)   The President will have the power to:
         (a)   Preside at all regular and special meetings of the Executive
Committee and meetings of the general membership;
         (b)   Preside at all the regular and special meetings of the Board of
Directors, unless a Chairperson has been designated to preside;
         (c)   Call all special meetings;
         (d)   Take appropriate actions to carry out the resolutions and
directions of the Board of Directors;
         (e)   Appoint committees, with the approval of the Board of Directors;
and
         (f)   Conduct the business of the Arts Council between meetings, with
the concurrence of the Board of Directors.
      (2)   The Vice-President will have the power to:
         (a)   Assume all duties and powers of the President in his or her
absence;
         (b)   Be a Chairperson of the Membership Committee; and
         (c)   Be a member of the Program Committee.
      (3)   The Secretary will have the power to:
         (a)   Keep and distribute appropriately accurate minutes of all
meetings of the Board of Directors;
         (b)   Advise the members of special meetings;
         (c)   Carry out the correspondence of the Arts Council not delegated
to other officers or committees; and
         (d)   Serve as the Arts Council Historian.
      (4)   The Treasurer will have the power to:
         (a)   Collect and keep in proper custody all funds of the Arts Council
and to expend such funds only in the manner and for the purposes designated by
the Board of Directors;
         (b)   Be Chairperson of the Budget Committee; and
         (c)   Arrange for an annual audit to be conducted by March of each
year.
(Ord. passed 3-3-2008)
§ 32.069 COMMITTEES.
   (A)   The President will appoint committees for Budget, Membership,
Programs, and Publicity with the concurrence of the Board of Directors.
   (B)   Ad hoc and other special committees will be created by the Arts
Council Board and appointed by the President as needed and will be dissolved if
and when they have served their function as determined by the Executive
Committee.
   (C)   All Committee Chairpersons will attend the Board of Director meetings
to present their reports.
(Ord. passed 3-3-2008)
§ 32.070 MEETINGS.
   (A)   (1)   An annual meeting of the general membership will be held in
January.
      (2)   There will be at least ten days’ notice of the annual meeting. At
this time, a report of activities of the previous year will be presented by the
Board of Directors for approval by the general membership and the floor will be
open for recommendations for policies, procedures, and activities to be pursued
during the current year. This is the only meeting in which the general
membership will have the right to vote.
      (3)   The issues put before the general membership will be limited to
approval of Board actions during the previous year, acceptance of the Arts
Council bylaws, and the election of the Arts Council Board members.
   (B)   (1)   Board of Director meetings will be held on a regular basis, not
less than six times a year, at a time and place previously designated by the
President.
      (2)   There will be at least ten days’ notice of a meeting of the Board
of Directors. These meetings will be for the purpose of hearing committee
reports and other appropriate business. Four elected members of the Board will
constitute a quorum for the transaction of business in any meeting of the Board
of Directors.
   (C)   Special meetings will be called by the President or by one third of
the Board of Directors. The Secretary will give three days’ notice.
(Ord. passed 3-3-2008)
§ 32.071 AMENDMENT.
   These bylaws may be revised at the annual meeting, providing that notice of
the proposed revisions will have been made available to the general membership
30 days prior to the meeting.
   (B)   The affirmative vote or a simple majority of the patrons present will
be required for the adoption of any amendment or revision.
(Ord. passed 3-3-2008)
§ 32.072 DISSOLUTION.
   In the event that this organization should be dissolved for any purpose
whatsoever, all assets of the Council, upon concurrence of tie Board of
Directors, will be transferred to an activity or organization which perpetuates
the arts.
(Ord. passed 3-3-2008)
CHARTER BOARD
§ 32.085 COMPOSITION, MEMBERSHIP, AND THE LIKE.
   The Charter Board shall:
   (A)   Be composed of seven members elected by regular municipal election to
a term of six years, as provided in W. Va. Code 8-3-9, such election to occur
in the same manner as elective city officers;
   (B)   Notify the City Council of any vacancy in the membership of the
Charter Board and the vacancy shall be filled temporarily by appointment by a
majority action by the remaining members of the Charter Board, and a successor
shall be elected at the next regular municipal election in the same manner as
elective city officers, such successor to hold office for the remainder of the
term;
   (C)   Not receive any salary for their services as Board Members, but may be
reimbursed for all reasonable and necessary expenses actually incurred in the
performance of their duties which have the prior approval of the entire Board.
Any such expenses which shall exceed $100, or other amount deemed appropriate
by the Municipal Court, shall be approved prior to said expense being incurred
by the City Council;
   (D)   Select one of their members as a Chairperson and one of their members
as Secretary, who shall keep accurate records of the proceedings of the Board
at every meeting thereof;
   (E)   Fix a time and place for holding regular meetings, and unless changed
by a unanimous vote of the Board, shall meet at least once every other month
(six times per year). Special meetings of the Board may be called by the
Chairperson or by at least two members upon written request to the Secretary.
The Secretary shall send notice of any special meeting, including the time,
date, meeting location, at least two days in advance of the special meeting;
however, written notice shall not be required if said special meeting has been
fixed at a regular meeting or if all members are in attendance at the special
meeting;
   (F)   Not take any action unless authorized by a majority of the members at
a properly constituted regular or special meeting. A majority of members shall
constitute a quorum;
   (G)   Count the vote of each member thereof equally in all matters which
come before the Board;
   (H)   File for public record with the Clerk of the City Council, minutes of
all its meetings, within 60 days of the date such meeting was held; and
   (I)   Be authorized and empowered, within the limits of funds available
thereof to employ assistants, technical personnel, consultants, and such other
employees as are necessary to discharge its duties and responsibilities as
hereafter set forth.
(Ord. passed 9-9-1998)
§ 32.086 DUTIES.
   This Board shall have power and authority within the jurisdictional limits
of the city, and within the limits of W. Va. Code 8-3-9 to:
   (A)   Make a continuing study of the functioning of the city and the city
government;
   (B)   By a two-thirds vote of its members not less than four years after
such Charter shall have taken effect, require the submission to the qualified
voters of the city of the question whether the Charter shall be revised as a
whole, such submission to be in accordance with the pertinent provisions of W.
Va. Code 8-4-1 et seq.;
   (C)   In the event that revision of the whole shall be voted pursuant to
such submission, the Board as then constituted shall proceed to prepare a
revision of the Charter under the pertinent provisions of W. Va. Code 8-4-1 et
seq.; and
   (D)   During such term of six years, the Board as then constituted, by a
two-thirds vote of its membership, at any time not less than one year after
said Charter shall have taken effect, may require the submission of one or more
proposed Charter amendments to the qualified voters of the city, in accordance
with the pertinent provisions of W. Va. Code 8-4-1 et seq.
(Ord. passed 9-9-1998)
§ 32.087 PRESENTING THE QUESTION OF AMENDMENT OF THE CHARTER.
   At the next regularly schedule municipal election, the question of revision
of the Charter as a whole shall be submitted to the qualified voters of the
city. Said question shall read on the ballot, as required by W. Va. Code 8-4-7,
as follows: “Shall the Charter be revised as a whole by representatives of the
people?”
(Ord. passed 9-9-1998)
HISTORIC LANDMARK COMMISSION
§ 32.100 COMPOSITION, MEMBERSHIP, AND THE LIKE.
   The Commission shall:
   (A)   Be composed of five members appointed by the City Council, to a term
commencing on the             day of                              , in the
following manner:
      (1)   The five members shall have a demonstrated interest in, or
background in, historic preservation or history-related disciplines (e.g.,
history, architecture, archeology, architectural history, geography, real
estate, art history, and the like);
      (2)   One member shall be nominated by the city and/or County Historical
Society and shall serve a one-year term; and
      (3)   Four members shall be appointed from the city and/or county at
large. The initial appointments shall be for terms of one year, two years, two
years, and three years, and shall thereafter be for a term of three years.
   (B)   Notify the City Council of any vacancy in the membership of the
Historic Landmarks Commission and the vacancy shall be filled in the same
manner as the original appointment for the balance of the unexpired term;
   (C)   Not receive any salary for their services as Commissioners, but may be
reimbursed for all reasonable and necessary expenses actually incurred in the
performance of their duties, which have the prior approval of the Commission.
Any such expenses which shall exceed $100, or other amount deemed appropriate
by the Municipal Court, shall be approved prior to said expense being incurred
by the City Council;
   (D)   Select one of their members as a Chairperson and one of their members
as Secretary, who shall keep accurate records of the proceedings of the
Commission at every meeting thereof;
   (E)   Fix a time and place for holding regular meetings and, unless changed
by a unanimous vote of the Commission, shall meet at least once every other
month (six times per year). Special meetings of the Commission may be called by
the Chairperson or by at least two members upon written request to the
Secretary. The Secretary shall send notice of any special meeting, including
the time, date, and meeting location, at least two days in advance of the
special meeting; however, written notice shall not be required if said special
meeting has been fixed at regular meeting or if all members are in attendance
at the special meeting;
   (F)   Not take any action unless authorized by a majority of the members at
a properly constituted regular or special meeting. A majority of members shall
constitute a quorum;
   (G)   Count the vote of each member thereof equally in all matters which
come before the Commission;
   (H)   File for public record with the Clerk of the City Council, minutes of
all its meetings, within 60 days of the date such meeting was held; and
   (I)   Be authorized and empowered, within the limits of funds available
thereof to employ assistants, technical personnel, consultants, and such other
employees as are necessary to discharge its duties and responsibilities as
hereafter set forth.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1998)
§ 32.101 DUTIES.
   This Commission shall have plenary power and authority within the
jurisdictional limits of the city and within the limits of available funds to:
   (A)   Make a survey of, and designate as historic landmarks, buildings,
structures, sites, objects, and districts which constitute principal historical
and architectural sites which are of local, regional, state, or national
significance. No building, structure, site, or object shall be deemed to be
historic unless it has been prominently identified with or best represents some
major aspect of or ideals related to the history of the locality, city, region,
state, or nation. In the case of buildings or structures which are to be
designated, they shall embody the principal or unique features of an
architectural type, demonstrate the style of a period of our history or method
of construction, serve as an illustration of the work of a master builder,
designer, or architect whose genius influenced the period in which he or she
worked, or has significance in current time;
   (B)   Prepare a register of buildings, structures, sites, objects, or
districts which meet the requirements of division (A) above, publish lists of
such properties, and, with the consent of the property owner(s), inspect such
properties from time to time setting forth appropriate information concerning
the registered buildings, structures, sites, and objects;
   (C)   With the consent of the property owner, certify and mark with
appropriately designed markers, buildings, structures, sites, objects, and
districts which it has registered;
   (D)   Establish standards for the care and management of certified landmarks
and withdraw such certification for failure to maintain the standards so
prescribed;
   (E)   Acquire by purchase, gift, or lease, and administer registered
landmarks and easements and interests therein, both real and personal, within
the limits of funds available;
   (F)   Lease or sell property so acquired under terms and conditions designed
to ensure the proper preservation of the landmark in question;
   (G)   Establish historic districts for registered landmarks, utilizing the
same guidelines set forth in division (A) above, and designate the area thereof
by appropriate markers;
   (H)   Identify historical districts for registered landmarks, and aid and
encourage the city in which the district or landmark is located to adopt rules
and regulations for the preservation of architectural values;
   (I)   Prepare and place historical markers on or along the highway or street
closest to the location which is intended to be identified by such markers;
   (J)   Seek the advice and assistance of individuals, groups, and departments
or agencies of government who or which are conducting historical preservation
programs and coordinate the same insofar as possible;
   (K)   Seek and accept gifts, bequests, endowments, and funds from any and
all sources for the accomplishment of the functions of the Commission;
   (L)   Adopt rules and regulations concerning the operation of the
Commission, the functions and responsibilities of its officers, employees,
assistants, and other personnel, and such other matters as may be necessary to
carry out the purpose of this order; and
   (M)   Adopt such other rules and regulations as may be deemed necessary to
effectuate the purpose of this subchapter, but no such rules and regulations
shall be inconsistent with the provisions of any plan or any Planning
Commission of a municipality or county.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1998)
§ 32.102 CERTIFICATION.
   Whenever the Commission, with the consent of the property owner, certifies
property as being a registered landmark, it may seek and obtain from such
property owner such an agreement as the Commission finds to be reasonable and
calculated to perpetuate and preserve the features which led it to designate
such property as a historical landmark. All such agreements between the
Commission and the property owner shall be in writing, and when duly signed and
acknowledged shall be recorded in the office of the Clerk of the County
Commission. Such recordation shall serve as notification to the Assessor of the
restrictions therein set forth.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1998)
§ 32.103 HISTORIC DISTRICT.
   (A)   When the Commission establishes a historic district, it shall notify
the Assessor of the fact of such establishment and the boundaries of the
district, together with the restrictions which are applicable to the properties
located in such district which have been mutually agreed upon by such
Commission and the owners of the property within said district.
   (B)   The agreement shall be recorded in the same manner as the recordation
of agreements between the Commission and the owners of designated landmarks.
The Assessor shall take such factors into consideration in assessing the
properties therein.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1998)
§ 32.104 COOPERATION WITH STATE ORGANIZATIONS.
   The Commission shall cooperate and coordinate its activities with the
state’s Historical Society and the state’s Division of Culture and History,
with the view of developing a unified program for the identification, study,
preservation, and protection of all historic buildings, structures, sites, and
objects in the city.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1998)
CEMETERY BOARD
§ 32.115 FINDINGS.
   The Common Council hereby makes the following finds:
   (A)   There presently exists a need for the city to maintain and operate
properties for cemetery purposes; and
   (B)   The operation by the city of its cemetery properties through a Board
will facilitate the efficient management of said properties; provide the means
for ensuring proper future care of both existing and future cemeteries; and
provide the means for obtaining funds needed to acquire additional cemetery
ground.
(Ord. passed 3-7-1977)
§ 32.116 BOARD CREATED.
   There is hereby created as an official board of the city called “the
Cemetery Board”.
(Ord. passed 3-7-1977)
§ 32.117 DUTIES.
   (A)   The Cemetery Board of the city shall control, operate, manage, and
maintain existing cemeteries in the city, to-wit: Machpelah Cemetery and “Old
Hill Cemetery”, upon a proper transfer to the city of the title to the property
and assets of Machpelah Cemetery Association, a corporation, and the
acquisition of title to “Old Hill Cemetery”; and, in addition, shall have the
right, power, and duty to acquire, control, operate, manage, and maintain such
other cemetery properties as its members deem needed by the city, subject to
the following provisions.
   (B)   The Cemetery Board shall have the authority to, and shall be
responsible for, promulgating reasonable rules and regulations for the use,
management, and operation of city cemetery properties.
   (C)   (1)   The Cemetery Board shall establish reasonable rates and charges
for sale of burial lots and/or interment rights in all city cemetery
properties, and shall further establish reasonable charges for grave openings
and other services.
      (2)   All rates, charges, and/or interment prices shall not become
effective until approved by the Common Council, and no changes in same shall be
made or become effective until approved by the Common Council.
   (D)   The rates and charges established by the Board and approved by the
Common Council shall be sufficient each year to pay the bonded indebtedness, if
any, and operation and maintenance expense for any new cemetery properties
acquired by the Board hereafter through bonds issued under the authority of W.
Va. Code Ch. 8, Art. 16; and, so far as practical, the operation and
maintenance expenses for Machpelah Cemetery and “Old Hill Cemetery” upon the
transfer to the city of title to the property and assets of said cemeteries and
their respective associations.
   (E)   As the income to be derived from the existing cemetery, known as “Old
Hill Cemetery”, shall not be sufficient to provide for its maintenance and
operation, and whereas, the income from the assets of Machpelah Cemetery
Association may not be sufficient to provide for the maintenance and operation
of Machpelah Cemetery (the assets and moneys of Machpelah Cemetery Association,
as well as the income to be derived from the sale of lots or interment rights
shall be used solely for the maintenance and operation of Machpelah Cemetery),
the Board shall, each year, at least 30 days prior to the adoption of a general
budget for the city by the Common Council, provide the Common Council with a
proposed budget for its operations for the forthcoming fiscal year, showing
therein the amounts which it will require from the city in order to operate and
maintain the existing cemeteries; and, as far as possible, in consideration of
its revenues and until such time as the Cemetery Board operations are entirely
self- sustaining, the Council shall provide the same, or, in lieu thereof,
provide maintenance for existing cemeteries through the City Street Department.
   (F)   The Cemetery Board shall have and may exercise any and all powers,
privileges, and authorities which have been granted or conferred, or which may
hereafter be granted or conferred, upon similar municipal boards by the State
Legislature, including, but not being limited to, all of the powers,
privileges, and authorities granted and conferred under the provisions of W.
Va. Code Ch. 8, Art. 16. The Cemetery Board may additionally exercise such
other powers, privileges, and authorities as are granted or conferred by the
Charter of the city or the Common Council.
(Ord. passed 3-7-1977)
§ 32.118 COMPOSITION.
   (A)   The Cemetery Board shall consist of three members. The Mayor of the
city shall be ex officio a member of the Board. The members of said Board shall
be appointed by the Common Council for terms of four years each, commencing on
July 1, following the completion of a term, with the exception that the term of
one member of the initial Board to be appointed hereunder shall run from the
date of enactment of this subchapter until June 30, 1977, and the term of the
second member of the initial Board to be appointed hereunder shall run from the
date of the enactment of this subchapter until June 30, 1978, and the term of
the third member of the initial Board to be appointed hereunder shall run from
the date of the enactment of this subchapter until June 30, 1979.
   (B)   In the event of death, resignation, inability, or unwillingness to
serve of any member, the Common Council shall appoint a successor to such
member to serve for the period of his or her unexpired term.
   (C)   Members of the Board shall receive their expenses and such
remuneration as may be determined proper by the Common Council.
(Ord. passed 3-7-1977)
AMBULANCE SERVICE AUTHORITY
§ 32.130 ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established in the city, acting in conjunction with the
County Commission, and pursuant to the provisions of W. Va. Code Ch. 7, Art.
15, (“Emergency Ambulance Service Act of 1975”), an Authority to provide
Emergency Ambulance Service to the citizens of the city and county, and which
said Authority shall be known as “Weston-Lewis County Emergency Ambulance
Service Authority”.
(Ord. passed 12-9-1975)
§ 32.131 APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS; TERMS OF OFFICE.
   The Weston-Lewis County Emergency Ambulance Service Authority shall be
composed of five members, two of whom shall be appointed by the Common Council,
one of whom shall be appointed for three years, and one of whom shall be
appointed for one year, and three of whom shall be appointed by the County
Commission, one of whom shall be appointed for a term of three years, one of
whom shall be appointed for a term of two years, and one of whom shall be
appointed for a term of one year. Upon the expiration of each such term of
those members appointed by the Common Council, and for each succeeding term
thereafter, the successor shall be appointed for a term of three years.
Vacancies on the Authority shall be filled as provided in W. Va. Code 7-15-5.
(Ord. passed 12-9-1975)
§ 32.132 ORGANIZATION OF AUTHORITY; OFFICERS.
   The Weston-Lewis County Emergency Ambulance Service Authority shall adopt
rules of procedure, organize, and designate one of its members as President,
one of its members as Secretary, and one of its members as Treasurer. The
President is hereby designated as the Chief Administrative Officer of the
Authority.
(Ord. passed 12-9-1975)
§ 32.133 POWERS AND LIMITATIONS OF AUTHORITY.
   The Weston-Lewis County Emergency Ambulance Service Authority shall have
such powers as are granted by and subject to the limitations of W. Va. Code Ch.
7, Art. 15, as amended, or as may be hereafter amended.
(Ord. passed 12-9-1975)
§ 32.134 LIMITATION OF AUTHORITY.
   The Weston-Lewis County Emergency Ambulance Service Authority shall have no
power or authority to enter into any contract, agreement, note, deed of trust,
mortgage, or any other evidence of indebtedness, or any agreement whatsoever to
which the city shall be bound, either particularly or generally, without the
express written consent of the Common Council, and always in accordance with
all applicable provisions of law.
(Ord. passed 12-9-1975)
CHAPTER 33: ELECTIONS
Section
   
33.01   Application of state election laws
   
33.02   Ballot commissioners
   
33.03   Permanent registration of voters established
   
33.04   Same; duties of City Clerk
   
33.05   Establishment of voting precincts
   
33.06   Establishing proof of qualifications for office; requirements for
candidates and duties of City Clerk
   
33.07   Use of voter’s registration record by Common Council in contested
election
   
33.08   City Attorney to instruct election and police officials
§ 33.01 APPLICATION OF STATE ELECTION LAWS.
   (A)   Pursuant to the provisions of W. Va. Code 8-5-14, as amended, and in
accordance with amended Charter § 47 of the city, and the provisions of W. Va.
Code Ch. 3, as amended, referring more particularly to primary and general
elections, shall, so far as such provisions can be applied, govern the conduct
of the city’s general elections and the powers and duties provided by the
applicable provisions of the state’s Code for County Clerks and Clerks of the
Circuit Courts shall devolve upon the City Clerk and the powers and duties
provided by the state’s Code for County Commissions shall devolve upon the
Common Council of the city, except as may be provided otherwise by the Charter
of the city or any ordinance of the city.
   (B)   The election for the purposes of electing officers of the city for the
year 1981, and biennially thereafter, shall be held on the first Tuesday in
June, 1981, and upon the same date now provided for municipal general
elections, but upon a nonpartisan ballot printed for the purpose. At the
elections of municipal officers for the city held in the year 1981 and each
election held thereafter, each candidate seeking the office of Council members
shall be identified as to the ward from which he or she is a resident and which
he or she seeks to represent. In such nonpartisan election for each of the
elective offices of the city, as provided by the Charter of the city and its
ordinances, the person receiving the highest number of votes shall be elected.
   (C)   It is declared to be the intent of this section that any person
declared to be elected under the preceding provisions of this section shall
take office as a duly elected officer of the city commending on July 1, 1981,
and thereafter biennially.
(Prior Code, § 9-1) (Ord. passed 12-11-1980)
§ 33.02 BALLOT COMMISSIONERS.
   (A)   The City Clerk, and two persons appointed by him or her, one from each
of the two political parties which cast the largest and second largest number
of votes in the city at the last preceding general city election, shall
constitute a Board of Ballot Commissioners, of which Board the City Clerk shall
be Chairperson.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the City Clerk to notify the Chairperson
of the respective city executive committees of such two parties at least five
days before making such appointments, of the time and place of making such
appointments, and if at any time after such notice is given, and before or on
the day so fixed for making such appointments, the Chairperson of either of
those committees shall designate, in writing, a member of such party as Ballot
Commissioner having the qualifications of a voter, he or she shall be
appointed. Ballot Commissioners shall be appointed between January 15 and 30 in
each year in which a general city election is to be held, for a term of two
years beginning on February 1 next ensuing.
      (2)   They shall perform the duties of such Commissioners at all general,
special, and primary elections held in the city or any ward thereof during
their term of office. A vacancy shall be filled in the same manner as an
original appointment, but immediate notice of a vacancy shall, where necessary,
be deemed compliance with the five-day notice provision.
(Prior Code, § 9-2)
§ 33.03 PERMANENT REGISTRATION OF VOTERS ESTABLISHED.
   Pursuant to W. Va. Code 8-5-13, the conduct of all city elections shall be
integrated with the system of permanent registration of voters as set out in W.
Va. Code Ch. 3, Art. 2, the provisions of which, insofar as they are applicable
to this city, are hereby adopted and made a part of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-3)
Charter reference:
   As to who are entitled to vote, see
Charter § 11
Statutory reference:
   As to who are entitled to vote, see W. Va. Code 3-1-3
§ 33.04 SAME; DUTIES OF CITY CLERK.
   At least three days prior to each primary or other election of this city, it
shall be the duty of the City Clerk to procure from the office of the Clerk of
the County Court the municipal registration records necessary for the conduct
of such election. Such records shall, within ten days after the date of the
municipal election, be returned to the office of the Clerk of the County Court
by the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 9-4)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code 3-1-27
§ 33.05 ESTABLISHMENT OF VOTING PRECINCTS.
   For the purpose of all municipal elections of the city, the voting precincts
in the city shall, to the extent that they lie within the confines of the city,
coincide with the boundaries of the voting precincts as fixed by the County
Court for all state and county elections; each county precinct and each part of
a county precinct within the city to constitute a separate voting precinct of
the city.
(Prior Code, § 9-5)
Charter reference:
   Relating to voting precincts, see 2003
Charter § 10
Statutory reference:
   Duty to provide by ordinances for making precincts coincide, as nearly as
possible, to the boundaries of precincts established by the County Court, see
W. Va. Code 3-1-6
§ 33.06 ESTABLISHING PROOF OF QUALIFICATIONS FOR OFFICE; REQUIREMENTS FOR
CANDIDATES AND DUTIES OF CITY CLERK.
   (A)   Each candidate for an elective office within the city government, at
the time of filing his or her certificate of candidacy and as proof of his or
her qualifications for office, shall display to the City Clerk his or her
voter’s registration card for the precinct within the city in which he or she
resides and, if the candidate is a male person, his or her receipt for
capitation tax for the year preceding the filing date, and it shall be the duty
of the City Clerk to note upon and initial the certificate of candidacy so as
to show the voter’s registration card number and, for a male candidate, the
number and year of the capitation tax receipt.
   (B)   In addition to the foregoing requirements, each such candidate shall,
upon filing his or her certificate of candidacy, file with the City Clerk a
certificate of the County Assessor which certifies that the county assessment
records disclose that such candidate is a freeholder in the city and has been
assessed for and paid taxes upon real or personal property in the city of at
least $100 in value, or other amount deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court.
   (C)   Certificates of candidacy and certificates from the County Assessor,
as required by this section, shall be maintained on file by the City Clerk
until ten days after the election to which they relate; provided, that
certificates of candidates nominated at a primary election shall be held until
ten days after the next ensuing general election, and certificates of
candidates elected to office shall be held during incumbency in office.
   (D)   Failure of the City Clerk to comply with any applicable provision of
this section shall be prima facie evidence of nonfeasance.
(Prior Code, § 9-6)
Charter reference:
   As to qualifications for elective offices, see
Charter § 6
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prescribe the qualifications of city officers, see W. Va. Code
8-5-11
§ 33.07 USE OF VOTER’S REGISTRATION RECORD BY COMMON COUNCIL IN CONTESTED
ELECTION.
   In case of a contested election, the registration record of any challenged
voter may be obtained from the Clerk of the County Court by the Common Council
to determine the contest. Such records shall be returned by the City Clerk to
the office of the Clerk of the County Court within a reasonable time after the
contest shall have been finally decided.
(Prior Code, § 9-7)
§ 33.08 CITY ATTORNEY TO INSTRUCT ELECTION AND POLICE OFFICIALS.
   As soon as may be practicable following the appointment of Commissioners and
Clerks of Election, and not less than two days prior to the holding of any city
election, the City Attorney shall hold a meeting for all Commissioners and
Clerks of Election, the City Clerk and his or her assistants, and the Chief of
Police or his or her representative, at which time the City Attorney shall give
a comprehensive explanation of the election laws to those in attendance to
enable them to exercise their powers and perform their duties thereunder
properly and in an efficient manner.
(Prior Code, § 9-8)
CHAPTER 34: POLICE COURT
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Police Court established; Mayor as Police Court Judge; City Clerk as
Police Court Clerk
   
34.02   Powers and duties of City Clerk when Mayor absent
   
34.03   Bailiff
   
34.04   Application of Charter and statutes
   
34.05   Style of process
   
34.06   Several offenses charged in one warrant for violation of ordinance
   
34.07   Ordinances, resolutions, and the like as prima facie evidence
   
34.08   False swearing and subordination of false swearing
   
34.09   Hindering witnesses and the like prohibited
   
34.10   Contempts and their punishment
   
34.11   Disposition of fines, fees, and the like
   
34.12   Special fees
   
34.13   Taxable costs
   
34.14   City not liable for costs
   
34.15   Judgment order; imprisonment for nonpayment of fine or costs
   
34.16   Appeals
   
34.17   Qualification and compensation
   
34.18   Dates and times of hearings
Fines and Costs when Defendants Unable to Pay
   
34.30   Installment or other method of payment when defendant unable to pay
   
34.31   Determination of ability to pay; questionnaire to be answered by
defendant; assistance to defendant; penalty for false swearing
   
34.32   Payment of fine may be made condition of probation or suspension of
sentence
   
34.33   Court may require defendant to be on good behavior until fine and costs
are paid
   
34.34   Procedure upon default in payment under agreement; confinement in case
of willful default
   
34.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 POLICE COURT ESTABLISHED; MAYOR AS POLICE COURT JUDGE; CITY CLERK AS
POLICE COURT CLERK.
   (A)   Being the intent of City Council to create a formal Municipal Court/
Police Court Judge position, and pursuant to W. Va. Code 8-10-2, the City
Council has created a Municipal Court Judge position. The City Council intends
this chapter to apply retroactively to April 6, 2020. In the event that this
chapter cannot be applied retroactively, the position of Municipal Court Judge
shall become effective on the date this chapter was passed.
   (B)   All prior ordinances in conflict with this chapter are hereby
repealed, except that this chapter shall not repeal § 21 of the Weston City
Code of 1972. This chapter, relative to the Weston City Code of 1972, simply
places the role of Police Court Judge in the hands of a Municipal Court Judge
position and not in the hands of the Mayor.
   (C)   The terms MUNICIPAL COURT and POLICE COURT shall mean the same court
for purposes of this chapter.
   (D)   All prosecutions for violation of this code and other ordinances of
the city shall be tried in the Police Court of the city. The City Clerk shall
be the judge of the Police Court and all trials shall be held before him or
her. The City Clerk shall be the clerk of the Police Court.
   (E)   The City Clerk, acting as Police Court Judge, pursuant to the
ordinances of the city, the statutes of the state, and the Charter of the city,
shall be entitled to an annual compensation; such compensation shall be solely
for the additional duties of the Clerk as Police Court Judge for the city and
shall be solely his or her compensation for such services.
   (F)   The Municipal Court Judge shall hear all matters arising under the
laws, ordinances, rules, regulations, and the like of the city.
   (G)   In the event the Municipal Court judge is unable to perform his or her
duties, the role of Municipal Court Judge shall be placed on the Mayor. In the
event the Mayor cannot fulfill the role, the City Clerk shall perform the
duties of Municipal Court Judge.
(Prior Code, § 21-1) (Ord. passed 1-31-2008; Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
Charter reference:
   As to docket and records of Mayor’s Court, see Charter § 35
   Certified copies of ordinances and the like deemed prima facie evidence, see
Charter § 23
   Mayor’s powers, see
Charter § 20
Statutory reference:
   Authority of city to establish a Police Court, see W. Va. Code 8-10-2
   Authority of Mayor as ex officio justice and the like, see W. Va. Code 8-10-
1
   Authority to commit prisoners to county jail, see W. Va. Code 8-10-1 and 8-
11-1
   Commitment to workhouse, see W. Va. Code 7-9-16 and 7-9-19
§ 34.02 POWERS AND DUTIES OF CITY CLERK WHEN MAYOR ABSENT.
   The City Clerk shall be the clerk of the Police/Municipal Court. The City
Clerk shall be an amount set by City Council for the role of Municipal Court
Clerk. If the City Clerk is unable to perform the duties of the Municipal Court
Clerk, then said duties shall be performed by a person designated by the City
Council until the City Clerk is once again able to perform said Municipal Court
Clerk duties. The Municipal Court Clerk shall be appointed every year.
(Prior Code, § 21-2) (Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
Charter reference:
   Acting Mayor when both Mayor and City Clerk are absent or disabled, see
Charter § 21-a
   Authority of City Clerk when Mayor absent or disabled, see
Charter § 21
§ 34.03 BAILIFF.
   The Chief of Police shall, by roster or otherwise, designate a police
officer to attend all sessions of the Police Court as bailiff. The bailiff
shall preserve order in the court room and in the immediate vicinity thereof,
and shall execute all orders given him or her by the Police Court Judge.
(Prior Code, § 21-3)
§ 34.04 APPLICATION OF CHARTER AND STATUTES.
   In all proceedings in the Police Court, the Police Court Judge shall possess
and may exercise such authority as is granted under the Charter of the city and
the statutes of the state.
(Prior Code, § 21-4)
§ 34.05 STYLE OF PROCESS.
   The style of process of the Police Court shall run in the name of the city.
(Prior Code, § 21-5)
§ 34.06 SEVERAL OFFENSES CHARGED IN ONE WARRANT FOR VIOLATION OF ORDINANCE.
   In issuing a warrant for the arrest of any person for a violation of this
code or any other ordinance of the city, it shall not be necessary to make out
a separate warrant for every offense charged, but at the discretion of the
issuing officer, all the offenses charged may be embraced in the same warrant;
provided, that nothing herein contained shall prevent the officer before whom
the case is tried from making or allowing any proper amendment to such warrant,
or a separation of the charges therein in other amounts if in the discretion of
such officer such charge be proper.
(Prior Code, § 21-6)
§ 34.07 ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS, AND THE LIKE AS PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE.
   This code and the several technical codes adopted herein by reference, and
all other ordinances, resolutions, rules, and regulations adopted by authority
of the Common Council shall, in all proceedings in the Police Court, be
admitted as prima facie evidence, and, in any such proceeding, it shall not be
necessary to plead the entire ordinance or section, but only such parts thereof
as are admitted in evidence.
(Prior Code, § 21-7)
§ 34.08 FALSE SWEARING AND SUBORDINATION OF FALSE SWEARING.
    It shall be unlawful for any person to swear falsely under oath or
affirmation lawfully administered in any trial or proceeding held in the Police
Court or before the Police Court Judge, concerning any matter or thing material
or not material, or to procure another person to do so.
(Prior Code, § 21-8) Penalty, see §
34.99
Statutory reference:
   For state law as to false swearing, see W. Va. Code 61-5-2 and 61-5-3
§ 34.09 HINDERING WITNESSES AND THE LIKE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder or prevent any person from
appearing as a witness in any trial or proceeding in the Police Court or before
the Police Court Judge, or to hinder or prevent any person from answering and
obeying any subpoena or summons issued by the city or any officer thereof,.
(Prior Code, § 21-9) Penalty, see §
34.99
§ 34.10 CONTEMPTS AND THEIR PUNISHMENT.
   (A)   The Police Court Judge may issue attachment for contempt and punish
summarily for contempt in the following cases:
      (1)   Misbehavior in the presence of the court, or so near thereto as to
obstruct or interrupt the administration of justice;
      (2)   Violence or threats of violence to the Police Court Judge or to any
officer of the court or to any witness or party going to, attending, or
returning from the court, for or in respect of any act or proceeding had, or to
be had, in such court;
      (3)   Disobedience to or resistance of any officer of the court, witness,
or other person to any lawful process, judgment, decree, or order of such
court;
      (4)   Contemptuous or insolent behavior toward the Police Court Judge
while engaged in the trial of a case or in any other proceedings or any breach
of the peace, wilful disturbance, or indecent conduct in the presence of the
Police Court Judge while so engaged, or so near as to obstruct or interrupt his
or her proceedings; and
      (5)   Failure or refusal of any witness to attend or testify in any
proceeding before the Police Court Judge.
   (B)   An order of arrest may be issued by the Police Court Judge on which
the person so charged with contempt may be taken and brought before him or her,
or such person may be taken in custody by any officer or person present, upon
the oral order of the Police Court Judge, and held to answer for the contempt;
but an opportunity must be given him or her to be heard in defense or
explanation of his or her conduct, and the Judge shall not impose a fine or
imprisonment for contempt unless the defendant be present in court, or unless
the court shall cause the defendant to be served with a rule of the court to
show cause on some certain day, and the defendant shall have failed to appear
and show cause.
(Prior Code, § 21-10) Penalty, see §
34.99
Statutory reference:
   Contempt and punishment with respect to justices of the peace, see W. Va.
Code 61-5-26
§ 34.11 DISPOSITION OF FINES, FEES, AND THE LIKE.
   Except as may be provided otherwise, all fines, penalties, fees, costs,
forfeitures, and collections of every kind made by the Police Court Judge shall
be the property of the city and shall be deposited with the City Treasurer to
be by him or her applied to the General Fund of the city, or as may be
otherwise required by state law, the City Charter, this code, or other
ordinance of the city.
(Prior Code, § 21-11) (Ord. passed 7-18-1974)
§ 34.12 SPECIAL FEES.
   All persons found guilty of violating any provision of this code or other
ordinance of the city, or any rule, regulation, notice, or order promulgated or
issued pursuant to authority thereof shall be taxed such costs of the
proceedings as are authorized by law and without limiting the generality of the
foregoing, shall be taxed the following specific special fees as costs.
   (A)   Police Court Judge. A fee of $4, or other amount deemed appropriate by
the Municipal Court, in each criminal case and proceeding before the Police
Court Judge shall be taxed as part of the costs in each such criminal case and
proceeding before said Police Court Judge and shall be for all official
services performed by the Police Court Judge in connection with any single
case, including affidavit for arrest, search and seizure warrant, warrant for
arrest, trial examination, issuing subpoenas and copies hereof, warrant
summoning and swearing a jury when required, swearing and certifying attendance
of witnesses, entering judgment and taxing costs, and all other acts in
connection therewith.
   (B)   Clerk. A fee of $0.50, or other amount deemed appropriate by the
Municipal Court, shall be taxed on each criminal and traffic proceeding
docketed by the Clerk, and an additional fee of $0.50 shall be taxed as part of
the costs for the Clerk’s certifying a transcript of his or her docket in any
particular case, and transmitting the same to the Clerk of the Circuit Court,
the State Road Commissioner, or any other office in which he or she may be by
law required to certify such transcript, and further, there shall be taxed as a
part of the costs of any such proceeding $2, or other amount deemed appropriate
by the Municipal Court, for bond or recognizance.
   (C)   Jail Fund. The Police Court Judge shall tax as part of the costs in
any criminal or traffic proceeding before him or her such sum, or sums, as may
be necessary to pay the jail fee charged the city by the County Sheriff, and/or
the County Court, for the confinement of said defendant in the county jail.
   (D)   Police Pension Fund. A fee of $1, or other amount deemed appropriate
by the Municipal Court, shall be taxed as a part of the costs in criminal and
traffic cases and such fee shall be payable to the Police Pension Fund of the
city.
(Prior Code, § 21-12) (Ord. passed 7-18-1974)
§ 34.13 TAXABLE COSTS.
   All persons found guilty of violating any provision of this code or other
ordinance of the city or any rule, regulation, notice, or order promulgated or
issued pursuant to authority thereof shall be taxed such costs of the
proceedings as are authorized by the laws of the state to be taxed by justices
of the peace and by the City Charter, in addition to the special fees provided
in this chapter and in addition to any other fees or costs which may be
provided elsewhere in this code or other ordinance of the city.
(Prior Code, § 21-13)
§ 34.14 CITY NOT LIABLE FOR COSTS.
   The city shall not be liable for the payment of any fines or costs imposed
by the Police Court Judge.
(Prior Code, § 21-14) (Ord. passed 8-5-1974)
§ 34.15 JUDGMENT ORDER; IMPRISONMENT FOR NONPAYMENT OF FINE OR COSTS.
   Upon conviction of any person for a violation of this code or other
ordinance or any rule, regulation, notice, or order promulgated or issued
pursuant to authority thereof, the Police Court Judge may impose such fine or
imprisonment, or both, as may be within the limits of punishment authorized for
such violation by state law, the city Charter, this code, or other ordinance of
the city; and the Police Court Judge shall have the power to issue an execution
for any fine and costs, imposed by him or her, or he or she may at the time of
rendering judgment thereof, or at any time thereafter, and before satisfaction
of such judgment, by his or her order in writing, require the immediate payment
thereof, and, in default of such payment, he or she may cause the person so in
default to be apprehended and brought before him or her and commit him or her
to jail until the fine and costs are fully paid, but not to exceed 30 days. Any
person committed for the nonpayment of fine and costs, while in custody, may be
compelled to work on the streets, alleys, or public grounds or works until the
fine and costs are paid, allowing $1.50 per day, or other amount deemed
appropriate by the Municipal Court, for the work of such person to apply to
such fine and costs.
(Prior Code, § 21-15)
Charter reference:
   Authority of Mayor to commit to prison persons who are in default of
payment, see Charter § 20
   Authority to compel labor by persons in default of payment of fines or
costs, see Charter § 31
Statutory reference:
   Authority of Mayor to commit to prison persons who are in default, see W.
Va. Code 8-10-1
§ 34.16 APPEALS.
   Appeals from the Police Court shall be to the County Circuit Court, as
provided by statute of this state governing appeals from municipal courts to
circuit courts.
(Prior Code, § 21-16)
Charter reference:
   As to appeals from Mayor’s Court to Circuit Court, see Charter § 20
Statutory reference:
   As to appeals from Mayor’s Court or Police Court to Circuit Court, see W.
Va. Code 8-34-1
§ 34.17 QUALIFICATION AND COMPENSATION.
   (A)   In the event a candidate for municipal court judge is not qualified to
be appointed. In the event that the Municipal Court judge, or any potential
candidate for Municipal Court Judge, is not qualified under the appropriate
provisions of West Virginia Code 8-10-2 and/or other applicable West Virginia
Code provisions, then the City Council shall seek other qualified candidates
who may be qualified to be a Municipal Court Judge under W. Va. Code 8-10-
2 and/or other applicable West Virginia Code provisions.
   (B)   Compensation and qualifications for Municipal Court Judge. The
Municipal Court Judge will be paid an amount set by the City Council. The
Municipal Court Judge shall serve a term of one year. Any current Municipal
Court Judge, or any future candidate for the role of Municipal Court Judge,
will be required to satisfy the requirements of W. Va. Code 8-10-2(b) and West
Virginia Code 8-10-2(c) and other requirements applicable pursuant to the West
Virginia Code.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
§ 34.18 DATES AND TIMES OF HEARINGS.
   Municipal Court shall be held on the first Thursday of each month, beginning
July 1, 2021. The Court shall set what times each particular case shall be
heard.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2021)
FINES AND COSTS WHEN DEFENDANTS UNABLE TO PAY
§ 34.30 INSTALLMENT OR OTHER METHOD OF PAYMENT WHEN DEFENDANT UNABLE TO PAY.
   Whenever a person is convicted in the Police Court of a violation of this
code or other ordinance or any rule, regulation, notice, or order promulgated
pursuant to authority thereof, and such person is sentenced to pay a fine, and
it shall appear to the court on its own motion or on motion of the defendant
that such defendant is unable to pay such fine forthwith, the court may order
the defendant to pay such fine and any costs which the defendant may be
required to pay in installments or upon such other terms and conditions or
within such period of time as may enable the defendant to pay such fine and
costs.
(Prior Code, § 21-17)
§ 34.31 DETERMINATION OF ABILITY TO PAY; QUESTIONNAIRE TO BE ANSWERED BY
DEFENDANT; ASSISTANCE TO DEFENDANT; PENALTY FOR FALSE SWEARING.
   (A)   In determining whether a defendant is unable to pay a fine forthwith,
the court may require such defendant to file a petition, under oath, with the
court, upon a form provided by the court, setting forth the financial condition
of the defendant.
   (B)   Such form shall be a questionnaire, and shall include, but shall not
be limited to: the name and residence of the defendant; his or her occupation,
if any; his or her family status and the number of persons dependent upon him
or her; his or her monthly income; whether or not his or her dependents are
employed and, if so, their approximate monthly income; his or her banking
accounts, if any; real estate owned by the defendant, or any interest he or she
may have in real estate; income produced therefrom; any independent income
accruing to the defendant; tangible and intangible personal property owned by
the defendant, or in which he or she may have an interest; and a statement
listing the approximate indebtedness of the defendant to other persons. Such
form shall also include a payment plan of the defendant, if the court should
exercise its discretion in permitting the payment of such fine and costs in
installments or other conditions to be fixed by the court. At the end of such
form there shall be printed in bold face type, in a distinctive color the
following: “THIS STATEMENT IS MADE UNDER OATH, ANY FALSE STATEMENT OF A
MATERIAL FACT TO ANY QUESTION CONTAINED HEREIN SHALL CONSTITUTE FALSE SWEARING
AND SHALL BE AN OFFENSE AGAINST THIS SECTION. THE MAXIMUM PENALTY IS $100 FINE
OR THIRTY DAYS IN JAIL, OR BOTH”. A copy of the petition shall be retained by
the defendant.
   (C)   If the defendant is unable to read or write, the court, or the Clerk,
may assist the defendant in completing the petition and require him or her to
affix his or her mark thereto. The consequences of the making of a false
statement shall be explained to such defendant.
(Prior Code, § 21-18)
§ 34.32 PAYMENT OF FINE MAY BE MADE CONDITION OF PROBATION OR SUSPENSION OF
SENTENCE.
   If a defendant is sentenced to pay a fine and payment of the fine or fine
and costs is ordered to be made on an installment basis or on other conditions
under the provisions of §
34.30, and if the defendant is also placed on probation or imposition of the
execution of sentence is suspended, the court may make payment of the fine a
condition of probation or suspension of sentence.
(Prior Code, § 21-19)
§ 34.33 COURT MAY REQUIRE DEFENDANT TO BE ON GOOD BEHAVIOR UNTIL FINE AND COSTS
ARE PAID.
   If a defendant is permitted to pay a fine or fine and costs on an
installment basis or under such other conditions as the court shall fix under
the provisions of §
34.30, the court may require as a condition that the defendant be of peace and
good behavior until the fine and costs are paid.
(Prior Code, § 21-20)
§ 34.34 PROCEDURE UPON DEFAULT IN PAYMENT UNDER AGREEMENT; CONFINEMENT IN CASE
OF WILLFUL DEFAULT.
   When any person sentenced to pay a fine defaults in the payment of any such
fine or of any installment thereof, the court may issue a summons for such
person to appear before the court for a hearing on the question of whether such
person’s failure to pay the fine or any installment was attributable to
intentional refusal to comply with the prior order of the court or to a lack of
a good faith effort to comply therewith. The court may, after hearing, order
that the person in default be allowed additional time for payment, may reduce
or remit the amount of the fine or the unpaid portion thereof, in whole or in
part, or upon a finding that the default was intentional or due to the lack of
a good faith effort to comply with the prior order of the court, may order such
person confined for such period up to 30 days as the court in its discretion
shall determine.
(Prior Code, § 21-21)
§ 34.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter for which no other
penalty is provided shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person convicted of contempt shall be fined not less than $10 nor
more than $100, or other amount deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court, and
may, in addition thereto, be sentenced to jail for not less than one day nor
more than 30 days.
(Prior Code, § 21-10)
CHAPTER 35: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
35.01   Composition of Department
   
35.02   Appointment of members; general requirements
   
35.03   Same; applications
   
35.04   Probationary period and continued service of members
   
35.05   Sick leave; record of vacation time
   
35.06   Police officers to be courteous to public, and vice versa
   
35.07   Police manual
   
35.08   Police Officer’s Civil Service Commission, and civil service for police
officers
   
35.09   Charges for service of process and the like
Police Officer’s Pension and Relief Fund
   
35.20   Determination of necessity for Fund
   
35.21   Creation, name, and general powers of Board of Trustees
   
35.22   Composition of Board of Trustees; election, officers, and the like
   
35.23   Application of state law
   
35.24   Retirement plans/pension
Police Protection
   
35.35   Rules and regulations for the Police Department
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.01 COMPOSITION OF DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The Police Department shall consist of the police force and the
civilian employees of the Department.
   (B)   The police force shall consist of one Chief of Police and such number
of captains, lieutenants, sergeants, technicians, and patrol officers as the
Common Council may from time to time authorize.
   (C)   The civilian employees of the Police Department shall consist of such
number of stenographers, secretaries, clerks, laborers, and others as the
Common Council may from time to time authorize.
(Prior Code, § 22-1)
§ 35.02 APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS; GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   To be eligible for appointment as a member of the Police Department, an
applicant must comply with all of the applicable state civil service laws
governing municipal police departments, the provisions of this chapter, and the
rules and regulations of the city’s Police Officers’s Civil Service Commission.
(Prior Code, § 22-2)
Charter reference:
   For charter provisions as to qualifications of Chief of Police, see Charter
§ 6
§ 35.03 SAME; APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Applications for appointment as a member of the Police Department
shall be made on forms furnished by the City Clerk, which may be procured from
the City Clerk’s office.
   (B)   Such applications shall be in the handwriting of, and signed by, the
applicant and shall be filed with the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 22-3)
§ 35.04 PROBATIONARY PERIOD AND CONTINUED SERVICE OF MEMBERS.
   Appointments to the Police Department are for a probationary period of six
months; continuation in the service after the expiration of that period being
dependent upon the conduct of the appointee and his or her capacity for the
performance of the duties to which assigned, as indicated by reports of his or
her superior officers.
(Prior Code, § 22-4)
§ 35.05 SICK LEAVE; RECORD OF VACATION TIME.
   (A)   All regularly employed police officers of the city duly qualified
under the Police Civil Service Act, being W. Va. Code 8-14-17 et seq., shall be
entitled to one day sick leave per month cumulative to a total of 12 days in
any calendar year, but not thereafter, for incapacitating illness or injury.
   (B)   Before a regularly employed police officer is entitled to sick leave
pay, he or she shall first notify the Chief of Police of his or her
incapacitating illness or injury as soon as reasonably practicable and shall
thereafter produce a physician’s certificate of said incapacitating illness or
injuries of more than three days duration, to both the Chief of Police and the
Mayor, of his or her illness or injury.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to record, in a
permanently bound book open to the inspection of the Mayor and Common Council,
the sick leave time granted to the members of the force and the day, month, and
year in which the same was granted. The Chief of Police shall further record
the vacation time granted to members of the force and the day, month, and year
in which the same was granted.
(Prior Code, § 22-5) (Ord. passed 2-4-1985)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to provide for allowance of time with pay for employees, see W.
Va. Code 8-5-12
§ 35.06 POLICE OFFICERS TO BE COURTEOUS TO PUBLIC, AND VICE VERSA.
   (A)    (1)   City police officers shall be courteous in their official
transactions with the public, and they shall conduct themselves in the
performance of their official duties so as to not knowingly deprive any person,
at the time and under the circumstances then and there existing, of any lawful
right or benefit to which such person may be entitled.
      (2)   Any person who feels aggrieved by the conduct of any city police
officer in violation of this division (A) is hereby invited to bring such
matter to the attention of the Chief of Police or to the Mayor without
prejudice to any other recourse to which such aggrieved person may be entitled.
   (B)   Members of the public, in turn, should be courteous in their
transactions with city police officers, and it shall be unlawful for any person
to knowingly taunt, deride, jeer, or otherwise debase or insult, whether by
act, word, or gesture, any city police officer at any time or place while such
officer is lawfully engaged in the performance of official duty.
(Prior Code, § 22-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 35.07 POLICE MANUAL.
   Each member of the Police Department shall be obedient to and comply with
the provisions of the city’s police manual applicable to his or her position;
and the police manual shall be subject to amendment from time to time by the
Common Council.
(Prior Code, § 22-7)
§ 35.08 POLICE OFFICER’S CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION, AND CIVIL SERVICE FOR POLICE
OFFICERS.
   The Police Officer’s Civil Service Commission existing immediately prior to
the effective date of this code is hereby continued in full force and effect;
and all of the pertinent provisions of W. Va. Code 8-14-6 to 8-14-20,
inclusive, and W. Va. Code 8-14-22 and 8-14-23 are hereby adopted by the Common
Council and made applicable to the Police Department of this city and to the
members thereof and applicants for membership therein.
(Prior Code, § 22-8)
§ 35.09 CHARGES FOR SERVICE OF PROCESS AND THE LIKE.
   The fees for the city’s Police Department be and are hereby adopted below,
and are subject to change by the Municipal Court.
Police Service Fee
Police Service                                                           Fee
For conveying a prisoner to or from jail, for each mile of necessary     $0.25
travel either in going or returning
For executing any criminal warrant, whether issued by the city, the
state, or the United States of America, or any of its agencies or        $20
departments
For levying an attachment on real estate and making the return           $20
For making any other levy                                                $20
For serving a writ or possession                                         $20
For serving any person an order, notice, summons, or other process where
the body is not taken, except a subpoena served on a witness and making  $20
return thereof
For serving on any person an attachment or other process under which the $20
body is taken
For summoning a witness                                                  $20
 
(Ord. passed 4-13-1993)
POLICE OFFICER’S PENSION AND RELIEF FUND
§ 35.20 DETERMINATION OF NECESSITY FOR FUND.
   The Common Council deems it necessary that a Police Officers’s Pension and
Relief Fund be established and maintained, to be administered and distributed
by a Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 22-9)
Statutory reference:
   As to duty of Common Council to levy annual tax for fund, see W. Va. Code 8-
22-19
   Municipal police officer’s pension and relief funds, see W. Va. Code 8-22-16
to 8-22-28
§ 35.21 CREATION, NAME, AND GENERAL POWERS OF BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   The governing board of the Police Officers’s Pension and Relief Fund shall
be a Board of Trustees, which is hereby created, and which, as provided by
statute, shall be a corporation by the name and style of “The Board of Trustees
of the Police Officer’s Pension and Relief Fund of the city”, by which name it
may sue and be sued, plead, and be impleaded, contract and be contracted with,
and take and hold real estate and personal property for the use of such Police
Officers’s Pension and Relief Fund; have and use a common seal, but in the
absence of such seal, the private seal of the president of such corporation
shall be equivalent to such common seal. Such Board of Trustees may also, in
their corporate limits, do and perform any and all other acts and business
pertaining to the trust hereby created, or in connection with any conveyance,
gift, devise, or donation made for the uses and purposes of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 22-10)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code 8-22-17
§ 35.22 COMPOSITION OF BOARD OF TRUSTEES; ELECTION, OFFICERS, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees of the Police Officer’s Pension and Relief Fund,
(hereinafter in this article referred to as “the Board of Trustees” or “the
Board”), shall consist of the Mayor and four paid members of the Police
Department, and such paid members shall serve for a term of four years each and
until their successors are duly elected and qualified.
      (1)   One paid member of the Police Department shall be elected annually
upon the second Monday in February, and all votes cast at such election shall
be counted and canvassed by the then existing members of such Board, who after
such election shall announce the result, and the paid member of the Police
Department receiving the highest number of votes shall be declared to have been
elected; and in the case of a tie vote being received by any two paid members
for the office of Trustee, such tie vote shall be decided by casting lots, or
in any other way which may be agreed upon by the persons for whom such tie vote
was cast.
      (2)   The result of such election shall be entered in the record of the
proceedings of the Board. In case of vacancy by death, resignation, or
otherwise among the paid members so elected, the remaining members shall choose
the successor, or successors, until the next annual election at which later
time all vacancies shall be filled. The Board shall give due notice of such
election to all paid members of the Police Department annually during the month
of January.
   (B)   The presiding officer of the Board of Trustees shall be the Mayor, and
the Secretary thereof shall be appointed by the Board. It shall be the duty of
such Secretary to keep a full and permanent record of all the proceedings of
the Board, and the trustees may fix his or her compensation for this work,
which shall be paid out of the funds of the Firefighter’s Pension and Relief
Fund.
(Prior Code, § 22-11)
§ 35.23 APPLICATION OF STATE LAW.
   The provisions of W. Va. Code 8-22-19 to 8-22-27 shall be applicable to the
Police Officer’s Pension and Relief Fund established by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 22-12)
§ 35.24 RETIREMENT PLANS/PENSION.
   (A)   The existing pension plans for police officers and firefighters
employed by the city are hereby closed to new entrants, in accordance with the
authority provided in W. Va. Code 8-22-16(e).
   (B)   The city’s optional method of financing the unfunded actuarial accrued
liability of the existing Police Officers’s or Firefighter’s Pension and Relief
Fund as provided in W. Va. Code 8-22-20(e).
   (C)   Newly hired police officers or firefighters shall be enrolled in a
retirement plan created in W. Va. Code Ch. 8, Art. 22A and approved and
administered by the state’s Consolidated Public Retirement Board.
   (D)   All current active members, retirees, and other beneficiaries covered
by the existing Police Officer’s or Firefighter’s Pension and Relief Fund shall
remain covered by that plan and shall be paid all benefits of that plan in
accordance with applicable provisions of the state code.
(Ord. passed 1-5-2015)
POLICE PROTECTION
§ 35.35 RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR THE POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   The rules and regulations for the city’s Police Department be and are hereby
adopted as the rules and regulations for the city’s Police Department
applicable to all members thereof, except the Chief of Police, an elected
official, and in so far as they are not in conflict with any express statute of
the state with respect to municipal police officers.
(Ord. passed 2-2-1988)
CHAPTER 36: CIVIL DEFENSE
Section
   
36.01   Civil defense defined
   
36.02   Policy and purpose of chapter
   
36.03   City civil defense organization
   
36.04   Responsibility of Common Council
   
36.05   Civil Defense Council established; organization and procedures
   
36.06   Same; meetings; officers other than Chairperson; bylaws and duties
   
36.07   City Director of civil defense; appointment and term of office;
executive head of civil defense organization; responsibilities and the like
   
36.08   Same; specific powers and duties
   
36.09   Appropriations and authority to accept services, gifts, and the like
   
36.10   Utilization of existing city services and facilities
   
36.11   Political activity prohibited
   
36.12   Loyalty of civil defense personnel; oath required
§ 36.01 CIVIL DEFENSE DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CIVIL DEFENSE.
      (1)   The preparation for and the carrying out of all emergency
functions, other than functions for which the military forces are primarily
responsible, to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage resulting from
disasters caused by enemy attack, sabotage, or other hostile action, or by
fire, flood, earthquake, or other natural causes.
      (2)   These functions include, without limitation, firefighting services,
police services, medical and health services, rescue, engineering, air raid
warning services, communications, radiological, chemical, and other special
weapons, defense, evacuation of persons from stricken areas, emergency welfare
services, emergency transportation, existing or properly assigned functions of
plant protection, temporary restoration of public utility services, and other
functions related to civilian protection, together with all other activities
necessary or incidental to the preparation for the carrying out of the
foregoing functions.
(Prior Code, § 6-1)
§ 36.02 POLICY AND PURPOSE OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   In view of the existing and increasing possibility of the occurrence
of disasters of unprecedented size and destructiveness resulting from enemy
attack, sabotage, or other hostile action, or from fire, flood, earthquake, or
other natural causes, and in order to ensure that preparations of this city
will be adequate to deal with such disasters, and generally to provide for the
common defense and to protect the public peace, health, and safety, and to
preserve the lives and property of the people of this city, it is hereby found
and declared to be necessary:
      (1)   To create a city civil defense organization;
      (2)   To provide for the rendering of mutual aid to other cities within
the state, and if necessary and only under a compact approved by the Governor,
the neighboring cities and counties of another state; and
      (3)   To cooperate with the state government with respect to carrying out
civil defense functions.
   (B)   It is further declared to be the purpose of this chapter and the
policy of this city that all civil defense functions of this city be
coordinated to the maximum extent with the state government, including its
various departments and agencies, with other cities and localities, and with
private agencies of every type, to the end that the most effective preparation
and use may be made of this city’s manpower, resources, and facilities for
dealing with any disaster that may occur.
   (C)   It is further declared to be the purpose of this chapter and the
policy of this city to organize a civil defense organization in conformity with
the state’s civil defense plan, as directed by the W. Va. Code 15-5-8.
(Prior Code, § 6-2)
§ 36.03 CITY CIVIL DEFENSE ORGANIZATION.
   In compliance with the directive of the legislature contained in W. Va. Code
15-5-8, there is hereby established the city civil defense organization, which
shall be subject to all applicable provisions of W. Va. Code Ch. 15, Art. 5 and
all rules, regulations, plans, programs, and orders promulgated, issued, or
given pursuant thereto. Such organization shall be as prescribed in this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-3)
§ 36.04 RESPONSIBILITY OF COMMON COUNCIL.
   The Common Council shall have the general direction and control of the city
civil defense organization, and shall be responsible for carrying out the
provisions of this chapter and all applicable provisions of W. Va. Code Ch. 15,
Art. 5.
(Prior Code, § 6-4)
§ 36.05 CIVIL DEFENSE COUNCIL ESTABLISHED; ORGANIZATION AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   There is hereby established the City Civil Defense Council, which
shall consist of the Mayor and four citizens of the city appointed by the Mayor
with the approval of the Common Council, but not more than three of the five
members shall belong to the same political party.
   (B)   As soon as may be practicable following the effective date of this
code, two members shall be appointed for a term of one year and two members
shall be appointed for a term of two years, and thereafter two members shall be
appointed each year for a term of two years; and all members so appointed shall
serve until their successors are duly appointed and qualified. Vacancies shall
be filled in the same manner, but for the unexpired term only.
   (C)   The Mayor shall be Chairperson of the City Civil Defense Council.
   (D)   Members of the City Civil Defense Council shall serve without
compensation but shall be reimbursed for the reasonable and necessary expenses
incurred in the performance of their duties.
(Prior Code, § 6-5)
§ 36.06 SAME; MEETINGS; OFFICERS OTHER THAN CHAIRPERSON; BYLAWS AND DUTIES.
   The City Civil Defense Council shall meet during the month of March each
year to elect a Secretary and such other officers, other than Chairperson, as
may be deemed necessary, and to adopt such bylaws as may be desirable for the
transaction of its business. The City Civil Defense Council shall meet as often
as may be necessary for the proper performance of its duty, which is to advise
the City Director of Civil Defense on all matters pertaining to civil defense
of the city and its environs.
(Prior Code, § 6-6)
§ 36.07 CITY DIRECTOR OF CIVIL DEFENSE; APPOINTMENT AND TERM OF OFFICE;
EXECUTIVE HEAD OF CIVIL DEFENSE ORGANIZATION; RESPONSIBILITIES AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   The Mayor, with the approval of the Common Council, shall appoint a
qualified person to be City Director of Civil Defense, to serve at the will and
pleasure of the Common Council. The City Director of Civil Defense, subject to
the direction and control of the Common Council, shall be the executive head of
the city civil defense organization and shall be directly responsible to the
Common Council for the organization, administration, and operation of the civil
defense program of the city.
   (B)   The City Director of Civil Defense shall coordinate the activities of
all organizations for civil defense within this city and shall maintain liaison
and cooperate with the civil defense agencies and organizations within the
state and within the state government.
(Prior Code, § 6-7)
§ 36.08 SAME; SPECIFIC POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   In performing his or her duties under this chapter, the Director of
Civil Defense is authorized to cooperate with the state government, with other
cities and counties, and with private agencies in all matters pertaining to the
civil defense of the city.
   (B)   In performing his or her duties and to effect the policy and purpose
of this chapter, the Director is further authorized and empowered:
      (1)   To make, amend, and rescind the necessary orders, rules, and
regulations to carry out the provisions of this chapter within the limits of
the authority conferred upon him or her, with due consideration of the plans of
the state government;
      (2)   To prepare a comprehensive plan and program for the civil defense
of this city, such plan and program to be integrated into and coordinated with
the civil defense plans of the county and state governments, and of other
cities and counties within the state to the fullest extent;
      (3)   In accordance with such plan and program for the civil defense of
this city, to procure supplies and equipment, to institute training programs
and public information programs, and to take all other preparatory steps
including the partial or full mobilization of the civil defense organization in
advance of actual disaster, to ensure the furnishing of adequately trained and
equipped forces of civil defense personnel in time of need;
      (4)   To make such studies and surveys of the industries, resources, and
facilities in this city as may be necessary to ascertain the capabilities of
the city for civil defense, and to plan for the most efficient emergency use
thereof;
      (5)   On behalf of this city, to enter into mutual aid arrangements with
other cities and counties within this state, and also, with the approval of the
Governor of the state, with civil defense agencies or organizations of other
states, for reciprocal civil defense, aid, and assistance in case of disaster
too great to be dealt with unassisted;
      (6)   To delegate any administrative authority invested in him or her
under this chapter, and to provide for the subdelegation of any such authority;
and
      (7)   To cooperate with the Governor and the state’s Division of Civil
Defense and with officials and agencies of other cities and counties within the
state, in matters pertaining to civil defense of the city and state, including
the direction or control of:
         (a)   Blackouts and practice blackouts, air raid drills, mobilization
of civil defense forces, and other tests and exercises;
         (b)   Warnings and signals for drills or attacks and the mechanical
and electronic devices to be used in connection therewith;
         (c)   The effective screening or extinguishing of all lights and
electronic devices and appliances;
         (d)   Shutting off water mains, gas mains, electric power connections,
and the suspension of all other utility services;
         (e)   The conduct of civilians and the movement and cessation of
movement of pedestrians and vehicular traffic during, prior, and subsequent to
drills or attacks;
         (f)   Public meetings or gatherings; and
         (g)   The evacuation and reception of the civilian population.
(Prior Code, § 6-8)
§ 36.09 APPROPRIATIONS AND AUTHORITY TO ACCEPT SERVICES, GIFTS, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Whenever the federal or state government or any agency or officer
thereof shall offer to this city services, equipment, supplies, materials, or
funds by way of gift, grant, or loan, for purposes of civil defense, the city,
acting with the consent of the Governor and through the Mayor, may accept such
offer, and upon such acceptance the Mayor may authorize any officer of the city
to receive such services, equipment, supplies, materials, or funds on behalf of
the city, and subject to the terms of the offer and the rules and regulations
if any of the agency making the offer.
   (B)   Whenever any person shall offer to this city services, equipment,
supplies, materials, or funds by way of gift or loan, for purposes of civil
defense, the city, acting through the Mayor, may accept such offer, and upon
acceptance, the Mayor may authorize any officer of the city to receive such
services, equipment, supplies, materials, or funds on behalf of the city, and
subject to the terms of the offer.
(Prior Code, § 6-9)
§ 36.10 UTILIZATION OF EXISTING CITY SERVICES AND FACILITIES.
   In carrying out the provisions of this chapter, the City Director of Civil
Defense is directed to utilize the services, equipment, supplies, and
facilities of existing departments, offices, and agencies of the city to the
maximum extent practicable, and the officers and personnel of all such
departments, offices, and agencies are directed to cooperate with and extend
such services and facilities to the Director, and to the civil defense
organization of the city, upon request.
(Prior Code, § 6-10)
§ 36.11 POLITICAL ACTIVITY PROHIBITED.
   No organization for civil defense established under the authority of this
chapter shall participate in any form of political activity, nor shall it be
employed directly or indirectly for political purposes.
(Prior Code, § 6-11)
§ 36.12 LOYALTY OF CIVIL DEFENSE PERSONNEL; OATH REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall be employed or associated in any capacity in the city
civil defense organization who advocates or has advocated a change by force or
violence in the constitutional form of the government of the United States or
of this state, or of this city, or the overthrow of any government in the
United States by force or violence, or who has been convicted of or is under
indictment or information charging any subversive act against the United
States.
   (B)   Each person who is appointed to serve in this organization for civil
defense shall, before entering upon his or her duties, take an oath in writing,
before a person authorized to administer oaths in this state, which oath shall
be substantially as follows:
      (1)   “I,                                                 , do solemnly
swear (or affirm) that I will support and defend the Constitution of the United
States, and the Constitution of the State of West Virginia, against all
enemies, foreign and domestic; that I will bear true faith and allegiance to
the same; and I take this obligation freely, without any mental reservation for
purpose of evasion; and that I will well and faithfully discharge the duties
upon which I am about to enter.”
      (2)   “And I do further swear (or affirm) that I do not advocate, nor am
I a member of any political party or organization that advocates the overthrow
of the government of the United States, or of this state, by force or violence;
during such time as I am a member of this civil defense organization, I will
not advocate or become a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States, or of this
state, by force or violence.”
(Prior Code, § 6-12)
CHAPTER 37: CIVIL DISORDERS
Section
   
37.01   When state of emergency deemed to exist
   
37.02   Declaration of emergency by Mayor; restrictions imposed; exceptions
from restrictions
   
37.03   Specific restrictions authorized
   
37.04   Extension, alteration, and rescission of proclamation
   
37.05   Compliance with restrictions imposed by proclamation mandatory
   
37.06   Authority to request state police and military forces; when
proclamation of martial law may be recommended to Governor
   
37.07   End of emergency period
§ 37.01 WHEN STATE OF EMERGENCY DEEMED TO EXIST.
   For the purposes of this chapter, a STATE OF EMERGENCY shall be deemed to
exist whenever, during times of great public crises, disaster, rioting,
catastrophe, or similar public civil emergency, for any reason, municipal
public safety authorities are unable to maintain public order or afford
adequate protection for lives or property.
(Prior Code, § 7-1)
§ 37.02 DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY BY MAYOR; RESTRICTIONS IMPOSED; EXCEPTIONS
FROM RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   In the event of an existing or threatened state of emergency
endangering the lives, safety, health, and welfare of the people within the
city or threatening damage to or destruction of property, the Mayor is hereby
empowered to issue a public proclamation declaring to all persons the existence
of such a state of emergency, and, in order to more effectively protect the
lives and property of people within the city, to place in effect any or all of
the restrictions authorized by this chapter.
   (B)   The Mayor is hereby authorized and empowered to limit by such
proclamation the application of all or any part of such restrictions to any
area specifically designated or described within the city and to specific hours
of the day or night; and to exempt from all or any part of such restrictions
law enforcement officers, firefighters, and other public employees, doctors,
nurses, employees of hospitals, and other medical facilities; on-duty military
personnel whether state or federal; on-duty employees of public utilities,
public transportation companies, and newspaper, magazine, radio broadcasting,
and television broadcasting corporations; and such other classes of persons as
may be essential to the preservation of public order and immediately necessary
to serve the safety, health, and welfare needs of the people within the city.
(Prior Code, § 7-2)
§ 37.03 SPECIFIC RESTRICTIONS AUTHORIZED.
   During the existence of a proclaimed state of emergency, the Mayor may
impose by proclamation any or all of the following restrictions:
   (A)   Prohibit or regulate the possession off one’s own premises of
explosives, firearms, ammunition, or dangerous weapons of any kind, and
prohibit the purchase, sale, transfer, or other disposition thereof;
   (B)   Prohibit or regulate the buying or selling of beer, wine, or
intoxicating beverages of any kind, and their possession or consumption off
one’s own premises;
   (C)   Prohibit or regulate any demonstration, parade, march, vigil, or
participation therein from taking place on any of the public ways or upon any
public property;
   (D)   Prohibit or regulate the sale or use of gasoline, kerosene, naphtha,
or any other explosive or flammable fluids or substances;
   (E)   Prohibit or regulate travel upon any public street or upon any other
public property, except by those in search of medical assistance, food, or
other commodity or service necessary to sustain the well- being of themselves
or their families or some member thereof;
   (F)   Prohibit or regulate the participation in or carrying on of any
business activity, and prohibit or regulate the keeping open of places of
business, places of entertainment, and other places of public assembly; and
   (G)   Establish hours during which a curfew shall be in effect.
(Prior Code, § 7-3)
§ 37.04 EXTENSION, ALTERATION, AND RESCISSION OF PROCLAMATION.
   Any proclamation of emergency promulgated pursuant to this chapter may be
extended, altered, or rescinded in any particular during the continued or
threatened existence of a state of emergency by the issuance of a subsequent
proclamation.
(Prior Code, § 7-4)
§ 37.05 COMPLIANCE WITH RESTRICTIONS IMPOSED BY PROCLAMATION MANDATORY.
   During the existence of a proclaimed state of emergency, it shall be
unlawful for any person to violate any provision of any restriction imposed by
any proclamation authorized by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 37.06 AUTHORITY TO REQUEST STATE POLICE AND MILITARY FORCES; WHEN
PROCLAMATION OF MARTIAL LAW MAY BE RECOMMENDED TO GOVERNOR.
   If, in the sound discretion of the Mayor, it shall appear that the emergency
is, or that the threatened emergency is likely to be, of such proportions that
the means available to the city to maintain law and order within the police
jurisdiction of the city are insufficient for such purpose, the Mayor shall,
promptly and by the most expeditious means of communication, inform the
Governor of the situation and request that the necessary police or military
forces of the state be provided promptly; and if, during an actual state of
emergency the Mayor shall find that the civil courts within the police
jurisdiction of the city are unable to perform their lawful duties and that, by
reason of widespread lawlessness, writs and other process cannot be served or
executed, the Mayor shall inform the Governor of his or her findings and may
recommend to him or her that a state of martial law be proclaimed within the
police jurisdiction of the city.
(Prior Code, § 7-6)
Charter reference:
   Jurisdiction for one mile beyond city limits for police and criminal
purposes, see Charter § 31
Statutory reference:
   Extraterritorial powers and authority of city, see W. Va. Code 8-12-5(43)
and 8-12-19
§ 37.07 END OF EMERGENCY PERIOD.
   The Mayor shall proclaim the end of such state of emergency or all or any
part of the restrictions imposed as soon as circumstances warrant or when
directed to do so by the Common Council.
(Prior Code, § 7-7)
CHAPTER 38: GENERAL TAXATION
Section
General Provisions
   
38.01   Annual levy estimate and financial statement; reconvening of Council to
hear objections and take further action
   
38.02   Certification of levy estimate to State Tax Commissioner, and
publication thereof
   
38.03   Hearing of objections to levy estimate; the annual tax levy, and
regulations governing adoption
   
38.04   Levy of additional tax
   
38.05   Certification of levy
Tax on Paid Admissions to Public Amusements
   
38.20   Tax imposed; rate of tax
   
38.21   Exempted from tax
   
38.22   Record of tickets sold; monthly payment of tax
Sales and Service Tax
   
38.35   Definitions; imposition of sales and service tax
   
38.36   Imposition of municipal use tax
   
38.37   Credit against municipal use tax
   
38.38   Tax Commissioner to administer, enforce, and collect taxes
   
38.39   Municipal taxes imposed in addition to consumer sales and service tax
and consumer use tax
Street Fees
   
38.50   Short title
   
38.51   Findings of fact
   
38.52   Street maintenance and improvement fees
   
38.53   Calculation periods and change of ownership
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 38.01 ANNUAL LEVY ESTIMATE AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT; RECONVENING OF COUNCIL TO
HEAR OBJECTIONS AND TAKE FURTHER ACTION.
   (A)   Between March 7 and 28 of each and every year, the Common Council
shall meet and ascertain the fiscal condition of the city and make an itemized
statement setting forth:
      (1)   The amount due and the amount that will become due and collectible
from every source during the ensuing fiscal year except from the levy of taxes
to be made for the year;
      (2) The interest, sinking fund, and amortization requirements for the
ensuing fiscal year of bonded indebtedness, legally incurred upon a vote of the
people as provided by law;
      (3)   All other expenditures to be paid out of the receipts of the city
for the ensuing fiscal year with proper allowance for delinquent taxes,
exonerations, and contingencies;
      (4)   The total amount necessary to be raised by the levy of taxes for
the ensuing fiscal year;
      (5)   The proposed rate of levy in cents on each $100, or other amount
deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court, assessed valuation of each class of
property; and
      (6)   The separate and aggregate assessed valuations of real, personal,
and public utility property in each class in the city.
   (B)   When the foregoing estimate and statement has been prepared, the
session shall stand adjourned until the third Tuesday in April, at which time
the Council shall reconvene.
(Prior Code, § 27-1)
Statutory reference:
   For related provisions, see W. Va. Code 11-8-14
§ 38.02 CERTIFICATION OF LEVY ESTIMATE TO STATE TAX COMMISSIONER, AND
PUBLICATION THEREOF.
   Immediately after the meeting of the Common Council mentioned in §
38.01, the City Clerk shall forthwith forward a certified copy of the itemized
statement therein described to the State Tax Commissioner and shall publish a
copy thereof as provided by W. Va. Code 11-8-14.
(Prior Code, § 27-2)
§ 38.03 HEARING OF OBJECTIONS TO LEVY ESTIMATE; THE ANNUAL TAX LEVY, AND
REGULATIONS GOVERNING ADOPTION.
   (A)   When the Common Council reconvenes on the third Tuesday in April, it
shall proceed in a manner similar in all respects to that provided by the W.
Va. Code 11-8-10a for county courts in hearing objections to proposed levies
and in revising such levies.
   (B)   The Common Council shall not finally enter any levy until it has been
approved in writing by the State Tax Commissioner. After receiving such
approval, the Council shall enter the statement as approved in its record of
proceedings, together with the written approval.
   (C)   The Common Council shall levy as many cents per $100, or other amount
deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court, assessed valuation on each class of
property in the city as will produce the amounts, according to the last
assessment, shown to be necessary by the statement in the following order:
      (1)   First, for the bonded debt and for the contractual debt not bonded,
if any; and
      (2)   Second, for general current expenses.
   (D)   The rates of levy for each purpose shall not exceed the amounts fixed
by law unless another rate is authorized by the Tax Commissioner according to
law. When less than the maximum levies are imposed, the levies on each class of
property shall be in the same proportions as to maximums authorized.
(Prior Code, § 27-3)
Statutory reference:
   As to revision of levy by approval of State Tax Commissioner, see W. Va.
Code 11-8-26a
   For similar state law, see W. Va. Code 11-8-14a
§ 38.04 LEVY OF ADDITIONAL TAX.
   The Common Council may impose any tax not theretofore levied, or may
increase any tax theretofore levied, and may make such tax or increase
effective as of the date of the adoption of the ordinance imposing or
increasing the tax, or as of any date thereafter specified in the ordinance
regardless of whether or not such tax or the increase thereof is included
within the levy estimate for the current or ensuing fiscal year, provided for
in §
38.01; provided, that when such tax or increase is not included within such
levy estimate, such tax or increase shall not be imposed until such levy
estimate is revised in accordance with the provisions of the W. Va. Code 11-8-
26a. If such tax or increase is continued in effect during subsequent fiscal
years, it shall thereafter be included in the levy estimate.
(Prior Code, § 27-4)
Statutory reference:
   For similar state law, see W. Va. Code 11-8-14b
§ 38.05 CERTIFICATION OF LEVY.
   Each year, within three days after the Common Council has laid the levies,
the City Clerk shall forward certified copies of the order laying the levies to
the State Tax Commissioner, the State Auditor, and the County Assessor.
(Prior Code, § 27-5)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code 11-8-15
TAX ON PAID ADMISSIONS TO PUBLIC AMUSEMENTS
§ 38.20 TAX IMPOSED; RATE OF TAX.
   Every person operating the business of theatrical exhibitions, public shows,
moving picture shows, whether indoors or outdoors, hypnotic exhibitions, and
all other performances to which admission is obtained by the payment of money
or other reward shall pay unto the City Treasurer an amusement tax of one cent
on every adult admission ticket sold, which tax shall be collected from the
purchaser of the ticket by the person selling the ticket; and the tax hereby
imposed is in addition to the license tax imposed by §
110.42.
(Prior Code, § 27-6)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to impose tax on admissions to public amusements and the like, see
W. Va. Code 8-13-6
§ 38.21 EXEMPTED FROM TAX.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to performances sponsored
by churches, charitable, civic, patriotic or religious associations, schools,
or academic institutions.
(Prior Code, § 27-7)
§ 38.22 RECORD OF TICKETS SOLD; MONTHLY PAYMENT OF TAX.
   Every person subject to the tax imposed by this subchapter shall keep a
record of the number of admission tickets sold in each month, and shall display
to the City Treasurer the original books of entry, showing the number of
tickets sold, when demanded to do so. Collections made in any month shall be
paid over to the City Treasurer on or before the tenth day of the next
succeeding month.
(Prior Code, § 27-8)
SALES AND SERVICE TAX
§ 38.35 DEFINITIONS; IMPOSITION OF SALES AND SERVICE TAX.
   (A)   For the purpose of application, interpretation, and construction of
this subchapter, the definitions as set forth in W. Va. Code Ch. 11, Art. 15,
15A, and 15B, shall apply, and the definitions therein are fully incorporated
herein by reference.
   (B)   In accordance with the authority as set forth in W. Va. Code 8-1-5a,
effective on July 1, 2017, there is hereby imposed upon all persons or entities
engaging in business within the municipal boundaries of the city a municipal
sales and service tax in an amount equal to 1% on all sales made and services
rendered within the boundaries of the municipality of the city subject to the
following:
      (1)   The base of the municipal sales and service tax imposed herein
shall be identical to the base of the consumers sales and service tax imposed
pursuant to the provisions of W. Va. Code Ch. 11, Art. 15;
      (2)   Except for the exemption provided in W. Va. Code 11-15-9f, all
exemptions and exceptions from consumers sales and service tax apply to this
municipal sales and service tax;
      (3)   Sales of motor vehicles subject to the tax imposed under W. Va.
Code 11-15-3c and sales of gasoline and special fuel are not subject to the
municipal sales and service tax herein imposed; and
      (4)   The municipal sales and service tax herein imposed is subject to
the sourcing rules set forth in W. Va. Code Ch. 11, Art. 15B.
(Ord. passed - -2017)
§ 38.36 IMPOSITION OF MUNICIPAL USE TAX.
   In accordance with the authority set forth in W. Va. Code 8-1-5a, effective
on and after July 1, 2017 a municipal use tax is hereby levied and imposed on
the use within the city of tangible personal property, custom software, and
taxable services, at the rate of 1% of the purchase price of such property or
taxable services, subject to the following:
   (A)   The base of the municipal use tax herein imposed shall be identical to
the base of the use tax imposed pursuant to W. Va. Code Ch. 11, Art. 15A;
   (B)   Except for the exemptions provided in W. Va. Code 11-15-9f, all
exemptions and exceptions from the use tax imposed pursuant to W. Va. Code Ch.
11, Art. 15A apply to the municipal use tax herein imposed;
   (C)   Uses of motor vehicles subject to the tax imposed under W. Va. Code
11-15-3c and uses of gasoline and special fuel are not subject to the municipal
use tax herein imposed; and
   (D)   The municipal use tax herein imposed is subject to the sourcing rules
set forth in W. Va. Code Ch. 11, Art. 15B.
(Ord. passed - -2017)
§ 38.37 CREDIT AGAINST MUNICIPAL USE TAX.
   (A)   A person or entity is entitled to a credit against the municipal use.
Tax herein imposed on the use of a particular item of tangible personal
property, custom software, or services equal to the amount, if any, of sales
tax lawfully paid to another municipality for the acquisition of the property
or service; provided, the amount of credit allowed shall not exceed the amount
of municipal use tax imposed on the use of the property or service in the city.
   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MUNICIPALITY. A municipality, as defined in W. Va. Code 8-1-2, or a
comparable unit or entity of local government in another state.
      SALES TAX. Includes a sales tax or compensating use tax lawfully imposed
on the use of tangible personal property, custom software, or a service by the
municipality or county, as appropriate, in which the sale or use occurred.
      STATE. Includes the 50 states of the United States and the District of
Columbia, but does not include any of the several territories organized by
Congress.
   (C)   No credit is allowed under this subchapter for payment of any sales or
use taxes imposed by this state or any other state.
(Ord. passed - -2017)
§ 38.38 TAX COMMISSIONER TO ADMINISTER, ENFORCE, AND COLLECT TAXES.
   The services of the state’s Tax Commissioner shall be used to administer,
enforce, and collect the municipal sales and service tax and municipal use tax
herein imposed and the city shall coordinate such services with the state’s Tax
Department.
(Ord. passed - -2017)
§ 38.39 MUNICIPAL TAXES IMPOSED IN ADDITION TO CONSUMER SALES AND SERVICE TAX
AND CONSUMER USE TAX.
   The municipal consumers sales and service tax and municipal use tax imposed
pursuant to this subchapter shall be in addition to the consumers sales and
service tax and use tax imposed pursuant to W. Va. Code Ch. 11, Art. 15 and
15A, on sales made and services rendered and taxable uses of tangible personal
property, custom software, and taxable services within the boundaries of the
municipality of the city and, except as exempted or excepted, all sales made
and services rendered and taxable uses of tangible personal property, custom
software, and taxable services within the boundaries of the municipality of the
city shall remain subject to the tax levied by those articles. Further, the
municipal sales and service tax and municipal use tax imposed pursuant to this
subchapter shall be imposed in addition to any tax imposed pursuant to the
provisions of the W. Va. Code 7-22-1, 8-13-6, and 8-38-12, respectively.
(Ord. passed - -2017)
STREET FEES
§ 38.50 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall hereinafter be known and referred to as “the City of
Weston’s Street Fee Ordinance”.
(Ord. passed 5-2-1994)
§ 38.51 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The general revenues which are presently generated by the city are
insufficient to adequately maintain, repair, and improve the streets and
alleyways of the city.
   (B)   The Council further specifically finds that the most reasonable,
efficient, and economically feasible method of achieving the reasonable and
necessary improvements more particularly set forth in division (A) above, is
through the imposition of a monthly street maintenance and improvement fee
against the users of said streets and alleyways, i.e., the residents and
businesses of the city, and as said fee is expressly permitted to be assessed
against said users thereof pursuant to the statutory provisions of W. Va. Code
8-13-13.
(Ord. passed 5-2-1994)
§ 38.52 STREET MAINTENANCE AND IMPROVEMENT FEES.
   (A)   (1)   Each property owner or occupant of a residential unit shall be
responsible for the payment of an amount of $2 per month, or other amount
deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court, to be paid quarterly, which said
amount shall be paid unto the City Treasurer, and which said amount shall be
specifically shown and set forth upon the quarterly bill sent by the city.
      (2)   The rates and charges specified by this section shall be billed to
the owners of each and every residential unit, provided that upon application
by the occupant of any residential unit, filed with the City Treasurer, showing
the occupant’s status as such, such bills may be rendered to the occupant.
   (B)   Business, commercial, industrial, and institutional users of the
city’s streets and alleyways, more particularly being all business, commercial,
industrial, and institutional entities situated within said corporate limits,
shall be assessed with an amount of $10 per month, or other amount deemed
appropriate by the Municipal Court, for each named business, commercial,
industrial, and/or institutional entity operating from a building, structure,
and/or house within the corporate limits of the city.
   (C)   Said monthly fee for each named business shall be paid quarterly unto
the City Treasurer, which said amount shall be specifically shown and set forth
upon the quarterly bill sent by the city.
(Ord. passed 5-2-1994)
§ 38.53 CALCULATION PERIODS AND CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP.
   (A)   Quarter periods shall begin on January 1, April 1, July 1, and October
1. Written notice to the City Treasurer of a change of ownership and/or
occupancy of residential real estate shall relieve the previous owner and/or
occupant of the responsibility for remittance of the monthly fee beginning with
the quarter following said written notice.
   (B)   Written notice by an owner and/or occupant of commercial, business,
industrial, and institutional structures in the city, that the business
formerly housed in such building or structure is no longer in business, shall
relieve the owner and/or occupant of such commercial, business, industrial, and
institutional structures of the responsibility for remittance of the monthly
fee beginning with the quarter following said written notice.
(Ord. passed 5-2-1994)
CHAPTER 39: TAXES CONCERNING PUBLIC UTILITIES
Section
General Provisions
   
39.001   Annual franchise tax imposed
Excise Tax on Users, Consumers, and the like
   
39.015   Definitions
   
39.016   Imposition and levy; amount
   
39.017   Collection and payment; effective date
   
39.018   Records to be kept; inspections and transcripts of records
   
39.019   Exemptions
   
39.020   Liability of utility; disputes over payment; rules and regulations
   
39.021   Unpaid tax; penalties
   
39.022   Notice to utilities
Business Privilege of Gross Sales Tax
   
39.035   Definitions
   
39.036   Authority to levy
   
39.037   Records
   
39.038   Schedule of payment; form of return
   
39.039   Returns and amount of payment confidential
   
39.040   Failure to make return; incompetence or erroneous return
   
39.041   Assessment
   
39.042   Notice of assessment
   
39.043   Abatement
   
39.044   Appeals from assessments; correction; recovery of tax improperly
charged
   
39.045   Payments; receipts; accountability
   
39.046   Tax cumulative; exercise of business privilege conditioned upon
payment of tax
   
39.047   Lien for unpaid tax; default
   
39.048   Additions to tax
   
39.049   Interest
   
39.050   Collection by suit
   
39.051   Settlement agreements and compromises
   
39.052   Tax responsibility upon sale of business; liability of purchases
   
39.053   Recordation of certificate of assessment; release of lien
   
39.054   Collection by distraint
   
39.055   Payment prerequisite to final settlement of contracts for the city
   
39.056   Prohibited acts
   
39.057   Administration
   
39.058   Production of coal and other natural resource products
   
39.059   Manufactured or compounded products
   
39.060   Selling tangible property; exemptions
   
39.061   Public service and utility business
   
39.062   Contracting
   
39.063   Operating amusements
   
39.064   Furnishing property for hire, lease, and the like
   
39.065   Small loan business
   
39.066   Service business or calling not otherwise specifically taxed
   
39.067   Banking and other financial business; legislative findings
   
39.068   Exemptions
   
39.069   Assessment limited to subjects authorized by the state
   
39.070   Use of gross income in computing more than one tax
   
39.071   Determining value of goods shipped out of city without sale
   
39.072   Determining value of goods transferred between affiliates
   
39.073   Erroneous computation
   
39.074   Tax information exchanged between city and state to be confidential
   
39.075   Authorization to enter into reciprocal agreement
   
39.076   Business enhancement; tax credit definitions
   
39.077   Purpose of granting tax credits for new and expanded businesses
   
39.078   Application form; requirements
   
39.079   Amount of credit allowed
   
39.080   Administration of tax credit program
   
39.081   Reopened businesses
   
39.082   Qualified investment
   
39.083   Reduction in the number of employees
   
39.084   Taxpayer’s responsibility to keep records of investment credit
   
39.085   Appeals from tax credit decisions
   
39.086   References to state code
   
39.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 39.001 ANNUAL FRANCHISE TAX IMPOSED.
   All public utilities to which the city may grant a franchise and which
operate within the city shall pay an annual compensation for such franchise,
right, or privilege in the sum of $7.65 per $1,000, or other amount deemed
appropriate by the Municipal Court, assessed valuation on Class IV property of
such public utilities as assessed by the state’s Board of Public Works for the
year prior to the application for a franchise.
(Prior Code, § 27-9)
EXCISE TAX ON USERS, CONSUMERS, AND THE LIKE
§ 39.015 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY or MUNICIPALITY. The City of Weston.
   PERSON. Includes individuals, firms, partnerships, associations,
corporations, and combinations thereof, of whatever form or character.
   PUBLIC UTILITY SERVICE. All services and tangible personal property
purchased within this municipality from a seller, as hereinafter in this
section defined, namely, telephone service, electric service, gas service
(including bottled or liquid gas, if the seller thereof is classified as a
public utility subject to the jurisdiction of the state’s Public Service
Commission), waste collection service, water service, and sanitary sewer
service, if purchased, used, or consumed within the corporate limits of this
municipality.
   PURCHASER. Includes every person who purchases, uses, or consumes a public
utility service.
   SELLER. Includes every person, whether a public service corporation, a
municipality, or private corporation, classified as a public utility and
subject to the jurisdiction of the state’s Public Service Commission, who
sells, furnishes, or supplies a public utility service.
   USER. The owner or tenant of private residential property or the owner or
tenant of property used for commercial or industrial purposes, and every
combination thereof, of every kind or description.
(Prior Code, § 27-9.1) (Ord. passed 4-20-1976)
§ 39.016 IMPOSITION AND LEVY; AMOUNT.
   There is hereby imposed and levied upon each and every purchaser of a public
utility service an excise tax upon the privilege of purchasing, using, or
consuming, within the corporate limits of this municipality, such public
utility service. Such tax shall be in the amount of 2% of the charge (exclusive
of any federal or state tax thereon imposed upon the purchased) made by the
seller against the purchaser with respect to each public utility service, which
tax in every case shall be collected by the seller and paid by the purchaser
upon the amount of each periodic statement rendered such purchaser by the
seller, and shall be paid by the purchaser to the seller at the time the
purchase price or such charge shall become due and payable under the agreement
between the purchaser and the seller. The tax imposed and levied by this
subchapter is in addition to all other taxes imposed and levied by this
municipality. In the event the amount of the charge for any single public
utility service exceeds the sum of $15,000, or other amount deemed appropriate
by the Municipal Court, in any given calendar month, to any single purchaser,
no tax shall be imposed for such additional purchase, use, or consumption in
excess of said amount of $15,000, or other amount deemed appropriate by the
Municipal Court. In the event more than one public utility shall furnish the
identical public utility service to the same purchaser, said purchaser shall be
entitled to group the same as a single public utility service in calculating
the amount of the charges in any calendar month for such public utility
service.
(Prior Code, § 27-9.2) (Ord. passed 4-20-1976)
§ 39.017 COLLECTION AND PAYMENT; EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every seller in acting as the tax collecting
medium or agency for this municipality to collect from each purchaser for the
use of this municipality the tax hereby imposed and levied at the time of
collecting the purchase price charged for its public utility service, and the
amount of tax actually collected during each calendar month shall be reported
by each seller to this municipality and each seller shall remit the amount of
tax shown by said report to have been collected to this municipality on or
before the last day of the second calendar month following the month in which
collected, together with the name and address of any purchaser who has failed
or refused to pay the tax so imposed and levied.
   (B)   The tax imposed and levied by this subchapter shall apply to periodic
statements rendered after July 1, 1976, for public utility service rendered
subsequent to July 1, 1976, and when any such periodic statement covers public
utility service rendered both before and after said date, only that portion of
the charge for public utility service rendered after said date shall be subject
to such tax, and the portion subject to such tax shall be such portion of the
total charge as the number of days after June 30, 1976, within the period
covered by such periodic statement, bear the total number of days covered by
such periodic statement. The required reports shall be in the form prescribed
by the city.
(Prior Code, § 27-9.3) (Ord. passed 4-20-1976)
§ 39.018 RECORDS TO BE KEPT; INSPECTIONS AND TRANSCRIPTS OF RECORDS.
   Each and every seller shall keep and maintain complete records showing all
purchases of public utility service within the corporate limits of this
municipality, which records shall show the charge made against each purchaser,
the dates of such public utility service being furnished, the date of payment
therefor, and the amount of tax imposed hereunder, and such records shall be
kept open for inspection by the duly authorized agents of this municipality at
reasonable times, and the duly authorized agents of this municipality shall
have the right, power, and authority to make, at the expense of this
municipality, such transcripts thereof during such times as they may desire.
(Prior Code, § 27-9.4) (Ord. passed 4-20-1976)
§ 39.019 EXEMPTIONS.
   The tax hereby imposed and levied shall not apply to the following
transactions, which transactions are hereby exempted from such tax:
   (A)   Purchases of public utility service for resale;
   (B)   Purchases of public utility service by the United States of America,
the State of West Virginia, and the political subdivisions, municipalities,
boards, commissions, authorities, and public corporations thereof;
   (C)   Purchases of tangible personal property such as appliances or the
like, as distinguished from the public service supplied;
   (D)   Charges for telephone services which are paid by the insertion of
coins into coin-operated telephones, and specific charges or tolls for
telephone calls to points outside the corporate limits of this municipality;
and
   (E)   Non-recurring or one-time charges incidental to the furnishing of
public utility service.
(Prior Code, § 27-9.5) (Ord. passed 4-20-1976)
§ 39.020 LIABILITY OF UTILITY; DISPUTES OVER PAYMENT; RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   There shall be no liability upon the seller for erroneously
collecting the tax hereby imposed and levied or for erroneously failing to bill
for such tax as a result of a good faith mistake on the part of the seller.
      (2)   When any purchaser contends that such tax is not owed by such
purchaser on the grounds that the public utility service was not purchased,
used, or consumed within the corporate limits of this municipality, the seller
shall refer the question to the official of this municipality charged with the
responsibility of collecting taxes due to this municipality, and such seller
shall thereafter collect or refrain from collecting such tax from such
purchaser for such public utility service as instructed in writing so to do by
such officials of this municipality.
      (3)   Any and all claims for refunds of any such tax shall be presented
to this municipality and not to the seller.
   (B)   The officials of this municipality charged with the responsibility of
collecting taxes due this municipality shall have the authority to promulgate
and enforce reasonable rules and regulations necessary for the administration
and enforcement of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 27-9.6) (Ord. passed 4-20-1976)
§ 39.021 UNPAID TAX; PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any amount of tax due and unpaid under this chapter shall be a debt
due this municipality.
   (B)   It shall be a personal obligation of the purchaser which shall be
enforceable as provided in W. Va. Code 8-13-15, as amended, or in any other
manner now or hereafter provided by law for compelling the payment of taxes due
municipalities.
(Prior Code, § 27-9.7) (Ord. passed 4-20-1976)
§ 39.022 NOTICE TO UTILITIES.
   The tax hereby imposed and levied shall not be effective until this
municipality gives 60 days’ written notice, by certified mail, of the effective
date of the subchapter to any public utility doing business within this
municipality which is required to collect the tax imposed and levied hereby.
(Prior Code, § 27-9.8) (Ord. passed 4-20-1976)
BUSINESS PRIVILEGE OF GROSS SALES TAX
§ 39.035 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMUSEMENT or OPERATING AMUSEMENT. Any person engaged in the business of
operating a theater, opera house, moving picture show, vaudeville, amusement
park, dance hall, skating rink, race track, radio broadcast station or any
other place at which amusements are offered to the public.
   BANKING BUSINESS or FINANCIAL ORGANIZATION. Any bank, banking association,
trust company, industrial loan company, small loan company or licensee,
building and loan association, savings and loan association, credit union,
finance company, investment company, investment broker or dealer, and any other
similar business organization at least 90% of the assets of which consists of
intangible personal property and at least 90% of the gross receipts of which
consists of dividends, interest, and other charges derived from money or
credit.
   BUSINESS. All activities engaged or caused to be engaged in with the object
of gain or economic benefit, either direct or indirect. BUSINESS shall not
include a casual sale by a person who is not engaged in the business of selling
the type of property involved in such casual sale. BUSINESS shall include the
production of natural resources or manufactured products which are used or
consumed by the producer or manufacturer and shall include the activities of a
banking business or financial organization, as defined more fully below in §
39.067.
   CONTRACTING. The furnishing of work, or both materials and work, in the
fulfillment of a contract for the construction, alteration, repair, decoration,
or improvement of a new or existing building or structure, or any part thereof,
or for the alteration, improvement, or development of real property.
   DEDUCTIONS FROM GROSS RECEIPTS.
      (1)   That can be identified for audit purposes, and are exempt from
municipal privilege, business and occupation, or gross sales, tax calculations
include only the following sources of cash flow, and only when they can be
identified within the books of original entry:
         (a)   That sum collected as a portion of rent from leases that has in
advance been determined for a utility cost sharing for common “shared”
services, such as electric, water, natural gas, and the like;
         (b)   State consumer sales tax collected on behalf of the state on
retail or wholesale sales, and shown as tax on any records of original entry;
         (c)   City amusement tax shown as a portion of a sales price for a
ticket to an amusement, and identified as a tax;
         (d)   State and federal fuel tax or surcharge collected as a portion
of the retail price for the government, as allowed by the state for state
business and occupation taxes;
         (e)   Identified and documented bad debts originally reported as
“gross sales” and paid as taxable, and since determined uncollectible.
Provided, that if later collected, such taxes shall be paid on such amounts;
         (f)   State and/or federal cigarette and cigar taxes collected as a
part of the retail sales price, as allowed by the state; and
         (g)   Identifiable per bottle “pop” tax on each soft drink sold at
retail and collected for the state.
      (2)   To claim these DEDUCTIONS FROM GROSS INCOME OR GROSS RECEIPTS each
taxpayer must complete the form provided to identify these claimed exemptions,
and file the “schedule of deductions” with the tax return, for the period in
which such deductions were earned.
   GROSS INCOME. The gross receipts of the taxpayer, other than a banking or
financial business, received as compensation for personal services, and the
gross receipts of the taxpayer derived from trade, business, commerce, or
sales, and the value proceeding or accruing from the sale of tangible property,
real or personal, or service, or both, and all receipts by reason of the
investment of the capital of the business engaged in, including rentals,
royalties, fees, reimbursed costs or expenses, or other emoluments however
designated and including all interest, carrying charges, fees, or other like
income, however denominated, derived by the taxpayer from repetitive carrying
of accounts, in the regular course and conduct of his or her business, and
extension of credit in connection with the sale of any tangible personal
property or service, and without any deductions on account of the cost of
property sold, the cost of materials used, labor costs, taxes, royalties paid
in cash or in kind or otherwise, interest or discount paid, or any other
expense whatsoever. GROSS INCOME of a banking or financial business is
specified in §
39.067.
   GROSS PROCEEDS OF SALES. The value, whether in money or other property,
actually proceeding from the sale of tangible properly without any deduction on
account of the cost of the property sold or expenses of any kind. GROSS INCOME
and GROSS PROCEEDS OF SALES shall not be construed to include:
      (1)   Cash discounts allowed and taken on sales;
      (2)   The proceeds of sales of goods, wares, or merchandise returned by
customers when the sale price is refunded either in case or by credit;
      (3)   The amount allowed as “trade-in value” for any article accepted as
part payment for any article sold;
      (4)   Excise taxes imposed by this state; or
      (5)   Money or other property received and held by a professional person
for the sole use and benefit of a client or another person or money received by
the taxpayer on behalf of a bank or other financial institution for the
repaying of a debt of another.
   PERSON or COMPANY. Herein used interchangeably, includes any individual,
firm, copartnership, joint venture, association, corporation, trust, or any
other group or combination acting as a unit, and the plural as well as the
singular number, unless the intention to give a more limited meaning is
disclosed by the context. The word “it” shall also include the pronouns “he”
and “she”.
   RETURN. Any tax information return or report, declaration of estimated tax,
claim, or petition for refund or credit, or petition for reassessment that is
required by, or provided for, or permitted, under the provisions of this
subchapter which is filed with the collector of business taxes by, on behalf
of, or with respect to any person, and any amendment or supplement thereto,
including supporting schedules, attachments, or lists which are supplemental
to, or part of, the return so filed.
   SALE, SALES, or SELLING. Any transfer of the ownership of, or title to,
property, whether for money or in exchange for other property.
   SELLING AT WHOLESALE or WHOLESALE SALES. Includes:
      (1)   Sales of any tangible personal property for the purpose of resale
in the form of tangible personal property;
      (2)   Sales of machinery, supplies, or materials which are to be directly
consumed or used by the purchaser in the conduct of any business or activity
which is subject to the tax imposed by this subchapter; or
      (3)   Sales of any tangible personal property to the United States of
America, its agencies and instrumentalities, or to the state, its institutions
or political subdivisions.
   SERVICE BUSINESS OR CALLING. All activities engaged in by a person for other
persons for a consideration, which involve the rendering of a service, as
distinguished from the sale of tangible property, but shall not include the
services rendered by an employee to his or her employer. This term shall
include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Persons engaged in manufacturing, compounding, or preparing for
sale, profit, or commercial use, articles, substances, or commodities which are
owned by another or others;
      (2)   Persons engaged as independent contractors in producing natural
resource products which are owned by another or others, as personal property,
immediately after the same are severed, extracted, reduced to possession, and
produced; and
      (3)   The repetitive carrying of accounts, in the regular course and
conduct of business, and extension of credit in connection with the sale of any
tangible personal property or service, except to persons taxed pursuant to the
provisions of §
39.067.
   TAX YEAR or TAXABLE YEAR. Either the fiscal year beginning on July 1 and
ending on June 30, of the following year, or if the taxpayer keeps his or her
books on a basis other than such fiscal year, he or she may obtain permission
from the collector of business taxes to use the same as the tax period in lieu
of the defined TAXABLE YEAR.
   TAXPAYER. Any person liable for any tax hereunder.
(Ord. passed 12-18-1998)
§ 39.036 AUTHORITY TO LEVY.
   (A)   The city, pursuant to the provisions of W. Va. Code 8-13-5, as
amended, hereby adopts a tax and re-enacts and continues to use such existing
tax not inconsistent herewith on business activities or occupations for use of
such municipality in accordance with the plenary power granted by the State
Legislature in such code provisions.
   (B)   This tax and the re-enactment thereof shall be operative as of the
first day of the current fiscal year, in accordance with W. Va. Code 8-13-5,
and each fiscal year thereafter unless further annulled.
(Ord. passed 12-18-1998)
§ 39.037 RECORDS.
   A separate and complete record of business of the taxpayer conducted within
this city shall be kept at his or her place of business and shall not be
combined or confused with records of business carried on at other places. The
collector of business taxes may require the preservation of records for a
period not to exceed five years.
(Ord. passed 12-18-1998)
§ 39.038 SCHEDULE OF PAYMENT; FORM OF RETURN.
   The taxes levied under this subchapter shall be payable in quarterly
installments on or before the expiration of 30 days from the end of the quarter
in which they accrue. The taxpayer shall, within 30 days from the end of the
quarter, make out a return upon a form proscribed by the collector of business
taxes, showing the gross proceeds of sales, or gross income of business, trade,
or calling and compute the amount of tax for which he or she is liable for each
quarter, sign the same and mail the same, together with remittance in the form
required by §
39.045, for the amount of tax to the office of the collector of business taxes.
The collector of business taxes, if he or she deems it necessary to ensure
payment of the tax, may require return and payment under this section for other
than quarterly periods. If for any reason it is not practicable for the
individual taxpayer to make the payment, the same may be made by any duly
authorized agent.
(Ord. passed 12-18-1998)
§ 39.039 RETURNS AND AMOUNT OF PAYMENT CONFIDENTIAL.
   All the information contained in the returns provided for in this subchapter
and the amounts paid under the provisions hereof shall be confidential. No
officer or employee shall make known any such information for any purpose other
than for the reasons set forth in W. Va. Code 11-10-5s or for the enforcement
of this subchapter and of the laws of the state and the United States of
America. Nothing herein shall be deemed or interpreted to provide for a new or
separate private right of action in the event of a violation or violations
hereof, other than that which may already exist under the law.
(Ord. passed 12-18-1998)
§ 39.040 FAILURE TO MAKE RETURN; INCOMPETENCE OR ERRONEOUS RETURN.
   If any person fails to file any return required by this subchapter at the
time required by law or by regulation made under the authority of law, or makes
and files willfully or otherwise, a false or fraudulent return, the collector
of business taxes may proceed to make such return from any information
available to him or her, whether obtained through testimony or otherwise. The
collector of business taxes, or his or her delegate, shall have the power to
issue subpoenas and subpoenas duces tecum as permitted by W. Va. Code 11-10-5b
and therefore may make examinations of the books, records, and papers and audit
the accounts of any such person, including bank accounts, and may take the
evidence, on oath, of any person who he or she may believe is in possession of
any relevant information. As soon as possible after procuring such information
as he or she may be able to obtain as to any person making an incomplete or
incorrect return, or failing or refusing to make a return, the collector of
business taxes shall proceed to assess the tax and shall notify the person
assessed of the amount of the tax. The assessment of the tax by the collector
of business taxes shall be final as to any person who has refused to make a
return, subject to the provisions for appeal as set forth in §
39.044.
(Ord. passed 12-18-1998)
§ 39.041 ASSESSMENT.
   If the collector of business taxes believes that any tax administered under
this subchapter has been insufficiently returned by a taxpayer, either because
the taxpayer has failed to properly remit the tax, or has failed to make a
return, or has made a return which is incomplete, deficient, or otherwise
erroneous, he or she may proceed to investigate and determine or estimate the
tax liability and make an assessment therefor including jeopardy and
supplemental assessments in accordance with W. Va. Code 11-10-7.
(Ord. passed 12-18-1998)
§ 39.042 NOTICE OF ASSESSMENT.
   Notice of assessments shall be served upon the taxpayer as provided in W.
Va. Code 11-10-5e.
(Ord. passed 12-18-1998)
§ 39.043 ABATEMENT.
   The collector of business taxes is authorized to abate the assessment of any
tax or any liability in respect thereto as provided in W. Va. Code 11-10-7a.
(Ord. passed 12-18-1998)
§ 39.044 APPEALS FROM ASSESSMENTS; CORRECTION; RECOVERY OF TAX IMPROPERLY
CHARGED.
   If any person, having made a return and paid the tax as provided by this
subchapter, feels aggrieved by the assessment made upon him or her by the
collector of business taxes, he or she may file a petition for reassessment or
for refund and a hearing shall be held as provided in W. Va. Code 11-10-9. The
petition filed shall set forth the reasons why such hearings should be granted
and the amount that such tax should be reduced. After such hearing, a taxpayer
may appeal the decision of the collector of business taxes to the Circuit Court
as provided in W. Va. Code 11-10-10.
(Ord. passed 12-18-1998)
§ 39.045 PAYMENTS; RECEIPTS; ACCOUNTABILITY.
   All remittances of taxes imposed by this subchapter shall be made to the
collector of business taxes by bank draft, certified check, cashier’s check,
money order, or certificate of deposit. The collector of business taxes shall
issue his or her receipts therefor to the taxpayers and the moneys shall be
kept and accounted for as provided by law.
(Ord. passed 12-18-1998)
§ 39.046 TAX CUMULATIVE; EXERCISE OF BUSINESS PRIVILEGE CONDITIONED UPON
PAYMENT OF TAX.
   The tax imposed by this subchapter shall be in addition to all other
licenses and taxes levied by law as a condition precedent to engaging in any
business, trade, or calling. A person exercising a privilege taxable under this
subchapter, subject to the payment of all licenses and charges which are
conditions precedent to exercising privilege taxes, may exercise the privilege
for the current tax year upon the condition that he or she shall pay the tax
accruing under this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 12-18-1998)
§ 39.047 LIEN FOR UNPAID TAX; DEFAULT.
   Any tax, additions to tax, penalties, or interest due and payable under this
subchapter shall be a debt due the city. It shall be a personal obligation of
the taxpayer, and shall be a lien upon the real and personal property of the
taxpayer. The lien shall be enforced pursuant to W. Va. Code 11-10-16 and 11-
10-18, and in conjunction with the procedures as set forth herein in §
39.050.
(Ord. passed 12-18-1998)
§ 39.048 ADDITIONS TO TAX.
   If a taxpayer fails to file a return or fails to pay any amount in respect
to any tax, under this subchapter, the collector of business taxes may add to
the amount required to be shown as tax on such return an additional amount as
provided by W. Va. Code 11-10-18.
(Ord. passed 12-18-1998)
§ 39.049 INTEREST.
   If any amount of a tax administered under this subchapter is not paid on or
before the last day prescribed for payment, interest on such amount shall be
paid as provided in W. Va. Code 11-10-17 and 11-10-17a.
(Ord. passed 12-18-1998)
§ 39.050 COLLECTION BY SUIT.
   The collector of business taxes may, by himself or herself or a duly
appointed agent, collect taxes due and unpaid under this subchapter, together
with all accrued penalties, and for such purpose may exercise all the power
authorized for the collation of taxes under the Charter, this business and
taxation chapter, other ordinances of the city, and the laws of the state.
After delinquency has continued for 60 days, the collector of business taxes
may proceed by himself, herself, or agent, in the County Circuit Court to
obtain an injunction pursuant to W. Va. Code 11-10-11(h) restraining the
further exercise of the privilege until full payment has been made of all taxes
and penalties due under this subchapter. In any proceeding under this section
upon judgment or decree for the plaintiff, the plaintiff shall be awarded his
or her costs. The collector of business taxes, or designated agent, may enforce
liability by appropriate civil action in the circuit court of competent
jurisdiction, in accordance with W. Va. Code 8-13-15.
(Ord. passed 12-18-1998)
§ 39.051 SETTLEMENT AGREEMENTS AND COMPROMISES.
   The collector of business taxes is authorized to enter into an agreement in
writing with any person relating to the liability of such person with respect
to any tax administered by the collector of business taxes under this
subchapter for any taxable period. The collector of business taxes is
authorized to compromise or settle any tax due and owing the city in an amount
less than or equal to $10,000, or other amount deemed appropriate by the
Municipal Court. For taxes in an amount over $10,000, approval of any
settlement or compromise must be obtained from the City Council.
(Ord. passed 12-18-1998)
§ 39.052 TAX RESPONSIBILITY UPON SALE OF BUSINESS; LIABILITY OF PURCHASES.
   The tax imposed by this subchapter shall be a lien upon the property of any
person subject to the provisions hereof who sells out his or her business or
stock of goods or quits business, and such person is required to make the
return provided for under § 
39.038 within 30 days after the date he or she sold out his or her business or
stock of goods or quit business, and his or her successor in business is
required to withhold a sufficient amount of the purchase money to cover the
amount of such taxes due and unpaid until such time as the former owner
produces a receipt from the collector of business taxes showing that such taxes
have been paid. If the purchaser of a business or stock of goods fails to
withhold purchase money as above provided, and the taxes are due and unpaid
after the 30-day period allowed, he or she shall be personally liable for the
payment of the taxes accrued and unpaid on account of the operation of the
business by the former owner. Such liability shall be established under the
procedures as outlined in §
39.050.
(Ord. passed 12-18-1998)
§ 39.053 RECORDATION OF CERTIFICATE OF ASSESSMENT; RELEASE OF LIEN.
   (A)   The collector of business taxes, for the more effective collection of
the tax, may file with the office of the Clerk of the County Commission of the
appropriate jurisdiction, a certified copy of an assessment of taxes under this
subchapter for recordation, which shall thereafter constitute binding notice of
the lien created by this subchapter upon all lands of the taxpayer located in
the city as against all parties whose interest arose after such recordation, in
accordance with the procedures as set forth in §
39.050.
   (B)   Upon payment of taxes delinquent under this subchapter, the lien of
which has been recorded, the collector of business taxes may certify in
duplicate the fact and amount of payment and the balance due, if any, and shall
forward the certificates, one to the taxpayer and one to the office of the
Clerk of the County Commission. The office of the Clerk of the County
Commission shall record such certificate in the book in which releases are
recorded. From the date that such certificate is admitted to the record, the
land of the taxpayer in the city shall be free from any lien for taxes under
this subchapter accrued to the date that the certificate is issued.
(Ord. passed 12-18-1998)
§ 39.054 COLLECTION BY DISTRAINT.
   The collector of business taxes may distrain upon any goods, chattels, or
intangibles represented by negotiable evidence of indebtedness of any taxpayer
delinquent under this subchapter for the amount of all taxes and penalties
accrued and unpaid hereunder.
(Ord. passed 12-18-1998)
§ 39.055 PAYMENT PREREQUISITE TO FINAL SETTLEMENT OF CONTRACTS FOR THE CITY.
   All officers and agents making contracts on behalf of the city shall
withhold payment in the final settlement of such contracts until the receipt of
a certificate from the collector of business taxes to the effect that all taxes
levied or accrued under this article against the contractor with respect to
such contracts have been paid.
(Ord. passed 12-18-1998)
§ 39.056 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   No person shall refuse to make the return provided to be made in §
39.038, or make any false or fraudulent return or false statement in any
return, with intent to defraud the city or evade the payment of the tax, or any
part thereof, imposed by this subchapter. No president, vice-president,
secretary, or treasurer of any corporation shall make or permit to be made for
any corporation or association any false return, or any false statement in any
return required by this subchapter, with the intent to evade the payment of any
tax hereunder.
(Ord. passed 12-18-1998)
§ 39.057 ADMINISTRATION.
   The administration of this subchapter is vested in and shall be exercised by
the collector of business taxes who shall prescribe forms and reasonable rules
or procedure in conformity with this subchapter for the making of returns and
for the ascertainment, assessment, and collection of the taxes imposed
hereunder. The collector of business taxes may request any municipal police
officer to assist in enforcing the provisions of this subchapter as provided in
W. Va. Code 11-9-2a(e). The enforcement of any of this subchapter in any court
of the state shall be under the exclusive jurisdiction of fee collector of
business taxes, who shall require the assistance of, and act through, the City
Attorney.
(Ord. passed 12-18-1998)
§ 39.058 PRODUCTION OF COAL AND OTHER NATURAL RESOURCE PRODUCTS.
   (A)   Upon every person engaging or continuing within this city in the
business of producing for sale, profit, or commercial use any natural resource
product, the amount of such tax shall be equal to the value of the articles
produced, as shown by the gross proceeds derived from the sale thereof by the
producer, except as otherwise provided, multiplied by the respective rates as
follows: coal, 1%; limestone or sandstone quarried or mined, 1.50%; oil, 3%;
natural gas in excess value of $5,000, or other amount deemed appropriate by
the Municipal Court, 6%; blast furnace slag, 3%; sand, gravel, or other mineral
product, not quarried or mined, 3%; timber, 1.50%; other natural resources, 2%.
The measure of this tax is the value of the entire production in this city,
regardless of the place of sale, or the fact that the delivery may be made to
points outside the city.
   (B)   A person exercising privileges taxable under the other sections of
this subchapter, producing timber or other natural resource products, the
production of which is taxable under this section, and using or consuming the
same in this business, shall be deemed to be engaged in the business of
producing natural resource products for sale, profit, or commercial use, and
shall be required to make returns on account of the production of the business
showing the gross proceeds or equivalent in accordance with uniform and
equitable rules for determining the value upon which such privilege tax shall
be levied, corresponding as nearly as possible to the gross proceeds from the
sale of similar products or like quality or character by other taxpayers, which
rules the collector of business taxes shall prescribe.
   (C)   ENTIRE PRODUCTION WITHIN THIS CITY shall be defined as those mineral
or other natural resources which shall have been mined, quarried, or otherwise
obtained within the city limits.
(Ord. passed 12-18-1998)
§ 39.059 MANUFACTURED OR COMPOUNDED PRODUCTS.
   (A)   Upon every person engaging or continuing within this city in the
business of manufacturing, compounding, or preparing for sale, profit, or
commercial use, either directly or through the activity of others in whole or
in part, any article, substance, commodity, or electric power not produced by
public utilities taxable under provisions of this subchapter, the amount of the
tax shall be equal to the value of the article, substance, commodities, or
electric power manufactured, compounded, or prepared for sale as shown by the
gross proceeds derived from the sale thereof by the manufacturer or person
compounding or preparing the same, except as hereinafter provided, multiplied
by the rate of 0.025%. The measure of this tax is the value of the entire
product manufactured, compounded, or prepared in this city for sale, profit, or
commercial use, regardless of the place of sale or the fact that deliveries may
be made to points outside the city.
   (B)   It is further provided, however, that in those instances in which the
same person partially manufactures products within this city and partially
manufactures such products outside this city, the measure of the tax under this
section shall be that proportion of the sale price of the manufactured product
that the payroll costs of manufacturing within this city bears to the entire
payroll cost of manufacture of the articles. Such proportion shall be
determined upon petition to the collector of business taxes for clarification.
(Ord. passed 6-8-2017)
§ 39.060 SELLING TANGIBLE PROPERTY; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Upon every person engaging within tins city in the business of selling
any tangible property whatsoever, real and personal, including the sale of food
and the services incident to the sale of food in hotels, restaurants,
cafeterias, confectionaries, and other public eating houses, excepting sales by
any person engaging or continuing in the business of horticulture, agriculture
or grazing, or of selling stocks, bonds, or other evidences of indebtedness,
there is likewise hereby levied, and shall be collected, a tax equivalent to
0.20% of the gross income of the business except that in the case of a
wholesaler, the tax shall be equal to 0.15% of the gross income of the
business. A person exercising any privilege taxable under §§
39.058 or
39.059 and engaging in the business of selling his or her natural resources or
manufactured products at retail in this city shall be required to make returns
of gross proceeds of such retail sales and pay the tax imposed in this section
for the privilege of engaging in the business of selling such natural resources
or manufactured products at retail within this city. But any person exercising
any privilege taxable under §§
39.058 or
39.059 and engaging in the business of selling his or her natural resources or
manufactured products to manufacturers or wholesalers and, in the case of
limestone, sand, gravel, or other mineral product, to commercial consumers,
shall not be required to pay the tax imposed in this section for the privilege
of selling such natural resource products or manufactured products at
wholesale.
   (B)   Manufacturers exercising any privilege taxable under §
39.059 shall not be required to pay the tax imposed in this section for the
privilege of selling their manufactured products for delivery outside of the
city, but the gross income derived from the sale of such manufactured products
outside of this city shall be included in determining the measure of the tax.
   (C)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to performances
sponsored by churches, charitable, civic, patriotic or religious associations,
schools, or academic institutions.
(Ord. passed 12-18-1998)
§ 39.061 PUBLIC SERVICE AND UTILITY BUSINESS.
   (A)   Upon any person engaging or continuing within this city in any public
service or utility business, except railroad, railroad car express, water
companies, pipe line, telephone and telegraph companies, water carriers by
steamboat or steamship, and motor vehicle carriers, there is hereby levied and
shall be collected taxes on account of the business engaged in equal to the
gross income of the business multiplied by the reserve rates as follows.
   (B)   Street and interurban and electric railroads, 1%; water companies, 4%,
except as to income received by municipally owned water plants; electric light
and power companies, 4% on sales and demand charges for domestic purposes and
commercial lighting, and 3% on sales and demand charges for all other purposes;
natural gas companies, 3% on the gross income, such gross income for this
purpose to be determined by deducting from the gross income from all sales of
gas to consumers, the amount of tax paid by the taxpayer under §
39.058 on the production of the same gas; and on all other public service or
utility business, 2%. The gross income of the taxpayer from any other activity
shall be included in the measure of the tax imposed under the appropriate
section or sections of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 12-18-1998)
§ 39.062 CONTRACTING.
   Upon every person engaging or continuing within this city in the business of
contracting, including both subcontractor and general contractor, the tax shall
be equal to 1.2% of the gross income of the business derived from contracts
entered into prior to July 1, 1971, and by 1.25% of the gross income of the
business from contracts entered into on or after July 1, 1971. Any person
contracting with a nonresident contractor subject to the taxes imposed by this
subchapter shall withhold payment, in the final settlement of such contract, of
such sufficient amount as will be sufficient to cover such taxes, until the
receipt of a certificate from the collector of business taxes to the effect
that the taxes imposed on the nonresident contractor have been paid or provided
for. It shall be the duty of the contractor to notify the owner that such
monies are to be withheld from the final settlement of the contract. The owner,
however, shall be ultimately liable for such amount should the contractor fail
to pay such tax as required under this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 12-18-1998)
§ 39.063 OPERATING AMUSEMENTS.
   (A)   Upon every person engaging or continuing within this city in the
business of operating a theater, opera house, moving picture show, vaudeville,
amusement park, dance hall, skating rink, race track, radio broadcast station,
or any other place at which amusements are offered to the public, the tax shall
be equal to 0.40% of the gross income of the business.
   (B)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to performances
sponsored by churches, charitable, civic, patriotic or religious associations,
schools, or academic institutions.
(Ord. passed 6-8-2017)
§ 39.064 FURNISHING PROPERTY FOR HIRE, LEASE, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Upon every person engaging or continuing within this city in the
business of furnishing any real or tangible personal property which has a tax
situs in this city, or any interest therein, for hire, loan, lease, or
otherwise, whether the return be in the form of rentals, royalties, fee, or
otherwise, the tax shall be 1% of the gross income of any such activity. There
is excepted, however, from the provisions of this section, the first $1,500, or
other amount deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court, of rent collected by
any person from the rental and residentially occupied real estate.
   (B)   The term TANGIBLE PERSONAL PROPERTY as used herein shall not include
money or public security.
(Ord. passed 12-18-1998)
§ 39.065 SMALL LOAN BUSINESS.
   (A)   Upon every person engaging or continuing within this city in the
business of making loans of money, credit, goods, or other things in action,
there shall be collected a tax equal to 1% of the gross income of any such
business; provided, that such tax shall apply only to the gross income received
prior to July 1, 1971.
   (B)   Persons subject to the provisions of this section on and after July 1,
1971 are subject to the provisions of §
39.067.
(Ord. passed 12-18-1998)
§ 39.066 SERVICE BUSINESS OR CALLING NOT OTHERWISE SPECIFICALLY TAXED.
   Upon every person engaging or continuing within this city in any service
business or calling not otherwise specifically taxed under this subchapter,
unless exempted by some provisions of this subchapter, there is likewise hereby
levied and shall be collected a tax equal to 0.50% of the gross income of any
such business.
(Ord. passed 6-8-2017)
§ 39.067 BANKING AND OTHER FINANCIAL BUSINESS; LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS.
   (A)   Upon every person engaging or continuing within the state in the
business of banking or financial business, from and after July 1, 1971, (the
tax shall be equal to 0.75% of the gross income received from interest,
premiums, discounts, dividends, service fees or charges, commissions, fines,
rents from real or tangible personal property, however denominated, royalties,
charges for bookkeeping or data processing, receipts from check sales, charges,
or fees, and receipts from the sale of tangible personal property.
   (B)   Gross income shall not include:
      (1)   Interest received on the obligations of the United States, its
agencies and instrumentalities;
      (2)   Interest received on the obligations of this or any other state,
territory, or possession of the United States, or any political subdivision of
any of the foregoing or of the District of Columbia; or
      (3)   Interest received on investments or loans primarily secured by
first mortgages or deeds of trust on residential property occupied by
nontransients. However, all interest derived on activities exempt under
division (C) below, shall be reported, as to amounts, on the return of a person
taxable under the provisions of this section; and
      (4)   Such other exemptions as defined in W. Va. Code 11-24-6(f)(1)(A) to
(f)(1)(D).
   (C)   Businesses taxed pursuant to the provisions of this section shall not
be taxed under §§
39.058 through
39.066.
   (D)   Council hereby finds and declares that it is the intent of the Council
to subject national banking associations and other financial organizations to
the tax imposed by this subchapter, in accordance with the authorization
contained in Section 5219 of the Revised Statutes (12 U.S.C. § 548) as amended
by Pub. Law No. 91-156 enacted December 24, 1969.
   (E)   Businesses taxed pursuant to this section shall apportion their
taxable gross income in accordance with the provisions of W. Va. Code 11-23-5a,
subject to the deductions from gross income as allowable under the provisions
of W. Va. Code 11-24-6(f)(1)(A) to (f)(1)(D). Such determination of
apportionment shall be done in conjunction with consultations with the
collector of business taxes who may, upon a showing of need for verification,
examine such documents as are necessary to reach a determination of
apportionment, in accordance with the provisions and requirements as set forth
more fully in W. Va. Code 11-10-1 et seq.
(Ord. passed 12-18-1998)
§ 39.068 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   Insurance companies which pay the state a tax upon premiums; provided,
that such exemption shall not extend to that part of the gross income of
insurance companies which is received for the use of real property, other than
property in which such company maintains its office or offices, in this state,
whether such income be in the form of rentals or royalties;
   (B)   Nonprofit cemetery companies organized and operated for the exclusive
benefit of their members;
   (C)   Fraternal societies, organizations, and associations organized and
operated for the exclusive benefit of their members and not for profit;
provided, however, that such exemption shall not extend to that part of the
gross income arising from the sale of alcoholic liquor, food, and related
services, of such fraternal societies, organizations, and associations which
are licensed as private clubs under the provisions of Chapter 111;
   (D)   Corporations, associations, and societies organized and operated
exclusively for religious and charitable purposes; and
   (E)   Production credit association, organized under the provisions of the
Federal Farm Credit Act of 1933, being Pub. L. 73 through 75, 48 Stat. 257;
provided, however, that the exemptions of this section shall not apply to
corporations or cooperative associations organized under the provisions of W.
Va. Code Ch. 19, Art. 4, as amended.
(Ord. passed 12-18-1998)
§ 39.069 ASSESSMENT LIMITED TO SUBJECTS AUTHORIZED BY THE STATE.
   This subchapter shall not be construed to assess a tax upon any person,
business, occupation, service, or property upon which state law does not permit
the imposition of an annual municipal business and occupation tax.
(Ord. passed 12-18-1998)
§ 39.070 USE OF GROSS INCOME IN COMPUTING MORE THAN ONE TAX.
   Gross income included in the measure of the tax under §§
39.058 and
39.059 shall neither be added nor deducted in computing the tax levied under
the other sections of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 12-18-1998)
§ 39.071 DETERMINING VALUE OF GOODS SHIPPED OUT OF CITY WITHOUT SALE.
   (A)   If any person liable for any tax under §§
39.058 or
39.059 shall ship or transport his or her products or any part thereof out of
the city without making sale of such products, the value of the products in the
condition or form in which they exist immediately before transportation out of
the city shall be the basis for the assessment of the tax imposed in such
sections.
   (B)   The collector of business taxes shall prescribe equitable and uniform
rules for ascertaining such value.
(Ord. passed 12-18-1998)
§ 39.072 DETERMINING VALUE OF GOODS TRANSFERRED BETWEEN AFFILIATES.
   In determining the value with regards to the sales from one to another of
affiliated persons, or under other circumstances where the relation between the
buyer and the seller is such that the gross proceeds from the sale are not
indicative of the true value of the subject matter of the sale, the collector
of business taxes shall prescribe uniform and equitable rules for determining
the value upon which such privilege tax shall be levied, corresponding as
nearly as possible to the gross proceeds from the sale of similar products of
like quality or character where no common interest exists between the buyer and
the seller but the circumstances and conditions are otherwise similar.
(Ord. passed 12-18-1998)
§ 39.073 ERRONEOUS COMPUTATION.
   (A)   When it appears to the collector of business taxes that the taxpayer
has made a mathematical error or a clerical error, the collector of business
taxes shall correct such error and notify the taxpayer, in writing, of the
deficiency or overpayment in tax.
   (B)   The procedure for correcting such errors shall be the same as set
forth in W. Va. Code 11-10-6.
(Ord. passed 12-18-1998)
§ 39.074 TAX INFORMATION EXCHANGED BETWEEN CITY AND STATE TO BE CONFIDENTIAL.
   (A)   The city has entered or will be entering into a reciprocal exchange of
tax information agreement with the state pursuant to W. Va. Code 11-10-5d(i)
and (j) and C.S.R. 110-26-16.
   (B)   (1)   All tax information obtained from the state and from the city
pursuant to the above agreement shall be confidential.
      (2)   Any tax information obtained by the city from the state shall be
used only to the extent necessary in the administration and enforcement of the
city tax laws and the state tax laws for the assessment and collection of taxes
only.
   (C)   Any officer, employee, or agent of the city or any former officer,
employee, or agent of the city who divulges facts or information obtained from
returns or tax statements other than for the purpose of administering such tax
shall be subject to a fine of not more than $1,000, or other amount deemed
appropriate by the Municipal Court, or imprisonment for not more than one year,
or both, together with costs of prosecution, in accordance with the same
penalties proscribed by W. Va. Code 11-10-5d(c).
   (D)   Any officer, employee, or agent of the city or any former officer,
employee, or agent of the city who makes unauthorized disclosure of information
received from the State Tax Commission under authority of §
39.075 shall be subject to a fine of not more than $1,000, or other amount
deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court, or imprisonment for not more than
one year, or both, together with costs of prosecution, in accordance with the
same penalties proscribed by W. Va. Code 11-10-5d(c).
   (E)   For the purposes of this code, UNAUTHORIZED DISCLOSURE means the
release to any person of any tax information obtained by the city from the
State Tax Commissioner unless:
      (1)   The person receiving the information is the authorized counsel of
the state or city and shall be using the information only for the purpose of
administering business and occupation tax, sales tax from single location
businesses, or liquor sales tax; or
      (2)   The person who filed the return has authorized, in writing, its
release, thereby waiving his or her right to secrecy. (Those purposes outlined
in W. Va. Code 11-10-5d.)
   (F)   Nothing herein shall be deemed or interpreted to provide for a new or
additional private right or cause of action in the event of a violation or
violations thereof, other than that which may exist under current law.
(Ord. passed 12-18-1998)
§ 39.075 AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER INTO RECIPROCAL AGREEMENT.
   The reciprocal exchange of tax information agreement between the state and
the city shall be executed by the proper parties in substantially the form
attached to the ordinance.
(Ord. passed 12-18-1998)
§ 39.076 BUSINESS ENHANCEMENT; TAX CREDIT DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANNEXED BUSINESSES. Includes existing commercial, wholesale, retail,
manufacturing, or service businesses which are brought within the corporate
limits of the city by way of annexation by minor boundary adjustment.
   EXPANDED BUSINESS.
      (1)   Includes existing commercial, wholesale, retail, manufacturing, or
service businesses, excluding banking or financial institutions, public
utilities, local cable television company, and business involving residential
rental property, which have their principal place of business physically
located within the corporate limits of the city which have been renovated,
modernized, enlarged, and the like, and those businesses which have been
acquired by another person or entity for the purpose of continuing the same
business operation while increasing the economic productivity of the business.
      (2)   EXPANSION OF BUSINESS shall not include business maintenance and
repair expenses and exterior building improvements.
   NEW BUSINESS. Any new commercial wholesale, retail, manufacturing,
professional service business, and all other service businesses, excluding
banking or financial institutions, public utilities, local cable television
company, and business involving residential rental property, which physically
locales its principal place of business within the corporate limits of the
city, defined in this subchapter, either by purchase or real property or by
virtue of a rental agreement or lease and whose gross receipts are subject to
the city’s business and occupation tax, and is not currently paying such tax.
   NEW EMPLOYEE. A person who is hired and employed in a new business, annexed
business, or expanded business, who was not previously employed within the
corporate limits of the city by such business. A NEW EMPLOYEE shall be employed
at least 40 hours per week.
   NEW JOB. A job which is directly attributable to the qualified investment
and is filled by a new employee hired by the business.
   PROFESSIONAL SERVICE BUSINESS. Includes medical officers, doctors, dentists,
lawyers, accountants, engineers, architects, surveyors, real estate,
appraisers, and the like.
   USE. Property is said to be in use when the property is placed in a
condition or state of readiness for a specifically assigned function from which
new jobs have been created within the city.
   WARD I. Any business which is located in the voting district of the First
Ward as designated for the purposes of elections held within the City of
Weston. WARD I is more specifically defined as follows: beginning at the point
on the corporation line where the Court House Magisterial District and
Freeman’s Creek Magisterial District join and running on the magisterial line
to the intersection of Plum Street and Pleasant Street, northwest on Pleasant
Street to the intersection of Second Street; thence in an easterly direction to
Court Avenue, south on Court Avenue 60 feet to an unopened alley, thence east
to Bowie Street and the corporation line. WARD I has also been known as the
COURT HOUSE DISTRICT.
   WARD II. Any business which is located in the voting district of the Second
Ward as designated for the purposes of elections held within the city. WARD II
is more specifically defined as follows: beginning at the point where West
Second Street crosses the West Fork River and proceeding west on West Second
Street to Pleasant Street, thence south to Plum Street and there along the
magisterial lines of adjoining Court House District and Freeman’s Creek
District to the corporate line; thence west along the corporate limits to the
vicinity of Edgewood Drive, north along the corporate line to Craig Street,
then east along the corporate line to the intersection of Peggy Street, then
north on Peggy Street to Spring Street, thence southeast to Summit Street, then
along Summit Street to the intersection of View Street, thence south on View
Street to the intersection of West Fourth Street, following West Fourth Street
to the West Fork River. WARD II is also known as the FREEMAN’S CREEK DISTRICT.
   WARD III. Any business which is located in the voting district of the Third
Ward as designated for the purposes of elections held within the city. WARD III
is more specifically defined as follows; beginning at a point where West Fourth
Street crosses the West Fork River and following the river Northeast to the
intersection of East Sixth Street and Main Avenue, then northeast to the
corporation line; following the corporation line to beyond Blue Street, thence
to the West Fork River and following the West Fork River along the corporate
line to Butcher’s Lane; thence south to a point where the corporation line
intersects Spring Street Extended, then back along Spring Street, Summit
Street, and West Fourth Street to the West Fork River. WARD III is also known
as FREEMAN’S CREEK DISTRICT AND HACKERS CREEK DISTRICT.
   WARD IV. Any business which is located in the voting district of the Fourth
Ward as designated for the purposes of elections held within the City of
Weston. WARD IV is more specifically defined as follows: beginning at the
bridge on Second Street over the West Fork River and proceeding along East
Second Street to Court Avenue, 60 feet along Court Avenue to an unopened alley
and then east to the corporation line above Bowie Street, thence following the
corporation line Northwest to the intersection of East Sixth Street and Main
Avenue; thence along the West Fork River South to Second Street. WARD IV is
also known as the HACKERS CREEK DISTRICT.
(Ord. passed 12-18-1998)
§ 39.077 PURPOSE OF GRANTING TAX CREDITS FOR NEW AND EXPANDED BUSINESSES.
   The purpose and objectives of §§
39.076 through
39.083 which involve the granting of tax credits for new and expanded
businesses and annexed businesses is to encourage the following types of
business developments in the city: greater retail and service oriented
businesses; greater commercial business presence; greater light industrial
uses; and greater job creation.
(Ord. passed 12-18-1998)
§ 39.078 APPLICATION FORM; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Application forms developed by the collector of business taxes must be
completed and filed by the business owner in order for the business to be
considered for a B&O tax credit. The original application is to be filed with
the collector of business taxes with a copy of the application also being filed
with the City Council. After the filing of an application form, there shall be
a review and investigation of the application of the business by the collector
of business taxes.
   (B)   After the investigation, the collector of business taxes shall issue a
decision regarding the eligibility of the business for a tax credit and will
notify the applicant in writing of its decision. Any written rules,
regulations, and forms shall be established by the collector of business taxes
and shall be made available to all interested businesses upon their request
(Ord. passed 12-18-1998)
§ 39.079 AMOUNT OF CREDIT ALLOWED.
   (A)   Any taxpayer who conducts a new business in this city which has gross
revenue or gross proceeds of sale in excess of or equal to $1,000,000 per year,
or other amount deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court, that is subject to
the tax imposed by this subchapter shall be allowed a credit of 100% of
assessed business and occupation tax for a period of three years after the
credit is taken.
   (B)   Any taxpayer who conducts a new business in this city which has gross
revenue or gross proceeds of sale in excess of, or equal to, $500,000 but less
than $1,000,000 per year, or other amount deemed appropriate by the Municipal
Court, that is subject to the tax imposed by this subchapter shall be allowed a
credit of 50% of assessed business and occupation tax for a period of one year
after the credit is taken. Such business shall thereafter be allowed a credit
of 25% of assessed business and occupation tax for a period of the two years
following the initial year of credit.
   (C)   Any taxpayer who conducts a new business in this city which has gross
revenue or gross proceeds of sale in excess of, or equal to, $100,000 but less
than $500,000 per year, or other amount deemed appropriate by the Municipal
Court, that is subject to the tax imposed by this subchapter shall be allowed a
credit of 25% of assessed business and occupation tax for a period of one year
after the credit is taken. Such business shall thereafter be allowed a credit
of 15% of assessed business and occupation tax for a period of the two years
following the initial year of credit.
   (D)   Any tax payer who conducts an expanded business within this city that
is subject to the tax imposed by this subchapter shall be allowed a credit of
50% for a period of one year after the credit is taken. Such business must
prove through sufficient documentation that the expansion has been undertaken
at a level of, at minimum, a 10% increase.
   (E)   The amount of tax credit allowable begins with the taxable year in
which the taxpayer places the qualified investment into use within this city
and continues thereafter for a one- to three-year period unless the taxpayer
elects to delay the beginning of the one- to three-year period to the next
succeeding taxable year. Such delay shall only be allowable at the start of the
tax credit period.
   (F)   (1)   The administration of the tax credit is vested in, and shall be
exercised by the collector of business taxes who, in connection therewith,
shall prescribe all necessary forms. The collector of business taxes may
prescribe all necessary rules and regulations that are in conformity with §§
39.076 through
39.083 for the making of returns and for the ascertainment, assessment, and
collection of all the taxes imposed hereunder.
      (2)   The collector of business taxes shall cause examples of different
hypothetical situations resulting from an application of §§
39.076 through
39.083 to be prepared and filed with the City Clerk and the Council, in order
that correct interpretations regarding applicability may be made to the public.
The collector of business taxes may also prescribe such rules and regulations
as may be necessary to enable verification of the taxpayer’s continued
entitlement to claim such credit and to verify proper good faith application of
the credit allowed. Such regulations may include, but not be limited to, the
requirement that taxpayers receiving any tax credit file a quarterly business
and occupation tax return.
   (G)   If any existing business located within the corporate limits of the
city is damaged by fire, flood, and the like, and the dollar amount of the
damage to the business is greater than 50% of the fair market value of the real
and personal property of the business, such business will be entitled to
receive a “special” tax credit, if the business is completely remodeled and
reopened and all jobs existing at the time of the damage occurred are retained.
The amount of the tax credit will be 50% of the business and occupation taxes
owed in the first year after the business is reopened.
(Ord. passed 12-18-1998)
§ 39.080 ADMINISTRATION OF TAX CREDIT PROGRAM.
   (A)   The administration of the tax credit program shall be vested in the
collector of business taxes, who may: conduct an annual audit on participating
businesses to determine continued eligibility for participation in the program;
require participating businesses to provide financial documentation for
participation in the program; and review the amount of credit given to each
participating business annually.
   (B)   All businesses approved for a tax credit hereunder must still file a
quarterly B&O tax return and report gross income to the city.
   (C)   The amount of tax credit allowable begins with the taxable year in
which the taxpayer places the qualified investment into use within this city
and continues thereafter.
   (D)   No application for a tax credit will be considered and no credit will
be otherwise granted to any existing business who, at the time of the
application is made, is delinquent in the payment of city business and
occupation taxes.
   (E)   Once a business is granted tax credit under this subchapter, the
business would not be allowed another tax credit for at least five years from
the date the initial credit was granted.
(Ord. passed 12-18-1998)
§ 39.081 REOPENED BUSINESSES.
   If a business winch is receiving any type of tax credit discontinues
operations, and if such business reopens, to again be eligible for any type of
new tax credit hereunder, the business must have been closed for at least a
two-year period, unless the business is opened by a new individual owner, new
partners, or a new corporation with new corporate officers.
(Ord. passed 12-18-1998)
§ 39.082 QUALIFIED INVESTMENT.
   (A)   For the purposes of determining the amount of any tax credit permitted
hereunder, the qualified investment in property purchased or leased for
business growth shall be equal to the cost expended for each of the following
after being placed in service and use within the city.
      QUALIFIED INVESTMENT. Includes:
         (a)   Real property and improvements thereto, having a useful life of
20 or more years under depreciation rules of the Internal Revenue Service;
         (b)   Real property or improvements thereto or tangible personal
property acquired by a written lease for a period of five or more years;
         (c) Depreciated or amortizable tangible personal property having a
useful life of five or more years under the depreciation rules and regulations
of the Internal Revenue Service; and
         (d)   Natural resources in place which are capable of sustained
production for a period of ten or more years may also be included in the
computation of a qualified investment.
   (B)   The qualified investment may not include any of the following:
      (1)   Repair costs unless capitalized for federal income tax purposes;
      (2)   Vehicles and equipment purchased prior to the granting of any tax
credit for use in the business; and
      (3)   Wages and/or benefits paid to any new or existing employees.
   (C)   In determining the amount of the qualified investment for purchased
property, the value of any property given in trade or exchange for the property
purchased may not be included.
   (D)   In determining the amount of the qualified investment where property
is damaged or destroyed by fire, flood, storm, or other casualty, or is stolen,
then the cost of replacement property shall not include any insurance proceeds
received in compensation for the loss.
   (E)   The final determination as to what costs will count toward the
qualified investment as defined in this section is vested in the collector of
business taxes.
(Ord. passed 12-18-1998)
§ 39.083 REDUCTION IN THE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   If during the taxable year in which a tax credit is being taken the
average number of employees required to continue the credit is reduced, the tax
credit created herein shall be forfeited for that year and for each eligible
year thereafter where the number of employees remains below the number of jobs
originally required as a condition of the tax credit
   (B)   If the reduction in the number of employees was due to circumstances
which the taxpayer believes to have been out of his or her control, the
taxpayer may petition the collector of business taxes for a hearing to examine
the reasons why such tax credit shall not be forfeited.
(Ord. passed 12-18-1998)
§ 39.084 TAXPAYER’S RESPONSIBILITY TO KEEP RECORDS OF INVESTMENT CREDIT.
   It is the taxpayer’s responsibility to keep adequate records to establish
the following facts for each item of qualified property:
   (A)   Its identity;
   (B)   Its actual or reasonably determined costs;
   (C)   The month and year of operation the business began, or the date that
expansion of the business was completed;
   (D)   The date on which the business elected to begin taking the allowable
tax credit;
   (E)   The amount of tax credit taken; and
   (F)   The employment levels including gross payroll for the taxable quarter
in which credit is being taken.
(Ord. passed 12-18-1998)
§ 39.085 APPEALS FROM TAX CREDIT DECISIONS.
   An applicant for a tax credit who feels aggrieved by the decision of the
collector of business taxes with respect to the applicant’s application for a
tax credit may appeal the decision to the City Council. Such appeal must be
filed within 30 days of the date of the decision by the collector of business
taxes. Such appeal shall be in writing and signed by the applicant-taxpayer. In
the case of a corporation, the president or vice-president shall sign. All
signatures shall be sworn to under oath. The appeal shall state specifically
the grounds for a reversal of such decision of the collector of business taxes.
The City Council shall issue an appeal decision within 30 days of receipt of
the appeal. The decision of the City Council shall be final as to the city’s
decision. After such hearing, a taxpayer may appeal the decision of the City
Council to a circuit court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. passed 12-18-1998)
§ 39.086 REFERENCES TO STATE CODE.
   In all places in the referenced state code sections, “collector of business
taxes” shall replace “Tax Commissioner” and “city” shall replace “state”.
(Ord. passed 12-18-1998)
§ 39.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter for which no other
penalty is provided shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any purchaser failing or refusing to pay the tax hereby imposed and
levied and any seller or purchaser violating any of the provisions hereof or
any lawful rule and regulation promulgated hereunder shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be fined not more than $100, or
other amount deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court. The failure or refusal
to pay the tax for public utility service purchased, used, or consumed during
different periodic statement periods shall constitute a separate and distinct
offense.
(Prior Code, § 27-9.7) (Ord. passed 4-20-1976)
CHAPTER 40: FINANCES
Section
Notes Project Fund
   
40.01   Establishment of Notes Project Fund
   
40.02   Establishment of Notes Payment Fund
   
40.03   Investment of funds
Investment of Funds; Non-Arbitrage
   
40.15   Investments
   
40.16   Arbitrage
   
40.17   Small issuer exemption from rebate of excess investment earning in the
United States
System Revenues
   
40.30   Establishment of funds
   
40.31   Special funds
   
40.32   System revenues; flow of funds
   
40.33   Excess bond proceeds
Notes; Default and Remedies
   
40.45   Events of default
   
40.46   Remedies
Bonds; Default and Remedies
   
40.60   Events of default
   
40.61   Remedies
   
40.62   Appointment of receiver
Cross-reference:
   General taxation, see
Ch. 38
   Policies generally, see
Ch. 30
NOTES PROJECT FUND
§ 40.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF NOTES PROJECT FUND.
   There is hereby created and established with the depository bank, to be held
by the depository bank separate and apart from all other funds or accounts of
the depository bank and from all other funds or accounts of the issuer, a Notes
Project Fund for each series of notes. The moneys derived from the sale of the
notes shall be deposited with the depository bank in the respective Notes
Project Fund and applied solely to the payment of the design costs.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 40.02 ESTABLISHMENT OF NOTES PAYMENT FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created and established with the Commission, to be
held by the Commission separate and apart from all other funds or accounts of
the Commission and from all other funds or accounts of the issuer, a Notes
Payment Fund for each series of notes. Upon receipt of proceeds of any bonds or
grants for the system (other than Infrastructure Fund grants, in the case of
the Series 1998 A Notes), an amount of the proceeds of such bonds or grants
sufficient to pay the entire outstanding principal of and interest, if any,
accrued on the notes in full and the Infrastructure Administrative Fee shall be
deposited in the respective Notes Payment Funds.
      (2)   In the event proceeds of such bonds or grants are not sufficient or
available to pay the notes and the infrastructure administrative fee in full,
any proceeds of such bonds or grants then available to pay a portion of the
notes shall be deposited in the respective Notes Payment Fund on a pro rata
basis, and then upon the subsequent issuance of any other revenue bonds,
refunding bonds, or other obligations of the issuer, an amount of the proceeds
of such revenue bonds, refunding bonds, or other obligations of the issuer
sufficient to pay the entire outstanding principal of, and interest, if any,
accrued on the notes and the infrastructure administrative fee in full (taking
into account any previous pro rata partial payments pursuant to this sentence)
shall be deposited in the respective Notes Payment Funds.
      (3)   Any and all moneys deposited in the respective Notes Payment Funds
shall be paid by the Commission to the Authority (in the case of the Series
1998 A Notes) or the Series 1998 B Note original purchaser or any subsequent
holder of the Series 1998 B Notes (in the case of the Series 1998 B Notes) on
the respective maturity date of the notes, or such earlier date, if so directed
by the issuer, in full or partial payment of all or a portion of the
outstanding principal of and interest, if any, accrued on the notes and the
infrastructure administrative fee, and then shall be paid by the Commission to
the paying agent such charges, if any, as the paying agent has imposed for
services rendered. Until payment in full of the entire outstanding principal
of, and interest, if any, accrued on the notes, all moneys deposited in the
respective Notes Payment Funds shall be held in trust for the Authority (in the
case of the Series 1998 A Notes and the infrastructure administrative fee) or
the Series 1998 B Note original purchaser or any subsequent holder of the
Series 1998 B Notes (in the case of the Series 1998 B Notes), and the issuer
shall have no rights with respect thereto except to receive the balance therein
after payment of the notes in full and the charges, if any, of the paying
agent.
   (B)   Any moneys remaining in the Notes Payment Funds, after the payment of
the notes and the infrastructure administrative fee in full and all charges of
the paying agent, shall be returned to the issuer to be used for any lawful
purpose of the system.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 40.03 INVESTMENT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   Pending application as provided above, any moneys held in the Notes
Project Funds and the Notes Payment Funds shall be invested and reinvested by
the depository bank at the direction of the issuer to the fullest extent
possible under applicable laws, and to the extent practicable in qualified
investments having maturities consonant with the required use thereof.
   (B)   The depository bank shall keep complete and accurate records of all
funds, accounts, and investments, and shall distribute to the issuer, at least
once each year (or more often if reasonably requested by the issuer), a summary
of such funds, accounts, and investment earnings. The issuer shall retain all
such records and any additional records with respect to such funds, accounts,
and investment, earnings so long as any of the notes are outstanding and as
long thereafter as necessary to comply with the code and assure the exclusion
of interest, if any, on the notes from gross income for federal income tax
purposes.
(Ord. passed - -)
INVESTMENT OF FUNDS; NON-ARBITRAGE
§ 40.15 INVESTMENTS.
   (A)   Any moneys held as a part of the funds and accounts created by this
subchapter shall be invested and reinvested by the Commission, the depository
bank, or such other bank or national banking association holding such fund or
account, as the case may be, at the direction of the issuer in any qualified
investments to the fullest extent possible under applicable laws and this
subchapter, the need for such moneys for the purposes set forth herein and the
specific restrictions and provisions set forth in this section.
   (B)   Except as specifically provided herein, any investment shall be held
in and at all times deemed a part of the fund or account in which such moneys
were originally held, and the interest accruing thereon and any profit or loss
realized from such investment shall be credited or charged to the appropriate
fund or account. The investments held for any fund or account shall be valued
at the lower of cost or then current market value, or at the redemption price
thereof if then redeemable at the option of the holder, including the value of
accrued interest and giving effect to the amortization of discount, or at par
if such investment is held in the “Consolidated Fund”. The Commission, the
depository bank, or such other bank or national banking association, as the
case may be, shall sell and reduce to cash a sufficient amount of such
investments whenever the cash balance in any fund or account is insufficient to
make the payments required from such fund or account, regardless of the loss on
such liquidation. The depository bank or such other bank or national banking
association, as the case may be, may make any and all investments permitted by
this section through its own bond department and shall not be responsible for
any losses from such investments, other than for its own negligence or willful
misconduct.
   (C)   The depository bank shall keep complete and accurate records of all
funds, accounts, and investments, and shall distribute to the issuer, at least
once each year, or more often as reasonably requested by the issuer, a summary
of such funds, accounts, and investment earnings. The issuer shall retain all
such records and any additional records with respect to such funds, accounts,
and investment earnings so long as any of the notes are outstanding and as long
thereafter as necessary to assure the exclusion of interest on the Series 3998
B Notes from gross income for federal income tax purposes.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 40.16 ARBITRAGE.
   The issuer covenants that it will restrict the use of the proceeds of the
Series 1998 B Notes in such manner and to such extent as may be necessary, in
view of the issuer’s reasonable expectations at the time of issuance of the
Series 1998 B Notes, so that the Series 1998 B Notes will not constitute
“arbitrage bonds” under § 148 of the Code, and it will take all actions that
may be required of it (including, without implied limitation, the timely filing
of a federal information return) with respect to the Series 1998 B Notes so
that the interest on the Series 1998 B Notes will be and remain excluded from
gross income for federal income tax purposes, and will not take any actions
which would adversely affect such exclusion.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 40.17 SMALL ISSUER EXEMPTION FROM REBATE OF EXCESS INVESTMENT EARNING IN THE
UNITED STATES.
   (A)   (1)   In accordance with § 148(f)(4)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code
(afterwards, simply referred to as the “Code” in this subchapter, and in
particular being 26 U.S.C. § 148(f)(4)(D)), the issuer covenants that it is a
governmental unit with general taxing powers; that no part of the Series 1998 B
Notes are private activity bonds; that 95% or more of the net proceeds of the
Series 1998 B Notes are to be used for local governmental activities of the
issuer (or of a governmental unit the jurisdiction of which is entirely within
the jurisdiction of the issuer); and that the aggregate face amount of all the
tax- exempt obligations (other than private activity bonds) issued by the
issuer during the calendar year in which the Series 1998 B Notes are issued
does not and will not exceed $5,000,000, or other amount deemed appropriate by
the Municipal Court, determined in accordance with Section 148(f)(4)(D) of the
Code and the regulations from time to time in effect and applicable to the
Series 1998 B Notes.
      (2)   For purposes of this division (A) and for purposes of applying §
148(f)(4)(D) of the Code, the issuer and all entities which issue obligations
on behalf of the issuer shall be treated as one issuer; all obligations issued
by a governmental unit to make loans to other governmental units with general
taxing powers not subordinate to such unit shall, for purposes of applying this
division (A) and § 148(f)(4)(D) of the Code, be treated as not issued by such
unit; all obligations issued by a subordinate entity shall, for purposes of
applying this division (A) and § 148(f)(4)(D) of the Code to each other entity
to which such entity is subordinate, be treated as issued by such other entity;
and an entity formed (or, to the extent provided by the Secretary, as set forth
in the Code, availed of) to avoid the purposes of such § 148(f)(4)(D) of the
Code and all other entities benefitting thereby shall be treated as one issuer.
   (B)   (1)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, if in fact the issuer is subject
to the rebate requirements of § 148(f) of the Code, and not exempted from such
requirements, the issuer covenants to make, or cause to be made, all rebate
calculations, computations, and payments in the time, manner, and as required
in § 148(f) of the Code and the regulations from time to time in effect and
applicable to the Series 1998 B Notes and otherwise covenants and agrees to
comply with the provisions of such § 148(f) of the Code and the regulations
from time to time in effect and applicable to the Series 1998 B Notes.
      (2)   In the event of a failure to pay the correct rebate amount or
amounts, the issuer will pay, from any lawful sources available therefor, to
the United States such amount or amounts, plus a penalty equal to 50% of the
rebate amount not paid when required to be paid, plus interest on that amount,
unless waived. In order to provide for the administration of this division (B),
the issuer may provide for the employment of independent attorneys,
accountants, and consultants compensated on such reasonable basis as the issuer
may deem appropriate.
   (C)   (1)   The issuer shall furnish to the Series 1998 B Note original
purchaser or any subsequent holder of the Series 1998 B Notes, annually and at
such time as it is required to perform its rebate calculations under the Code,
a certificate with respect to its rebate calculations and, at any time, any
additional information relating thereto as may be requested by the Series 1998
B Note. Original purchaser or any subsequent holder of the Series 1998 B Notes.
      (2)   In addition, the issuer shall cooperate with the Series 1998 B Note
original purchaser or any subsequent holder of the Series 1998 B Notes in
preparing any required rebate calculations and in all other respects in
connection with such rebates by the Series 1998 B Note original purchaser or
any subsequent holder of the Series 1998 B Notes at the expense of the issuer.
   (D)   (1)   The issuer shall submit to the Series 1998 B Note original
purchaser or any subsequent holder of the Series 1998 B Notes within 15 days
following the end of each note year a certified copy of its rebate calculation
or, if the issuer qualifies for the small governmental issue exception to
rebate, the issuer shall submit a certificate stating that it is exempt from
the rebate provisions and that no event has occurred to its knowledge during
the note year which would make the Series 1998 Notes subject to rebate.
      (2)   The issuer shall also furnish to the Series 1998 B Note original
purchaser or any subsequent holder of the Series 1998 B Notes, at any time,
such additional information relating to rebate as may be reasonably requested
by the Series 1998 B Note original purchaser or any subsequent holder of the
Series 1998 B Notes, including information with respect to earnings on all
funds constituting “gross proceeds” of the Series 1998 B Notes (as such term
“gross proceeds” is defined in the Code).
(Ord. passed - -)
SYSTEM REVENUES
§ 40.30 ESTABLISHMENT OF FUNDS.
   The following special funds or accounts are created with and shall be held
by the depository bank separate and apart from all other funds or accounts of
the depository bank and from each other:
   (A)   Revenue Fund;
   (B)   Renewal and Replacement Fund; and
   (C)   Series 1996 Bonds Bond Construction Trust Fund.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 40.31 SPECIAL FUNDS.
   The following special funds or accounts are hereby established with the
Commission:
   (A)   Series 1996 Bonds Sinking Fund; and
   (B)   Within the Series 1996 Bonds Sinking Fund, the Series 1996 Bonds
Reserve Account.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 40.32 SYSTEM REVENUES; FLOW OF FUNDS.
   (A)   (1)   The entire gross revenues derived from the operation of the
system shall be deposited upon receipt in the Revenue Fund. The Revenue Fund
shall constitute a trust fund for the purposes provided in this subchapter and
shall be kept separate and distinct from all other funds of the issuer and the
depository bank and used only for the purposes and in the manner herein
provided.
      (2)   All revenues at any time on deposit in the Revenue Fund shall be
disposed of only in the following manner and order of priority:
         (a)   The issuer shall, each month, transfer from the Revenue Fund an
amount sufficient to pay current operating expenses of the system.
         (b)   The issuer shall next, on the first day of each month,
commencing four months prior to the first date of payment of interest on the
bonds, apportion and set apart out of the Revenue Fund and remit to the
Commission for deposit in the Series 1996 Bonds Sinking Fund, a sum equal to
one-third of the amount of interest which will mature and become due on said
bonds on the next ensuing quarterly interest payment date; provided that, in
the event the period to elapse between the date of such initial deposit in the
Bonds Sinking Fund and the next quarterly interest payment date is less than
four months, then such monthly payments shall be increased proportionately to
provide, one month prior to the next quarterly interest payment date, the
required amount of interest coming due on such date.
         (c)   The issuer shall next, on the first day of each month,
commencing four months prior to the first date of payment of principal on the
bonds, apportion and set apart out of the Revenue Fund and remit to the
Commission for deposit in the Bonds Sinking Fund, a sum equal to one-third of
the amount of principal which will mature and become due on said bonds on the
next ensuing quarterly principal payment date; provided that, in the event the
period to lapse between the date of such initial deposit in the Bonds Sinking
Fund and the next quarterly principal payment date is less than four months,
then such monthly payments shall be increased proportionately to provide one
month prior to the next quarterly principal payment date, the required amount
of principal coming due on such date.
         (d)   The issuer shall next, on the first day of each month,
commencing three months prior to the first date of payment of principal of the
bonds, if not fully funded upon issuance of the bonds, apportion and set apart
out of the Revenue Fund and remit to the Commission for deposit in the Reserve
Account, an amount equal to 1/120 of the reserve requirement; provided, that no
further payments shall be made into the Reserve Account when there shall have
been deposited therein, and as long as there shall remain on deposit therein,
an amount equal to the reserve requirement.
         (e)   The issuer shall next, from the moneys remaining in the Revenue
Fund, on the first day of each month, transfer to the Renewal and Replacement
Fund a sum equal to 2.5% of the gross revenues each month, exclusive of any
payments for account of any Reserve Account. All funds in the Renewal and
Replacement Fund shall be kept apart from all other funds of the issuer or of
the depository bank and shall be invested and reinvested in accordance with §§
40.15 to
40.17. Withdrawals and disbursements may be made from the Renewal and
Replacement Fund for replacements, emergency repairs, improvements, or
extensions to the system; provided, that any deficiencies in the Reserve
Account (except to the extent such deficiency exists because the required
payments into such account have not, as of the date of determination of a
deficiency, funded such account to the maximum extent required hereof) shall be
promptly eliminated with moneys from the Renewal and Replacement Fund.
      (3)   Whenever all of the required and provided transfers and payments
from the Revenue Fund into the several special funds, as hereinabove provided,
are current and there remains in said Revenue Fund a balance in excess of the
estimated amounts required to be so transferred and paid into the Sinking Fund,
including the Reserve Account therein, and the Renewal and Replacement Fund
during the following month or such longer period as shall be required by the
Act, such excess shall be considered as surplus revenues (the “surplus
revenue”). Surplus revenues may be used for any lawful purpose of the issuer.
      (4)   Moneys in the Sinking Fund shall be used only for the purposes of
paying principal of and interest on the bonds as the same shall become due.
Moneys in the Reserve Account in the Sinking Fund shall be used only for the
purpose of paying principal of or interest on the bonds, as the same shall come
due, when other moneys in the Sinking Fund are insufficient therefor, and for
no other purpose.
      (5)   All investment earnings on moneys in the Series 1996 Bonds Sinking
Fund and the Series 1996 Bonds Reserve Account shall be returned, not less than
once each year, by the Commission to the issuer, and such amounts shall, during
construction of the project, be deposited in the Construction Trust Fund, and
following completion of construction of the project, shall be deposited in the
Revenue Fund and applied in full, first to the next ensuing interest payment
due on the Series 1996 Bonds and then to the next ensuing principal payment due
thereon.
      (6)   Any withdrawals from the Reserve Account which result in a
reduction in the balance of the Reserve Account to an amount below the Reserve
Requirement shall be subsequently restored from the first net revenues
available after all required payments to the Sinking Fund for payment of debt
service on the bonds have been made in full.
      (7)   As and when additional bonds ranking on a parity with the Series
1996 Bonds are issued, provision shall be made for additional payments into the
Sinking Fund sufficient to pay any interest on such additional bonds and
accomplish retirement thereof at maturity and to accumulate a balance in the
Reserve Account in an amount equal to the reserve requirement.
      (8)   The Commission is hereby designated as the fiscal agent for the
administration of the Sinking Fund created hereunder, and all amounts required
for said Sinking Fund shall be remitted to the Commission from the Revenue Fund
by the issuer at the times provided herein.
      (9)   The payments into the Sinking Fund shall be made on the first day
of each month, except that when the first day of any month shall be a Sunday or
legal holiday then such payments shall be made on the next succeeding business
day, and all such payments shall be remitted to the Commission with appropriate
instructions as to the custody, use, and application thereof consistent with
the provisions of this subchapter.
      (10)   The issuer shall not be required to make any further payments into
the Series 1996 Bonds Sinking Fund or into the Series 1996 Bonds Reserve
Account therein when the aggregate amount of funds in said Sulking Fund and
Reserve Account are at least equal to the aggregate principal amount of the
series 1996 bonds issued pursuant to this subchapter then outstanding and all
interest to accrue until the maturity thereof.
      (11)   The Sinking Fund, including the Reserve Account therein, shall be
used solely and only for and is hereby pledged for, the purpose of servicing
the bonds and any additional bonds ranking on a parity with them that may be
issued and outstanding under the conditions and restrictions hereinafter set
forth.
   (B)   The issuer shall remit from the Revenue Fund to the Commission or the
depository bank, on such dates as the Commission or the depository bank, as the
case may be, shall require such additional sums as shall be necessary to pay
any depository bank’s charges then due. The issuer shall also remit from the
Revenue Fund to the authority, on such dates as the Authority and the DEP shall
require, the issuer’s allocable share of reasonable administrative expenses of
the authority relating to the program, if any.
   (C)   The moneys in excess of the maximum amounts insured by FDIC in the
Revenue Fund and the Renewal and Replacement Fund shall at all times be
secured, to the full extent thereof in excess of such insured sum, by qualified
investments as shall be eligible as security for deposits of municipal funds
under the laws of the state.
   (D)   The issuer shall complete the “monthly payment form”, the form of
which is attached to the loan agreement as Exhibit F, and submit a copy of said
form along with a copy of its remittance check to the authority by the fifth
day of such calendar month.
   (E)   If on any monthly payment date the revenues are insufficient to place
the required amount in any of the funds and accounts as hereinabove provided,
the deficiency shall be made up in the subsequent payments in addition to the
payments which would otherwise be required to be made into the funds and
accounts on the subsequent payment dates.
   (F)   All remittances made by the issuer to the Commission shall clearly
identify the fund or account into which each amount is to be deposited.
   (G)   The issuer shall each month, on the day set forth in division (A)(2)
(b) above (if such day is not a business day, then the next succeeding business
day), deposit with the Commission the SRF administrative fee as set forth in
the Schedule Y attached to the loan agreement.
   (H)   The gross revenues of the system shall only be used for purposes of
the system.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 40.33 EXCESS BOND PROCEEDS.
   The issuer shall place any excess proceeds from the Series 1996 Bonds not
required by the project in the Reserve Account, up to but not exceeding the
Reserve Account requirement.
(Ord. passed - -)
NOTES; DEFAULT AND REMEDIES
§ 40.45 EVENTS OF DEFAULT.
   Each of the following events shall constitute an “event of default” with
respect to the notes:
   (A)   If default occurs in the due and punctual payment of the principal of
or interest, if any, on any note;
   (B)   If default occurs in the issuer’s observance of any of the covenants,
agreements or conditions on its part relating to the notes in this subchapter,
any supplemental resolution, or in the notes, as the case may be, and such
default shall have continued for a period of 30 days after the issuer shall
have been given written notice of such default by the Commission, the
depository bank, or any other bank or banking association holding any fund or
account hereunder or a holder of a note; or
   (C)   If the issuer files a petition seeking reorganization or arrangement
under the federal bankruptcy laws or any other applicable law of the United
States of America.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 40.46 REMEDIES.
   Upon the happening and continuance of any event of default, any holder of a
note may exercise any available remedy and bring any appropriate action, suit,
or proceeding to enforce his or her rights and, in particular, bring suit for
any unpaid principal or interest then due, by mandamus or other appropriate
proceeding, enforce all rights of the holders of the notes including the right
to require the issuer to perform its duties under the Act and the ordinance
relating thereto, bring suit upon the notes, by action at law or bill in
equity, require the issuer to account as if it were the trustee of an express
trust for the holders of the notes, and by an action or bill in equity enjoin
any acts in violation of the ordinance with respect to the notes, or the rights
of the holders of the notes; provided that, the remedies of the holders of the
notes shall be junior and subordinate to the remedies of the holders of the
prior bonds.
(Ord. passed - -)
BONDS; DEFAULT AND REMEDIES
§ 40.60 EVENTS OF DEFAULT.
   Each of the following events shall constitute an “event of default” with
respect to the bonds:
   (A)   If default occurs in the due and punctual payment of the principal of,
or interest on, any bonds;
   (B)   If default occurs in the issuer’s observance of any of the covenants,
agreements, or conditions on its part relating to the bonds set forth in this
subchapter, any supplemental resolution, or in the bonds, and such default
shall have continued for a period of 30 days after the issuer shall have been
given written notice of such default by the Commission, the depository bank,
the Construction Trust Fund depository bank, the bond registrar, any paying
agent, or a holder of a bond; or
   (C)   If the issuer files a petition seeking organization or arrangement
under the federal bankruptcy laws or any other applicable law of the United
States of America.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 40.61 REMEDIES.
   Upon the happening and continuance of any event of default any registered
owner of a bond may exercise any available remedy and bring any appropriate
action, suit, or proceeding to enforce his or her rights and, in particular,
bring suit for any unpaid principal or interest then due, by mandamus or other
appropriate proceeding enforce all rights of such registered owners including
the right to require the issuer to perform its duties under the Act and this
subchapter relating thereto, including, but not limited to, the making and
collection of sufficient rates or charges for services rendered by the system,
bring suit upon the bonds, by action at law or bill in equity require the
issuer to account as if it were the trustee of an express trust for the
registered owners of the bonds, and by action at law or bill in equity enjoin
any acts in violation of the ordinance with respect to the bonds, or the rights
of such registered owners.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 40.62 APPOINTMENT OF RECEIVER.
   (A)   Any registered owner of a bond may, by proper legal action, compel the
performance of the duties of the issuer under this subchapter and the Act,
including the making and collection of sufficient rates and charges for sendees
rendered by the system and segregation of the revenues therefrom and the
application thereof. If there be any default in the payment of interest on any
bonds when the same shall become due, or in the payment of the principal of any
bond or bonds, either at the specified date of maturity thereof or at a date
set for redemption thereof, or otherwise in the performance of any covenant
contained in the ordinance other than as to such payment and such default shall
continue for a period of 30 days after written notice to the issuer of such
default, any bondholder shall, in addition to all other remedies or rights,
have the right by appropriate legal proceedings to obtain the appointment of a
receiver to administer the system on behalf of the issuer, with power to charge
rates, rentals, fees, and other charges sufficient to provide for the payment
of the bonds and any interest thereon, the deposits into the funds and accounts
hereby established as herein provided and the payment of operating expenses of
the system and to apply such rates, rentals, fees, charges, or other revenues
in conformity with the provisions of the ordinance and the Act.
   (B)   The receiver so appointed shall forthwith, directly or by his or her
agents and attorneys, enter into and upon and take possession of all facilities
of said system and shall hold, operate, and maintain, manage, and control such
facilities, and each and every part thereof, and in the name of the issuer
exercise all the rights and powers of the issuer with respect to said
facilities as the issuer itself might do.
   (C)   Whenever all that is due upon the bonds and interest thereon and under
any covenants of the ordinance codified herein for reserve, sinking, or other
funds and upon any other obligations and interest thereon having a charge,
lien, or encumbrance upon the revenues of the system shall have been paid and
made good, and all defaults under the provisions of this subchapter shall have
been cured and made good, possession of the system shall be surrendered to the
issuer upon the entry of an order of the court to that effect. Upon any
subsequent default, any registered owner of any bonds shall have the same right
to secure the further appointment of a receiver upon any such subsequent
default.
   (D)   Such receiver, in the performance of the powers hereinabove conferred
upon him or her, shall be under the direction and supervision of the court
making such appointment, shall at all times be subject to the orders and
decrees of such court and may be removed thereby, and a successor receiver may
be appointed in the discretion of such court. Nothing herein contained shall
limit or restrict the jurisdiction of such court to enter such other and
further orders and decrees as such court may deem necessary or appropriate for
the exercise by the receiver of any function not specifically set forth herein.
   (E)   Any receiver appointed as provided herein shall hold and operate the
system in the name of the issuer and for the joint protection and benefit of
the issuer and registered owners of the bonds. Such receiver shall have no
power to sell, assign, mortgage, or otherwise dispose of any assets of any kind
or character belonging or pertaining to the system, but the authority of such
receiver shall be limited to the possession, operation, and maintenance of the
system for the sole purpose of the protection of both the issuer and registered
owners of such bonds and the curing and making good of any event of default
with respect thereto under the provisions of this subchapter, and the title to
and ownership of said system shall remain in the issuer, and no court shall
have any jurisdiction to enter any order or decree permitting or requiring such
receiver to sell, assign, mortgage, or otherwise dispose of any assets of the
system.
(Ord. passed - -)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   ELECTRICITY
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   SEWER REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 50: ELECTRICITY
Section
   
50.01   Electrical Code adopted; purpose, application, and the like
   
50.02   Same, exceptions
   
50.03   Permit fees
   
50.04   Electrical inspector; administration and enforcement of chapter
   
50.05   Cooperation of city officers
   
50.06   Conflicts of law
   
50.07   Updating provisions
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED; PURPOSE, APPLICATION, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   There is hereby adopted by the Common Council, for the purpose of
establishing rules and regulations for the practical safeguarding of persons
and of buildings and their contents from hazards arising from the use of
electricity for light, heat, power, radio signaling, and for other purposes,
that certain electrical code known as the National Electrical Code, recommended
by the National Fire Protection Association, being particularly the 2017
edition thereof and amendments made thereto, of which code not less than one
copy, certified by the Mayor, has been and now is filed in the office of the
City Clerk, and such code is hereby incorporated in and made apart of this
section as fully as though it were set out at length herein; and from and after
August 1, 2020, the provisions thereof shall, subject to the exceptions
contained in §
50.02, be controlling in the installation of electrical conductors, wiring, and
equipment within or on public and private buildings and premises situated
within the city. The electrical code with amendments adopted by this section
shall be known and may be cited as the Electrical Code.
(Prior Code, § 10-1) (Ord. passed 7-28-2021)
Charter reference:
   Authority to regulate the building of houses and other structures, see
Charter § 30
Statutory reference:
   Authority of city to regulate electric wiring, see W. Va. Code 8-12-13
   Authority relating to buildings and safety hazards, see W. Va. Code 8-12-5
(23) and (28)
   Authority to adopt an Electrical Code by references, see W. Va. Code 8-11-4
(b)
   Authority to require permits for construction and the like of structures or
equipment, see W. Va. Code 8-12-14
§ 50.02 SAME, EXCEPTIONS.
   With regard to buildings and structures, the provisions of the Electrical
Code shall apply only to construction or major remodeling begun or occurring
after March 3, 1969. MAJOR REMODELING shall be defined as reconstruction or
remodeling work involving more than 50% of the existing electrical system of
the structure or building. The Electrical Code shall not otherwise apply to
structures and buildings in existence as of March 3, 1969.
(Prior Code, § 10-2)
§ 50.03 PERMIT FEES.
   No permit or special permission required by the Electrical Code shall be
issued until the applicable fee required for the particular type of permit
applied for has been paid. The Common Council may, by ordinance from time to
time, upon its own volition or upon recommendation of the electrical inspector,
establish a schedule of fees for permits required by the Electrical Code and
such schedule may include fees for inspections of work done under such permits;
provided, that until a schedule has been adopted pursuant to this section, the
fee schedule, relative to the issuance of permits for the construction,
installation, alteration, and extension of electrical wiring and equipment
which is in force and effect upon the effective date of this city code shall
remain in full force and effect.
(Prior Code, § 10-3)
§ 50.04 ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR; ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   The Mayor, with the approval of the Common Council, shall appoint, or
designate an appropriate city officer to serve as the electrical inspector, to
administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   When in the opinion of the electrical inspector the public interest so
requires, the electrical inspector and his or her duly authorized
representative, upon properly identifying themselves, shall have the authority
to enter any building, structure, or other premises at any reasonable hour. The
electrical inspector shall keep comprehensive records of inspections made,
reports rendered, and notices or orders issued relative to the enforcement of
the Electrical Code.
   (C)   In enforcing the Electrical Code, the electrical inspector shall be
initially responsible for interpreting the rules and regulations contained in
the Code, for deciding upon the approval of equipment and materials, and for
granting the special permission contemplated in a number of the rules. Any
ruling, interpretation, notice, or other such official act of the electrical
inspector shall be reduced in writing and a copy thereof delivered in person,
or mailed to the party or parties thereby affected at his, her, or their last
known post office address.
(Prior Code, § 10-4)
§ 50.05 COOPERATION OF CITY OFFICERS.
   The electrical inspector may request and shall receive so far as may be
necessary or practical, in the discharge of his or her duties, the assistance
and cooperation of other officials of the city.
(Prior Code, § 10-5)
§ 50.06 CONFLICTS OF LAW.
   Whenever any provision of the Electrical Code is in conflict with any other
provision of this city code or other ordinance of the city, the more stringent
provision shall prevail. Whenever any provision of the Electrical Code is in
conflict with any provision of state law or of any rule or regulation
promulgated pursuant to state law, the more stringent provision shall prevail,
unless otherwise provided by state law or by rule or regulation promulgated
pursuant thereto.
(Prior Code, § 10-7)
§ 50.07 UPDATING PROVISIONS.
   As amendments to the 1968 edition, and as new editions of the National
Electrical Code are published from time to time by National Fire Protection
Association, it shall be the duty of the electrical inspector to file a copy of
each thereof in the office of the City Clerk and to notify the Common Council
of such filing and his or her recommendations, if any, as to such changes
therein as he or she may deem advisable in the interests of the city. Upon the
adjournment of the second regular meeting of the Common Council following each
such filing and notice by the electrical inspector, the amendments or new
editions so filed by him or her and mentioned in his or her notice to the
Common Council shall be deemed to have been adopted by the Common Council for
incorporation in this article as a part thereof, unless provided otherwise by
the Common Council prior to adjournment of such second regular meeting, and
such amendments or new editions shall become effective when the copies thereof
in the office of the City Clerk have been certified by the Mayor in compliance
with the requirements of W. Va. Code 8-11-4(b).
(Prior Code, § 10-8)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   If any person shall violate or fail to comply with any provision of
the Electrical Code or any notice or order issued pursuant thereto, he or she
shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine not exceeding $100, or other
amount deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court, or by imprisonment for not
exceeding 30 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment; and each day such
violation shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   The imposition of the penalties herein prescribed shall not preclude
the City Attorney from instituting an appropriate action or proceeding to
prevent an unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, addition,
alteration, conversion, removal, demolition, maintenance or use, or to
restrain, correct, or abate a violation, or to prevent the occupancy of a
building or structure or portion thereof, or of the premises, or to prevent an
illegal act, conduct, business, or use in or about any premises.
(Prior Code, § 10-6)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
   
51.01   Restrictions on use of water during periods of extreme drought
   
51.02   Pollution and contamination of water supply and private wells,
cisterns, and spring
   
51.03   Protection of waterworks property
§ 51.01 RESTRICTIONS ON USE OF WATER DURING PERIODS OF EXTREME DROUGHT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person during any period of extreme
drought, in or about the city, to use within the city any water furnished and
supplied by a public utility for the use of the city or its inhabitants for the
following purposes:
      (1)   Watering or sprinkling any plot of ground, garden, lawn, street, or
area in the city;
      (2)   Washing or cleaning any horse drawn or motor driven vehicle,
building, dwelling, outhouse, or other structure;
      (3)   Providing water to any swimming pool or wading pool; and
      (4)   Recreation, as, for example, the spraying of children by water from
a garden hose.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person during any period of extreme
drought in or about the city wilfully or negligently to waste any water,
whether by failure to wholly turn off a spigot after use or otherwise.
   (C)   An extreme drought shall exist within the purview of this section when
the Common Council shall so find and enter such fact of record, and after
publication of notice of such finding at least once in two newspapers of
opposite politics published in the city; and such drought shall, within the
purview of this section, continue to exist, after the entering of such fact of
record and the publishing of notice thereof, until declared at an end by order
entered of record by the Common Council.
(Prior Code, § 29-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
Charter reference:
   Authority to authorize or prohibit the erection of waterworks, see Charter §
30
Statutory reference:
   Authority to provide for the construction and maintenance of water drains
and the like, see W. Va. Code 8-12-5(7), (8), (32), and (33)
§ 51.02 POLLUTION AND CONTAMINATION OF WATER SUPPLY AND PRIVATE WELLS,
CISTERNS, AND SPRING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully or negligently pollute or
contaminate any source of water supply for the city or any private well,
cistern, or spring, or to wilfully or negligently render unpotable any potable
water which constitutes any source of water supply for the city or any private
well, cistern, or spring.
(Prior Code, § 29-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.03 PROTECTION OF WATERWORKS PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, not having proper authority therefor,
to damage, render inoperative, or otherwise tamper with any property of or
appurtenant to any property of any public utility company which supplies water
to the city or to inhabitants of the city.
(Prior Code, § 29-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 52: SEWER REGULATIONS
Section
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Use of public sewers required
   
52.03   Private wastewater disposal
   
52.04   Building sewers and connections
   
52.05   Use of sanitary sewers
   
52.06   Tampering with wastewater facilities
   
52.07   Powers and authority of inspectors
   
52.08   Sewer connection charge
   
52.09   Approval generally; compliance
   
52.10   Street sewer extensions
   
52.11   Restroom and toilet facilities required
   
52.12   Leaking sewers
   
52.13   Duty to maintain restroom or toilet facilities
   
52.14   Sewer rates
   
52.15   Regulation by Sanitary Board
   
52.16   Billing and collection of service charges
 
   
52.99   Penalty
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet (one and one-half meters) outside the inner face of the
building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal, also called HOUSE CONNECTION.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to receive both wastewater and storm or
surface water.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat, or grease in physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, and serving of food.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastewater from industrial processes, trade, or
business as distinct from domestic or sanitary wastes.
   MAY. Is permissive.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other body of surface or
ground water.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation, or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ions concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ion, in grams, per liter of solution.
Neutral water, for example, has a pH value of seven and a hydrogen ion
concentration of ten.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than on-half inch (1.27 centimeters) in any
dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A common sewer controlled by a governmental agency or public
utility.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that carries liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions, together
with minor quantities of ground, storm, and surface waters that are not
admitted intentionally.
   SEWAGE. The spent water of a community. The preferred term is WASTEWATER.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
   SHALL. Is mandatory.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration
longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-hour concentration
or flows during normal operation and shall adversely affect the collection
system and/or performance of the wastewater treatment works.
   STORM DRAIN or STORM SEWER. A drain or sewer for conveying water, ground
water, subsurface water, or unpolluted water from any source.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of Public Works of the city, or his or
her authorized deputy, agent, or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Total suspended matter that either floats on the surface
of, or is in suspension in, water, wastewater, or other liquids, and that is
removable by laboratory filtering as prescribed in Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater and referred to as NONFILTERABLE RESIDUE.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community. From the standpoint of source,
it may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions, together with any
ground water, surface water, and storm water that may be present.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment, and process required to
collect, carry away, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of
the effluent.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes, and sludge. Sometimes used as
synonymous with WASTE TREATMENT PLANT, WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT, or WATER
POLLUTION CONTROL PLANT.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
(Ord. passed 1-29-1996)
§ 52.02 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall place, deposit, or permit to be deposited in any
unsanitary manner on public or private property within the city or in any area
under the jurisdiction of the city, any human or animal excrement, garbage, or
objectionable waste.
   (B)   No person shall discharge to any natural outlet within the city, or in
any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any wastewater or other polluted
waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with
subsequent provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall construct or maintain
any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility intended or
used for the disposal of wastewater.
   (D)   The owner(s) of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes, situated within the city
and abutting on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is now
located or may in the future be located a public sanitary or combined sewer of
the city, is hereby required at the owner’s expense to install suitable toilet
facilities herein, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper
public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within 90 days
after date of official notice to do so, provided that the public sewer is
within 100 feet ((80.50) meters) of the property line.
(Ord. passed 1-29-1996) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.03 PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of §
52.02(D), the building sewer shall be connected to a private wastewater
disposal system complying with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of a private wastewater disposal
system, the owner(s) shall first obtain a written permit signed by the
Superintendent. The application for such permit shall be made on a form
furnished by the city, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans,
specifications, and other information as are deemed necessary by the
Superintendent. A tap fee of $150, or other amount deemed appropriate by the
Municipal Court, shall be paid to the city at the time the application is
filed.
   (C)   A permit for a private wastewater disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
Superintendent. The Superintendent shall be allowed to inspect the work at any
stage of construction, and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall
notify the Superintendent when the work is ready for final inspection, and
before any underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made
within 24 hours of the receipt of notice by the Superintendent.
   (D)   The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private wastewater
disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the state’s Department
of Public Health. No permit shall be issued for any private wastewater disposal
system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the
lot is less than 30,000 square feet (925 square meters). No septic tank or
cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
   (E)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private wastewater disposal system, as provided in §
52.02(D), a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer within 60 days
in compliance with this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools, and similar
private wastewater disposal facilities shall be cleaned of sludge and filled
with suitable material.
   (F)   The owner(s) shall operate and maintain the private wastewater
disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the
city.
   (G)   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Health Officer.
(Ord. passed 1-29-1996)
§ 52.04 BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No unauthorized person(s) shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the Superintendent.
   (B)   Should the Superintendent refuse to approve any such application, the
offended applicant may by letter petition Council to review such refusal. The
letter petitioning for such review shall be lodged in the City Treasurer’s
office at least 24 hours prior to the regular Council meeting at which such
offended applicant desires to be heard. If, upon such review, Council is
satisfied that the proposed connection complies with the requirements of this
chapter it may, by majority vote, authorize and direct the Mayor to approve the
application to cause the permit to be issued.
   (C)   (1)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits: for
residential and commercial service, and for service to establishments producing
industrial wastes. In either case, the owner(s) or his or her agent shall make
application on a special form furnished by the city. The permit application
shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other information
considered pertinent in the judgment of the Superintendent.
      (2)   A tap fee of $150, or other amount deemed appropriate by the
Municipal Court, for a residential or commercial building sewer permit and a
tap fee of $150, or other amount deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court, for
an industrial building sewer permit shall be paid to the city at the time the
applications are filed.
   (D)   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection
of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner(s). The owner(s) shall
indemnify the city from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be
occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
   (E)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway, the front
building may be extended to the rear building and the whole considered as one
building sewer, but the city does not and will not assume any obligation or
responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from any such single
connection aforementioned.
   (F)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the Superintendent, to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
   (G)   The size, slope, alignment, materials, or construction of a building
sewer and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing, and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
city. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the ASTM
International and Water Pollution Control Federation (“WPCF”) Manual of
Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   (H)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (I)   No person(s) shall make connection of roof downspouts, foundation
drains, area way drains, or other sources of surface runoff or ground water to
a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly or
indirectly to a public sanitary sewer unless such connection is approved by the
Superintendent for purposes of disposal of polluted surface drainage.
   (J)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the city, or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the ASTM and the WPCF Manual of Practice No. 9.
All such connections shall be made gastight and watertight and verified by
proper testing. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must
be approved by the Superintendent before installation.
   (K)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection
to the public sewer. The connection and testing shall be made under the
supervision of the Superintendent or his or her representatives.
   (L)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
(Ord. passed 1-29-1996) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.05 USE OF SANITARY SEWERS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, cooling water,
or unpolluted industrial or commercial process waters to the sanitary sewer
system of the city.
   (B)   The owner of each house, building, or premises used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation, or any other purpose, situated within the
city or utilizing any portion of the city’s sanitary sewer system, is hereby
required, at his or her own expense, to eliminate from such sanitary sewer
system all storm water, surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface
drainage, cooling water, or unpolluted industrial or commercial process waters
entering the sanitary sewer system from his or her property, within 60 days
after date of proper notice from the city to do so.
   (C)   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers
or to a natural outlet approved by the Superintendent and other regulatory
agencies. Unpolluted industrial cooling water or process waters may be
discharged, on approval of the Superintendent, to a storm water, combined
sewer, or natural outlet.
   (D)   No person(s) shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas;
      (2)   Waters containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids, or gases in
sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, to
injure or interfere with any waste treatment process, constitute a hazard to
humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in the
receiving waters or the wastewater treatment plant;
      (3)   Waters or wastes having a pH lower than five and one-half or having
any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and personnel of the wastewater works; or
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the wastewater facilities such as, but no limited to,
ashes, bones, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure,
hair and fleshings, entrails; and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, and the
like, either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
   (E)   The following described substances, materials, waters, or wastes shall
be limited in discharges to municipal systems to concentrations or quantities
which will not harm either the sewers, wastewater treatment process, or
equipment, will not have an adverse effect on the receiving stream, or will not
otherwise endanger lives, limb, public property, or constitute a nuisance. The
Superintendent may set limitations lower than the limitations established in
the regulations below if in his or her opinion such more severe limitations are
necessary to meet the above objectives. In forming his or her opinion as to the
acceptability, the Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as
the quantity of subject waste in relation to flows and velocities in the
sewers, materials of construction of the sewers, the wastewater treatment
process employed, capacity of the wastewater treatment plant, degree of
treatability of the waste in the wastewater treatment plant, and other
pertinent factors. The limitations or restrictions on materials or
characteristics of waste or wastewaters discharged to the sanitary sewer which
shall not be violated without approval of the Superintendent are as follows:
      (1)   Wastewater having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
      (2)   Wastewater containing more than 25 milligrams per liter of
petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oils, or product of mineral oil origin;
      (3)   Wastewater from industrial plants containing floatable oils, fat,
or grease;
      (4)   Any garbage that has not been property shredded (see §
52.01). Garbage grinders may be connected to sanitary sewers from homes,
hotels, institutions, restaurants, hospitals, catering establishments, or
similar places where garbage originates from the preparation of food in
kitchens for the purpose of consumption on the premises or when served by
caterers;
      (5)   Any waters or waste containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, and
similar objectionable or toxic substances to such degree that any such material
received in the composite wastewater at the wastewater treatment works exceeds
the limits established by the Superintendent for such materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing odor-producing substances exceeding
limits which may be established by the Superintendent;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Quantities of flow, concentrations, or both which constitute a
“slug” as defined in §
52.01;
      (9)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amendable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the wastewater treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters; or
      (10)   Any water or wastes which, by interaction with other water or
wastes in the public sewer system, release obnoxious gases, form suspended
solids which interfere with the collection system, or create a condition
deleterious to structures and treatment processes.
   (F)   (1)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in division (E) above, and which in the judgment
of the Superintendent may have a deleterious effect upon the wastewater
facilities, processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or which otherwise
create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the Superintendent
may:
         (a)   Reject the wastes;
         (b)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
         (c)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/
or
         (d)   Require payment to cover added cost of handling and treating the
wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions of
division (K) below.
      (2)   When considering the above alternatives, the Superintendent shall
give consideration to the economic impact of such alteration on the discharges.
If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows,
the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject to the
review and approval of the Superintendent.
   (G)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing floatable grease in excessive amounts, as specified in
divisions (A) and (E) above, or any flammable wastes, sand, or other harmful
ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be required for private
living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type and
capacity approved by the Superintendent, and shall be located as to be readily
and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. In the maintaining of these
interceptors the owner shall be responsible for the proper removal and disposal
by appropriate means of the captured material and shall maintain records of the
dates, and means of disposal which are subject to review by the Superintendent.
Any removal and hauling of the collected materials not performed by owner’s
personnel must be performed by currently licensed waste disposal firms.
   (H)   Where pretreatment of flow-equalizing facilities are provided or
required for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in
satisfactory and effective operation by the owner(s) at his or her expense.
   (I)   When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property
serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable structure together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances
in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of
wastes. Such structure, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
Superintendent. The structure shall be installed by the owner as his or her
expense and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible
at all times.
   (J)   The Superintendent may require a user of sewer services to provide
information needed to determine compliance with this chapter. These
requirements may include:
      (1)   Wastewaters discharge peak rate and volume over a specified time
period;
      (2)   Chemical analyses of wastewaters;
      (3)   Information on raw materials, processes, and products affecting
wastewater volume and quality;
      (4)   Quantity and disposition of specific liquid, sludge, oil, solvent,
or other materials important to sewer use control;
      (5)   A plot plan of sewers of the user’s property showing sewer and
pretreatment facility location;
      (6)   Details of wastewater pretreatment facilities; and
      (7)   Details of systems to prevent and control the losses of materials
through spills to the municipal sewer.
   (K)   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association.
Sampling methods, location, times, durations, and frequencies are to be
determined on an individual basis subject to approval by the Superintendent.
   (L)   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the city for treatment.
(Ord. passed 1-29-1996) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.06 TAMPERING WITH WASTEWATER FACILITIES.
   (A)   No person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or
equipment which is a part of the wastewater facilities.
   (B)   Any person violating this section shall be subject to immediate arrest
under charge of disorderly conduct.
(Ord. passed 1-29-1996) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.07 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   (A)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling,
and testing pertinent to discharge to the community system in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Superintendent or other duly authorized employees are authorized
to obtain information concerning industrial processes which have a direct
bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the wastewater collection
system. The industry may withhold information considered confidential. The
industry must establish that the revelation to the public of the information in
question might result in an advantage to competitors.
   (C)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A) above, the Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the
city shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by
the company, and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the
city’s employees, and the city shall indemnify the company against loss or
damage to its property by the city’s employees and against liability claims and
demands for personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and
growing out of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused
by negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required
by §
52.05(I).
   (D)   (1)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the
city bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter
all private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement
for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observations, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the wastewater facilities
lying within the easement.
      (2)   All entry and subsequent work, if any, on the easement, shall be
done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. passed 1-29-1996)
§ 52.08 SEWER CONNECTION CHARGE.
   (A)   (1)   A connection charge of $150, or other amount deemed appropriate
by the Municipal Court shall be collected from every residential user of the
city’s sanitary sewer collection and treatment facilities, which such
residential connection charge shall be applicable to each sanitary sewer
connection for all new or existing residential structures, unless specifically
waived by written agreement or the parties.
      (2)   A connection charge of $150, or other amount deemed appropriate by
the Municipal Court, shall be collected from every commercial user of the
city’s sanitary sewer collection and treatment facilities, which commercial
connection charge shall be applicable to each sanitary sewer connection for all
new or existing commercial structures, unless specifically waived by written
agreement of the parties.
      (3)   The residential and commercial connection charges outlined above
shall be paid to the city’s Sanitary Board prior to commencement of any
prospective sanitary sewer connection.
      (4)   In accordance with the provision of W. Va. Code 24-2-4(b), the
rates and charges contemplated by this section shall not be effective sooner
than 45 days after adoption.
   (B)   The connection fee (tap fee) of $150, as set forth in the city’s
current sewer rate ordinance, or other amount deemed appropriate by the
Municipal Court, remain in full force and effect until further modified
pursuant to state law.
(Ord. passed 1-29-1996; Ord. passed 11-7-2005; Ord. passed 5-1-2006)
§ 52.09 APPROVAL GENERALLY; COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   All connections of street sewer extensions, trunk sewer extensions, or
connections of any type to the city sanitary sewer system, or extensions
thereof, must be approved by Council or by its authorized representative, as
hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Approval may be secured by first submitting application to the city on
forms supplied by the city.
   (C)   All connections must comply with the requirements of this chapter and
with any other reasonable requirements which are necessary for engineering or
public health reasons.
(Ord. passed 1-29-1996)
§ 52.10 STREET SEWER EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   Applications. Where any individual or organization desires to
construct, or have constructed, sanitary sewers beyond the present sewer and
connect same to the city sanitary sewer system, application for such
construction and connections must first be submitted to and approved by
Council. Application must be in the form of a letter outlining the proposed
project and accompanied by detailed plans and specifications which shall
contain all information pertinent to the design and construction of the
proposed sanitary sewers. Two copies of such plans and specifications must be
submitted. Both copies thereof shall be approved by Council, one copy to be
returned to the applicant and the other copy to be filed in the offices of the
City Treasurer.
   (B)   Specifications. In general, the design and construction of all
sanitary sewers shall comply with sound recognized engineering practices and
sewer construction standards. Council shall reserve the right to invoke any
requirements which are deemed necessary for the protection, satisfactory
operation, and future maintenance of the sanitary sewer system.
   (C)   Pipe standards. All sanitary sewer lines serving more than two lots
shall have an inside diameter of at least six inches. Large sizes may be
required where volume of sewage flow or possible future development indicates
they are needed. The sewer pipe shall be SDR 35 PVC or other acceptable and
approved material. No old or used sewer pipe shall be used for sanitary sewers
unless accepted by a representative of Council.
   (D)   Joints. Joints shall be well caulked and oakum and then sealed. Other
types of joints will be considered for approval. Every joint, after being made,
shall be scraped on the inside before the next pipe is placed to ensure a
perfect flow line.
   (E)   Lines; grades. All sewers shall be laid on straight lines and uniform
grades. Grades shall be such as to cause a minimum velocity in the sewer of at
least two feet per second when the sewer is flowing half full. In calculating
minimum sewer grades, velocities, and maximum capacities, Kotter’s Formula with
N -.031 shall be used.
   (F)   Manholes. Standard manholes shall be required at each change of
direction or grade, intersection with other sewers, or at least every 400 feet.
Manholes shall be constructed of pre-cast reinforced concrete sections. They
shall have smooth, well-formed inverts, so as not to interfere with the smooth
flow of sewage through the bottom. The manholes shall have a minimum diameter
of four feet and, near the top, shall be tapered to a diameter of two feet five
inches. Construction of the manhole shall be such that a water-tight structure
will result, and each manhole shall be equipped with cast iron steps to provide
reasonable access to the bottom. The manhole shall be topped with a standard
cast iron frame and cover. Sample drawings showing manhole details may be
obtained upon request from the City Engineer.
   (G)   Trenches. Before any pipe is laid in a dry trench, the trench shall be
evenly graded with depressions being made for the bell end of the pipe, so that
the weight of the pipe will be evenly supported along its entire length. After
the pipe is laid and properly jointed, loose earth shall be carefully tamped
about the pipe and to a depth of at least six inches above the top of the pipe,
after which coarser materials may be backfilled. Where the bottom of the trench
has been filled in, the builder shall be required to thoroughly tamp the area
under the pipe. In wet soil or “quick sand”, a rigid type of pipe, such as cast
iron, may be required in order to ensure stability of the sewer line. The need
for a rigid type pipe shall be decided by the Council representative inspecting
the work.
   (H)   Infiltration.
      (1)   All pipe shall be laid and jointed so as to provide a tight
waterproof and root-resistant system. If it is deemed advisable by the Council
representative, infiltration tests may be made upon the new sewer lines before
they are placed in service. Infiltration shall not exceed the following
amounts.
 
Allowable Infiltration in Gallons
Size of Pipe (inches) Per Mile Per 24 Hours
8                     6,300
12                    9,500
15                    15,000
 
      (2)   In the event that the measurement of infiltration exceed the
allowable limits, as stated in the above table, the applicant shall be required
to repair the defective joints or pipe to reduce the infiltration to the
specified limits.
   (I)   Inspection; backfilling. Council shall have the right to inspect all
materials and work at any time during the progress of the job. No sewer line or
manhole excavations shall be backfilled without the prior inspection and
approval of the Council representative.
   (J)   House laterals. All house lateral connections constructed as apart of
a new sewer extensions shall conform in every respect to the provisions of this
chapter regarding house lateral connections to the city sanitary sewer systems.
Wherever a sewer line is to be constructed under a paved street, or a street
which is to be paved in the near future, house laterals shall be constructed at
the same time as the street sewer. These laterals shall be extended to, or
beyond, the existing or proposed curb line of the pavement.
   (K)   Right-of-way. All sewer line extensions shall be made in recognized
street or alley rights-of-way or under rights-of-way especially dedicated for
sewer line construction. Where sewer lines are constructed in rights-of-way
other than streets or alleys, the builder of such sewer lines shall furnish
Council with legal rights-of-way agreements conveying these rights-of-way to
the city. The width of such rights-of-way shall be at least five feet on either
side of the centerline of the sewer.
   (L)   Conveyance to city.
      (1)   After satisfactory completion of the construction of the sewer
extensions, if then within the city corporate limits or upon the subdivision or
development in which such sewer extensions have been constructed being taken,
into the city, the builder and/or owner of these sewer extensions shall, by
appropriate instrument, covey the ownership of these new sewer lines and the
necessary rights-of-way therefor, to the city for future maintenance and
operation.
      (2)   Such sewers shall be subject to all rules and regulations
applicable to the city sanitary system, including the obligation to pay the
prevailing sewer service charges from the time the sewer extensions are placed
in service.
(Ord. passed 1-29-1996)
§ 52.11 RESTROOM AND TOILET FACILITIES REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every building or other structure used as a dwelling or within which
people are employed or congregate shall be equipped with restroom or toilet
facilities. No property owner shall construct or maintain a building or other
structure in which restrooms or toilet facilities are required as herein set
forth without such restrooms or toilet facilities, and no such property owner
shall maintain a building in which restrooms or toilets are available without
connecting the sewers from such building to the public sewer as herein
required.
(Ord. passed 1-29-1996) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.12 LEAKING SEWERS.
   (A)   No property owner shall permit the escape of sewage from his or her
property onto adjoining public or private property.
   (B)   Every such property owner shall be responsible for maintaining the
sewer line or lines run from his or her property to the public sanitary sewer
and shall promptly cause any such line or lines to be replaced or repaired,
should the same be broken or leaking.
(Ord. passed 1-29-1996) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.13 DUTY TO MAINTAIN RESTROOM OR TOILET FACILITIES.
   Every property owner shall maintain the restroom or toilet facilities within
the building or structure owned by him or her in good working order and, in the
event the restroom or toilet facilities become damaged, obstructed, or useless,
shall immediately repair it.
(Ord. passed 1-29-1996)
§ 52.14 SEWER RATES.
   (A)   Applicability. This section shall be applicable in the entire
territory or area served. Such service shall be applicable for general
domestic, commercial, and industrial service.
   (B)   Metered rates.
      (1)   For all customers with metered water supply within the city’s
corporate limits, the metered rates shall be as follows.
 
Gallons Used (per Month) Charge (per 1,000 gallons)*
First 2,000 gallons      $12.78
Next 3,000 gallons       $12.78
Next 20,000 gallons      $9.79
Next 225,000 gallons     $8.64
All over 250,000 gallons $6.60
* Or other amounts deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court
 
      (2)   For all customers with metered water supply outside the city’s
corporate limits, the metered rates shall be as follows.
 
Gallons Used (per Month) Charge (per 1,000 gallons)*
First 2,000 gallons      $15.09
Next 3,000 gallons       $15.09
Next 20,000 gallons      $12.13
Next 225,000 gallons     $11.00
All over 250,000 gallons $8.95
* Or other amounts deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court
 
   (B)   Minimum charge.
      (1)   The above schedule is subject to a minimum monthly charge, being:
         (a)   Weston city customers shall be subject to a rate of $6.84 per
month per 1,000 gallons for a minimum bill of $13.68 for 2,000 gallons; and
         (b)   Homewood/Bendale/Rt. 33/Jordanville/Deanville customers shall be
subject to a rate of $8.29 per month per 1,000 gallons for a minimum bill of
$16.58 for 2,000 gallons.
      (2)   No bill will be rendered for less than the following amount:
         (a)   Customers within the city’s corporate limits: $25.56; and
         (b)   Customers outside the city’s corporate limits: $30.18.
   (C)   Delayed payment penalty. The above schedule is net. On all accounts
not paid in full within 20 days of date of bill, 10% will be added to the net
amount shown. The delayed payment is not interest and is only to be collected
once for each bill where it is appropriate.
   (D)   Multiple occupancy. Where multiple service is rendered through one
water meter, the monthly sewer bill shall be not less than the minimum charge
provided for above, multiplied by the number of families, apartments,
residences, stores, offices, mobile homes (house trailers), or other units
receiving water service from such meter.
   (E)   Unmetered users.
      (1)   In locations within the municipal boundaries of the city where the
residential customer has no water meter, charges for sewer service shall be a
flat monthly charge of $38.34 per connection to the sewer facilities, or other
amount deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court.
      (2)   In locations outside the municipal boundaries of the city where the
residential customer has no water meter, charges for sewer service shall be a
flat monthly charge of $45.27 per connection to the sewer facilities, or other
amount deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court. This is based upon the
national average residential water usage of 3,000 gallons a month.
   (F)   Sewer connection (tap) fee. The general charge for making each service
connection shall be the greater of $400 or the actual cost of connection
(including labor and/or contracted services) to make an ordinary connection to
the sewer system. The actual cost will be determined at the sole discretion of
the city, acting by and through the Sanitary Board. If the tap will not flow by
gravity, the customer shall provide and maintain a pump and pumping equipment
according to specifications approved by the Sanitary Board in addition to the
above mentioned tap fees.
   (G) Bulk rate. The West Virginia Water Company shall be furnished sewer
service at the rate of $24,360 per annum, payable at the rate of $2,030 per
month, or other amount deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court.
   (H)   Water disconnection and reconnection fee.
      (1)   A disconnection fee of water service requested by the Sanitary
Board in the case of nonpayment of sewer service charges imposed by this
chapter shall be $20, or other amount deemed appropriate by the Municipal
Court, and the reconnection fee of water service upon the payment of delinquent
sewer service charges shall be $20, or other amount deemed appropriate by the
Municipal Court.
      (2)   In the event that a building or premises discharging sewage, water,
or other liquid waste into the municipal sanitary sewer system uses water
supplied on other than a metered basis, the owner or occupant may be required
to cause a water meter or other measuring device to be installed.
   (I)   Special charges. In the event that the sewage, water, or other liquid
waste being discharged into the sanitary sewers from any building or premises
is determined by the Sanitary Board to contain unduly high concentrations of
any substances which add to the operating costs of the sewage system of said
Sanitary Board, then the Sanitary Board may establish special rates and charges
as to such class of buildings or premises, or the Sanitary Board may require
the owners or other interested parties to specially treat such sewage, water,
or other liquid waste before it is discharged into the municipal sanitary sewer
system, at the user’s sole cost and expense.
   (J)   Sewer jetter truck special charge. If a customer requests assistance
with a customer service line issue that requires the use of Sanitary Board’s
sewer jetter truck, then the charge shall be $150 per visit to the customer’s
service location, or other amount deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court.
   (K)   Payment of sewer service charges.
      (1)   All bills for the sewer shall be rendered monthly and shall be
deposited in theSewer Revenue Fund created and being maintained pursuant to the
ordinance adopted June 16, 1958, authorizing the outstanding sewer revenue
bonds, dated June 1, 1958, of said city, and the ordinance authorizing the
issuance of the sanitary sewer revenue bonds, dated 1969. No free services of
said municipal sewer system shall be allowed or permitted.
      (2)   Responsive to W. Va. Code 16-13-16, the rates and charges for the
use of and services rendered by the municipal sewage system shall be paid by or
on behalf of the owner of each and every lot or parcel of real estate, or
building connected with, served by, or using said sewage system, and the amount
of all such rates and charges, if not paid when due, shall be a lien upon the
premises, served by such system, and if the bill for such rates and charges is
not paid within 30 days after due, it shall be deemed delinquent and the amount
thereof shall be recovered by the city’s Sanitary Board in a civil action in
the name of the city, together with a penalty of 10%, and a reasonable
attorney’s fee, and as a part of such action, the lien aforesaid may be
foreclosed in due course against the lot or parcel of land or building charged
with the amount due in accordance with the law relating to the enforcement of
such liens; provided, however, if any bill for sewer service rates and charges
is directed to a party other than the owner of the lot or parcel of real
estate, or building connected with, served by, or using the municipal sewage
system, then in the event any such bill shall not be paid within the allotted
time and shall become delinquent, the Sanitary Board shall mail such delinquent
bill to the owner of such lot or parcel of real estate, or building, at the
last known address of such owner, together with a notice that such owner is the
party charged by law with the liability for the payment of same, and if such
bill is not paid within 30 days after such mailing, the amount thereof shall be
recovered by the Sanitary Board, together with the penalty aforesaid, and a
reasonable attorney’s fee as in the case of other delinquent bills, and as a
part of such action the lien aforesaid may be foreclosed in due course against
the lot or parcel of land, or building charged with the amount due in
accordance with the laws relating to the enforcement of such liens. The
foregoing sewer service rates and charges shall be put into effect and
collected from and after the effective date hereof as hereinafter provided in
division (N)(2) below.
      (3)   The aforesaid schedule of rates and charges for sewer services and
the basis for computing or opposing same shall be revised from time to time as
may be required and provided by law or by the respective ordinances authorizing
the issuance of said sewer revenue bonds and sanitary sewer revenue bonds
hereinbefore referred to.
   (L)   Returned check charge. A service charge equal to the actual bank fee
assessed to the sewer utility up to a maximum of $25, or other amount deemed
appropriate by the Municipal Court, will be imposed upon any customer whose
check for payment of charges is returned by the bank due to insufficient funds.
   (M)   Security deposit. The security deposit shall not exceed two-twelfths
of the average annual usage of the applicant’s specific customer class, or $50,
whichever is greater, or other amount deemed appropriate by the Municipal
Court. This fee may be changed by applicable statutory provisions.
   (N)   Compliance.
      (1)   That the ordinance codified within this section having been
introduced at a meeting of the Common Council of the city on the March 6, 2000,
and the proposed revision, charge, or readjustment of rates being substantially
pro rata as to all classes of service, no hearing or notice of the adoption of
the ordinance codified within this section is required by W. Va. Code 16-13-16
(1931, as amended); however, notwithstanding the foregoing and in compliance
with W. Va. Code 8-13-13 (1931, as amended), the ordinance codified within this
section shall be published as a Class II legal advertisement in a newspaper of
general circulation in the county in compliance with the provisions of W. Va.
Code Ch. 59, Art. 3 (1931, as amended); notice of the proposed adoption hereof
shall likewise be published as a Class I-0 legal advertisement in compliance
with the provisions of W. Va. Code Ch. 59, Art. 3 (1931, as amended), as
provided in W. Va. Code Ch. 8-11-4(a)(2) (1931, as amended); and pursuant to
the provisions of W. Va. Code 24-4-4b(b) (1931, as amended) , that notice of
intent to effect the aforesaid rate change be specified in the monthly billing
statement of all users for the month next preceding the month in which the rate
change is to become effective, and that a copy of the ordinance codified within
this section shall be clearly placed and marked for viewing in the City
Building.
      (2)   In accordance with the revisions of W. Va. Code 24-2-4(b), the
rates and charges imposed by the ordinance codified within this section shall
not be effective sooner than 45 days after adoption.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2000; Ord. 20A, passed 6-3-2021)
§ 52.15 REGULATION BY SANITARY BOARD.
   (A)   General provisions. In addition to the specific authority granted by
this chapter, the Sanitary Board shall make and enforce such other rules and
regulations subject to the approval of the City Council for the safe,
economical, and efficient management, control, and protection of the city’s
public sewage system, for the construction and use of house sewers and
connections to the sewage system, for the construction and use of all other
connections thereto, and for the regulations, collection, rebating, and
refunding of such sewage service charges as may be needed or necessary from
time to time; provided that such rules and regulations shall not become
effective until the same have been approved by the City Council by ordinance or
resolution and spread upon the records of the Council, as notice to the public
of the provisions of said rules and regulations.
   (B)   Fee schedule. There is hereby established a fee schedule of just,
reasonable, and equitable fees and charges for the use of equipment and
services rendered by the city’s Sanitary Board in providing consumer service
calls for utilization of the city’s Sanitary Board’s sanitary sewer service
equipment and personnel for residential and commercial service calls to
residences and businesses served by the city’s sanitary sewer collection and
treatment systems, which fee and charges are to be paid by the owner of each
and every lot or parcel of real estate, or building connected therewith, upon
request and receipt of consumer service calls by the Sanitary Board personnel
and use of the Sanitary Board’s sanitary sewage service equipment on the
consumer’s private lines.
      (1)   Schedule of rates. The Sanitary Board shall charge the following
fees for responding to consumer service calls as set forth above, in the
following amounts, or other amount deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court:
         (a)   $50 an hour - regular working hour service call;
         (b)   $75 an hour - overtime service call;
         (c)   $200 an hour - up to four hours on weekend or holiday service
call; and
         (d)   $25 an hour - flat charge for jet truck use.
      (2)   Invoices. Invoices for consumer service calls made by the city’s
Sanitary Board shall be rendered monthly and shall be due and owing in the same
fashion and following the same procedures as set forth in the current
“Ordinance establishing a revised schedule of just and equitable rates and
charges for the use of and services rendered by the municipal sewage system of
the City of Weston, West Virginia, and providing for the collection of such
rates and charges: amendment of applicable sections of Article IV, Chapter 23,
the Code of the City of Weston as revised and enacted June 21, 2000”, with
reference made hereto as if same were set forth herein verbatim.
      (3)   Exception to charge. There will be no fee assessed if it is
determined that the consumer’s sanitary sewer problem is located within the
city’s Sanitary Board’s maintained lines.
      (4)   One free service call. Each residence which utilizes the city’s
sanitary sewer collection and treatment system shall get one service call
without charge.
(Ord. passed 1-29-1996; Ord. passed 11-12-2003)
§ 52.16 BILLING AND COLLECTION OF SERVICE CHARGES.
   The sewage service charges, surcharges, and fees, levied by or pursuant to
this chapter, shall be billed by the Sanitary Board, or, in the discretion of
the Sanitary Board, by a designated agent of the Sanitary Board, to all firms,
persons, and corporations liable therefor, pursuant to such terms, agreements,
arrangements, and compensations as may be determined by contract between the
said Sanitary Board and said agent. The collection of said service charges,
surcharges, and fees shall be by the Sanitary Board, or by its designated and
authorized agent.
(Ord. passed 1-29-1996)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Each sewage service charge or surcharge levied by this chapter shall
be a debt due the city. If any service rate or charge so established shall not
be paid within 15 days after it shall be due and payable, the amount thereof,
together with a penalty of 10% and a reasonable attorney’s fee, may be
recovered by the Sanitary Board in a civil action in the name of the
municipality.
   (B)   In the event of failure to pay the sewer service charge or surcharge
after they become delinquent, the Sanitary Board shall be authorized to
discontinue all water service to the property and shall have the right to enter
upon the property of the user or the service for such purpose and to take such
steps as may be necessary to accomplish such removal or closing, and the costs
of such removal and closing, as well as the expense of restoring any such
service shall likewise be a debt due the city, and may be recovered by the city
by civil action in the name of the city, and such sewage service shall not
again be turned on, nor the sewer connection restored until all service
charges, including the expense of removal, closing, and restoration, shall have
been paid. Change of ownership or occupancy of premises found delinquent shall
not be cause of reducing or eliminating these penalties.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any of the rules of
regulations made and promulgated by the Sanitary Board or any state or federal
agency as aforesaid; any person convicted of any such violation shall be fined
not more than $500, or other amount deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court,
or imprisoned in jail not to exceed 30 days, or both, and each day that any
person shall continue the violation of any of the rules and regulations made
and promulgated by the Sanitary Board or any state or federal agency shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. passed 1-29-1996)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
      
71.   OPERATION OF VEHICLES
      
72.   STOPPING, STANDING, AND PARKING
      
73.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
74.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
Section
General Provisions; Obedience to and Effect of Traffic Laws
   
70.001   Definitions
   
70.002   Authority of Police and Fire Department officials
   
70.003   Application to vehicles upon streets and highways; exceptions
   
70.004   Obedience to police officers; fleeing
   
70.005   Application to government vehicles; exception
   
70.006   Authorized emergency vehicles
   
70.007   Application to persons riding animals or driving animal-drawn vehicles
   
70.008   Required obedience to traffic laws
   
70.009   Costs of court
Traffic Signs, Signals, and Markings
   
70.020   Obedience to traffic control devices
   
70.021   Obedience to traffic control instructions at street construction
   
70.022   Traffic control signal terms and lights
   
70.023   Pedestrian control signals
   
70.024   Flashing signals
   
70.025   Unauthorized signs and signals, biding from view, advertising
   
70.026   Alteration, injury, removal of traffic control devices
   
70.027   Traffic violations in construction zones
Crashes
   
70.040   Immediate reports of crashes
   
70.041   When driver unable to report
   
70.042   Garages to report bullet damage
Serious Traffic Offenses
   
70.055   Driving under the influence
   
70.051   Reckless driving
   
70.052   Hazardous driving
   
70.053   Use of cell phone prohibited while driving
License, Registration, and Inspection
   
70.075   Registration, Certificate of Title Required
   
70.076   Registration Card
   
70.077   Display of Registration Plates
   
70.078   Operation of Vehicle without Evidence of Registration; Use of
Temporary Facsimile
   
70.079   Improper Use of Registration Card, Plate, or Permit
   
70.080   Driver or Motorcycle License Required
   
70.081   Persons Exempt from License
   
70.082   License to be Carried and Exhibited on Demand
   
70.083   Certain Acts Prohibited
   
70.084   Driving Under Suspension or Revocation
   
70.085   Owner or Operator Allowing Another to Drive
   
70.086   Certificated of Inspection and Approval (MVI)
 
   
70.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS; OBEDIENCE TO AND EFFECT OF TRAFFIC LAWS
§ 70.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words in this
title, hereinafter referred to as the “Traffic Code”, that have not been
defined shall be given definitions consistent with definitions found in W. Va.
Code 17C-1.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Vehicles of the Fire Department, duly
chartered rescue squad, Police Department, ambulance service, state, county, or
municipal agency and such privately owned ambulances, tow trucks, wreckers,
flag car services, vehicles providing road service to disabled vehicles,
service vehicles of a public service corporation, postal service vehicles, snow
removal equipment, Class A vehicles of firefighters, Class A vehicles of
members of ambulance services, and Class A vehicles of members of duly
chartered rescue squads, and all other emergency vehicles as are designated by
the agency responsible for the operation and control of these persons or
organizations. Class A vehicles are as defined by W. Va. Code 17A-10-1. Agency
authorization and emergency equipment are defined in W. Va. Code 17C-15-26.
Agencies responsible for issuing authorization for emergency vehicle permits
may promulgate such regulations that are necessary for the issuance of permits
for emergency vehicles.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-6)
   BICYCLE. Every device which does not have a motor attached and which is
propelled by human power upon which any person may ride, having two tandem
wheels, either of which is more than 20 inches in diameter.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-8)
   BUS. Every motor vehicle designed for carrying more than seven passengers
and used for the transportation of persons; and every motor vehicle, other than
a taxicab, designed and used for the transportation of persons for
compensation.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-13)
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a street or
highway when, within any 600 feet along such highway, there are buildings in
use for business or industrial purposes, including, but not limited to hotels,
banks, or office buildings, railroad stations, and public buildings which
occupy at least 300 feet of frontage on one side or 300 feet collectively on
both sides of the street or highway.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-4)
   CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY. Every highway, street, or roadway in respect to
which owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal
right of access to or from the same, except at such points only and in such
manner as may be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over
such highway, street, or roadway.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-41)
   CROSSWALK. Includes:
      (1)   That part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
street or highway measured from the curbs or, in the absence of curbs, from the
edges of the traversable roadway; and
      (2)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly
indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-43)
   DRIVER. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-31)
   ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE (EPAMD). A self-balancing, two-
nontandem, wheeled device, designed to transport only one person, with an
electric propulsion system with average power of 750 watts (one horse power),
whose maximum speed on a paved level surface, when powered solely by such a
propulsion system while ridden by an operator who weighs 170 pounds, is less
than 20 mph.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-66)
   EXPLOSIVES. Any chemical compound or mechanical mixture that is commonly
used or intended for the purpose of producing an explosive and which contains
any oxidizing and combustive units or other ingredients in such proportions,
quantities, or packing that an ignition by fire, friction, concussion,
percussion or detonator of any part of the compound or mixture may cause such a
sudden generation of highly heated gases that the resultant gaseous pressures
are capable of producing destructive effects on contiguous objects or of
destroying life or limb.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-24)
   FLAMMABLE LIQUID. Any liquid which has a flash point of 70°F or less, as
determined by a Tagliabue or equivalent closed cup test device.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-25)
   GROSS WEIGHT. The weight of a vehicle without load, plus the weight of any
load thereon.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-26)
   INTERSECTION. Includes:
      (1)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadways
of two streets or highways which join one another at, or approximately at,
right angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different
streets or highways joining at any other angle may come in conflict; and
      (2)   Where a street or highway includes two roadways 30 feet or more
apart, then every crossing of each roadway of such divided street or highway by
an intersecting highway shall be regarded as a separate intersection. In the
event such intersecting street or highway also includes two roadways 30 feet or
more apart, then every crossing of two roadways of such streets or highways
shall be regarded as a separate intersection.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-42)
   LANED ROADWAY. A roadway which is divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for vehicular traffic.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-39)
   MOPED. Every motorcycle or motor-driven cycle unless otherwise specified in
the Traffic Code codified within this title, which is equipped with two or
three wheels, foot pedals to permit muscular propulsion, and an independent
power source providing a maximum of two-brake horsepower.
      (1)   If a combustion engine is used, the maximum piston or rotor
displacement shall be 50 cubic centimeters, regardless of the number of
chambers in such power source.
      (2)   The power source shall be capable of propelling the vehicle,
unassisted, at a speed not to exceed 30 mph on a level road surface and shall
be equipped with a power drive system that functions directly or automatically
only, not requiring clutching or shifting by the operator after the drive
system is engaged.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-5a)
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use of the
rider and designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the
ground, but excluding a tractor.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-4)
   MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLE. Every motorcycle having a piston displacement of more
than 50 cubic centimeters, but not more than 150 cubic centimeters, or with not
more than five-brake horsepower.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-5)
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle which
is propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires, but not
operated upon rails, except motorized wheelchairs.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-3)
   MUNICIPAL COURT. Refers to the court system utilized by the city, whether it
be called other names such as Police Court, City Court, or the like. MUNICIPAL
COURT is not Magistrate Court or State Circuit Court.
   OWNER. A person who holds the legal title of a vehicle, or, in the event a
vehicle is the subject of an agreement for the conditional sale or lease
thereof with the right of purchase upon performance of the conditions stated in
the agreement and with an immediate right of possession vested in the
conditional vendee or lessee, or, in the event a mortgagor of a vehicle is
entitled to possession, then such conditional vendee or lessee or mortgagor
shall be deemed the owner for the purpose of the Traffic Code codified within
this title.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-32)
   PARK. When prohibited, means the standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or
not, otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged
in loading or unloading.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-54)
   PARKING AREA. Lots, areas, or other accommodations for the parking of
vehicles off the street or highway and open to public use, with or without
charge.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-60)
   PASSENGER VAN.
      (1)   Any van or other motor vehicle owned by any agency, business, or
other legal entity and operated for the purpose of transportation of children
under the age of eighteen years, other than a van utilized for private use,
taxicab, bus, or school bus.
      (2)   PASSENGER VANS include, but are not limited to, vehicles used by
daycare centers, after-school centers, and nursery schools; provided, that the
term PASSENGER VAN does not include any van or other motor vehicle which is
utilized for the specific purpose of transporting children to medical
facilities for the purpose of medical or dental treatment and which loads and
unloads the children on private property, making no stops for loading or
unloading along public roads or highways.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-64)
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot or any person using a wheelchair.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-30)
   PERSON. Every natural person, firm, copartnership, association, or
corporation.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-29)
   POLE TRAILER. Every vehicle without motive power designed to be drawn by
another vehicle and attached to the towing vehicle by means of a reach or pole,
or by being boomed or otherwise secured to the towing vehicle and ordinarily
used for transporting long or irregularly shaped loads such as poles, pipes,
trusses, or structural members capable, generally, of sustaining themselves as
beams between the supporting connections.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-17)
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to
make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-33)
   PRIVATE ROAD or DRIVEWAY; PRIVATE PROPERTY.
      (1)   PRIVATE ROAD or PRIVATE DRIVEWAY. Every way or place in private
ownership and used for vehicular travel by the owner and those having express
or implied permission from the owner, but not by other persons.
      (2)   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Real estate in private ownership without regard
to the manner in which it is used.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-36)
   RAILROAD. A carrier of persons or property, upon cars, other than
streetcars, operated upon stationary rails.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-21)
   RAILROAD SIGN OR SIGNAL. Any sign, signal, or device erected by authority of
a public body or official or by a railroad and intended to give notice of the
presence of railroad tracks or the approach of a railroad train.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-49)
   RAILROAD TRAIN. A steam engine, electric, or other motor, with or without
cars coupled thereto, operated upon rails, except streetcars.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-22)
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a street or
highway not comprising a business district when the property on such street or
highway for a distance of 300 feet or more is in the main improved with
residences or residences and buildings in use for business.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-46)
   RESIDENTIAL STREET. The entire width between the boundary lines of every
way, whether publicly or privately maintained, located within any subdivision,
development, or other similar area used primarily for residential purposes when
any part thereof is open to the common use of those living in such area for the
purpose of vehicular travel.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-62)
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the street or highway.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-51)
   ROADWAY.
      (1)   That portion of a street or highway improved, designed, or
ordinarily used for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder.
      (2)   In the event a street or highway includes two or more separate
roadways, the term ROADWAY as used herein shall refer to any such roadway
separately, but not to all such roadways collectively.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-37)
   SAFETY ZONE. The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set
apart as a safety zone.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-44)
   SCHOOL BUS. Every motor vehicle owned by a public or governmental agency and
operated for the transportation of children to or from school, or privately
owned and operated for compensation for the transportation of children to or
from school.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-7)
   SCHOOL GROUNDS. Includes the land on which a school is built together with
such other land used by students for play, recreation, or athletic events while
attending school.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-55)
   SEMITRAILER. Every vehicle with or without motive power, other than a pole
trailer, designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a
motor vehicle and so constructed that some part of its weight and that of its
load rests upon or is carried by another vehicle.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-16)
   SIDEWALK. That portion of a street or highway between the curb lines, or the
lateral lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines intended for the
use of pedestrians.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-38)
   STOP. When required, a complete cessation from movement.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-52)
   STOP, STOPPING, or STANDING. When prohibited, any stopping or standing of a
vehicle, whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with
other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or
traffic control sign or signal.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-53)
   STREET or HIGHWAY; ALLEY.
      (1)   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of
every way publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the
public for purposes of vehicular travel.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-35)
      (2)   ALLEY. A street or highway intended to provide access to the rear
or side of lots or buildings in urban districts and not intended for the
purpose of through vehicular traffic.
   THROUGH STREET or THROUGH HIGHWAY. Every street or highway, or portion
thereof, at the entrances to which vehicular traffic from intersecting streets
or highways is required by law to stop before entering or crossing the same and
when stop signs are erected as provided in the Traffic Code codified within
this title.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-40)
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars, and
other conveyances either singly or together while using any street or highway
for purposes of travel.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-50)
   TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES. Any signs, signal marking, and device not
inconsistent with this Traffic Code placed or erected by authority of a public
body or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating, warning,
or guiding traffic.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-47)
   TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL. Any device, whether manually, electrically, or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and to
proceed.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-48)
   TRAILER. Every vehicle with or without motive power, other than a pole
trailer, designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a
motor vehicle and so constructed that no part of its weight rests upon the
towing vehicle.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-15)
   TRUCK. Every motor vehicle designed, used, or maintained primarily for the
transportation of property.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-12)
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a street or highway, except devices moved by human
power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks or wheelchairs.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-2)
   WHEELCHAIR. A motorized or nonmotorized wheeled device designed for, and
used by, a person with disabilities that is incapable of a speed in excess of
eight mph.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-65)
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
§ 70.002 AUTHORITY OF POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the officers of the Police Department to
enforce all street traffic laws of the municipality and all of the state
vehicle laws applicable to street traffic in the municipality.
   (B)   Officers of the Police Department are hereby authorized to direct all
traffic by voice, hand, or signal in conformance with traffic laws; provided
that in the event of a fire or other emergency or to expedite traffic or to
safeguard pedestrians, officers of the Police Department may direct traffic as
conditions may require notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws.
   (C)   Officers of the Fire Department, when at the scene of a fire, may
direct or assist police officers in directing traffic thereat or in the
immediate vicinity.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
§ 70.003 APPLICATION TO VEHICLES UPON STREETS AND HIGHWAYS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter relating to the operation of vehicles
refer exclusively to the operation of vehicles upon streets and highways,
except where a different place is specifically referred to in a given section.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter shall apply upon streets and highways
as defined in W. Va. Code 17C-1-35.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
§ 70.004 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE OFFICERS; FLEEING.
   (A)   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with a lawful order
or direction of any police officer or designated special officer invested by
law with authority to direct, control, or regulate traffic.
   (B)   No person shall operate a vehicle so as to willfully elude or flee a
police officer or designated special officer after receiving a visible or
audible signal from such an officer to bring his or her vehicle to a stop.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code 17C-2-3(c)
§ 70.005 APPLICATION TO GOVERNMENT VEHICLES; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter applicable to the drivers of vehicles
upon the streets or highways shall apply to the drivers of all vehicles that
are being operated on the streets and highways of the city.
   (B)   Unless specifically made applicable, the provisions of this title
shall not apply to persons, teams, motor vehicles, and other equipment while
actually engaged in work upon the surface of a street or highway, but shall
apply to such persons and vehicles when traveling to or from such work.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code 17C-2-4
§ 70.006 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call or when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the
law or when responding to, but not upon returning from, a fire alarm, may
exercise the privileges set forth in this section, but subject to the
conditions herein stated.
   (B)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
      (1)   Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of the Traffic Code;
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
      (3)   Exceed the speed limits so long as he or she does not endanger life
or property; and
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in
specified directions.
   (C)   The exemptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle shall
apply only when the driver of any such vehicle while in motion sounds audible
signal by bell, siren, or exhaust whistle as may be reasonably necessary, and
when the vehicle is equipped with at least one lighted flashing lamp as
authorized by §
71.097 which is visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of
500 feet to the front of such vehicle, except that an authorized emergency
vehicle operated as a police vehicle need not be equipped with or display a
warning light visible from in front of the vehicle.
   (D)   The foregoing provisions shall not relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons, nor shall such provisions protect the driver from the consequences of
his or her reckless disregard for the safety of others.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code 17C-2-5
§ 70.007 APPLICATION TO PERSONS RIDING ANIMALS OR DRIVING ANIMAL-DRAWN
VEHICLES.
   Every person riding an animal or driving any animal-drawn vehicle upon a
roadway shall be granted all of the rights and shall be subject to all of the
duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle by this title, except those
provisions of this title which by their very nature can have no application.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code 17C-2-6
§ 70.008 REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC LAWS.
   It shall be unlawful and, unless otherwise declared in this subchapter with
respect to particular offenses, it is a misdemeanor for any person to do any
act forbidden or fail to perform any act required in this title.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.009 COSTS OF COURT.
   All courts costs shall be paid by any driver convicted of a penalty under
this title.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
70.999
TRAFFIC SIGNS, SIGNALS, AND MARKINGS
§ 70.020 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with the
provisions of the Traffic Code, unless otherwise directed by a traffic or
police officer, subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle in this title.
   (B)   (1)   No provision of this title for which signs are required shall be
enforced against an alleged violator if at the time and place of the alleged
violation an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently legible
to be seen by an ordinarily observant person.
      (2)   Whenever a particular section does not state that signs are
required, such section shall be effective even though no signs are erected or
in place.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.021 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL INSTRUCTIONS AT STREET CONSTRUCTION.
   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the traffic control instructions of any
law enforcement officer or persons authorized by the Commissioner of Highways
or by proper local authorities to operate traffic control devices, act as
flagpersons, or operate authorized vehicles engaged in work at or near the site
of street or highway construction maintenance work for the purpose of
regulating, warning, or guiding traffic, subject to the exceptions granted the
driver of an authorized emergency vehicle in this title.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.022 TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL TERMS AND LIGHTS.
   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic control signals exhibiting the
words “go”, “caution”, or “stop”, or exhibiting different colored lights
successively one at a time, or with arrows, the following colors only shall be
used and such terms and lights shall indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles
and pedestrians as follows:
   (A)   Green alone or “go”:
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal, except when prohibited under §
72.02, may proceed straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at such
place prohibits either such turn. But vehicular traffic, including vehicles
turning right or left, shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles and to
pedestrians lawfully within the intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at the
time such signal is exhibited; and
      (2)   Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway within
any marked or unmarked crosswalk.
   (B)   Yellow alone or “caution” when showing following the green or “go”:
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal is thereby warned that the red
or “stop” signal will be exhibited immediately thereafter and such vehicular
traffic shall not enter or be crossing the intersection when the red or “stop”
signal is exhibited; and
      (2)   Pedestrians facing such signal are thereby advised that there is
insufficient time to cross the roadway, and any pedestrian then starting to
cross shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles.
   (C)   Red alone or “stop”:
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if none, then before
entering the intersection and shall remain standing until green or “go” is
shown alone, except as provided in divisions (C)(2) and (C)(3) below;
      (2)   A vehicle which is stopped in obedience to a red or “stop” signal
as close as practicable at the entrance to the crosswalk on the near side of
the intersection or, if none, then at the entrance to the intersection, may
cautiously make a right turn, but such vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to
pedestrians lawfully within a crosswalk and to other vehicular traffic
proceeding as directed by the signal at such intersection, except that the City
Council may, by ordinance, prohibit any such right turn against a red or “stop”
signal at any intersection, which ordinance shall be effective when a sign is
erected at such intersection giving notice thereof;
      (3)   A vehicle which is stopped in obedience to a red or “stop” signal
as close as practicable at the entrance to the crosswalk on the near side of
the intersection or, if none, then at the entrance to the intersection on a
one-way street which intersects another one-way street on which traffic moves
to the left, may cautiously make a left turn into the one-way street but such
vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within a crosswalk
and to other vehicular traffic proceeding as directed by the signal at such
intersection, except that City Council may, by ordinance, prohibit any such
left turn against a red or “stop” signal at any intersection, which ordinance
shall be effective when a sign is erected at such intersection giving notice
thereof; and
      (4)   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway unless he
or she can do so safely and without interfering with any vehicular traffic.
   (D)   Red with green arrow:
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing such signal may cautiously enter the
intersection only to make the movement indicated by such arrow, but shall yield
the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within a crosswalk and to other
traffic lawfully using the intersection; and
      (2)   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway unless he
or she an do so safely and without interfering with any vehicular traffic.
   (E)   In the event an official traffic control signal is erected and
maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of this
section shall be applicable, except as to those provisions which by their
nature can have no application. Any stop required shall be made at a sign or
marking on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made, but in the
absence of any such sign or marking the stop, shall be made at the signal.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code 17C-3-5
§ 70.023 PEDESTRIAN CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever special pedestrian control signals exhibiting the words “walk” or
“wait” or other similar language, signals, or sounds are in place, such signals
shall indicate as follows.
   (A)   Walk. Pedestrians facing such signal may proceed across the roadway in
the direction of the signal and shall be given the right-of-way by the drivers
of all vehicles.
   (B)   Wait. No pedestrian shall start to cross the roadway in the direction
of such signal, but any pedestrian who has partially completed his or her
crossing on the walk signal shall proceed to a sidewalk or safety island while
the wait signal is showing.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code 17C-3-6
§ 70.024 FLASHING SIGNALS.
   Whenever an illuminated flashing red or yellow signal is used in a traffic
sign or signal it shall require obedience by vehicular traffic as follows.
   (A)   Flashing red (stop signal). When a red lens is illuminated with rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at a limit line when marked, or, if
none, then before entering the intersection and the right to proceed shall be
subject to the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
   (B)   Flashing yellow (caution signal). When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past such signal only with caution.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code 17C-3-7
§ 70.025 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS AND SIGNALS, BIDING FROM VIEW, ADVERTISING.
   No local authority or person shall place, maintain, or display upon or in
view of any street or highway any unauthorized traffic control device or
traffic control signal, or any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device
which purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic
control device or railroad sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the
movement of traffic or which hides from view or interferes with the
effectiveness of any official traffic control device or any railroad sign or
signal, and no person shall place or maintain nor shall any public authority
permit upon any street or highway any traffic control device bearing thereon
any commercial advertising. This shall not be deemed to prohibit the erection
upon private property adjacent to a street or highway of signs giving useful
directional information and of a type that cannot be mistaken for official
signs. Every such prohibited device, signal, sign, or marking is hereby
declared to be a public nuisance and the Commissioner of Highways or other
authority having jurisdiction over the street or highway is hereby empowered to
remove the same or cause it to be removed without notice.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code 17C-3-8
§ 70.026 ALTERATION, INJURY, REMOVAL OF TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   No person shall without lawful authority attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down, or remove any official traffic control device or
any railroad sign or signal or any inscription, shield, or insignia thereon, or
any other part thereof.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code 17C-3-9
§ 70.027 TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS IN CONSTRUCTION ZONES.
   (A)   At each and every location where street or highway construction work
is to be conducted a sign shall be posted at least 1,000 feet from the
construction site, or as close to 1,000 feet from the construction site as is
practicable given the location of the site when workers are present, notifying
all motorists as to the speed limit and displaying the words “construction
work”.
   (B)   No person shall violate any posted speed restriction or traffic
restriction at such construction site referred to in division (A) above.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to preclude prosecution of
any operator of a motor vehicle who commits a violation of any other provision
of this title for such violation.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code 17C-3-4B
CRASHES
§ 70.040 IMMEDIATE REPORTS OF CRASHES.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle involved in an accident resulting in bodily
injury to, or the death of, any person, or total property damage to an apparent
extent of one-thousand dollars or more shall immediately, by the quickest means
of communication, whether oral or written, give notice of such accident to the
Police Department, or otherwise to the County Sheriff or nearest office of the
State Police.
   (B)   Any person who violates W. Va. Code 17C-4-1 shall be subject to
penalties consistent with those found in W. Va. 17C-4-1.
   (C)   For the purposes of this subchapter, the definitions found in W. Va.
Code 17C-4-1(e) shall be applicable unless the term(s) are otherwise defined in
this chapter.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.041 WHEN DRIVER UNABLE TO REPORT.
   Whenever the driver of a vehicle is physically incapable of making an
immediate report of an accident as required in §
70.040 and there was another occupant in the vehicle at the time of the
accident capable of making a report, such occupant shall make or cause to be
made such report not made by the driver.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
§ 70.042 GARAGES TO REPORT BULLET DAMAGE.
   The person in charge of any garage or repair shop to which is brought any
motor vehicle which shows evidence of having been struck by any bullet shall
report to the Police Department within 24 hours after such motor vehicle is
received, giving the engine number, registration number, and the name and
address of the owner or operator of such vehicle.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code 17C-4-12
SERIOUS TRAFFIC OFFENSES
§ 70.055 DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE.
   The city shall enforce driving under the influence situations in a manner
consistent with the applicable state laws.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
§ 70.051 RECKLESS DRIVING.
   No person shall drive any vehicle upon any street or highway, or upon any
residential street, or in any parking area, or upon the ways of any institution
of higher education, whether public or private or upon the property of the
Board of Education, or upon any property within the municipal park and public
recreation system, in willful or wanton disregard for the safety of persons or
property. The provisions of this section shall not apply to those areas which
have been temporarily closed for racing sport events or which may be set aside
by the municipality within the parks and recreation system for exclusive use by
motorcycles or other recreational vehicles.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code 17C-5-3(b)
§ 70.052 HAZARDOUS DRIVING.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle or motorcycle without
exercising reasonable and ordinary control over such vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle or motorcycle in a weaving or
zigzag course unless such irregular course is necessary for safe operation or
in compliance with law
   (C)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle or motorcycle without giving
his or her full time and attention to the operation of such vehicle.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.053 USE OF CELL PHONE PROHIBITED WHILE DRIVING.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (C) below, a person may not drive or
operate a motor vehicle on a public street or highway while:
      (1)   Texting; or
      (2)   Using a cell phone or other electronic communications device,
unless the use is accomplished by hands-free equipment.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   CELL PHONE. Cellular, analog, wireless or digital telephone.
      (2)   DRIVING or OPERATING A MOTOR VEHICLE. Operating a motor vehicle,
with the motor running, including while temporarily stationary because of
traffic, a traffic control device, or other momentary delays, but does not
include operating a motor vehicle after the driver has moved the vehicle to the
side of, or off, a highway and halted in a location where the vehicle can
safely remain stationary.
      (3)   ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION DEVICE. A cell telephone, personal digital
assistant, electronic device with mobile data access, laptop computer, pager,
broadband personal communication device, two-way messaging device, electronic
game, or portable computing device. For the purposes of this section, an
ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION DEVICE does not include:
         (a)   Voice radios, mobile radios, land mobile radios, commercial
mobile radios, or two way radios with the capability to transmit and receive
voice transmissions utilizing a push-to-talk or press-to-transmit function; or
         (b)   Other voice radios used by a law-enforcement officer, an
emergency services provider, an employee or agent of public safety
organizations, first responders, Amateur Radio Operators (HAM) licensed by the
Federal Communications Commission and school bus operators.
      (4)   ENGAGING IN A CALL. When a person talks into or listens on an
electronic communication device, but shall not include when a person dials or
enters a phone number on a pushpad or screen to initiate the call.
      (5)   HANDS-FREE ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION DEVICE. An electronic
communication device that has an internal feature or function, or that is
equipped with an attachment or addition, whether or not permanently part of
such electronic communication device, by which a user engages in a call without
the use of either hand or both hands.
      (6)   HANDS-FREE EQUIPMENT. The internal feature or function of a
handsfree electronic communication device or the attachment or addition to a
hands-free electronic communication device by which a user may engage in a call
or text without the use of either hand or both hands.
      (7)   TEXTING.
         (a)   Manually entering alphanumeric text into, or reading text from,
an electronic communication device, and includes, but is not limited to, short
message service, e-mailing, instant messaging, a command or request to access a
world wide web page, or engaging in any other form of electronic text retrieval
or entry, for present or future communication.
         (b)   For purposes of this section, TEXTING does not include the
following actions:
            1.   Reading, selecting, or entering a telephone number, an
extension number, or voicemail retrieval codes and commands into an electronic
device by the pressing the device in order to initiate or receive a phone call
or using voice commands to initiate or receive a telephone call;
            2.   Inputting, selecting, or reading information on a global
positioning system or navigation system; or
            3.   Using a device capable of performing multiple functions,
including fleet management systems, dispatching devices, smart phones, citizens
band radios or music players, for a purpose that is not otherwise prohibited in
this section.
      (8)   USING A CELL PHONE OR OTHER ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION DEVICE.
Holding in a person’s hand or hands an electronic communication device while:
         (a)   Viewing or transmitting images or data;
         (b)   Playing games;
         (c)   Composing, sending, reading, viewing, accessing, browsing,
transmitting, saving or retrieving e-mail, text messages or other electronic
data; or
         (d)   Engaging in a call.
   (C)   Division (A) above shall not apply to:
      (1)   A law-enforcement officer, a firefighter, an emergency medical
technician, a paramedic or the operator of an authorized emergency vehicle in
the performance of their official duties;
      (2)   A person using an electronic communication device to report to
appropriate authorities a fire, a traffic accident, a serious road hazard, or a
medical or hazardous materials emergencies; or
      (3)   The activation or deactivation of hands-free equipment or a
function of hands-free equipment.
   (D)   This section does not supersede the provisions of § 3A, Art. 2, Ch.
17B of this code or any more restrictive provisions for drivers of commercial
motor vehicles prescribed by the provisions of Ch. 17E of this code or federal
law or rule.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this code to the contrary,
points may not be entered on any driver’s record maintained by the Division of
Motor Vehicles as a result of a violation of this section, except for the third
and subsequent convictions of the offense, for which three points shall be
entered on any driver’s record maintained by the Division of Motor Vehicles.
   (F)   (1)   Driving or operating a motor vehicle on a public street or
highway while texting shall be enforced as a primary offense.
      (2)   Driving or operating a motor vehicle on a public street or highway
while using a cell phone or other electronic communication device without
hands-free equipment shall be enforced as a secondary offense until July 1,
2013, when it shall be enforced as a primary offense for purposes of citation.
   (G)   (1)   Within 90 days of the effective date of this section, the
Department of Transportation shall cause to be erected signs upon any highway
entering the state of West Virginia on which a “Welcome to West Virginia” sign
is posted, and any other highway where the Division of Highways deems
appropriate.
      (2)   The signs shall be posted at a distance of not more than one mile
from each border crossing, each sign to bear an inscription clearly
communicating to motorists entering the state that texting, or the use of a
wireless communication device without hands-free equipment, is illegal within
the state.
   (H)   Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to authorize
seizure of a cell phone or electronic device by any law enforcement agency.
   (I)   No policy providing liability coverage for personal lines insurance
shall contain a provision which may be used to deny coverage or exclude payment
of any legal damages recoverable by law for injuries proximately caused by a
violation of this section, as long as such amounts are within the coverage
limits of the insured.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
70.999
LICENSE, REGISTRATION, AND INSPECTION
§ 70.075 REGISTRATION, CERTIFICATE OF TITLE REQUIRED.
   No person shall drive or move and no owner shall knowingly permit to be
driven or moved upon any street or highway any vehicle of a type required to be
registered under W.Va. Code Ch. 17A which is not registered or for which a
certificate of title has not been issued or applied for or for which the
appropriate fee has not been paid when and as required, except as otherwise
permitted by the provisions therein; provided, that in the event of the sale of
a vehicle by a person other than a registered dealer, the person purchasing the
same may, for a period of not more than ten days, operate such vehicle under
the registration of its previous owner and display the registration thereof;
provided further, that he or she shall have and display on the demand of any
proper officer the consent in writing of such previous owner so to use such
registration
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.076 REGISTRATION CARD.
   Every owner upon receipt of a registration card shall write his or her
signature thereon with pen and ink in the space provided. Every such
registration card shall at all times be carried in the vehicle to which it
refers or shall be carried by the person driving or in control of such vehicle
who shall display the same upon demand of a police officer or any officer or
employee of the Department of Motor Vehicles.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
§ 70.077 DISPLAY OF REGISTRATION PLATES.
   (A)   Registration plates issued for vehicles required to be registered
shall be attached to the rear thereof except that on truck tractors and road
tractors designed and constructed to pull trailers or semi-trailers, the
registration plate shall be mounted to the front.
   (B)   Every registration plate shall at all times be securely fastened in a
horizontal position to the vehicle for which it is issued so as to prevent the
plate from swinging and at a height of not less than 12 inches from the ground,
measuring from the bottom of such plate, in a place and position to be clearly
visible and shall be maintained free from foreign materials and in a condition
to be clearly legible.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (B) above, an owner of a
motor vehicle with a Class G registration as defined in W. Va. Code 17A-10-
1 may choose to:
      (1)   Display a standard, Class G registration plate in a horizontal
position; or
      (2)   Display a specially designed Class G registration plate in a
vertical position.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.078 OPERATION OF VEHICLE WITHOUT EVIDENCE OF REGISTRATION; USE OF
TEMPORARY FACSIMILE.
   (A)   No person shall operate or park, nor shall an owner knowingly permit
to be operated or parked upon any street or highway any vehicle required to be
registered unless there is attached thereto and displayed thereon or is in the
possession of the operator when and as required by this subchapter, a valid
registration card and registration plate or plates issued therefor by the
Department of Motor Vehicles for the current registration year except as
otherwise expressly permitted in W. Va. Code Chapter 17A, or its amendments.
   (B)   In the event that the registration plate or plates originally issued
are lost, destroyed, or stolen, a temporary facsimile of the plate or plates,
showing the number of the same, may be attached to the vehicle by the owner for
a period of not more than 15 days, or until a new plate or plates are issued by
the Department of Motor Vehicles whichever is earlier; provided, that no such
facsimile shall be used and no such vehicle shall be driven upon the streets or
highways of the municipality until the owner has notified in writing the State
Police of the loss of such registration plate or plates.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.079 IMPROPER USE OF REGISTRATION CARD, PLATE OR PERMIT.
   (A)   No person shall lend to another any certificate of title, registration
card, registration plate, special plate, or permit issued to him or her if the
person desiring to borrow the same would not be entitled to the use thereof,
nor shall any person knowingly permit the use of any of the same by one not
entitled thereto, nor shall any person display upon a vehicle any registration
card, registration plates, or permit not issued for such vehicle or not
otherwise lawfully used thereon under this title.
   (B)   Any violation of this section is a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.080 DRIVER OR MOTORCYCLE LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person, except those hereinafter expressly exempted, shall drive
any motor vehicle upon a street or highway in the municipality or upon any
subdivision street, as used in W. Va. Code Ch. 8, Art. 24, when the use of such
subdivision street is generally used by the public unless the person has a
valid driver’s license under the provisions of the West Virginia Code for the
type or class of vehicle being driven.
   (B)   Any person licensed to operate a motor vehicle as provided in the West
Virginia Code may exercise the privilege thereby granted as provided in the
West Virginia Code and, except as otherwise provided by law, shall not be
required to obtain any other license to exercise such privilege by any county,
municipality, or local board or body having authority to adopt local police
regulations.
   (C)   No person, except those hereinafter expressly exempted, shall drive
any motorcycle upon a street or highway in the municipality or upon any
subdivision street, as used in W. Va. Code Ch. 8, Art. 24, when the use of such
subdivision street is generally used by the public unless the person has a
valid motorcycle license or a valid license which has been endorsed under West
Virginia Code 17B-2-7b for motorcycle operation or has a valid motorcycle
instruction permit.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.081 PERSONS EXEMPT FROM LICENSE.
   The following persons are exempt from the license required under §
70.080:
   (A)   Any person while operating a motor vehicle in the armed services of
the United States while in the performance of his or her official duties;
   (B)   A nonresident who is at least 16 years of age and who has in his or
her immediate possession a valid driver’s license issued to the person in the
person’s home state or country, unless the State of West Virginia determines
the person’s home state or country does not extend the same privileges to a
resident of the state, may operate a motor vehicle in the state only as a
noncommercial driver for a period not to exceed 90 days in any one calendar
year;
   (C)   A nonresident who is at least 16 years of age, who has in the person’s
immediate possession a valid driver’s license issued to the person in the
person’s home state or country and who is employed in this state, or owns,
maintains, or operates a place or places of business in this state, or engages
in any trade, profession, or occupation in this state, in addition to the
driving privileges extended under division (B) above, unless the Commissioner
determines the person’s home state or country does not extend the same
privileges to a resident of this state, may operate a motor vehicle in this
state only as a noncommercial driver in traveling to and from the person’s
place or places of employment, place, or places of business, or place or places
at which the person engages in the trade, profession, or occupation and in the
discharge of the duties of the person’s employment, business, trade,
profession, or occupation if the duties are such that, if performed by a
resident of the State of West Virginia over the age of 18 years of age, the
resident would not be required under the provisions of West Virginia Code Ch.
17 to obtain a Class A, B, C, or D driver’s license. However, this section
shall not exempt any person who is required to obtain a West Virginia driver’s
license in accordance with the provisions of W. Va. Code 17B-2-1a;
   (D)   A nonresident who is at least eighteen years of age and who has in his
or her immediate possession a valid commercial driver’s license issued to the
person in his or her home state or country and which meets the requirements of
the Federal Commercial Motor Vehicle Act of 1986, Title XI of Pub. L. No. 99-
570 and unless the Commissioner determines the person’s home state or country
does not extend the same privilege to a resident of this state may operate a
motor vehicle in the state either as a commercial driver subject to the age
limits applicable to commercial driver in the state, or as a noncommercial
driver subject to the limitations imposed on nonresident drivers in divisions
(B) and (C) above; and
   (E)   (1)   Any person who is a student, properly enrolled and registered in
an accredited school, college, or university in this state, who is at least 16
years of age and who has in his or her immediate possession a valid driver’s
license issued to the person in the person’s home state, notwithstanding the
limitations of divisions (B) and (C) above may operate motor vehicle in the
state only as noncommercial driver; provided, that the state of which the
person is a resident shall extend the same privileges to residents of the
state.
      (2)   This exemption shall be canceled immediately when the student is
graduated from school, college, or university or is expelled or ceases to be a
student.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code 17B-2-2
§ 70.082 LICENSE TO BE CARRIED AND EXHIBITED ON DEMAND.
   Every licensee shall have his or her driver’s license in such person’s
immediate possession at all times when operating a motor vehicle and shall
display the same, upon demand of a magistrate, municipal judge, circuit court
judge, peace officer, police officer, or an employee of the Division of Motor
Vehicles; provided, no person charged with violating this section shall be
convicted if such person produces, in court or at the office of the arresting
officer, a driver’s license issued to such person and valid at the time of such
person’s arrest.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.083 CERTAIN ACTS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall commit any one of the following acts:
   (A)   Display or cause or permit to be displayed or have in his or her
possession any fictitious or fraudulently altered driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or nonoperator’s identification;
   (B)   Lend his or her driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
nonoperator’s identification to any other person or knowingly permit the use
thereof by another;
   (C)   Display or represent as one’s own any driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or nonoperator’s identification not issued to him or her;
   (D)   Use a false or fictitious name in any application for a driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or nonoperator’s identification or knowingly make a
false statement or knowingly conceal a material fact or otherwise commit a
fraud in any such application;
   (E)   Permit any unlawful use of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or nonoperator’s identification issued to him or her; or
   (F)   Do any act forbidden or fail to perform any act required by this
Traffic Code or W. Va. Code Ch. 17.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.084 DRIVING UNDER SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle on any public street or highway of the
municipality at a time when his or her privilege so to do has been lawfully
suspended or revoked.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code 17B-4-3
§ 70.085 OWNER OR OPERATOR ALLOWING ANOTHER TO DRIVE.
   No person shall authorize or knowingly permit a motor vehicle owned by him
or her or under his or her control to be driven upon any street or highway by
any person who is not authorized hereunder or in violation of any of the
provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.086 CERTIFICATED OF INSPECTION AND APPROVAL (MVI).
   It is a misdemeanor for any owner or operator, or both owner and operator,
of any vehicle required to be inspected under W. Va. Code 17C-16-4(a), or its
amendments, to operate or permit to be operated such vehicle without having
displayed thereon a current and valid certificate of inspection and approval or
fail to produce same upon demand of any authorized person as designated under
said section; provided, a dealer licensed to sell new vehicles under the
provision of W. Va. Code 17A-6 or its amendments, shall not be required to
display a certificate of inspection and approval upon any new vehicle if the
vehicle is driven for an operational purpose including all activities
associated with dealer preparation for sale of a motor vehicle belonging to
such dealer when such vehicle has not been titled or delivered to a purchaser,
and when such car is not to be used in the demonstrator fleet or otherwise
routinely driven on the highways or roads of the state.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no other
penalty is provided, including §§
70.020 through
70.022, shall be fined not more than $100; upon a second conviction within one
year thereafter, shall be fined not more than $200; and upon a third or
subsequent conviction, shall be fined not more than $500; or other such amounts
deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
70.020 is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined
not more than $100; upon a second conviction within one year thereafter, shall
be fined not more than $200; and upon a third or subsequent conviction, shall
be fined not more than $500, or other amounts deemed appropriate by the
Municipal Court.
   (C)   (1)   Any person who exceeds any posted speed restriction or traffic
restriction at a construction site referred to in §
70.027 by less than 15 mph shall be fined not more than $200, or other amount
deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court.
      (2)   Any person who exceeds any posted speed restriction or traffic
restriction at a construction site referred to in §
70.027 by 15 mph or more shall be fined not more than $300, or other amount
deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court.
   (D) Every person convicted of reckless driving, as described in §
70.051, may be punished by a fine of not less than $25, nor more than $500; and
on a second or subsequent conviction may be punished by a fine of not less than
$50, nor more than $1,000; or other amounts deemed appropriate by the Municipal
Court. Every person convicted of reckless driving may be subject to confinement
or jail penalties consistent with said penalties found in W. Va. Code 17-5-3.
   (E)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
70.053(a) is guilty of a traffic offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall
for a first offense be fined $100; for a second offense be fined $200; and for
a third or subsequent offense be fined $300; or other amounts deemed
appropriate by the Municipal Court. No court costs or other fees shall be
assessed for a violation of §
70.053(a).
   (F)   Any person violating the provisions of this section is guilty of a
violation of §
70.082 and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500, or
other amount deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court; provided, that no
person charged with violating §
70.082 shall be convicted if such person produces in court or at the office of
the arresting office a driver’s license issues to such person and valid at the
time of such person’s violation.
   (G)   Any person who drives a motor vehicle on any public street or highway
of or in the city at a time when his or her privilege to do so has been
lawfully suspended or revoked by the state or any other jurisdiction, as
described in §
70.084, is, for the first offense, guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined not less than $100, nor more than $500; for the second
offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined not less than $100, nor more than $500; for the third or any
subsequent offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be confined in jail for a period of not less than 30 days nor
more than 90 days and shall be fined not less than $150, nor more than $500; or
other amounts deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court.
   (H)   Unless another penalty is by the laws of this state provided, every
person convicted of a misdemeanor for operating a vehicle without having
displayed thereon a current and valid certificate of inspection and approval or
for failure to produce such certificate upon demand of an authorized person, as
described in §
70.086, shall be punished by a fine of not more than $100, or other amount
deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court; provided, any person who obtains an
inspection and a current and valid certificate of inspection and who, within
five days of the issuance of a citation for a violation of the provisions of §
70.086, provides a receipt of inspection to and makes the vehicle so operated
available for examination by a court of competent jurisdiction, shall not be
guilty of a violation of the provisions of §
70.086; provided, however, that the misdemeanor penalty shall be imposed if the
certificate of inspection has not been valid for a period exceeding three
months prior to the date of the issuance of a citation.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
CHAPTER 71: OPERATION OF VEHICLES
Section
Speeding
   
71.001   Maximum speed limits
   
71.002   Slow speed
   
71.003   Special speed limitations
   
71.004   Racing on streets and highways prohibited
Driving on Right Side of Roadway, Overtaking, and Passing
   
71.015   Driving upon right side of roadway; exceptions
   
71.016   Passing to right when proceeding in opposite directions
   
71.017   Overtaking, passing to left; driver’s duties
   
71.018   Overtaking and passing upon right
   
71.019   Overtaking, passing to left of center
   
71.020   Additional restrictions on driving upon left side of roadway
   
71.021   Hazardous or no passing zones
   
71.022   One-way roadways and rotary traffic islands
   
71.023   Driving in marked lanes or continuous lines of traffic
   
71.024   Following too closely
   
71.025   Driving upon divided roadways
   
71.026   Entering and exiting controlled-access highway
Turning and Starting and Signals on Stopping and Turning
   
71.040   Conformity with provisions required
   
71.041   Right turns
   
71.042   Left turns on two-way roadways
   
71.043   Left turns on other than two-way roadways
   
71.044   Specified turns at intersections
   
71.045   U turns restricted
   
71.046   Signals before changing course; turning or stopping
   
71.047   Signals to be given by hand and arm or signal device
   
71.048   Hand and arm signals
Right-of-Way
   
71.060   Right-of-way at intersections
   
71.061   Right-of-way when turning left
   
71.062   Right-of-way at through street or highway or stop intersections
   
71.063   Driving onto roadway from private road or driveway; duty to yield
   
71.064   Right-of-way of emergency vehicle
   
71.065   Turning into private driveway, alley, or building
Equipment
   
71.080   Driving unsafe vehicles; application; farm and road equipment
exceptions
   
71.081   When lighted lights required
   
71.082   Measurement of distances and heights
   
71.083   Headlights on motor vehicles and motorcycles
   
71.084   Tail light; illumination of rear license plate
   
71.085   Red light or red flag on extended loads
   
71.086   Lights on parked or stopped vehicles
   
71.087   Lights on slow-moving vehicles
   
71.088   Spotlights and auxiliary lights
   
71.089   Signal lamps and signal devices
   
71.090   Cowl, fender, and back-up lights; flashing hazard lights
   
71.091   Multiple-beam road-lighting equipment requirements
   
71.092   Use of headlight beams
   
71.093   Single-beam road lighting equipment
   
71.094   Lights on motorcycles, motor-driven cycles, and mopeds
   
71.095   Alternate road-lighting equipment
   
71.096   Number of driving lights required or permitted
   
71.097   Special restrictions on lights
   
71.098   Motor vehicle or motorcycle brakes
   
71.099   Inspection of brakes on motorcycles, motor-driven cycles, and mopeds
   
71.100   Horn, siren, and theft alarm signal
   
71.101   Muffler; muffler cutout; excessive smoke, gas, or noise
   
71.102   Rear-view mirror
   
71.103   Windshield to be unobstructed; windshield wiper
   
71.104   Tire equipment restrictions
   
71.105   Safety glass in motor vehicles
   
71.106   Vehicles transporting explosives
   
71.107   Television receiver in driver’s view prohibited
   
71.108   Safety equipment for motorcyclists, motorcycles, motor-driven cycles,
and mopeds
   
71.109   Certification labels on mopeds
   
71.110   Child passenger safety devices required; child safety seats and
booster seats
   
71.111   Alteration of suspension system
   
71.112   Sun screening devices
   
71.113   Operation of vehicles with safety belts
   
71.114   Use of engine compression brakes prohibited
Size, Weight, and Load
   
71.125   Oversize or overweight vehicles
   
71.126   Projecting loads on passenger vehicles
   
71.127   Maximum width, height, and length
   
71.128   Loads dropping or leaking
   
71.129   Towing requirements
Miscellaneous Rules
   
71.140   Unattended motor vehicle
   
71.141   Backing a vehicle
   
71.142   Driver’s view and control to be unobstructed by load or persons
   
71.143   Passengers in seat with operator
   
71.144   Passengers on running board
   
71.145   Following authorized emergency vehicles
   
71.146   Approaching authorized emergency vehicles
   
71.147   Driving over fire hose
   
71.148   Opening door of vehicle on traffic side
   
71.149   Boarding or alighting from vehicle
   
71.150   Unlawful riding
   
71.151   Squealing tires, cracking exhaust noises
   
71.152   Taking, injuring, or tampering with vehicle
   
71.153   Driving upon sidewalk, street lawn, or curb
   
71.154   Shortcutting; avoiding traffic control devices
   
71.155   Coasting prohibited
   
71.156   Driving through safety zone
   
71.157   Driving upon street posted as closed for repair
   
71.158   Obstruction of traffic
   
71.159   Vehicle security
   
71.160   Vehicle regulations on park property
   
71.161   Motorized scooters
Pedestrians
   
71.175   Compliance with traffic regulations
   
71.176   Right-of-way in crosswalk
   
71.177   Crossing roadway outside of crosswalk
   
71.178   Drivers to exercise due care
   
71.179   Moving upon right half of crosswalk
   
71.180   Walking along streets and highways; soliciting rides
   
71.181   Persons working on streets and highways
   
71.182   Protection of blind pedestrians
   
71.183   Electric personal assistive mobility device
Bicycles
   
71.195   Compliance; application to bicycles
   
71.196   Obedience to traffic rules; exceptions
   
71.197   Riding upon seats; number of persons
   
71.198   Attaching bicycle or sled to vehicle
   
71.199   Riding on roadways and bicycle paths
   
71.200   Carrying articles
   
71.201   Lights and reflector on bicycle; signal device; brakes
   
71.202   Reckless operation; control, course, and speed
   
71.203   Parental duties
   
71.204   Riding on sidewalk prohibited
   
71.205   Bicycle helmets for children
All-Terrain Vehicles
   
71.220   Definitions
   
71.221   Acts prohibited by operators
   
71.222   Safety awareness courses
   
71.223   Local government authority to regulate
   
71.224   ATV rental dealers required to provide safety equipment
   
71.225   Private property exemption
   
71.226   Exemption for farm, commercial use; current regulations
   
71.227   Applicability of rules to operation
 
   
71.999   Penalty
SPEEDING
§ 71.001 MAXIMUM SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   No person may drive a vehicle on a street or highway at a speed
greater than is reasonable and prudent under the existing conditions and the
actual and potential hazards. In every event speed shall be so controlled as
may be necessary to avoid colliding with any person, vehicle, or other
conveyance on or entering the streets and highways in compliance with legal
requirements and the duty of all persons to use due care.
   (B)   (1)   Where no special hazard exists that requires lower speed for
compliance with division (A) above the speed of any vehicle not in excess of
the limits specified in this section or established as hereinafter authorized
is lawful, but any speed in excess of the limits specified below in this
section or established as hereinafter authorized is unlawful. The following
speed limits apply:
         (a)   In a school zone during school recess or while children are
going to or leaving school during opening or closing hours: 15 mph. A SCHOOL
ZONE is all school property including school grounds and any street or highway
abutting such school grounds and extending 125 feet along such street or
highway from the school grounds. Such speed restriction does not apply to
vehicles traveling on a controlled-access highway which is separated from the
school or school grounds by a fence or barrier approved by the Division of
Highways;
         (b)   In any business or residence district unless otherwise posted:
25 mph; and
         (c)   On open country highways, except as otherwise provided by this
title: 55 mph.
      (2)   The speeds set forth in this section may be altered as authorized
in W. Va. Code Ch. 17C-6 or as said West Virginia Code section(s) may be
amended from time to time.
   (C)   The driver of every vehicle shall, consistent with the requirements of
division (A) above, drive at an appropriate reduced speed when approaching and
crossing an intersection or railway grade crossing, when approaching and going
around a curve, when approaching a hill crest, when traveling upon any narrow
or winding roadway and when special hazard exists with respect to pedestrians
or other traffic or by reason of weather or highway conditions.
   (D)   The speed limit on controlled-access highways and interstate highways,
where no special hazard exists that requires a lower speed, shall be not less
than 55 mph and the speed limits specified in division (B) above do not apply.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code 17C-6-1
§ 71.002 SLOW SPEED.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle at such a slow speed as to impede the
normal and reasonable movement of traffic except when reduced speed is
necessary for safe operation or in compliance with law.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code 17C-6-3a(a)
§ 71.003 SPECIAL SPEED LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Subject to all other speed restrictions of this title no person shall
drive a vehicle not designed for carrying passengers and equipped with
pneumatic tires at a speed in excess of:
      (1)   In any business district, unless otherwise posted: 25 mph;
      (2)   In any residence district, unless otherwise posted: 25 mph; and
      (3)   (a)   Forty mph on open country highway, unless otherwise posted:
40 mph.
         (b)   Trucks licensed at 8,000 pounds gross vehicle weight or less
shall be permitted the same speed as passenger cars, unless otherwise posted.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall drive any vehicle equipped with other than
pneumatic tires at a speed greater than a maximum of ten mph.
      (2)   No person shall drive a vehicle over any bridge or other elevated
structure constituting a part of a street or highway at a speed which is
greater than the maximum speed which can be maintained with safety to such
bridge or structure, when such structure is so signposted.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Special speed limitations; penalty, see W. Va. Code 17C-6-4 and 17C-6-5
§ 71.004 RACING ON STREETS AND HIGHWAYS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall engage in, aid, or abet by serving as lookout or timer
or in any other capacity whatever, any speed race, as defined herein, on any
public street or highway in the municipality.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, SPEED RACE means:
      (1)   The operation of a motor vehicle in speed acceleration competition
with another motor vehicle or motor vehicles;
      (2)   The operation of a motor vehicle in speed acceleration competition
against time; or
      (3)   The operation of a motor vehicle in speed competition with another
motor vehicle or motor vehicles where the speed exceeds the lawful speed limit.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
Cross-reference:
   Speed limits, see
Ch. 73, Schd. II
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code 17C-6-8(a)
DRIVING ON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY, OVERTAKING, AND PASSING
§ 71.015 DRIVING UPON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Upon all roadways of sufficient width a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway, except as follows:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing such movement;
      (2)   When the right half of a roadway is closed to traffic while under
construction or repair;
      (3)   Upon a roadway divided into three marked lanes for traffic under
the rules applicable thereon; or
      (4)   Upon a roadway designated and signposted for one-way traffic.
   (B)   Upon all roadways any vehicle proceeding at less than the normal speed
of traffic at the time and place and under the conditions then existing shall
be driven in the right-hand lane then available for traffic, or as close as
practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway, except when
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction or when
preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private road or
driveway.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
§ 71.016 PASSING TO RIGHT WHEN PROCEEDING IN OPPOSITE DIRECTIONS.
   Drivers of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass each other
to the right, and upon roadways having width for not more than one line of
traffic in each direction each driver shall give to the other at least one-half
of the main-traveled portion of the roadway as nearly as possible.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code 17C-7-2
§ 71.017 OVERTAKING, PASSING TO LEFT; DRIVER’S DUTIES.
   The following rules shall govern the overtaking and passing of vehicles
proceeding in the same direction, subject to these limitations, exceptions, and
special rules hereinafter stated.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction shall give an audible signal and pass to the left thereof at a
safe distance and shall not again drive to the right side of the roadway until
safely clear of the overtaken vehicle.
   (B)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle on audible signal and shall not increase the speed of his or
her vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.018 OVERTAKING AND PASSING UPON RIGHT.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass upon the right of
another vehicle only under the following conditions:
      (1)   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left turn;
      (2)   Upon a street or highway with unobstructed pavement not occupied by
parked vehicles of sufficient width for two or more lines of moving vehicles in
each direction; or
      (3)   Upon a one-way street, or upon any roadway on which traffic is
restricted to one direction of movement, where the roadway is free from
obstructions and of sufficient width for two or more lines of moving vehicles.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle upon the
right only under conditions permitting such movement in safety. In no event
shall such movement be made by driving off the pavement or main-traveled
portion of the roadway.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
§ 71.019 OVERTAKING, PASSING TO LEFT OF CENTER.
   No vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the center of the roadway in
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction unless
such left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming traffic for a
sufficient distance ahead to permit such overtaking and passing to be
completely made without interfering with the safe operation of any vehicle
approaching from the opposite direction or any vehicle overtaken. In every
event the overtaking vehicle must return to the right-hand side of the roadway
before coming within 100 feet of any vehicle approaching from the opposite
direction.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.020 ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS ON DRIVING UPON LEFT SIDE OF ROADWAY.
   (A)   No vehicle shall at any time be driven to the left side of the roadway
under the following conditions:
      (1)   When approaching the crest of a grade or upon a curve in the street
or highway where the driver’s view is obstructed within such distance as to
create a hazard in the event another vehicle might approach from the opposite
direction;
      (2)   When approaching within 100 feet of or traversing any intersection
or railroad grade crossing; or
      (3)   When the view is obstructed upon approaching within 100 feet of any
bridge, viaduct, or tunnel.
   (B)   The foregoing limitations shall not apply upon a one-way roadway.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.021 HAZARDOUS OR NO PASSING ZONES.
   When signs or markings are in place and clearly visible to an ordinarily
observant person indicating that overtaking and passing or driving to the left
of the roadway would be especially hazardous, every driver of a vehicle shall
obey the directions thereof.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.022 ONE-WAY ROADWAYS AND ROTARY TRAFFIC ISLANDS.
   (A)   Upon a roadway designated and signposted for one-way traffic, a
vehicle shall be driven only in the direction designated.
   (B)   A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island shall be driven only
to the right of such island.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.023 DRIVING IN MARKED LANES OR CONTINUOUS LINES OF TRAFFIC.
   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two or more clearly marked lanes
for traffic, the following rules in addition to all others consistent herewith
shall apply.
   (A)   A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practicable entirely within a
single lane and shall not be moved from such lane until the driver has first
ascertained that such movement can be made with safety.
   (B)   Upon a roadway which is divided into three lanes, a vehicle shall not
be driven in the center lane which is clearly marked as a left turn lane except
in preparation for a left turn or where such center lane is at the time
allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the direction the vehicle is
proceeding and is signposted to give notice of such allocation.
   (C)   Official signs may be erected directing slow-moving traffic to use a
designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by traffic moving in a
particular direction regardless of the center of the roadway and drivers of
vehicles shall obey the directions of every such sign.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.024 FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY.
   (A)   The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more
closely than is reasonable and prudent having due regard for the speed of such
vehicles and the traffic upon and the condition of the street or highway.
   (B)   (1)   No operator of any motor truck, registered for a gross weight of
more than 8,000 pounds, bus, special mobile equipment, or any motor vehicle
drawing another vehicle operating upon any roadway outside of a business or
residence district, shall follow within 200 feet of another motor truck, bus,
special mobile equipment, or any motor vehicle drawing another vehicle.
      (2)   This provision in division (B)(1) above shall not be construed to:
         (a)   Prevent overtaking and passing;
         (b)   Apply upon any lane specially designated for the use of motor
trucks or combinations of vehicles, or within any section of a roadway posted
or marked as a “no-passing zone”;
         (c)   Apply to any convoy of vehicles of the military service of the
United States or of this state; and
         (d)   Apply to funeral processions.
   (C)   (1)   Motor vehicles being driven upon any roadway outside of a
business or residence district in a caravan or motorcade whether or not towing
other vehicles shall be so operated as to allow sufficient space between each
such vehicle or combination of vehicles so as to enable any other vehicle to
enter and occupy such space without danger.
      (2)   This provision shall not apply to:
         (a)   Funeral processions; or
         (b)   Any convoy of vehicles of the military service of the United
States or of the state.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.025 DRIVING UPON DIVIDED ROADWAYS.
   Whenever any street or highway has been divided into two roadways by leaving
an intervening space or by a physical barrier or clearly indicated dividing
section so constructed as to impede vehicular traffic, every vehicle shall be
driven only upon the right-hand roadway, and no vehicle shall be driven over,
across, or within any such dividing space, barrier, or section, except through
an opening in such physical barrier or dividing section or space or at a
crossover or intersection established by public authority.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.026 ENTERING AND EXITING CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY.
   No person shall drive a vehicle onto or from any control led-access roadway
except at such entrances and exits as are established by public authority.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
TURNING AND STARTING AND SIGNALS ON STOPPING AND TURNING
§ 71.040 CONFORMITY WITH PROVISIONS REQUIRED.
   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as
provided in this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
§ 71.041 RIGHT TURNS.
   Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as close
as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.042 LEFT TURNS ON TWO-WAY ROADWAYS.
   At any intersection where traffic is permitted to move in both directions on
each roadway entering the intersection, an approach for a left turn shall be
made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the centerline
thereof and by passing to the right of such centerline where it enters the
intersection and after entering the intersection the left turn shall be made so
as to leave the intersection to the right of the centerline of the roadway
being entered. Whenever practicable, the left turn shall be made in that
portion of the intersection to the left of the center of the intersection.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.043 LEFT TURNS ON OTHER THAN TWO-WAY ROADWAYS.
   At any intersection where traffic is restricted to one direction on one or
more of the roadways, the driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at any
such intersection shall approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand lane
lawfully available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of such vehicle
and after entering the intersection the left turn shall be made so as to leave
the intersection, as nearly as practicable, in the left-hand lane lawfully
available to traffic moving in such direction upon the roadway being entered.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.044 SPECIFIED TURNS AT INTERSECTIONS.
   The City Council or other designated traffic authority may cause markers,
buttons, or signs to be placed within or adjacent to intersections, and thereby
require and direct that a different course from that specified in this chapter
be traveled by vehicles turning at an intersection, and when markers, buttons,
or signs are so placed no driver of a vehicle shall turn a vehicle at an
intersection other than as directed and required by such markers, buttons, or
signs.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
§ 71.045 U TURNS RESTRICTED.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction
upon any curve, or upon the approach to, or near the crest of, a grade, where
such vehicle cannot be seen by the driver of any other vehicle approaching from
either direction within 500 feet.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction
within an intersection, or upon any street in a business district, or upon a
freeway, expressway, or controlled-access highway, or where authorized signs
are erected to prohibit such movement, or at any other location, unless such
movement can be made with reasonable safety to other users of the street and
without interfering with the safe operation of any traffic that may be affected
by such movement.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.046 SIGNALS BEFORE CHANGING COURSE; TURNING OR STOPPING.
   (A)   No person shall turn a vehicle at an intersection unless the vehicle
is in proper position upon the roadway as required in §§
71.041 through
71.044 or turn a vehicle to enter a private road or driveway or otherwise turn
a vehicle from a direct course or move right or left upon a roadway unless and
until such movement can be made with reasonable safety. No person shall so turn
any vehicle without giving an appropriate signal in the manner hereinafter
provided in the event any other traffic may be affected by such movement. A
signal of intention to turn right or left when required shall be given
continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by the vehicle
before turning.
   (B)   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle
without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided in this
subchapter to the driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear when there is
opportunity to give such signal.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.047 SIGNALS TO BE GIVEN BY HAND AND ARM OR SIGNAL DEVICE.
   Any stop or turn signal, when required herein, shall be given either by
means of the hand and arm or by a signal lamp or lamps or mechanical signal
device, but when a vehicle, is so constructed or loaded that hand and arm
signals would not be visible both to the front and rear of such vehicle then
such signals must be given by such a lamp or lamps or signal device.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
§ 71.048 HAND AND ARM SIGNALS.
   All signals herein required given by hand and arm shall be given from the
left side of the vehicle in the following manner, and such signals shall
indicate as follows:
   (A)   Left turn: Hand and arm extended horizontally;
   (B)   Right turn: Hand and arm extended upward; and
   (C)   Stop or decrease speed: Hand and arm extended downward.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code 17C-8-10
RIGHT-OF-WAY
§ 71.060 RIGHT-OF-WAY AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle approaching an intersection shall yield the
right-of-way to a vehicle which has entered the intersection from a different
street or highway. When two vehicles enter an intersection from a different
street or highway at approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle on
the left shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle on the right.
   (B)   The right-of-way rules declared in division (A) above are modified at
through streets or highways and otherwise as hereinafter stated in this
subchapter.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
§ 71.061 RIGHT-OF-WAY WHEN TURNING LEFT.
   The driver of a vehicle within an intersection intending to turn to the left
shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite
direction which is within the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute
an immediate hazard, but such driver, having so yielded and having given a
signal when and as required by this title, may make such left turn, and the
drivers of all other vehicles approaching the intersection from the opposite
direction shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicles making the left turn.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
§ 71.062 RIGHT-OF-WAY AT THROUGH STREET OR HIGHWAY OR STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   The driver of a vehicle shall stop as required by W. Va. Code 17C-9 at the
entrance to a through street or highway and shall yield the right-of-way to
other vehicles which have entered the intersection from such through streets or
highways or which are approaching so closely on such through street or highway
as to constitute an immediate hazard but the driver having so yielded may
proceed. The driver of a vehicle shall likewise stop in obedience to a stop
sign as required herein at an intersection where a stop sign is erected at one
or more entrances thereto although not a part of a through street or highway
and shall proceed cautiously, yielding to vehicles not so obliged to stop which
are within the intersection or approaching so closely as to constitute an
immediate hazard, but may then proceed.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.063 DRIVING ONTO ROADWAY FROM PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY; DUTY TO YIELD.
   The driver of a vehicle about to enter or cross a street or highway from a
private road or driveway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles
approaching on said street or highway.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
§ 71.064 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF EMERGENCY VEHICLE.
   (A)   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle
equipped with at least one flashing lighted lamp of a color authorized by §
71.097 which is visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of
500 feet to the front of such vehicle, other than a police vehicle when
operated as an authorized emergency vehicle, and when the driver is giving
audible signal by siren, exhaust whistle, or bell.
   (B)   The driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right-of-way and
shall immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as possible to,
the right-hand edge or curb of the roadway clear of any intersection and shall
stop and remain in such position until the authorized emergency vehicle has
passed, except when otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (C)   This section shall not operate to relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons using the street or highway.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.065 TURNING INTO PRIVATE DRIVEWAY, ALLEY, OR BUILDING.
   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn into a private road or driveway,
alley, or building from a public street or highway shall be governed by the
following rules:
   (A)   Approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as close as
practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway;
   (B)   Upon a roadway where traffic is proceeding in opposite directions,
approach for a left turn and a left turn shall be made from that portion of the
right-half of the roadway nearest the center line thereof;
   (C)   Upon a roadway where traffic is restricted to one direction, approach
for a left turn and a left turn shall be made as close as practicable to the
left-hand curb or edge of the roadway; and
   (D)   It shall be the duty of the driver of any vehicle entering a private
road or driveway, alley, or building to yield the right-of-way to pedestrians
lawfully using the sidewalk or sidewalk area extending across any alleyway,
private road, driveway, or building.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
EQUIPMENT
§ 71.080 DRIVING UNSAFE VEHICLES; APPLICATION; FARM AND ROAD EQUIPMENT
EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall drive or move and no owner shall cause or knowingly
permit to be driven or moved on any street or highway any vehicle or
combination of vehicles which is in such unsafe condition as to endanger any
person, or which does not contain those parts or is not at all times equipped
with such lamps and other equipment in proper condition and adjustment as
required in this subchapter, or which is equipped in any manner in violation of
this provision, or for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to perform
any act required under this subchapter.
   (B)   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall be construed to prohibit
the use of additional parts and accessories on any vehicle not inconsistent
with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   The provisions of this subchapter with respect to equipment on
vehicles shall not apply to implements of husbandry, road machinery, road
rollers, or farm tractors except as herein made applicable. Every farm tractor
equipped with an electric lighting system shall at all times mentioned in §
71.081 display a red tail lamp and either multiple-beam or single-beam head
lamps meeting the requirements of §
71.081.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.081 WHEN LIGHTED LIGHTS REQUIRED.
   Every vehicle other than a school bus, motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, or
moped operated upon a street or highway within the municipality at any time
from sunset to sunrise or during fog, smoke, rain, or other unfavorable
atmospheric conditions, or at any other time when there is not sufficient light
to render clearly discernible persons and vehicles on the street or highway at
a distance of 500 feet ahead shall display lighted head lamps and illuminating
devices as hereinafter respectively required for different classes of vehicles,
subject to exceptions with respect to parked vehicles as provided for in §
71.086(C). Every school bus, motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, and moped shall
display lighted head lamps at all times when upon the street or highway.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.082 MEASUREMENT OF DISTANCES AND HEIGHTS.
   (A)   Whenever requirement is hereinafter declared as to the distance from
which certain lamps and devices shall render objects visible or within which
such lamps or devices shall be visible such provisions shall apply during the
times stated in §
71.081 in respect to a vehicle without load when upon a straight, level,
unlighted street, or highway under normal atmospheric conditions unless a
different time or condition is expressly stated.
   (B)   Whenever requirement is hereinafter declared as to the mounted height
of lamps or devices, it shall mean from the center of such lamp or device to
the level ground upon which the vehicle stands when such vehicle is without a
load.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code 17C-15-3
§ 71.083 HEADLIGHTS ON MOTOR VEHICLES AND MOTORCYCLES.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle other than a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, or
moped shall be equipped with at least two head lamps with at least one on each
side of the front of the motor vehicle, which head lamps shall comply with the
requirements and limitations set forth in this subchapter.
   (B)   Every motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, and moped shall be equipped with
at least one and not more than two head lamps which shall comply with the
requirements and limitations of this subchapter.
   (C)   Every head lamp upon every motor vehicle, including every motorcycle,
motor-driven cycle, and moped, shall be located at a height measured from the
center of the head lamp of not more than 54 inches, nor less than 24 inches, to
be measured as set forth in §
71.082.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.084 TAIL LIGHT; ILLUMINATION OF REAR LICENSE PLATE.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle, trailer or semitrailer, and any other vehicle
which is being drawn at the end of a train of vehicles shall be equipped with
at least one tail lamp mounted on the rear; which, when lighted as herein
before required, shall emit a red light plainly visible from a distance of 500
feet to the rear, provided that in the case of a train of vehicles, only the
tail lamp on the rearmost vehicle need actually be seen from the distance
specified.
   (B)   Every tail lamp upon every vehicle shall be located at a height of not
more than 60 inches, nor less than 20 inches, to be measured as set forth in §
71.082(B).
   (C)   Either a tail lamp or a separate lamp shall be so constructed and
placed as to illuminate with a white light the rear registration plate and
render it clearly legible from a distance of 50 feet to the rear. Any tail lamp
or tail lamps, together with any separate lamp for illuminating the rear
registration plate, shall be so wired as to be lighted whenever the head lamps
or auxiliary driving lamps are lighted.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.085 RED LIGHT OR RED FLAG ON EXTENDED LOADS.
   (A)   Whenever the load upon any vehicle extends to the rear four feet or
more beyond the bed or body of such vehicle, there shall be displayed at the
extreme rear end of the load, at the times specified in §
71.081, a red light or lantern plainly visible from a distance of at least 500
feet to the sides and rear.
   (B)   The red light or lantern required under this section shall be in
addition to the red rear light required upon every vehicle.
   (C)   At any time there shall be displayed at the extreme rear end of such
load a red flag or cloth not less than 12 inches square and so hung that the
entire area is visible to the driver of a vehicle approaching from the rear.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.086 LIGHTS ON PARKED OR STOPPED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever a vehicle is lawfully parked upon a street or highway during
the hours between sunset and sunrise, and in the event there is sufficient
light to reveal any person or object within a distance of 500 feet upon such
street or highway, no lights need be displayed upon such parked vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a vehicle is parked or stopped upon a roadway or
shoulder adjacent thereto, whether attended or unattended, during the hours
between sunset and sunrise, and there is not sufficient light to reveal any
person or object within a distance of 500 feet upon such street or highway,
such vehicle so parked or stopped shall be equipped with one or more lamps
meeting the following requirements:
         (a)   At least one lamp shall display a white or amber light visible
from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the vehicle,
         (b)   The same lamp is in division (B)(1)(a) or at least one other
lamp shall display a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear
of the vehicle; and
         (c)   The location of such lamp or lamps shall always be such that at
least one lamp or combination of lamps meeting the requirements of this section
is installed as near as practicable to the side of the vehicle which is closest
to passing traffic.
      (2)   The foregoing provisions shall not apply to a motorcycle, motor-
driven cycle, or moped.
   (C)   Any lighted head lamps upon a parked vehicle shall be depressed or
dimmed.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.086
§ 71.087 LIGHTS ON SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES.
   All vehicles, including animal-drawn vehicles and including those referred
to in §
71.080(C), not hereinbefore specifically required to be equipped with lamps,
shall at the times specified in §
71.081 be equipped with at least one lighted lamp or lantern exhibiting a white
light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the front of such vehicle and with
a lamp or lantern exhibiting a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to
the rear.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.088 SPOTLIGHTS AND AUXILIARY LIGHTS.
   (A)   Spot lamps. Any motor vehicle, except a public utility company
maintenance vehicle, may be equipped with not more than one spot lamp and every
lighted spot lamp shall be so aimed and used upon approaching another vehicles
that no part of the high-intensity portion of the beam will be directed to the
left of the prolongation of the extreme left side of the vehicle, nor more than
100 feet ahead of the vehicle. A public utility company maintenance vehicle may
be equipped with more than one spot lamp, but all lighted spot lamps shall be
aimed and used in conformity to the requirements of this section.
   (B)   Fog lamps. Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than two
fog lamps mounted on the front at a height not less than 12 inches, nor more
than 30 inches, above the level surface upon which the vehicle stands and so
aimed that when the vehicle is not loaded, none of the high-intensity portion
of the light to the left of the center of the vehicle shall at a distance of 25
feet ahead project higher than a level of four inches below the level of the
center of the lamp from which it comes.
   (C)   Auxiliary passing lamp. Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not
more than one auxiliary passing lamp mounted on the front at a height not less
than 24 inches, nor more than 42 inches, above the level surface upon which the
vehicle stands, and every auxiliary passing lamp shall meet the requirements
and limitations set forth in this subchapter.
   (D)   Auxiliary driving lamp. Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not
more than one auxiliary driving lamp mounted on the front at a height not less
than 16 inches, nor more than 42 inches, above the level surface upon which the
vehicle stands, and every such auxiliary driving lamp shall meet the
requirements and limitations set forth in this subchapter.
   (E)   Roof-mounted off-road light bar lighting device. Any motor vehicle may
be equipped with a roof-mounted, off-road light bar lighting device comprised
of multiple lamps; provided, whenever the vehicle is operated or driven upon
any road or highway, the roof-mounted off-road light bar lighting device shall
be turned off and covered with an opaque covering that prohibits light from
being emitted while the vehicle is being operated on any road or highway.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.089 SIGNAL LAMPS AND SIGNAL DEVICES.
   (A)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped and, when required under this title,
shall be equipped with the following signal lamps or devices:
      (1)   A stop lamp on the rear which shall emit a red or yellow light and
which shall be actuated upon application of the service (foot) brake and which
may, but need not be, incorporated with a tail lamp; and
      (2)   A lamp, lamps, or mechanical signal device capable of clearly
indicating any intention to turn either to the right or to the left and which
shall be visible both from the front and rear.
   (B)   A stop lamp shall be plainly visible and understandable from a
distance of 100 feet to the rear both during normal sunlight and at nighttime,
and signal lamp or lamps indicating intention to turn shall be visible and
understandable during daytime and nighttime from a distance of 100 feet both to
the front and rear. When a vehicle is equipped with a stop lamp or other signal
lamps, such lamp or lamps shall at all times be maintained in good working
condition. No stop lamp or signal lamp shall project a glaring or dazzling
light.
   (C)   All mechanical signal devices shall be self-illuminated when in use at
the times mentioned in §
71.081.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.090 COWL, FENDER, AND BACK-UP LIGHTS; FLASHING HAZARD LIGHTS.
   (A)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than two side cowl or
fender lamps which shall emit an amber or white light without glare.
   (B)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than one running-board
courtesy lamp on each side thereof which shall emit a white or amber light
without glare.
   (C)   Except for school buses as provided in this section, any motor vehicle
may be equipped with not more than two back-up lamps either separately or in
combination with other lamps, but any such back-up lamp shall not be lighted
when the motor vehicle is in forward motion. School buses used for the
transportation of school children in the municipality, whether owned and
operated by a county board of education or privately owned and operated under
contract with a county board of education, shall be equipped with two back-up
lamps, one on each side of the rear door, with white lens or reflectors capable
of lighting the roadway and objects to the rear of the bus for safe backing
during darkness, and which, at the option of the county board of education, may
each provide 50 candlepower in illumination intensity instead of 32
candlepower.
   (D)   Any vehicle may be equipped with lamps which may be used for the
purpose of warning the operators of other vehicles of the presence of a
vehicular traffic hazard requiring the exercise of unusual care in approaching,
overtaking, or passing, and, when so equipped, may display such warning in
addition to any other warning signals required by this subchapter. The lamps
used to display such warning to the front shall be mounted at the same level
and as widely spaced laterally as practicable and shall display simultaneously
flashing white or amber lights, or any shade of color between white and amber.
The lamps used to display such warning to the rear shall be mounted at the same
level and as widely spaced laterally as practicable, and shall show
simultaneously flashing amber or red lights or any shade of color between amber
and red.
   (E)   Vehicles used by rural mail carriers in carrying or delivering mail in
rural areas may be equipped with amber flashing lights. Such lights shall be on
the front and rear of the vehicle and may be activated when the vehicle is
stopped or decreasing speed in order to stop in the course of carrying,
delivering, or picking up mail along the route.
   (F)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this title to the contrary, any
motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than one electroluminescent solid
state ceramic front identification plate without glare, mounted in conformance
with the manufacturer’s specifications.
   (G)   Vehicles used as the lead car in a funeral procession are hereby
authorized to be equipped with, but are not required to use, purple lamps or
purple flashing lights. Such lamps may be used for the purpose of warning the
operators of other vehicles of the presence of a vehicular traffic hazard
requiring the exercise of unusual care in approaching, overtaking, or passing a
funeral procession, and, when so equipped, may display such warning in addition
to any other warning signals required by this subchapter. The lamps or flashing
lights used to display such warning to the front shall be mounted at the same
level and as widely spaced laterally as practicable, and shall display
simultaneously either illuminating or flashing purple lights. The lamps used to
display such warning to the rear shall be mounted at the same level and as
widely spaced laterally as practicable, and shall show simultaneously flashing
or illuminated purple lights.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.091 MULTIPLE-BEAM ROAD-LIGHTING EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   Except as hereinafter provided, the head lamps or the auxiliary driving lamp
or the auxiliary passing lamp or combinations thereof on motor vehicles other
than a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, or moped shall be so arranged that the
driver may select at will between distributions of light projected to different
elevations and such lamps may, in addition, be so arranged that such selection
can be made automatically, subject to the following limitations:
   (A)   There shall be an uppermost distribution of light, or composite beam,
so aimed and of such intensity as to reveal persons and vehicles at a distance
of at least 350 feet ahead for all conditions of loading;
   (B)   There shall be a lowermost distribution of light, or composite beam,
so aimed and of sufficient intensity to reveal persons and vehicles at a
distance of at least 100 feet ahead; and on a straight level road under any
condition of loading, none of the high-intensity portion of the beam shall be
directed to strike the eyes of an approaching driver; and
   (C)   Every new motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle,
or moped, registered in the state after January 1,1952, which has multiple-beam
roadlighting equipment shall be equipped with a beam indicator, which shall be
lighted whenever the uppermost distribution of light from the head lamps is in
use, and shall not otherwise be lighted. Such indicator shall be so designed
and located that when lighted it will be readily visible without glare to the
driver of the vehicle so equipped.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.092 USE OF HEADLIGHT BEAMS.
   Whenever a motor vehicle is being operated on a roadway or shoulder adjacent
thereto during the times specified in §
71.081, the driver shall use a distribution of light, or composite beam,
directed high enough and of sufficient intensity to reveal persons and vehicles
at a safe distance in advance of the vehicle, subject to the following
requirements and limitations:
   (A)   Whenever a driver of a vehicle approaches an oncoming vehicle within
500 feet, such driver shall use a distribution of light, or composite beam, so
aimed that the glaring rays are not projected into the eyes of the oncoming
driver. The lowermost distribution of light, or composite beam specified in §
71.091(B), shall be deemed to avoid glare at all times regardless of road
contour and loading.
   (B)   Whenever the driver of a vehicle follows another vehicle within 200
feet to the rear, except when engaged in the act of overtaking and passing,
such driver shall use a distribution of light permissible under this title,
other than the uppermost distribution of light specified in §
71.091(A).
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.093 SINGLE-BEAM ROAD LIGHTING EQUIPMENT.
   Head lamps arranged to provide a single distribution of light shall be
permitted on motor vehicles manufactured and sold prior to July 1, 1952, in
lieu of multiple-beam road-lighting equipment herein specified, if the single
distribution of light complies with the following requirements and limitations:
   (A)   The head lamps shall be so aimed that, when the vehicle is not loaded,
none of the high-intensity portion of the light shall, at a distance of 25 feet
ahead, project higher than a level of five inches below the level of the center
of the lamp from which it comes, and in no case higher than 42 inches above the
level on which the vehicle stands at a distance of 75 feet ahead.
   (B)   The intensity shall be sufficient to reveal persons and vehicles at a
distance of at least 200 feet.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.094 LIGHTS ON MOTORCYCLES, MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLES, AND MOPEDS.
   (A)   Every vehicle, other than a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, or moped,
operated upon a highway within that city at any time from sunset to sunrise and
at any other time when there is not sufficient light to render clearly
discernible persons and vehicles on the highway at a distance of 500 feet ahead
shall display lighted lamps and illuminating devices as hereinafter
respectively required for different classes of vehicles, subject to exceptions
with respect to parked vehicles as hereinafter stated.
   (B)   Every motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, and moped shall display lighted
head lamps at all times when upon the highway.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
§ 71.095 ALTERNATE ROAD-LIGHTING EQUIPMENT.
   Any motor vehicle may be operated under the conditions specified in §
71.081 when equipped with two lighted lamps upon the front thereof capable of
revealing persons and objects s75 feet ahead in lieu of lamps required in §§
71.091 or
71.093; provided that at no time shall it be operated at a speed in excess of
20 mph.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
§ 71.096 NUMBER OF DRIVING LIGHTS REQUIRED OR PERMITTED.
   (A)   At all times specified in §
71.081, at least two lighted lamps shall be displayed, one on each side at the
front of every motor vehicle other than a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, or
moped, except when such vehicle is parked subject to the regulations governing
lights on parked vehicles.
   (B)   Whenever a motor vehicle equipped with head lamps as herein required
is also equipped with any auxiliary lamps or a spot lamp or any other lamp on
the front thereof projecting a beam of intensity greater than 300 candlepower,
not more than a total of four of any such lamps on the front of a vehicle shall
be lighted at any one time when upon a street or highway.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.097 SPECIAL RESTRICTIONS ON LIGHTS.
   (A)   Any lighted lamp or illuminating device upon a motor vehicle other
than head lamps, spot lamps, auxiliary lamps, or flashing front-direction
signals which projects a beam of light of an intensity greater than 300
candlepower shall be so directed that no part of the beam will strike the level
of the roadway on which the vehicle stands at a distance of more than 75 feet
from the vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall drive or move any vehicle or equipment upon any street
or highway with any lamp or device thereon displaying other than a white or
amber light visible from directly in front of the center thereof except as
authorized by division (D) below.
   (C)   Except as authorized in divisions (D) and (F) below and §
71.090, flashing lights are prohibited on motor vehicles; provided, any vehicle
as a means for indicating right or left turn, or any vehicle as a means of
indicating the same is disabled or otherwise stopped for an emergency may have
blinking or flashing lights.
   (D)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this title, the following
colors of flashing warning lights are restricted for the use of the type of
vehicle designated:
      (1)   Blue flashing warning lights are restricted to police vehicles.
Authorization for police vehicles shall be designated by the chief
administrative official of the municipality;
      (2)   Except for standard vehicle equipment authorized by §
71.090, red flashing warning lights are restricted to the following:
         (a)   Ambulances;
         (b)   Firefighting vehicles;
         (c)   Hazardous material response vehicles;
         (d)   Industrial fire brigade vehicles;
         (e)   Rescue squad vehicles not operating out of a fire department;
         (f)   School buses;
         (g)   Class A vehicles, as defined by W. Va. Code 17A-10-1, of those
firefighters who are authorized by their fire chiefs to have the lights;
         (h)   Class A vehicles of members of duly chartered rescue squads not
operating out of a fire department;
         (i)   Class A vehicles of members of ambulance services or duly
chartered rescue squads who are authorized by their respective chiefs to have
the lights;
         (j)   Class A vehicles of out-of-state residents who are active
members of West Virginia fire departments, ambulance services, or duly
chartered rescue squads who are authorized by their respective chiefs to have
the lights;
         (k)   State Department of Agriculture emergency response vehicles;
         (l) Vehicles designated by the Secretary of the Department of Military
Affairs and Public Safety for emergency response or emergency management by the
Division of Corrections, Regional Jail and Correctional Facility Authority,
Division of Juvenile Services, and Division of Homeland Security and Emergency
Management; and
         (m)   Class A vehicles of emergency response or emergency management
personnel as designated by the Secretary of the Department of Military Affairs
and Public Safety and the county commission of the county of residence.
      (3)   Red flashing warning lights attached to a Class A vehicle shall be
operated only when responding to or engaged in handling an emergency requiring
the attention of the firefighters, members of the ambulance services, or
chartered rescue squads. The use of red flashing warning lights shall be
authorized as follows:
         (a) Authorization for all ambulances shall be designated by the
Department of Health and Human Resources, and the sheriff of the county of
residence;
         (b) Authorization for all Fire Department vehicles shall be designated
by the Fire Chief, and the State Fire Marshal’s Office;
         (c) Authorization for all hazardous material response vehicles and
industrial fire brigades shall be designated by the Fire Chief, and the State
Fire Marshal’s Office;
         (d) Authorization for all rescue squad vehicles not operating out of a
fire department shall be designated by the squad chief, the sheriff of the
county of residence, and the Department of Health and Human Resources;
         (e)   Authorization for school buses shall be designated as set out in
W. Va. Code 17C-14-12;
         (f)   Authorization for firefighters to operate Class A vehicles shall
be designated by their fire chiefs and the State Fire Marshal’s Office;
         (g)   Authorization for members of ambulance services or any other
emergency medical service personnel to operate Class A vehicles shall be
designated by their chief official, the Department of Health and Human
Resources, and the sheriff of the county of residence;
         (h)   Authorization for members of duly chartered rescue squads not
operating out of a fire department to operate Class A vehicles shall be
designated by their squad chiefs, the sheriff of the county of residence, and
the Department of Health and Human Resources;
         (i)   Authorization for out-of-state residents operating Class A
vehicles who are active members of a West Virginia fire department, ambulance
services or duly chartered rescue squads shall be designated by their
respective chiefs;
         (j)   Authorization for West Virginia Department of Agriculture
emergency response vehicles shall be designated by the Commissioner or the
Department of Agriculture;
         (k)   Authorization for vehicles for emergency response or emergency
management by the Division of Corrections, Regional Jail and Correctional
Facility Authority, Division of Juvenile Services, and Division of Homeland
Security and Emergency Management shall be designated by the Secretary of the
Department of Military Affairs and Public Safety; and
         (l)   Authorization for Class A vehicles of emergency response or
emergency management personnel as designated by the Secretary of the Department
of Military Affairs and Public Safety and the county commission of the county
of residence.
      (4)   Yellow or amber flashing warning lights are restricted to the
following:
         (a)   All other emergency vehicles, including tow trucks and wreckers,
authorized by the W. Va. Code Ch. 17C and 17C-15-27;
         (b)   Postal service vehicles and rural mail carriers, as authorized
in §
71.090;
         (c)   Rural newspaper delivery vehicles;
         (d)   Flag car services;
         (e)   Vehicles providing road service to disabled vehicles;
         (f)   Service vehicles of a public service corporation;
         (g)   Snow removal equipment;
         (h)   School buses; and
         (i) Automotive fire apparatus owned by a municipality or other
political subdivision, by a volunteer or part-volunteer fire company or
department, or by an industrial fire brigade.
      (5)   The use of yellow or amber flashing warning lights shall be
authorized as follows:
         (a)   Authorization for tow trucks, wreckers, rural newspaper delivery
vehicles, flag car services, vehicles providing road service to disabled
vehicles, service vehicles of a public service corporation, and postal service
vehicles shall be designated by the sheriff of the county of residence;
         (b) Authorization for snow removal equipment shall be designated by
the Commissioner of the Division of Highways;
         (c) Authorization for school buses shall be designated as set out in
W. Va. Code 17C-14-12 and any amendments; and
         (d)   Authorization for automotive fire apparatus shall be designated
by the Fire Chief in conformity with the NFPA 1901 standard for automotive fire
apparatus as published by the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) on
July 18, 2003, and adopted by the State Fire Commission by legislative rule (87
C.S.R. §§ 1 et seq.), except as follows:
            1.   With the approval of the State Fire Marshal, used automotive
fire apparatus may be conformed to the NFPA standard in effect on the date of
its manufacture or conformed to a later NFPA standard; and
            2.   Automotive fire apparatus may be equipped with blinking or
flashing headlamps.
   (E)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section, any vehicle
belonging to a county board of education, an organization receiving funding
from the state or federal transit administration for the purpose of providing
general public transportation, or hauling solid waste may be equipped with a
white flashing strobotron warning light. This strobe light may be installed on
the roof of a school bus, a public transportation vehicle, or a vehicle hauling
solid waste not to exceed one-third the body length forward from the rear of
the roof edge. The light shall have a single clear lens emitting light 360
degrees around its vertical axis and may not extend above the roof more than
six and one-half inches. A manual switch and a pilot light must be included to
indicate the light is in operation.
   (F)   No person shall install or use flashing warning lights of an
unauthorized color on a vehicle other than as specified in this section, except
that a police vehicle may be equipped with either or both blue or red warning
lights.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.098 MOTOR VEHICLE OR MOTORCYCLE BRAKES.
   (A)   Break equipment required.
      (1)   Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle,
or moped, when operated upon a street or highway, shall be equipped with brakes
adequate to control the movement of and to stop and hold such vehicle,
including two separate means of applying the brakes, each of which means shall
be effective to apply the brakes to at least two wheels. If these two separate
means of applying the brakes are connected in any way, they shall be so
constructed that failure of any one part of the operating mechanism shall not
leave the motor vehicle without brakes on at least two wheels.
      (2)   Every motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, and moped, when operated upon
a street or highway, shall be equipped with at least one brake which may be
operated by hand or foot.
      (3)   Every trailer or semitrailer of a gross weight of 3,000 pounds or
more, when operated upon a street or highway, shall be equipped with brakes
adequate to control the movement of and to stop and to hold such vehicle and so
designed as to be applied by the driver of the towing motor vehicle from its
cab, and such brakes shall be so designed and connected that in case of an
accidental breakaway of the towed vehicle the brakes shall be automatically
applied.
      (4)   Every new motor vehicle, trailer, or semitrailer hereinafter sold
in the state and operated upon the streets or highways shall be equipped with
service brakes upon all wheels, with the following exceptions:
         (a)   Trucks and truck-tractors having three or more axles need not
have brakes on the front wheels, except when such vehicles are equipped with at
least two steerable axles, the wheels of one such axle need not be equipped
with brakes; and
         (b)   Any motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, or moped and any semitrailer
of less than 1,500 pounds gross weight need not be equipped with brakes.
      (5)   In any combination of motor-driven vehicles, means shall be
provided for applying the rearmost trailer brakes, of any trailer equipped with
brakes, in approximate synchronism with the brakes on the towing vehicle and
developing the required braking effort on the rearmost wheels at the fastest
rate; or means shall be provided for applying braking effort first on the
rearmost trailer equipped with brakes; or both of the above means capable of
being used alternatively may be employed.
      (6)   Every such vehicle and combination of vehicles, except motorcycles,
motor-driven cycles, and mopeds, shall be equipped with parking brakes adequate
to hold the vehicle on any grade on which it is operated, under all conditions
of loading on a surface free from snow, ice, or loose material.
         (a)   The parking brakes shall be capable of being applied in
conformance with the foregoing requirements by the driver’s muscular effort or
by spring action or by equivalent means. Their operation may be assisted by the
service brakes or other source of power provided that failure of the service
brake actuation system or other power assisting mechanism will not prevent the
parking brakes from being applied in conformance with the foregoing
requirements.
         (c)   The parking brakes shall be so designed that when once applied
they shall remain applied with the required effectiveness despite exhaustion of
any source of energy or leakage of any kind.
      (7)   (a)   The same brake drums, brake shoes, and lining assemblies,
brake shoe anchors, and mechanical brake shoe actuation mechanism normally
associated with the wheel brake assemblies may be used for both the service
brakes and the parking brakes.
         (b)   If the means of applying the parking brakes and the service
brakes are connected in any way, they shall be so constructed that a failure of
any one part shall not leave the vehicle without operative brakes.
      (8)   The brake shoes operating within or upon the drums on the vehicle
wheels of any motor vehicle may be used for both service and hand operation.
   (B)   Performance ability of brakes. Every motor vehicle or combination of
motor-drawn vehicles shall be capable, at all times and under all conditions of
loading, of being stopped on a dry, smooth, level road free from loose
material, upon application of the service (foot) brake, within the distances
specified below, or shall be capable of being decelerated at a sustained rate
corresponding to these distances:
 
Vehicle Break Type                Feet to Stop Deceleration From 20 Miles (in
                                               Feet per Hour/Second)
Vehicle or combinations of
vehicles having brakes on all     30           14
wheels
Vehicles or combinations of
vehicles not having brakes on all 40           10.7
wheels
 
   (C) Maintenance of brakes. All brakes shall be maintained in good working
order and shall be so adjusted as to operate as equally as practicable with
respect to the wheels on opposite sides of the vehicle.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
§ 71.099 INSPECTION OF BRAKES ON MOTORCYCLES, MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLES, AND MOPEDS.
   No person shall operate on any street or highway any motorcycle, motor-
driven cycle, or moped in the event the Commissioner of Highways has
disapproved the brake equipment upon such vehicle or type of vehicle.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.100 HORN, SIREN, AND THEFT ALARM SIGNAL.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle when operated upon a street or highway shall be
equipped with a horn in good working order and capable of emitting sound
audible under normal conditions from a distance of not less than 200 feet, but
no horn or other warning device shall emit an unreasonably loud or harsh sound
or a whistle. The driver of a motor vehicle shall, when reasonably necessary to
ensure safe operation, give audible warning with his or her horn, but shall not
otherwise use such horn when upon a street or highway.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be equipped with nor shall any person use upon a
vehicle any siren, whistle, or bell, except as otherwise permitted in this
section.
   (C)   It is permissible, but not required, that any commercial vehicle be
equipped with a theft alarm signal device which is so arranged that it cannot
be used by the driver as an ordinary warning signal.
   (D)   Any authorized emergency vehicle may be equipped with a siren,
whistle, or bell capable of emitting sound audible under normal conditions from
a distance of not less than 500 feet and of a type approved by the Department
of Motor Vehicles, but such siren shall not be used except when such vehicle is
operated in response to an emergency or in the immediate pursuit of an actual
or suspected violator of the law, in which such latter events the driver of
such vehicle shall sound such siren when reasonably necessary to warn
pedestrians and other drivers of the approach thereof.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.101 MUFFLER; MUFFLER CUTOUT; EXCESSIVE SMOKE, GAS, OR NOISE.
   (A)   No person shall drive or move on any street or highway within the
municipality any motor vehicle, trailer, semitruck, or pole trailer or any
combination thereof, unless the equipment upon every such vehicle is in good
working order and adjustment and the vehicle is in such safe mechanical
condition as not to endanger the driver or other occupant or any person upon
any street or highway of this Municipality. Any person violating the provisions
of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Every motor vehicle shall at all times be equipped with a muffler in
good working order and in constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual
noise; such muffler shall be the muffler originally installed by the
manufacturer of the vehicle or, if a replacement, the equivalent thereof. No
person shall use a muffler cutout, bypass, or similar device upon a motor
vehicle on a street or highway within the city. The engine and power mechanisms
of every motor vehicle shall be so equipped and adjusted as to prevent the
escape of excessive fumes or smoke. Any person violating the provisions of this
section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.102 REAR-VIEW MIRROR.
   Every motor vehicle which is so constructed or loaded as to obstruct the
driver’s view to the rear thereof from the driver’s position shall be equipped
with a mirror so located as to reflect to the driver a view of the street or
highway for a distance of at least 200 feet to the rear of such vehicle.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
§ 71.103 WINDSHIELD TO BE UNOBSTRUCTED; WINDSHIELD WIPER.
   (A)   No person shall drive any motor vehicle with any sign, poster, or
other nontransparent material upon the front windshield, side wings, or side or
rear windows of such vehicle which obstructs the driver’s clear view of the
street or highway or any intersecting street or highway.
   (B)   The windshield on every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a device
for cleaning rain, snow, or other moisture from the windshield, which device
shall be so constructed as to be controlled or operated by the driver of the
vehicle.
   (C)   Every windshield wiper upon a motor vehicle shall be maintained in
good working order.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.104 TIRE EQUIPMENT RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Every solid rubber tire on a vehicle shall have rubber on its entire
traction surface at least one inch thick above the edge of the flange of the
entire periphery.
   (B)   No person shall operate or move on any highway any motor vehicle,
trailer, or semitrailer having any metal tire in contact with the roadway.
   (C)   (1)   No tire on a vehicle moved on a highway shall have on its
periphery any block, stud, flange, cleat, or spike or any other protuberance of
any material other than rubber which projects beyond the tread of the traction
surface of the tire, except that:
         (a)   It shall be permissible to use farm machinery with tires having
protuberances which will not injure the street or highway;
         (b)   It shall be permissible to use tire chains of reasonable
proportions upon any vehicle when required for safety because of snow, ice, or
other conditions tending to cause a vehicle to skid; and
         (c)   It shall be permissible to use studded tires during the period
from November 1 of each year until April 15 of the following year; provided, in
the interest of highway maintenance, no vehicle moved on a street or highway,
other than school buses, shall be equipped with studded tires which are
operational with a recommended air pressure greater than 40 pounds per square
inch.
      (2)   No studded tires or chains shall be sold or used within the
municipality which do not meet the specifications established by the rules and
regulations which the Commissioner of Highways shall promulgate.
   (D)   The City Council may, in its discretion, issue special permits
authorizing the operation upon the street or highway of traction engines or
tractors having movable tracks with transverse corrugations upon the periphery
of such movable tracks or farm tractors or other farm machinery, the operation
of which upon a highway would otherwise be prohibited under this title.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.105 SAFETY GLASS IN MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   On and after July 1,1951, no person shall operate any motor vehicle as
specified herein, nor shall any motor vehicle as specified herein be registered
thereafter unless such vehicle is equipped with safety glass of a type approved
by the Commissioner of Highways wherever glass is used in doors, windows, and
windshields. The foregoing provisions shall apply to all passenger-type motor
vehicles, including passenger buses and school buses, but in respect to trucks,
including truck tractors, the requirements as to safety glass shall apply to
all glass used in doors, windows, and windshields in the drivers’ compartments
of such vehicles.
   (B)   The term SAFETY GLASS shall mean any product composed of glass, so
manufactured, fabricated, or treated as substantially to prevent shattering and
flying of the glass when struck or broken, or such other or similar product as
may be approved by the Commissioner of Highways.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.106 VEHICLES TRANSPORTING EXPLOSIVES.
   Any person operating any vehicle transporting any explosive as a cargo or
part of a cargo upon a street or highway shall at all times comply with the
provisions of this section.
   (A)   Such vehicle shall be marked or placarded on each side and the rear
with the word “EXPLOSIVES” in letters not less than eight inches high, or there
shall be displayed on the rear of such vehicle a red flag not less than 24
square inches marked with the word “DANGER” in white letters six inches high.
   (B)   Every such vehicle shall be equipped with not less than two fire
extinguishers, filled, and ready for immediate use and placed at a convenient
point on the vehicle so used.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.107 TELEVISION RECEIVER IN DRIVER’S VIEW PROHIBITED.
   No motor vehicle shall be operated on any street or highway in the
municipality when equipped with a television receiver, unless such receiver is
so placed that the screen or picture tube of such receiver is visible only in
the rear seat of such motor vehicle and not in view of the operator of such
motor vehicle. Exceptions to this rule as outlined in W. Va. Code 17C-15-42(b),
or any of its amendments, shall not be considered violations of this section.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.108 SAFETY EQUIPMENT FOR MOTORCYCLISTS, MOTORCYCLES, MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLES,
AND MOPEDS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate or be a passenger on any motorcycle or
motor-driven cycle unless he or she is wearing, securely fastened on his or her
head by either a neck or chin strap, a protective helmet designed to deflect
blows, resist penetration, and spread impact forces.
      (2)   Any helmet worn by an operator or passenger shall meet the current
performance specifications established by the American National Standards
Institute Standard, Z 90.1, the United States Department of Transportation
Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 218, or Snell Safety Standards for
Protective Headgear for Vehicle Users, or any other standard as may be adopted
by the state.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall operate or be a passenger on any motorcycle or
motor-driven cycle unless he or she is wearing safety, shatter-resistant
eyeglasses (excluding contact lenses), or eyegoggles or face shield that
complies with the performance specifications established by the American
National Standards Institute for Head, Eye, and Respiratory Protection, Z 2.1,
or any other standard adopted by the state.
      (2)   In addition, if any motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, or moped is
equipped with a windshield or windscreen, the windshield or windscreen shall be
constructed of safety, shatter-resistant material that complies with the
performance specifications established by Department of Transportation Federal
Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 205, and American National Standards
Institute, Safety Glazing Materials for Glazing Motor Vehicles Operated on Land
Highways, Standard Z 26.1, or any other standard adopted by the state.
   (C)   No person shall operate a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, or moped on
which the handlebars or grips are more than 15 inches higher than the uppermost
part of the operator’s seat when the seat is not depressed in any manner.
   (D)   A person operating a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, or moped shall
ride in a seated position facing forward and only upon a permanent operator’s
seat attached to the vehicle. No operator shall carry any other person, nor
shall any other person ride on such a vehicle unless the vehicle is designed to
carry more than one person, in which event a passenger may ride behind the
operator upon the permanent operator’s seat if it is designed for two persons,
or upon another seat firmly attached to the vehicle to the rear of the
operator’s seat and equipped with footrests designed and located for use by the
passenger, or in a sidecar firmly attached to the vehicle. No person shall ride
sidesaddle on a seat. An operator may carry as many passengers as there are
seats and footrests to accommodate those passengers. Additional passengers may
be carried in a factory-produced sidecar, provided that there is one passenger
per seat. Passengers riding in a sidecar shall be restrained by safety belts.
   (E)   Every motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, and moped shall be equipped with
a rearview mirror affixed to the handlebars or fairings and adjusted so that
the operator shall have a clear view of the road and condition of traffic
behind him or her for a distance of at least 200 feet.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.109 CERTIFICATION LABELS ON MOPEDS.
   Every moped sold in the municipality shall have permanently affixed to it a
certification label which shall contain the following information:
   (A)   Name of manufacturer;
   (B)   Month and year of manufacture;
   (C)   Gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR);
   (D)   Gross axle weight rating for front and rear axles (GAWR);
   (E)   Vehicle identification number;
   (F)   Classification type; and
   (G)   Statement of conformance to federal standards as required by federal
law.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
§ 71.110 CHILD PASSENGER SAFETY DEVICES REQUIRED; CHILD SAFETY SEATS AND
BOOSTER SEATS.
   (A)   Every driver who transports a child under the age of eight years in a
passenger automobile, van, or pickup truck other than one operated for hire
shall, while the motor vehicle is in motion and operated on a street or
highway, provide for the protection of the child by properly placing,
maintaining, and securing the child in a child passenger safety device system
meeting applicable federal motor vehicle safety standards; provided, if a child
is under the age of eight years and at least four feet and nine inches tall, a
safety belt shall be sufficient to meet the requirements of this section.
   (B)   A violation of this section does not by virtue of the violation
constitute evidence of negligence or contributory negligence or comparative
negligence in any civil action or proceeding for damages.
   (C)   If any provision of this section or the application thereof to any
person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity may not affect other
provisions or applications of this section and to this end the divisions of
this section are declared to be severable.
   (D)   If all seat belts in a vehicle are being used at the time of
examination by a law officer and the vehicle contains more passengers than the
total number of seat belts or other safety devices as installed in compliance
with federal moto vehicle safety standards, the driver may not be considered in
violation of this section.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.111 ALTERATION OF SUSPENSION SYSTEM.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate upon a public street or highway any
motor vehicle registered or required to be registered in this state if it has
been modified by alteration of its bumper mounting on the frame more than four
inches from the lower edge of the original manufactured bumper configuration
for that vehicle. The bumper must be at least three inches in vertical width,
centered on the center line of the motor vehicle, and not less than the width
of the wheel track distance. The maximum distance between the vehicle body to
the vehicle frame shall not exceed three inches. The distance from the vehicle
body to the vehicle frame shall be measured from the vehicle body mount seat to
the vehicle frame mount seat.
      (2)   No vehicle shall be modified to cause the vehicle body or chassis
to come in contact with the ground, expose the fuel tank to damage from
collision, or cause the wheels to come in contact with the body under normal
operation.
      (3)   No part of the original suspension system shall be disconnected to
defeat the safe operation of the suspension system. Front end suspension by the
use of lift blocks is expressly prohibited. However, nothing contained in this
section prevents the installation of heavy-duty equipment, including shock
absorbers and overload springs. Nothing contained in this section prohibits the
operation on a public street or highway of a motor vehicle with normal wear to
the suspension system if such normal wear does not adversely affect the control
of the vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall operate upon a public street or highway any motor
vehicle registered in this state if it has been modified by alteration of its
altitude from the ground to the extent that its bumpers, measured to any point
on the lower edge of the main horizontal bumper bar, exclusive of any bumper
guards, do not fall within the limits specified herein for its gross vehicle
weight rating category. The front and rear bumper height of trucks whose gross
vehicle weight rating is 10,000 pounds or less may be no less than six inches
and no more than 31 inches. The provisions of this section do not apply to
trucks with a gross vehicle weight rating in excess of 10,000 pounds. For the
purpose of this section, the term GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT RATINGS means the
manufacturer’s gross vehicle weight ratings established for that vehicle.
   (C)   In the absence of bumpers, and in cases where bumper heights have been
lowered or modified more than four inches, height measurements under division
(A) or (B) above shall be made to the bottom of the frame rail.
   (D)   This section does not apply to specially designed or modified motor
vehicles when operated off the public streets or highways in races and similar
events. Such motor vehicles may be lawfully towed on the highways of this
state.
   (E)   No person shall operate upon a public street or highway any motor
vehicle registered or required to be registered in this state if it has been
modified by alteration as set out in the provisions of this section unless the
tires on the altered motor vehicle meet specifications approved by the United
States Department of Transportation. In addition, neither the motor vehicle nor
the chassis shall come in contact with the tires under normal operation.
   (F)   Modified vehicles must have a special inspection sticker which must be
inspected by July 31, 1990. The Municipal Police Department shall record on
accident report forms whether a modified vehicle was involved in the accident.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   W. Va. Code 17C-15-48
§ 71.112 SUN SCREENING DEVICES.
   (A)   No person may operate a motor vehicle that is registered or required
to be registered in the State on any public highway, road, or street that has a
sun screening device on the windshield, the front side wings and side windows
adjacent to the right and left of the driver, and windows adjacent to the rear
of the driver that do not meet the requirements of this section; provided, law
enforcement, K-9, and other emergency vehicles that are designed to haul
animals are exempt from this requirement. No unmarked law-enforcement vehicle,
herein exempted, may engage in routine traffic stops.
   (B)   A sun screening device when used in conjunction with the windshield
must be nonreflective and may not be red, yellow, or amber in color. A sun
screening device may be used only along the top of the windshield and may not
extend downward beyond the ASI line or more than five inches from the top of
the windshield, whichever is closer to the top of the windshield.
   (C)   A sun screening device, when used in conjunction with the automotive
safety glazing materials of the side wings or side windows located at the
immediate right and left of the driver, shall be a nonreflective type with
reflectivity of not more than 20% and have a light transmission of not less
than 35%. The side windows behind the driver and the rear most windows may have
a sun screening device that is designed to be used on automotive safety glazing
materials that has a light transmission of not less than 35% and a reflectivity
of not more than 20%. If a sun screening device is used on glazing behind the
driver, one right and one left outside rear view mirror is required.
   (D)   Each manufacturer shall:
      (1)   Certify to the State Police and Division of Motor Vehicles that a
sun screening device used by it is in compliance with the reflectivity and
transmittance requirements of this section;
      (2)   Provide a label not to exceed one and one-half square inches in
size, with a means for the permanent and legible installations between the sun
screening material and each glazing surface to which it is applied that
contains the manufacturer’s name and its percentage of light transmission; and
      (3)   Include instructions with the product or material for proper
installation, including the affixing of the label specified in this section.
The labeling or marking must be placed in the left lower corner of each glazing
surface when facing the vehicle from the outside.
   (E)   No person shall:
      (1)   Offer for sale or for use any sun screening product or material for
motor vehicle use not in compliance with this subchapter; and
      (2)   Install any sun screening product or material on vehicles intended
for use on public roads without permanently affixing the label specified in
this section.
   (F)   The provisions of this section do not apply to a motor vehicle
registered in the state in the name of a person, or the person’s legal
guardian, who has an affidavit signed by a physician or an optometrist licensed
to practice in the state that states that the person has a physical condition
that makes it necessary to equip the motor vehicle with sun screening material
which would be of a light transmittance or luminous reflectance in violation of
this section. The affidavit must be in the possession of the person so
afflicted, or the person’s legal guardian, at all times while being transported
in the motor vehicle.
   (G)   The light transmittance requirement of this section does not apply to
windows behind the driver on trucks, buses, trailers, mobile homes, and
multipurpose passenger vehicles.
   (H)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   BUS. A motor vehicle with motive power, except a trailer, designed
for carrying more than ten persons.
      (2)   LIGHT TRANSMISSION. The ratio of the amount of total light to pass
through a product or material to the amount of the total light falling on the
product or material.
      (3)   LUMINOUS REFLECTANCE. The ratio of the amount of total light that
is reflected outward by the product or material to the amount of the total
light falling on the product or materials.
      (4)   MANUFACTURER. Any person engaged in the manufacturing or assembling
of sun screening products or materials designed to be used in conjunction with
vehicle glazing materials for the purpose of reducing the effects of the sun.
      (5)   MOTOR HOMES. Vehicular units designed to provide temporary living
quarters built into and an integral part of or permanently attached to a self-
propelled motor vehicle chassis.
      (6)   MULTIPURPOSE PASSENGER VEHICLE. A motor vehicle with motive power,
except a trailer, designed to carry ten persons or less which is constructed
either on a truck chassis or with special features for occasional off-road
operation.
      (7)   NONREFLECTIVE. A product or material designed to absorb light
rather than to reflect it.
      (8)   PASSENGER CAR. A motor vehicle with motive power, except a
multipurpose passenger vehicle, motorcycle, or trailer, designed for carrying
ten persons or less.
      (9)   SUN SCREENING DEVICE. Film material or device that is designed to
be used in conjunction with motor vehicle safety glazing materials for reducing
the effects of the sun.
      (10)   TRUCK. A motor vehicle with motive power, except a trailer,
designed primarily for the transportation of property or special purpose
equipment.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
Statutory reference:
   W. Va. Code 17C-15-36a
§ 71.113 OPERATION OF VEHICLES WITH SAFETY BELTS.
   (A)   A person shall not operate a passenger vehicle on a public street or
highway unless the person, any passenger in the back seat under 18 years of
age, and any passenger in the front seat of such passenger vehicle is
restrained by a safety belt meeting applicable federal motor vehicle safety
standards. For the purposes of this section, PASSENGER VEHICLE means a motor
vehicle which is designed for transporting ten passengers or less, including
the driver, except that such term does not include a motorcycle, a trailer, or
any motor vehicle which is not required on the date of the enactment of this
section under a federal motor vehicle safety standard to be equipped with a
belt system. The provisions of this section shall apply to all passenger
vehicles manufactured after the first day of January, 1967, and being 1968
models and newer.
   (B)   The required use of safety belts as provided herein does not apply to
a duly appointed or contracted rural mail carrier of the United States Postal
Service who is actually making mail deliveries or to a passenger or operator
with a physically disabling condition whose physical disability would prevent
appropriate restraint in such safety belt if the condition is duly certified by
a physician who shall state the nature of the disability as well as the reason
such restraint is inappropriate.
   (C)   (1)   A violation of this section is not admissible as evidence of
negligence or contributory negligence or comparative negligence in any civil
action or proceeding for damages and shall not be admissible in mitigation of
damages; provided, the court may, upon motion of the defendant, conduct an in
camera hearing to determine whether an injured party’s failure to wear a safety
belt was a proximate cause of the injuries complained of. Upon such a finding
by the court, the court may then, in a jury trial, by special interrogatory to
the jury, determine:
         (a) The injured party failed to wear a safety belt; and
         (b) The failure to wear the safety belt constituted a failure to
mitigate damages.
      (2)   The trier of fact may reduce the injured party’s recovery for
medical damages by an amount not to exceed 5% thereof. In the event the
plaintiff stipulates to the reduction of 5% of medical damages, the court shall
make the calculations and the issue of mitigation of damages for failure to
wear a safety belt shall not be presented to the jury. In all cases, the actual
computation of the dollar amount reduction shall be determined by the court.
   (D)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Traffic Code to the
contrary, no points may be entered on any driver’s record maintained by the
Division of Motor Vehicles as a result of a violation of this section.
   (E)   Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to abrogate or
alter the provisions of §
71.110 relating to the mandatory use of child passenger safety devices.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.114 USE OF ENGINE COMPRESSION BRAKES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to use or operate or
cause to be used or operated within the municipality any engine brake,
compression brake, or mechanical exhaust device designed in the aid of braking
or decelerating of any vehicle that results in excessive, loud, unusual, or
explosive noise from such vehicle on any public ways, including, but not
limited to, streets, alleys, easements, and rights-of-way, established for
vehicle operation, except when necessary for the protection of persons and/or
property which cannot be avoided by application of an alternative braking
system. Noise caused by the application of engine compression brakes which is
effectively muffled or if the application is necessary for the health, safety,
and welfare of the city is exempt from the provisions of this section. Noise
created by emergency equipment for emergency purposes is also exempt.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
SIZE, WEIGHT, AND LOAD
§ 71.125 OVERSIZE OR OVERWEIGHT VEHICLES.
   (A)   Use of state route. No person shall operate or move on state routes
within the municipality a vehicle, or combination of vehicles, of a size or
weight exceeding any limitation stated in W. Va. Code 17C-17. Violation of this
division shall constitute a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Written permit. An applicant may seek special written permit issued by
the Commissioner of Highways pursuant to W. Va. Code 17C-17-11, or other
applicable state code provisions, to transport a vehicle, or combination of
vehicles, that exceed the maximum weight or size specified in W. Va. Code 17C-
17-11 or other applicable West Virginia Code provisions. Every such permit
shall be carried in the vehicle or combination of vehicles to which it refers
and shall be open to inspection by any police officer.
   (C)   State routes only. A holder of a permit issued by the Commissioner of
Highways shall not be required to obtain any local permit or license or pay any
local fee or charge for movement on any state route within the municipality;
however, it shall be unlawful to operate any such vehicle or combination of
vehicles upon any roadway within the municipality which is not a state route,
except as provided in division (D) below.
   (D)   Use of local streets.
      (1)   On streets and highways under the jurisdiction of this
municipality, otherwise known as LOCAL STREETS, no person shall operate a
vehicle, or combination of vehicles, exceeding weight limits established in W.
Va. Code 17C-17 or exceeding weight limits designated by the municipality to
accommodate road conditions within, or on, the municipality’s local streets.
      (2)   Said limitations do not apply to local streets designated as truck
routes and marked as such by appropriate traffic signs and except when such
operation is necessary to load or unload property, to go to or from the usual
place of storage of such vehicle or to perform any other legitimate business or
act other than passage through the municipality. Operators of vehicles so
deviating from either a state route or a designated truck route within the
municipality shall confine such deviation to that required in order to
accomplish the purpose of the departure.
   (E)   Local permit and conditions. Upon application, the Chief of Police may
issue a local permit authorizing an applicant to move an oversize or overweight
vehicle, or combination of vehicles, as defined in division (D) above, on local
streets, as defined in division (D) above.
      (1)   The Chief of Police may grant a permit for a single or round trip,
or for such period of time not to exceed one year, as the Chief of Police, in
his or her discretion, deems advisable, or for the duration of any construction
project. The Chief of Police may limit or prescribe terms or conditions of
operation for such vehicle or combination of vehicles by designating the route,
hours, speed, or such other restrictions as may be necessary for the
preservation of the public peace, property, health, and safety. The Chief of
Police may require the posting of bond or other security necessary to
compensate for any damage to a roadway or road structure.
      (2)   For each such permit, the Chief of Police shall charge $5, or other
amount deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court, and for each hour of time or
any part thereof spent by each police officer in supervising the movement of
such vehicle, the applicant shall pay the sum of $10, or other amount deemed
appropriate by the Municipal Court.
      (3)   Signs shall be posted indicating “NO THRU TRUCKS 15 TONS OR MORE
UNLESS OTHERWISE POSTED”, or words of similar import to apprise drivers of the
limitations imposed by this section. No driver shall disobey the instructions
indicated on any such sign.
      (4)   Violation of any of the limitations, terms, or conditions of the
permit granted by the Chief of Police shall be cause for immediate revocation
or suspension of such permit, and subject to potential denial of request for
any future permit. Such violation shall also subject the violator to the
penalty prescribed by §
71.999(A).
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.126 PROJECTING LOADS ON PASSENGER VEHICLES.
   (A)   No passenger-type vehicle shall be operated on any street or highway
with any load carried thereon extending beyond the line of the fenders of the
left side of such vehicle, nor extending more than six inches beyond the line
of the fenders on the right side thereof.
   (B)   A motor home, travel trailer, or truck camper may exceed the maximum
width prescribed in §
71.127, if the excess width is attributable to an appurtenance that does not
exceed more than six inches beyond the body of the vehicle.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.127 MAXIMUM WIDTH, HEIGHT, AND LENGTH.
   (A)   A vehicle, including any load thereon, may not exceed a height of 13
feet and six inches, but the owner or owners of such vehicles shall be
responsible for damage to any bridge or highway structure and to municipalities
for any damage to traffic control devices or other highway structures where
such bridges, devices, or structures have a vehicle clearance of less than 13
feet and six inches.
   (B)   A motor vehicle, including any load thereon, may not exceed a length
of 40 feet extreme overall dimension, inclusive of front and rear bumpers,
except that a motor home and school bus may not exceed a length of 45 feet,
exclusive of front and rear bumpers.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided in this section or in division (D)
below, a combination of vehicles coupled together may not consist of more than
two units, and no combination of vehicles including any load thereon shall have
an overall length, inclusive of front and rear bumpers, in excess of 55 feet
except as provided in W. Va. Code 17C-17-11b, and except as otherwise provided
in respect to the use of a pole trailer as authorized in W. Va. Code 17C-17-5.
The limitation that a combination of vehicles coupled together may not consist
of more than two units may not apply to:
      (1)   A combination of vehicles coupled together by a saddle-mount device
used to transport motor vehicles in a drive-away service when no more than
three saddle mounts are used, if equipment used in the combination meets the
requirements of the safety regulations of the United States Department of
Transportation and may not exceed an overall length of more than 75 feet;
      (2)   A combination of vehicles coupled together, one of which is a
travel trailer or folding camping trailer having an overall length, exclusive
of front and rear bumpers, not exceeding 65 feet;
      (3)   A combination of two vehicles coupled together, one of which is a
motor home, or a combination of vehicles coupled together, one of which is a
travel trailer or folding camping trailer, may not exceed an overall length,
exclusive of front and rear bumpers, of 65 feet;
      (4)   Notwithstanding the provisions of divisions (A) and (B) above and
this division (C), the Commissioner of Highways may designate, upon his or her
own motion or upon the petition of an interested party, a combination vehicle
length not to exceed 70 feet;
      (5)   The length limitations for truck tractor-semitrailer combinations
and truck tractor-semitrailer-trailer combinations operating on the national
system of interstate and defense highways and those classes of qualifying
federal-aid primary system highways so designated by the United States
Secretary of Transportation and those highways providing reasonable access to
and from terminals, facilities for food, fuel, repairs, and rest and points of
loading and unloading for household goods carriers from such highways and
further, as to other highways so designated by the State Commissioner of
Highways, shall be as follows: the maximum length, of a semitrailer unit
operating in a truck tractor-semitrailer combination shall not exceed 48 feet
in length except where semitrailers have an axle spacing of not more than 37
feet between the rear axle of the truck tractor and the front axle of the
semitrailer, such semitrailer shall be allowed to be not more than 53 feet in
length, and the maximum length of any semitrailer or trailer operating in a
truck-tractor-semitrailer-trailer combination may not exceed 28 feet in length
and in no event shall any combinations exceed three units, including the truck
tractor; provided, nothing herein contained shall impose an overall length
limitation as to commercial motor vehicles operating in truck tractor-
semitrailer or truck tractor-semitrailer-trailer combinations;
      (6)   The total outside width, exclusive of safety equipment authorized
by the United States Department of Transportation, of any vehicle or the load
thereon may not exceed 96 inches, except as otherwise provided in W. Va. Code
17C-17; provided, that any vehicle with a total outside width of 102 inches,
exclusive of safety equipment authorized by the United States Department of
Transportation, may be operated on any street or highway designated by the
United States Department of Transportation or the Commissioner of the
Department of Highways or on any street or highway having a minimum lane width
of ten feet; or
      (7)   Motor homes, travel trailers, truck campers, and motor buses with a
total outside width of 102 inches, excluding safety equipment authorized by the
United States Department of Transportation may operate on any street or
highway.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.128 LOADS DROPPING OR LEAKING.
   (A)   No vehicle or combination of vehicles shall be operated on any street
or highway unless such vehicle or combination of vehicles is so constructed or
loaded as to prevent any of its load from dropping, sifting, leaking, or
otherwise escaping therefrom, except that sand may be dropped for the purpose
of securing traction, or water or other substance may be sprinkled on a roadway
in cleaning or maintaining such roadway.
   (B)   No person shall operate on any street or highway any vehicle or
combination of vehicles with any load unless such load and any covering thereon
is securely fastened so as to prevent such covering or load from becoming
loose, detached, or in any manner a hazard to other users of the street or
highway.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.129 TOWING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   When one vehicle is towing another the drawbar or other connection
shall be of sufficient strength to pull all weight towed thereby and such
drawbar or other connection shall not exceed 15 feet from one vehicle to the
other except the connection between any two vehicles transporting poles, pipe,
machinery, or other objects of structural nature which cannot readily be
dismembered.
   (B)   When one vehicle is towing another and the connection consists of a
chain, rope, or cable, there shall be displayed upon such connection a white
flag or cloth not less than 12 inches square.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
MISCELLANEOUS RULES
§ 71.140 UNATTENDED MOTOR VEHICLE.
   No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit it to set
unattended on public or commercial property without first stopping the engine,
locking the ignition, removing the key, and effectively setting the brake
thereon and, when standing upon any grade, turning the front wheels to the
side, such as to the curb or side of a street or highway.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.141 BACKING A VEHICLE.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless such movement can be
made with reasonable safety and without interfering with other traffic.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.142 DRIVER’S VIEW AND CONTROL TO BE UNOBSTRUCTED BY LOAD OR PERSONS.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded as to obstruct
the view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle or as to interfere
with the driver’s control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (B)   No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in such position as to interfere
with the driver’s view ahead or to the sides, or to interfere with his or her
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.143 PASSENGERS IN SEAT WITH OPERATOR.
   No more than three persons including the operator shall ride or be permitted
by such operator to ride in the seat with the operator of any motor vehicle
while such motor vehicle is being operated on the streets or highways of the
municipality; provided, however, that the limitation of this section shall not
apply to a truck cab or truck crew compartment properly designed for the
occupancy of four persons including the operator, and so designated on the
registration card by the Division of Motor Vehicles.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.144 PASSENGERS ON RUNNING BOARD.
   No passenger shall ride nor shall the operator permit any passenger to ride
on the running boards of any motor vehicle while such vehicle is being operated
on the streets or highways of the municipality.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.145 FOLLOWING AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   The driver of any vehicle, other than one on official business, may not
follow any authorized emergency vehicle traveling in response to a fire alarm
or other emergency closer than 500 feet or drive into or park such vehicle
within the block where such authorized emergency vehicle has stopped in answer
to a fire alarm or other emergency.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code 17C-14-9
§ 71.146 APPROACHING AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle approaching a stationary authorized
emergency vehicle, when the authorized emergency vehicle is giving a signal by
displaying alternately flashing red, red and white, blue, or red and blue
lights, or amber or yellow warning lights, shall:
      (1)   Proceed with due caution, yield the right-of-way by making a lane
change not adjacent to that of the authorized emergency vehicle, if possible,
with regard to safety and traffic conditions, if on a highway having at least
four lanes with not less than two lanes proceeding in the same direction as the
approaching vehicle and reduce speed to a safe level for road conditions; or
      (2)   Proceed with due caution, reduce the speed of the vehicle,
maintaining a safe speed not to exceed 15 mph on any non-divided highway or
street and 25 mph on any divided highway depending on road conditions, if
changing lanes would be impossible or unsafe.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
71.145 in a manner outlined in W. Va. Code 17C-14-9A, or its amendments, shall
be subject to the penalties outlined in said state code provision, or its
amendments.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.147 DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of the Fire Department
when laid down on any street or private driveway to be used at any fire or
alarm of fire without the consent of the Fire Department official in command.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
§ 71.148 OPENING DOOR OF VEHICLE ON TRAFFIC SIDE.
   No person shall open the door of a motor vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, nor shall any
person leave a door open on the side of a motor vehicle available to moving
traffic for a period of time longer than is necessary to load or unload
passengers.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.149 BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM VEHICLE.
   No person shall board or alight from any vehicle while such vehicle is in
motion.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.150 UNLAWFUL RIDING.
   No person shall ride on any vehicle upon any portion thereof not designated
or intended for the use of passengers when the vehicle is in motion. This
provision shall not apply to an employee engaged in the necessary discharge of
a duty or to persons riding within truck bodies in space intended for
merchandise.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.151 SQUEALING TIRES, CRACKING EXHAUST NOISES.
   No person shall unnecessarily rev the motor of any vehicle and no person
shall operate any motor vehicle, except in an emergency, in such a manner that
the vehicle is so rapidly accelerated or started from a stopped position that
the exhaust system emits a loud, cracking or chattering noise unusual to its
normal operation, or whereby the tires of such vehicle squeal or leave tire
marks on the roadway, commonly called “peeling”.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.152 TAKING, INJURING, OR TAMPERING WITH VEHICLE.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall drive a vehicle that is not his or her own
without consent of the owner thereof, and with intent temporarily to deprive
such owner of his or her possession of such vehicle, but without intent to
steal the vehicle.
      (2)   The consent of the owner of a vehicle to its taking or driving
shall not in any case be presumed or implied because of such owner’s consent on
a previous occasion to the taking or driving of such vehicle by the same or a
different person.
      (3)   Any person who assists in, or is a party or accessory to, or an
accomplice in any such unauthorized taking or driving, shall also be guilty of
a violation of this section.
   (B)   No person either individually or in association with one or more
persons shall willfully injure or tamper with any vehicle or break or remove
any part or parts of or from a vehicle without the consent of the owner.
   (C)   No person with intent to commit any malicious mischief, injury, or
other crime shall climb into or upon a vehicle whether it is in motion or at
rest or with like intent attempt to manipulate any of the levers, starting
mechanism, brakes, or other mechanism or device of a vehicle while the same is
at rest and unattended or with like intent set in motion any vehicle while the
same is at rest and unattended.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code 17A-8-4
§ 71.153 DRIVING UPON SIDEWALK, STREET LAWN, OR CURB.
   (A)   No person shall drive any vehicle, other than a bicycle, upon a
sidewalk or sidewalk area except upon a permanent or duly authorized temporary
driveway.
   (B)   No person shall drive a vehicle on a street lawn area or the curb of a
street, except upon a permanent or duly authorized temporary driveway or when
otherwise lawfully authorized.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.154 SHORTCUTTING; AVOIDING TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   No driver shall leave the roadway and enter upon a public or private lot,
street, or any other property to avoid a traffic control device.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.155 COASTING PROHIBITED.
   The operator of any motor vehicle when traveling on a down grade on any
street, alley, or highway shall not coast with the gears of such vehicle in
neutral.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.156 DRIVING THROUGH SAFETY ZONE.
   No operator of a vehicle shall drive the same over or through a safety zone.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.157 DRIVING UPON STREET POSTED AS CLOSED FOR REPAIR.
   No person shall drive upon, along, or across a street or highway, or any
part thereof, which has been closed in the process of its construction,
reconstruction, or repair, when posted with appropriate signs by the authority
having jurisdiction to close such street or highway, except where local
traffic-only signs, or the like, permit vehicle travel.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.158 OBSTRUCTION OF TRAFFIC.
   No person shall operate, stop, stand, or park any motor vehicle on any
street or alley within the municipality so as to obstruct or hinder the free
flow of motor vehicle traffic except in compliance with a lawful order of a
police officer or in compliance with a traffic control sign, signal, or
marking.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.159 VEHICLE SECURITY.
   Every owner or registrant of a motor vehicle shall maintain security upon
such vehicle as required by W. Va. Code 17D-2A, and no person shall knowingly
drive or operate on any street within the municipality any motor vehicle upon
which security is required by such article unless the security is provided, and
violation of any of the provisions of W. Va. Code 17D-2A including failure to
have a certificate of insurance, if required, shall constitute a violation
under this section.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.160 VEHICLE REGULATIONS ON PARK PROPERTY.
   (A)   As used in this section, BOARD means a board authorized by the City
Council to manage park property, and VEHICLE means any automobile, motorcycle,
bicycle, or any other form of mechanical transportation.
   (B)   No person shall drive or propel or cause to be driven or propelled
along or over any roadway or other property under the supervision of the Board
at a greater rate of speed than 15 mph unless another speed limit is posted.
   (C)   No vehicle shall be parked or stopped on any roadway or on any other
property within park areas under the supervision of the Board, except as
designated parking areas.
   (D)   No vehicle shall be parked or stopped on unpaved areas within the park
areas or on areas of the roadway designated for travel of vehicles or on paved
areas not designated for parking, except on occasion when such area is
specifically designated as a parking or driving area, whichever applies, by the
Board or the city.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.161 MOTORIZED SCOOTERS.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      MOTORIZED SCOOTERS. A scooter that is powered by a gasoline or electric
motor or other mode of non-human propulsion-mechanized power.
   (B)   Prohibited acts; exemptions.
      (1)   The riding, operation, or other use of motorized scooters for
transportation or recreational purposes, within or upon the streets, alleys,
sidewalks, parking lots, and other property owned, leased, or controlled by the
city and any of its boards, authorities, or commissions is prohibited, unless
the person using such motorized scooter has a valid drivers’ license under the
provisions of the West Virginia Code.
      (2)   It shall not be an offense for a motorized scooter to be operated
upon a designated parade route when such person is a duly registered and
recognized participant in any properly permitted parade; provided that such
operation occurs in conjunction with said parade.
      (3)   The federal government, the state, and the city are exempt from the
provisions of this subchapter.
      (4)   The provisions of this section do not apply to an electric personal
assistive mobility device as defined in §
71.183 and as operated by a mobility impaired person as defined in §
71.183.
      (5)   Any licensed driver permitted to operate a motorized scooter shall
comply with the required safety equipment set forth in applicable provisions of
this Chapter, or its amendments, and applicable provisions of the West Virginia
Code, and any amendments.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
PEDESTRIANS
§ 71.175 COMPLIANCE WITH TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic control signals at intersections as
provided in §
70.023, but at all other places, pedestrians shall be accorded the privileges
and shall be subject to the restrictions stated in W. Va. Code 17C-10, unless
otherwise modified by this chapter.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
§ 71.176 RIGHT-OF-WAY IN CROSSWALK.
   (A)   When traffic control signals are not in place or not in operation the
driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down, or stopping if
need be to so yield, to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk
when the pedestrian is upon the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is
traveling, or when the pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite
half of the roadway as to be in danger, but no pedestrian shall suddenly leave
a curb or other place of safety and walk or run into the path of a vehicle
which is so close that it is impossible for the driver to yield. This provision
shall not apply under the conditions stated in §
71.177(B).
   (B)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass such stopped vehicle.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
§ 71.177 CROSSING ROADWAY OUTSIDE OF CROSSWALK.
   (A)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (B)   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right-of-way
to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (C)   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a marked
crosswalk.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.178 DRIVERS TO EXERCISE DUE CARE.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this subchapter, every driver of a
vehicle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any
roadway and shall give warning by sounding the horn when necessary and shall
exercise proper precaution upon observing any child or any confused or
incapacitated person upon a roadway.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
§ 71.179 MOVING UPON RIGHT HALF OF CROSSWALK.
   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
§ 71.180 WALKING ALONG STREETS AND HIGHWAYS; SOLICITING RIDES.
   (A)   Where sidewalks are provided, no pedestrian shall walk along and upon
an adjacent roadway.
   (B)   Where sidewalks are not provided, any pedestrian walking along and
upon a street or highway shall, when practicable, walk only on the left side of
the roadway or its shoulder facing traffic which may approach from the opposite
direction.
   (C)   No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a
ride from the driver of any vehicle.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.181 PERSONS WORKING ON STREETS AND HIGHWAYS.
   The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to persons engaged in
maintenance or construction work on a street or highway whenever he or she is
notified of their presence by an official traffic control device or
flagpersons.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
§ 71.182 PROTECTION OF BLIND PEDESTRIANS.
   The driver of a vehicle approaching a blind pedestrian who knows, or in the
exercise of reasonable care should know, that such pedestrian is blind because
such pedestrian is carrying a cane predominantly white or metallic in color
with or without a red tip, or is using a guide dog or otherwise, or should have
any other reason to know the pedestrian is blind, shall exercise care
commensurate with the situation to avoid injuring such pedestrian.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
§ 71.183 ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE. Has the same definition as
previously set forth in §
71.183.
      OPERATOR. Refers to the operator of an electric personal assistive
mobility device.
   (B)   An electric personal assistive mobility device shall be equipped with
front, rear, and side reflectors, a braking system that enables the operator to
bring the device to a controlled stop, and, if operated at any time from one-
half hour after sunset to one-half hour before sunrise, a lamp that emits a
white light that sufficiently illuminates the area in front of the device.
   (C)   An operator of an electric personal assistive mobility device
traveling on a sidewalk, roadway, or bicycle path shall have the rights and
duties of a pedestrian and shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with
pedestrians. An operator shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians.
   (D)   Except as provided in this section, no other provisions of the motor
vehicle code shall apply to electric personal assistive mobility devices.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
BICYCLES
§ 71.195 COMPLIANCE; APPLICATION TO BICYCLES.
   It is a misdemeanor for any person to any act forbidden or fail to perform
any act required in this subchapter. The parent of any child and the guardian
of any ward shall not authorize or knowingly permit any such child or ward to
violate any of the provisions of this title. These regulations applicable to
bicycles shall apply whenever a bicycle is operated upon any street or highway
or upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles subject to those
exceptions stated herein.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.196 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC RULES; EXCEPTIONS.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the
rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle by this title, except as to special regulations in this subchapter and
except as to those provisions of this title which by their nature can have no
application.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code 17C-11-2
§ 71.197 RIDING UPON SEATS; NUMBER OF PERSONS.
   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than upon or astride a
permanent and regular seat attached thereto. No bicycle shall be used to carry
more persons at one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.198 ATTACHING BICYCLE OR SLED TO VEHICLE.
   No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, skateboard, roller skates, sled,
or toy vehicle shall attach the same or himself to any vehicle upon a roadway.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.199 RIDING ON ROADWAYS AND BICYCLE PATHS.
   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near to the
right side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when passing a
standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction. Persons riding
bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two abreast, except on paths
or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles. Whenever a
usable path for bicycles has been provided adjacent to a roadway, bicycle
riders shall use such path and shall not use the roadway.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.200 CARRYING ARTICLES.
   No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle, or article
which prevents the driver from keeping at least one hand upon the handlebars.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.201 LIGHTS AND REFLECTOR ON BICYCLE; SIGNAL DEVICE; BRAKES.
   (A)   Every bicycle, when in use 30 minutes after sunset and 30 minutes
before sunrise, shall be equipped with a lamp on the front which shall emit a
white light visible from a distance of at least 500 feet to the front and with
a red reflector on the rear of a type approved by the Department of Motor
Vehicles, which shall be visible from all distances from 50 feet to 300 feet to
the rear when directly in front of lawful upper beams of head lamps on a motor
vehicle. A lamp emitting a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the
rear may be used in addition to the red reflector.
   (B)   No person shall operate a bicycle unless it is equipped with a bell or
other device capable of giving a signal audible for a distance of at least 100
feet, except that a bicycle shall not be equipped with nor shall any person use
upon a bicycle any siren or whistle.
   (C)   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will enable the
operator to make the braked wheels skid on dry, level, clean pavement.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, W. Va. Code 17C-11-7
§ 71.202 RECKLESS OPERATION; CONTROL, COURSE, AND SPEED.
   No person shall operate a bicycle:
   (A)   Without due regard for the safety and rights of pedestrians and
drivers and occupants of all other vehicles, and so as to endanger the life,
limb, or property of any person while in the lawful use of the streets or
sidewalks or any other public or private property;
   (B)   Without exercising reasonable and ordinary control over such bicycle;
   (C)   In a weaving or zigzag course, unless such irregular course is
necessary for safe operation in compliance with law;
   (D)   Without both hands upon the handle grips, except when necessary to
give the required hand and arm signals, or as provided in §
71.200; or
   (E)   At a speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions
then existing.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.203 PARENTAL DUTIES.
   The parent of any child and the guardian of any ward shall not authorize or
knowingly permit any such child or ward to violate any of the provisions of
this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.204 RIDING ON SIDEWALK PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Riders of bicycles may operate said bicycles on the sidewalks of the
city. However, it shall be unlawful for any person to operate a bicycle upon
the sidewalks of the city carelessly, heedlessly, or in a willful and wanton
disregard for the rights or safety of others, or without due caution and
circumspection, or in a manner as to endanger or be likely to endanger any
person or property, or so as to interfere with the normal movement of vehicular
or pedestrian traffic. Riding of bicycles shall be prohibited on sidewalks that
the City Council may deem prohibited for bicycle riding.
   (B)   This section is not intended to supplant the city ordinance effective
July 1,1994, which restricts bicycle riding on the sidewalks of the business
area of city.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.205 BICYCLE HELMETS FOR CHILDREN.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BICYCLE. A human-powered vehicle with wheels designed to transport, by
the action of pedaling, one or more persons seated on one or more saddle seats
on its frame. Such term also includes a human-powered vehicle, and any
attachment to such vehicle designed to transport by pedaling when the vehicle
is used on a public roadway, public bicycle path or other public right-of-way,
but does not include a tricycle.
      OPERATOR. A person who travels on a bicycle seated on a saddle seat from
which that person is intended to and can pedal the bicycle.
      OTHER PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any right of way other than a public roadway
or public bicycle path that is under the jurisdiction and control of this state
or the municipality and is designed for use and used by vehicular or pedestrian
traffic.
      PASSENGER. Any person who travels on a bicycle in any manner except as an
operator.
      PROTECTIVE BICYCLE HELMET. A piece of headgear which meets or exceeds the
impact standards for protective bicycle helmets set by the American National
Standards Institute (ANSI) or the Snell Memorial Foundation’s standards for
protective headgear or American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) for
use in bicycling.
      PUBLIC BICYCLE PATH. A right of way under the jurisdiction and control of
this state or the municipality for use primarily by bicycles and pedestrians.
      PUBLIC ROADWAY. A right of way under the jurisdiction and control of this
state or the municipality for use primarily by motor vehicles.
      TRICYCLE. A three-wheeled, human-powered vehicle designed for use as a
toy by a single child under the age of six years, the seat of which is no more
than two feet from ground level.
   (B)   Requirements for helmet use.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person under 15 years of age to operate or
be a passenger on a bicycle or any attachment to a bicycle used on a public
roadway, public bicycle path, or other public right-of-way unless at all times
when the person is so engaged he or she wears a protective bicycle helmet of
good fit, fastened securely upon the head with the straps of the helmet.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any parent or legal guardian of a person under
15 years of age to knowingly permit such person to operate or be a passenger on
a bicycle or on any attachment to a bicycle used on a public roadway, public
bicycle path, or other public right-of-way unless at all times when the person
is so engaged he or she wears a protective bicycle helmet of good fit, fastened
securely upon the head with the straps of the helmet.
   (C)   Sale of bicycle helmets. Any helmet sold or offered for sale for use
by operators and passengers of bicycles shall be conspicuously labeled in
accordance with the standard described in division (A) above, which shall
constitute the manufacturer’s certification that the helmet conforms to the
applicable safety standards.
   (D)   Civil actions. A violation of division (B) above is not admissible as
evidence of negligence or contributory negligence or comparative negligence in
any civil action or proceeding for damages, and shall not be admissible in
mitigation of damages.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES
§ 71.220 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE (ATV). Any motor vehicle designed for off-highway use
and designed to travel on not less than three low-pressure tires, having a seat
or saddle designed to be straddled by the operator and handlebars for steering
control, and intended by the manufacturer to be used by a single operator or by
an operator and no more than one passenger.
      MOTORCYCLE. Any motor vehicle manufactured with no more than two wheels
and having a seat or a saddle for the use of the operator.
      OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE. A vehicle intended for off-highway use and includes
all-terrain vehicles, utility-terrain vehicles, motorcycles, and off-road
vehicles.
      OFF-ROAD VEHICLE. A vehicle that is suitable for off-road use. It
includes a four-wheel drive vehicle such as a Jeep, pickup, or sport utility
vehicle. It also includes a specially designed, modified, or customized OFF-
ROAD VEHICLE that is of a similar size to a vehicle manufactured for highway
use.
      UTILITY-TERRAIN VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle with four or more low-pressure
tires designed for off-highway use having bench or bucket seating for each
occupant and a steering wheel for control.
   (B)   As used in this subchapter, ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE and VEHICLE, or the
plural, mean all-terrain vehicles, utility-terrain vehicles, motorcycles, and
off-highway vehicles.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
§ 71.221 ACTS PROHIBITED BY OPERATORS.
   (A)   No all-terrain vehicle may be operated in this state:
      (1)   On any interstate highway except by public safety personnel
responding to emergencies;
      (2)   On any road or highway with a center line or more than two lanes
except for the purpose of crossing the road, street, or highway, if:
         (a)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately ninety degrees
to the direction of the highway and at a place where no obstruction prevents a
quick and safe crossing;
         (b)   The vehicle is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder or main traveled way of the highway;
         (c)   The operator yields his or her right-of-way to all oncoming
traffic that constitutes an immediate potential hazard; and
         (d)   Both the headlight and taillight are illuminated when the
crossing is made if the vehicle is so equipped.
      (3)   With more than one passenger, unless more passengers are allowed
under manufacturers’ recommendations;
      (4)   With a passenger under the age of 18, unless the operator has at a
minimum a level two intermediate driver’s license or its equivalent or is 18
years of age or older;
      (5)   Unless riders under the age of 18 are wearing size-appropriate
protective helmets that meet the current performance specifications established
by the American National Standards Institute Standard, z 90.1, the United
States Department of Transportation Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No.
218, or Snell Safety Standards for Protective Headgear for vehicle users;
      (6)   Anytime from sunset to sunrise without an illuminated headlight or
lights and taillights;
      (7)   Without a manufacturer-installed or equivalent spark arrester and a
manufacturer-installed or equivalent muffler in proper working order and
properly connected to the vehicle’s exhaust system; or
      (8)   Unless operating in compliance with the provisions of §
71.222.
   (B)   An all-terrain vehicle may be operated upon the shoulder, or as far to
the right on the pavement as possible when there is not enough shoulder to
safely operate, on any road, street, or highway referred to in division(A)(2)
(a) of this section other than an interstate highway for a distance not to
exceed ten miles to travel between a residence or lodging and off-road trails,
fields, and areas of operation, including stops for food, fuel, supplies, and
restrooms, if:
      (1)   The vehicle is operated at speeds of 25 mph or less; or
      (2)   The vehicle is operated at any time from sunset to sunrise the all-
terrain vehicle must be equipped with headlights and taillights which must be
illuminated.
   (C)   Operation of an all-terrain vehicle in accordance with division (B)
above shall not constitute operation of a motor vehicle on a road or highway of
this state as contemplated by the provisions of § 7 of this subchapter.
   (D)   Notwithstanding any provision of this chapter to the contrary, a
municipality, county, or other political subdivision of the state may authorize
the operation of all-terrain vehicles on certain specified roads, streets, or
highways which are marked with centerline pavement markings, other than
interstate highways, to allow participation in parades, exhibitions, and other
special events, in emergencies, or for specified purposes.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.222 SAFETY AWARENESS COURSES.
   (A)   No person under the age of 18 may operate an all-terrain vehicle
without a certificate of completion of a vehicle rider safety awareness course
as offered or approved by the Commissioner of Motor Vehicles as identified in
W. Va. Code 17F-1-2. The provisions of this division (A) do not apply to the
operation of an all-terrain vehicle on any private or public recreational trail
or area or affiliated trail or area operated by a person or entity which has in
place a safety program.
   (B)   No state institution of higher education which operates, owns, trains,
or promotes an all-terrain vehicle rider safety awareness course approved by
the Commissioner of Motor Vehicles, pursuant to this section, is liable for
personal injuries to, or for the death of, a rider that may occur during an
approved all-terrain vehicle rider safety awareness course, unless an employee
or agent of the State Institution of Higher Education’s acts or omissions are
with malicious purpose, in bad faith, or undertaken in a wanton or reckless
manner.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.223 LOCAL GOVERNMENT AUTHORITY TO REGULATE.
   Notwithstanding any provision of this chapter to the contrary, the governing
body of a municipality may regulate in any manner or prohibit, by lawfully
enacted ordinance, the operation of all-terrain vehicles upon any street, road,
or avenue within the municipal corporate limits.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
§ 71.224 ATV RENTAL DEALERS REQUIRED TO PROVIDE SAFETY EQUIPMENT.
   Any person or entity renting or leasing all-terrain vehicles for
recreational purposes must provide protective helmets, as defined by the
provisions of §
71.221(A)(5), to all persons using such vehicles who are under the age of 18
and offer protective helmets to all persons 18 and older using the rented or
leased vehicles; provided, that for the provisions of this section to be
applicable, the age and identity of the users of the all-terrain vehicle must
be disclosed to the person or entity providing the rented or leased vehicle.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.225 PRIVATE PROPERTY EXEMPTION.
   Except as provided by the provisions of §§
71.221(A)(3) through (A)(5), and except as provided by the provisions of §
71.222, the provisions of this chapter do not apply if the all-terrain vehicle
is operated exclusively on lands owned or leased by the vehicle owner or on
private lands of others with the owner’s permission.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
§ 71.226 EXEMPTION FOR FARM, COMMERCIAL USE; CURRENT REGULATIONS.
   Except as provided by the provisions §§
71.221(A)(4) and (A)(5), nothing in this subchapter may be construed to
preclude or limit the use or operation of all-terrain vehicles for lawful
nonrecreational commercial purposes, including, but not limited to, farm use,
oil and gas operations, timbering, surveying, and public utilities access.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
§ 71.227 APPLICABILITY OF RULES TO OPERATION.
   (A)   Every person operating an all-terrain vehicle upon a public road or
highway of the municipality shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to
the driver of a vehicle by the provisions of the traffic code codified within
this title, and W. Va. Code Ch. 17C, except where inconsistent with the
provisions of this subchapter and except as to those provisions of W. Va. Code
Ch. 17C which, by their nature, can have no application.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (A) above, a motor vehicle
operator’s license is not required of an operator of an all-terrain vehicle
when he or she is operating said vehicle in conformity with the provisions of
§§
71.221(A)(2) and (B)(2) of this title, except when the operator is under the
age of 18 and is transporting a passenger under the age of 18.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided for in this chapter, any person violating
any provision of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined not more than $100; upon a second conviction within one
year thereafter, shall be fined not more than $200; and upon a third or
subsequent conviction, shall be fined not more than $500; or other amounts
deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court.
   (B)   Any person who violates the provisions of §§
71.001 through
71.004 where the offender exceeds the speed limit by 15 mph or more in the
presence of one or more children, then, upon conviction, that person shall be
fined not less than $100, nor more than $50, or other amount deemed appropriate
by the Municipal Court; or confined in jail for not more than 6 months; or both
such fine and imprisonment. If the school zone signage required by W. Va. Code
17C-6-1(a)(1) is not present in the school zone at the time of the violation,
then any person who violates said provision is guilty of a misdemeanor and,
upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $25, or other amount
deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court.
   (C)   Whoever violates §
71.004 shall be fined not less than $50, nor more than one $100; for a second
offense, fined not less than $50, nor more than $500; or by imprisonment for
not less than six days, nor more 60 days, or both; and for a third and each
subsequent offense, fined not less than $100, nor more than $1,000; or other
amounts deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court; or by imprisonment for not
less than 60 days, nor more than four months; or both such fine and
imprisonment. For the purposes of this section and §
71.004, a forfeiture of bail or collateral deposited to secure such person’s
appearance in court, which forfeiture has not been vacated, shall be equivalent
to a final conviction. If, at the time of any violation of the provisions of §
71.004 by any person as an operator of a motor vehicle, such person was not
entitled to operate a motor vehicle in the state because his or her operator’s
or chauffeur’s license, or privilege to drive in the state if such person be a
nonresident, had earlier been suspended or removed, then in addition to the
penalties provided for in this section, the provisions of §
70.084 shall be applicable.
   (D)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
71.015 through
71.026 or
71.040 through
71.048 is guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined
not more than $100; upon a second conviction within one year thereafter, shall
be fined not more than $200; and upon a third or subsequent conviction, shall
be fined not more than $500; or other amounts deemed appropriate by the
Municipal Court.
   (E)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
71.060 through
71.065 shall be fined not more than $200; upon a second conviction within one
year thereafter, shall be fined not more than $300; and upon a third or
subsequent conviction, shall be fined not more than $1,000; or other amounts
deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court.
   (F)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of §§
71.092 and
71.094 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined not more than $100, or other amount deemed appropriate by the Municipal
Court.
   (G)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of §
71.103 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined not less than $50, nor more than $500, or other amounts deemed
appropriate by the Municipal Court.
   (H)   Any person who violates any provision of §
71.110 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined
not less than $10, nor more than $20, or other amounts deemed appropriate by
the Municipal Court.
   (I)   Whoever violates §
71.112 shall be fined not more than $200, or other amount deemed appropriate by
the Municipal Court.
   (J)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
71.113 shall be fined not more than $25, or other amount deemed appropriate by
the Municipal Court. No court costs or other fees shall be assessed for a
violation of this section. Enforcement of §
71.113 shall be accomplished only as a secondary action when a driver of a
passenger vehicle has been detained for probable cause of violating another
section of this code.
   (K)   If a violator of this §§
71.125 through
71.129 causes damage to local streets, then the city may recover damages
through a civil action brought by the authorities in control of such local
street. A violator is subject to a fine even though no damage has occurred.
Unless otherwise provided in §§
71.125 through
71.129, violators of said sections shall be subject to penalties found in
division (A) above.
   (L)   Any person, either individually or in association with one or more
persons, who shall willfully injure or damage any item of special mobile
equipment or break or remove any parts from an item of special mobile equipment
without the consent of the owner, which injury, damage, or breakage or removal
of parts, as described in §
71.152, shall be of an amount of $1,000 or more, as deemed appropriate by the
Municipal Court, is guilty of a felony. If the injury, damage, or breakage or
removal of parts shall be of an amount which is less than $1,000, such person
is guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (M)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of §
71.154 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined not less than $50, nor more than $100, or other amount deemed appropriate
by the Municipal Court.
   (N)   Any person convicted of a first offense related to §
71.161 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined not less than $25, nor more than $100; any person convicted of a second
or further offense shall be fined not less than $50, nor more than $250; or
other amounts deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court. The parent or other
guardian of any person violating the provisions of §§
71.140 through
71.161, when such person shall not have attained the age of 18 years, shall not
authorize or knowingly permit any such minor to violate any provision of §§
71.140 through
71.161. Any such authorization or if such parent or other guardian shall
knowingly permit any such minor to violate the provisions of §§
71.140 through
71.161 shall constitute a criminal violation and shall subject such parent or
guardian to the criminal penalties set forth in §§
71.140 through
71.161 and this division (N). The citing and conviction of any parent or
guardian shall not prohibit the citing and conviction of the operator of such
motorized scooter.
   (O)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
71.140 through
71.161 is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined
not less than $200, nor more than $5,000; and upon a second or subsequent
conviction, shall be fined not less than $200, nor more than $5,000; or other
amounts deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court,; or confined in the county
or regional jail for not less than 15 days, nor more than one year; or both
such fine and imprisonment; provided, that an insured shall not be guilty of a
violation of this division (O) if he or she furnishes proof that such insurance
was in effect within seven days of being cited for not carrying such
certificate or other proof in such vehicle.
   (P)   An operator who violates a provision of §
71.183 shall receive a warning for the first offense. For a second or
subsequent offense, the operator shall be punished by a fine of not less than
$10 and not greater than $100, or other amount deemed appropriate by the
Municipal Court.
   (Q)   Anyone operating a bicycle in a manner which causes injury to another
person, as described in §
71.204, shall be subject to a fine of $50 for first offense; $100 for second
offense; $200 for third or subsequent offenses; or other amounts deemed
appropriate by the Municipal Court.
   (R)   (1)   Notwithstanding the provisions of §§
70.999 or this
71.999, any parent or legal guardian violating any requirement set forth in §
71.196(B) shall be fined $10, or other amount deemed appropriate by the
Municipal Court; or be required to perform two hours in community service to a
child injury prevention program which includes injury prevention education; or
both fined and required to perform such community service. Notwithstanding the
provisions of W. Va. Code 8-11-1, no court costs may be assessed to any person
violating the requirements of §
71.196(B).
      (2)   In the case of a first violation of §
71.196(B), the court may waive the fine upon receipt of satisfactory proof that
the person has a helmet or within a reasonable time from the date of the
violation, purchased or otherwise obtained, a protective bicycle helmet.
      (3)   It is an absolute defense to a charge for a violation of §
71.205 that a parent or legal guardian is unable to pay for the protective
bicycle helmet. Inability to pay may be demonstrated by the filing of a
financial affidavit in accordance with the provisions of W. Va. Code 59-2-1(c),
or other relevant West Virginia Code sections. Any person who demonstrates
inability to pay shall be referred to the Governor’s Highway Safety Program for
assistance in obtaining the appropriate helmet or helmets.
   (S)   (1)   Except as provided in the provisions of division (S)(2) below
and in addition to any other legal remedy for violation of civil or criminal
provisions of this code, any person who violates the provisions of §§
71.220 through
71.227 or who owns or has control over an all-terrain vehicle and knowingly
permits it to be used in violation of the provisions of §§
71.220 through
71.227 is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined
not more than $100, or other amount deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court.
      (2)   Any parent, legal guardian, or person who has actual responsibility
for a child under 18 years of age who knows or should have known the child is
operating or is a passenger on an all-terrain vehicle without a helmet as
required by the provisions of §§
71.220 through
71.227 is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be subject to the
following penalties:
         (a)   For a first offense, a fine of not less than $50, nor more than
$100, or other amount deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court; or not more
than ten hours of community service; or both fined and required to perform such
community service;
         (b)   For a second offense, a fine of not less than $100, nor more
than $200, or other amount deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court; or not
more than 20 hours of community service; or both fined and required to perform
such community service; or
         (c)   For a third or subsequent offense, a fine of not less than $200,
nor more than $500, or other amount deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court;
or not more than 100 hours of community service; or both fined and required to
perform such community service.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Electric personal assistive mobility devices; penalties, see W. Va. Code
17C-10A-2
   Lamps and other equipment on bicycles, see W. Va. Code 17C-11A-7
   Liability for damage to highway or structure, see W. Va. 17C-17-13
   Racing on streets and highways prohibited; legislative findings; penalties;
mandatory revocation of licenses, see W. Va. Code 17C-6-8
   Security upon motor vehicles; certificate for insurance, see W. Va. Code
17D-2A-4
CHAPTER 72: STOPPING, STANDING, AND PARKING
Section
Special Stops Required
   
72.01   Through streets and stop intersections
   
72.02   Driving onto roadway from place other than roadway; stopping at
sidewalk
   
72.03   Stopping for school bus; signs and warning lights; sale of school bus
   
72.04   Stopping for passenger van; signs and warning lights
   
72.05   Obstructing intersection or crosswalk
Stopping, Standing, and Parking
   
72.20   Stopping, standing, or parking outside of business or residence
districts
   
72.21   Officers authorizes to remove illegally stopped vehicles
   
72.22   Stopping, standing, or parking prohibited in specific places
   
72.23   Right and left parallel parking; angle parking; highway signs
restricting parking, and the like
   
72.24   Removal of vehicles parked, and the like on highways in emergencies;
liability for costs of removal and storage; liens for towing and storage
   
72.25   Signs on workers’ and church buses; when lawful for such buses to stop
on highways and streets
   
72.26   Contesting violations
On-Street Metered Parking
   
72.40   Applicability
   
72.41   Definitions
   
72.42   Establishment of parking meter zones
   
72.43   Existing parking meter zones continued in operation
   
72.44   Days and hours meters to be in operation; required compliance by
vehicle drivers
   
72.45   Placement of meters; meter to signal whether parking space lawfully in
use
   
72.46   Marking of parking spaces; vehicles to park wholly within marked spaces
   
72.47   Duty of driver to make deposit
   
72.48   Prohibited acts; duty of driver to deposit coin in meter
   
72.49   Overtime parking-generally
   
72.50   Responsibility of owner
   
72.51   Collection of coins from parking meters
   
72.52   Disposition of parking meter revenue
 
   
72.99   Penalty
SPECIAL STOPS REQUIRED
§ 72.01 THROUGH STREETS AND STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   City Council or other designated traffic authority may designate
through streets or highways and erect stop signs at specified entrances thereto
or may designate any intersection as a stop intersection and erect like signs
at one or more entrances to such intersection. Every such sign shall bear the
word “STOP” in letters not less than six inches in height, and such sign shall
at nighttime be rendered luminous by steady or flashing internal illumination,
or by a fixed floodlight projected on the face of the sign, or by efficient
reflecting elements on the face of the sign. Every stop sign shall be erected
as near as practicable to the nearest line of the crosswalk on the near side of
the roadway.
   (B)   Every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop sign shall stop before
entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or in the event
there is no crosswalk shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but, if none,
then at the point nearest the intersecting street or highway where the driver
has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting street or highway before
entering the intersection, except when directed to proceed by a police officer
or traffic control signal.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
§ 72.02 DRIVING ONTO ROADWAY FROM PLACE OTHER THAN ROADWAY; STOPPING AT
SIDEWALK.
   The driver of a vehicle within a business or residence district emerging
from any alley, driveway, or building shall stop such vehicle immediately prior
to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area extending across any
alleyway or private driveway, and shall yield the right-of-way to any
pedestrian as may be necessary to avoid collision, and, upon entering the
roadway, shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on such
roadway.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
§ 72.03 STOPPING FOR SCHOOL BUS; SIGNS AND WARNING LIGHTS; SALE OF SCHOOL BUS.
   (A)   (1)   The driver of a vehicle upon meeting or overtaking from either
direction any school bus which has stopped for the purpose of receiving or
discharging any school children shall stop the vehicle before reaching such
school bus when there is in operation on such school bus flashing warning
signal lights, as referred to in W. Va. Code 17C-12-8, and such driver shall
not proceed until such school bus resumes motion, or is signaled by the school
bus driver to proceed or the visual signals are no longer actuated. This
section applies wherever the school bus is receiving or discharging children,
including, but not limited to, any street, highway, parking lot, private road,
or driveway; provided, that the driver of a vehicle upon a controlled access
highway need not stop upon meeting or passing a school bus which is on a
different roadway or adjacent to such highway and where pedestrians are not
permitted to cross the roadway.
      (2)   If the identity of the driver cannot be ascertained, then any such
owner or lessee of the vehicle in violation of this section shall be subject to
the penalty provided for a violation of this section; provided, however, that
such conviction shall not subject such owner or lessee to further
administrative or other penalties for such offense, notwithstanding other
provisions of the West Virginia Code or this title to the contrary.
   (B)   Every bus used for the transportation of school children shall bear
upon the front and rear thereof a plainly visible sign containing the words
“SCHOOL BUS” in letters not less than eight inches in height. When a contract
school bus is being operated upon a street or highway for purposes other than
the actual transportation of children either to or from school, all markings
thereon indicating “SCHOOL BUS” shall be covered or concealed. Any school bus
sold or transferred to another owner by a county board of education, agency, or
individual shall have all flashing warning lights disconnected and all
lettering removed or permanently obscured, except when sold or transferred for
the transportation of school children.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 STOPPING FOR PASSENGER VAN; SIGNS AND WARNING LIGHTS.
   (A)   Every passenger van used for the transportation of children as defined
in §
70.001 shall bear upon the front and rear thereof a plainly visible sign
containing the warning “CAUTION: LOADING AND UNLOADING PASSENGERS” in letters
not less than six inches in height. Every such passenger van shall be equipped
with either flashing warning signal lights as are contemplated and referred to
in W. Va. Code 17C-12-8, or a red caution flag which the driver or some other
adult must use by exiting the passenger van and displaying while assisting in
the loading or unloading of passengers. Such vehicles may also be equipped with
a white flashing strobotron warning light that meets the requirements set forth
in W. Va. Code 17C-15-26(e), as said code section currently exists or may be
amended from time to time.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle upon meeting or overtaking from any direction
any passenger van which has stopped for the purpose of loading or unloading
passengers shall stop his or her vehicle before reaching the passenger van when
there is in operation on the passenger van flashing warning signal lights or
when an adult is outside the passenger van with a red caution flag and
assisting with the loading or unloading of passengers. The driver of a vehicle
may not proceed until he or she is signaled by the passenger van driver to
proceed, the passenger van flashing signal lights are no longer actuated, or
the passenger van resumes motion. This section applies whenever the passenger
van is loading or unloading children on any street, highway, parking lot,
private road, or driveway; provided, the driver of a vehicle upon a controlled
access highway need not stop upon meeting or passing a passenger van which is
on a different roadway or adjacent to the highway and where pedestrians are not
permitted to cross the roadway.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 OBSTRUCTING INTERSECTION OR CROSSWALK.
   No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicle he or she is operating without obstructing the passage
of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic control signal
indication to proceed.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
72.99
STOPPING, STANDING, AND PARKING
§ 72.20 STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING OUTSIDE OF BUSINESS OR RESIDENCE
DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Upon any highway outside of a business or residence district, no
person shall stop, park, or leave standing any vehicle, whether attended or
unattended, upon the paved or main-traveled part of the highway when it is
practicable to stop, park, or so leave such vehicle off such part of said
highway, but in every event an unobstructed width of the highway opposite, a
standing vehicle shall be left for the free passage of other vehicles, and a
clear view of such stopped vehicles shall be available from a distance of 200
feet in each direction upon such highway.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to the driver of any vehicle which is
disabled while on the paved or main-traveled portion of a highway in such
manner and to such extent that it is impossible to avoid stopping and
temporarily leaving such disabled vehicle in such position.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.21 OFFICERS AUTHORIZES TO REMOVE ILLEGALLY STOPPED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle standing upon a highway in
violation of any of the foregoing provisions of this title such officer is
hereby authorized to move such vehicle, or require the driver or other person
in charge of the vehicle to move the same, to a position off the paved or main-
traveled part of such highway.
   (B)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle unattended upon any bridge
or causeway or in any tunnel where such vehicle constitutes an obstruction to
traffic, such officer is hereby authorized to provide for the removal of such
vehicle to the nearest garage or other place of safety.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
§ 72.22 STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIC PLACES.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle, except when necessary
to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law or the
directions of a police officer or traffic-control device, in any of the
following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
      (5)   In a properly designated fire lane;
      (6)   On a crosswalk;
      (7)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      (8)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign,
or traffic control signal located at the side of a roadway;
      (9)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless a
different length is indicated by signs or markings;
      (10)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      (11)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and on
the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75 feet
of the entrance (when properly signposted);
      (12)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (13)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
      (14)   On any bridge or other elevated structure on a highway or within a
highway tunnel;
      (15)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping;
      (16)   Within 20 feet of any mail receptacle served regularly by a
carrier using a motor vehicle for daily deliveries, if the parking interferes
with or causes delay in the carrier’s schedule;
      (17)   On any controlled-access highway;
      (18)   At any place on any highway where the safety and convenience of
the traveling public is thereby endangered;
      (19)   In front of a wheelchair accessible ramp or curb cut which is part
of a sidewalk designed for use by the general public when the ramp or curb cut
is properly marked with blue paint; and/or
      (20)   At any place where other markings indicate that parking is
prohibited.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any prohibited area or away from a curb such distance as is unlawful.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.23 RIGHT AND LEFT PARALLEL PARKING; ANGLE PARKING; HIGHWAY SIGNS
RESTRICTING PARKING, AND THE LIKE.
   Except as otherwise provided in this section, every vehicle stopped or
parked upon a roadway where there are adjacent curbs shall be so stopped or
parked with the right-hand wheels of such vehicle parallel to and within 18
inches of the right-hand curb.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.24 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES PARKED, AND THE LIKE ON HIGHWAYS IN EMERGENCIES;
LIABILITY FOR COSTS OF REMOVAL AND STORAGE; LIENS FOR TOWING AND STORAGE.
   (A)   Whenever a vehicle has been stopped, parked, or left standing upon any
part of a highway or constitutes an obstruction to the restoration of traffic
flow as the result of an accident or other emergency, any police officer or
employee of the city, duly authorized by the City Council to perform such
action, may remove or order the removal of the vehicle, by towing or otherwise,
to the nearest available established garage or parking lot for storage until
called for by the owner or his or her agent
   (B)   The owner is liable for the reasonable cost of removal and storage,
and until payment of the cost the garage or parking lot operator may retain
possession of the vehicle subject to a lien for the amount due. The garage or
parking lot operator may enforce his or her lien for towing and storage in the
manner provided in W. Va. Code 38-11-14.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
§ 72.25 SIGNS ON WORKERS’ AND CHURCH BUSES; WHEN LAWFUL FOR SUCH BUSES TO STOP
ON HIGHWAYS AND STREETS.
   Any bus used primarily for the transportation of workers only and any bus
operated by a church may bear upon the front and rear thereof a plainly visible
sign, either painted or affixed on the body of the bus proper, or attached
securely to the bus, containing the words “WORKERS BUS” or “CHURCH BUS”,
respectively, in letters not less than eight inches in height. Any bus used
primarily for the transportation of workers only and any bus operated by a
church and bearing signs in that manner may lawfully stop upon the paved
portion of any highway or street where there is no loading zone or pull-off
adjacent to the highway or street to load or discharge persons; provided, such
bus shall be equipped with warning lamps permitted under §
71.090, and shall use such warning lamps when stopped on the highway or
decreasing speed in order to stop, in order to warn the operators of other
vehicles of a possible traffic hazard.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
§ 72.26 CONTESTING VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   In the event an alleged violator wishes to contest a violation of this
subchapter, the alleged violator may contest said allegation in the court
system that the city currently uses or may use in the future.
   (B)   If said court system is not available, then the alleged violator may
contest said violation in any other court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
ON-STREET METERED PARKING
§ 72.40 APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to all on-street or curb-line
parking regulated by parking meters, and shall not be applicable within or upon
off-street parking facilities which are the subject of another subchapter of
this title.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
§ 72.41 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PARKING METER. A mechanical device located upon a public street or
sidewalk in a place designated by ordinance as a parking meter zone hereinafter
defined, which device shall record a certain number of minutes by the use of a
clock mechanism determining the period of time for which parking privileges may
be extended to the person depositing a coin of the United States therein.
      PARKING METER ZONE. An area designated by ordinance where a vehicle may
be temporarily parked and allowed to remain for the period of time indicated on
the meter.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
§ 72.42 ESTABLISHMENT OF PARKING METER ZONES.
   Parking meter zones shall be such as may from time to time be established by
ordinance.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
§ 72.43 EXISTING PARKING METER ZONES CONTINUED IN OPERATION.
   Parking meters heretofore installed, and in place by authority of the Common
Council upon the effective date of the ordinance codified herein, shall
continue in operation in accordance with the notices and instructions thereon
or affixed thereto or posted at the locations thereof.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
§ 72.44 DAYS AND HOURS METERS TO BE IN OPERATION; REQUIRED COMPLIANCE BY
VEHICLE DRIVERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle or to permit a
vehicle to remain parked in any parking meter zone for a period longer than
designated on such meter between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday, and between 8:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.
on Friday and Saturday, except on Sundays and holidays. The term HOLIDAY shall
include the following days only:
      (1)   The first of January;
      (2)   Memorial Day;
      (3)   July 4 (the “Fourth of July”);
      (4)   The first Monday in September;
      (5)   December 25; and
      (6)   The day designated and set aside by the President of the United
States as a day of Thanksgiving.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to park a vehicle in any zone without paying the
fee hereinafter designated; or to permit a vehicle to remain parked longer in
any such zone than for the period for which the fee was paid, except on Sundays
and holidays.
   (C)   (1)   Enforcement of violations of parking meters will occur during
the following times:
         (a)   Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday: from 8 a.m. to 4
p.m.; and
         (b)   Saturday and Sunday: No enforcement.
      (2)   The city will not enforce metered parking on the following days:
         (a)   New Year’s Day;
         (b)   Memorial Day;
         (c)   Fourth of July;
         (d)   Labor Day;
         (e)   Christmas Day;
         (f)   Thanksgiving Day; and
         (g)   Any other days that the United States government offices are
closed.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
§ 72.45 PLACEMENT OF METERS; METER TO SIGNAL WHETHER PARKING SPACE LAWFULLY IN
USE.
   Parking meters shall be installed in the parking meter zones as established
and provided for by ordinance and shall be placed upon the curb immediately
adjacent to the individual parking places hereinafter described. Each meter
shall be placed or set in a manner as to show or display by signal whether or
not the parking space adjacent to such meter is legally in use.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
§ 72.46 MARKING OF PARKING SPACES; VEHICLES TO PARK WHOLLY WITHIN MARKED
SPACES.
   (A)   The Street Commissioner, assisted by and at the direction of the Chief
of Police, shall have markings painted or placed upon the curb of street
adjacent to each parking meter for the purpose of designating the parking space
and the angle at which vehicles are parked to the curb. Each vehicle parking
within any parking meter zone shall park within the line or marking so
established.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle across such line or marking,
or to park said vehicle in such position that the same shall not be entirely
within the area designated by such lines or markings.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
§ 72.47 DUTY OF DRIVER TO MAKE DEPOSIT.
   (A)   Any person desiring to park any vehicle within such parking meter
space shall deposit the proper coins to obtain time for parking.
   (B)   Authorized parking tokens issued by the city may be used in lieu of
the coins specified in this section.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
§ 72.48 PROHIBITED ACTS; DUTY OF DRIVER TO DEPOSIT COIN IN METER.
   (A)   Unless duly authorized, no person deface, injure, tamper with, open or
willfully break, destroy, or impair the usefulness of any parking meter
installed under the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Unless authorized by the Common Council, no person shall use anything
other than coins, other appropriate United States money, or other forms of
credit/debit payment using United States money to pay into the parking meter.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.49 OVERTIME PARKING-GENERALLY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit a vehicle to remain in any
metered parking space while such meter is displaying a signal indicating that
the parking time limit has expired.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.50 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, allow, or permit any vehicle
registered in his or her name to park beyond the period of legal parking time
shown on any parking meter, as described in this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.51 COLLECTION OF COINS FROM PARKING METERS.
   (A)   Parking meter collections shall be made by the City Treasurer, or his
or her representative, and a police officer of the city.
   (B)   Parking meter collections shall be made during daylight hours at least
twice each week (or as often as practical to keep the meters in correct
operating order).
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
§ 72.52 DISPOSITION OF PARKING METER REVENUE.
   Parking meter revenue shall be deposited at least once each week in such
bank, and to the credit of such account, as prescribed by ordinance or
resolution of the common council.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
Editors’s note:
   Article III, (3)C of the parking revenue bond ordinance adopted December
7,1970, (which is on file in the office of the City Clerk), provides:
“C. OFF-STREET PARKING REVENUE FUND: The entire gross revenues derived from the
operation of said Off-Street Parking Facilities, and all parts thereof, as well
as revenues from on-street meters necessary to meet bond and interest payments,
shall be deposited in a special fund in a bank in the City of Weston, which is
eligible to receive deposits of municipal funds, which fund is hereby created
and designated as ‘Off-Street Parking Revenue Fund - Water Street and River
Avenue Lots.’ Such fund shall constitute a trust fund for the purposes provided
in this Ordinance and shall be kept separate and distinct from all other funds
of the City and used only for the purposes and in the manner provided in this
Ordinance. The ordinance of December 7, 1970, constitutes a contract between
the city and the bondholders that cannot be changed by subsequent ordinance
without the consent of the bondholders.”
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided for in this chapter, any person violating
any provision of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined not more than $100; upon a second conviction within one
year thereafter, shall be fined not more than $200; and upon a third or
subsequent conviction, shall be fined not more than $500; or other amounts
deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court.
   (B)   Whoever violates §
72.02 shall be fined not more than $100; upon a second conviction within one
year thereafter, shall be fined not more than $200; and upon a third or
subsequent conviction, shall be fined not more than $500; or other amounts
deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court.
   (C)   (1)   Any driver in violation of §
72.04 is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction for a first offense,
shall be fined not less than $500, nor more than $1,000; or other amount deemed
appropriate by the Municipal Court or confined in jail not more than six
months, or both fined and confined. Upon conviction of a second violation of §
72.04, the driver shall be fined not less than $1,000, nor more than $1,500; or
other amount deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court; or confined in jail not
more than six months; or both fine and imprisonment. Upon conviction of a third
or subsequent violation of §
72.04, the driver shall be fined $2,000, or other amount deemed appropriate by
the Municipal Court, and confined not less than 48 hours in jail, but not more
than six months.
      (2)   Any driver acting in violation of §
72.04(B) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction thereof, fined
not less than $50, nor more than $200, or other amount deemed appropriate by
the Municipal Court. If the identity of the driver cannot be ascertained, then
any such owner or lessee of the vehicle in violation of §
72.04(B) shall be fined not less than $25, nor more than $100, or other amount
deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court; provided, however, that such
conviction shall not subject such owner or lessee to further administrative or
other penalties for such offense, notwithstanding other provisions of this
title to the contrary.
   (D)   If any portion of §§
72.20 to
72.26 does not provide a penalty for violating said portion, then the following
penalty structure shall be utilized.
      (1)   A person convicted of violating, or otherwise admitting to
violating, relevant portions of §§
72.20 to
72.26 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to the following penalties:
         (a)   First offense: A fine of no more than $100;
         (b)   Second offense: A fine of no more than $200;
         (c)   Third offense: A fine of no more than $500; or
         (d)   Other amounts deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court.
      (2)   An offender shall pay any fines, costs, forfeitures, or penalties
to the city in a manner agreed upon by both parties, but typically the offender
shall pay the fine at the city’s Municipal Building through the following
methods:
         (a)   Electronic payments;
         (b)   Credit card payments;
         (c)   Debit card payments;
         (d)   Cash;
         (e)   Money order;
         (f)   Certified check; or
         (g)   Through any other method the City Council may deem appropriate.
   (3)   (a)   The offender shall be responsible for paying any service
charges, or the like, that credit card companies (or other entities related to
the payment of an offender’s fine, costs, forfeitures, or penalties) impose on
the use of their services.
      (b)   Under all circumstances, the offender shall submit payment of the
fine, costs, forfeitures, or penalties to the appropriate personnel at the city
whether submission be in person or via electronic payments.
   (E)   (1)   Any person accused of a violation of §§
72.40 through
72.52 may settle and compromise a claim against him or her for such illegal
parking by paying to the city the sum of $5 for the first violation; $10 for
the second violation, if incurred within 24 hours of the first violation; and
$15 for subsequent violations within 24 hours of the first violation; or other
amounts deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court.
      (2)   Failure to settle and compromise the claim, as provided in this
division (E) above, within 24 hours by any person accused of a violation of §§
72.40 through
72.52 shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not less than $5, nor more than
$100, or other amount deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court, together with
the cost of prosecution. In the event an accused fails to settle and/or
compromise the claim, the city may institute appropriate legal proceedings
against the accused.
      (3)   The penalties in this division (E) shall not apply to persons
parking a vehicle so as to obstruct the entrance or exit of any place where
Police Department or Fire Department apparatus or other emergency equipment is
kept or housed, or so as to block an emergency entrance to a hospital; nor
shall this division (E) apply to any person parking a vehicle so as to entirely
obstruct traffic on any street or alley, or parking in such a way as to reduce
traffic on an arterial street to one way traffic only; or to any person who
refuses to remove a vehicle illegally parked at the request of any member of
the Police Department.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Turning regulations
   
II.   Speed limits
SCHEDULE I. TURNING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   All vehicular traffic shall be prohibited from turning right against a
red or stop signal, at the intersections of Main and First Streets, Main and
Second Streets, Main and Third Streets, Third and Court Streets, and Second and
Center Street in the city, and that apt and proper signs be erected at such
intersections giving notice thereof.
   (B)   (1)   At the intersection of Main Avenue and First Street, in the
city, a notice of the prohibition against turning right on red signal from
First Street north on to Main Avenue and from Main Avenue on to First Street
shall be removed and right turns in accordance with the statute aforesaid shall
be permitted.
      (2)   At the intersection of Main Avenue and Second Street in said city,
the signs and notices prohibiting right turn in the northbound lane of Main
Avenue and the southbound lane on Main Avenue shall be removed and right turns
permitted in accordance with said statute.
      (3)   At the intersection of Main Avenue and Third Street in said city,
all signs or notices prohibiting right turn on red shall be removed and a right
turn on a red signal shall be permitted in accordance with the statute.
      (4)   At the intersection of Court Avenue and Third Street in said city
all signs or notices prohibiting a right turn on red signal shall be removed
and right turn on red permitted in accordance with said statute, except for the
northbound lane on Court Avenue.
      (5)   The Street Commissioner of the city is hereby authorized and
directed to take the necessary and appropriate action to remove the signs or
notices aforesaid in accordance with the terms and provisions of this division
(B).
(Ord. passed 11-1-1976; Ord. passed 4-5-1982)
SCHEDULE II. SPEED LIMITS.
   The speed limit shall be reduced to 15 mph on Crescent Avenue and/or
Crescent Alley. Anyone violating the 15 mph speed limit shall be subject to
fines and penalties found in §§
70.999(B) and (C).
(Ord. passed 11-10-2021) Penalty, see §
70.999
CHAPTER 74: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Time-limited parking zones
SCHEDULE I. TIME-LIMITED PARKING ZONES.
   (A)   Two-hour parking zones on Main Street. Pursuant to §§
72.20 through
72.26, W. Va. Code 8-11-1(a)(1), W. Va. Code 8-12-2(a)(5), and W. Va. Code 17C-
13-3, the city establishes various two- hour parking zones on Main Street.
      (1)   The location of the two-hour parking zones will be on certain areas
of Main Street that the City Council, through its various departments, deems
appropriate for two-hour parking zones to be established on Main Street.
      (2)   The city, through City Council and its various departments, will
establish two-hour parking zones for handicapped parking on Main Street.
      (3)   The two-hour parking zones will be identified by signs that are
readily visible and clearly marked as two-hour parking zones.
      (4)   The city, through its Police Department or other designated
persons/entities, shall enforce this section.
      (5)   (a)   Pursuant to §
72.99(D), penalties for violating this section shall be:
            1.   For first violation: $10;
            2.   For second violation: $20;
            3.   For third or more violations: $40; or
            3.   Other amount deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court.
         (b)   Challenges to said violations of this section shall be governed
by §
72.26, or any replacement of §
72.26.
   (B)   Penalty payment. Payment of any fines, fees, forfeitures, or other
penalties related to this section shall be made in a manner consistent with §
72.99(D), or any replacement of §
72.99(D). The offender shall have 30 days to pay any fines, fees, forfeitures,
or other penalties resulting from said violation. If an alleged offender does
not pay any fees, fines, forfeitures, or other penalties stemming from the
violation of this section, then the city may institute available legal
proceedings against alleged offender.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2021)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   PARADES AND DEMONSTRATIONS
      
94.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
95.   FIRE PREVENTION
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
In General
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Animals at large; impoundment and disposition
   
90.03   Hogs, swine, and the like prohibited
   
90.04   Keeper of chickens
   
90.05   Maintenance of stables, pens, coops, and the like; abatement of
nuisances
   
90.06   Speed and manner of riding or driving of animals on the streets
   
90.07   Cruelty to domestic animals and fowl
   
90.08   Disposition of carcasses
   
90.09   Transportation of carcasses
Dogs
   
90.20   Annual head tax imposed; amount of tax and when payable
   
90.21   Registration tag to be worn
   
90.22   Prohibited running at large; limitation on dogs being in stores and the
like
   
90.23   Impoundment and disposition of dogs found running at large
   
90.24   Yelping, howling, and the like to annoyance of neighborhood
   
90.25   Mad dogs; proclamation of Mayor that muzzles be worn; impoundment of
unmuzzled dogs during period of proclamation
   
90.26   Responsibility of owner to pick up dog waste
Cats
   
90.40   Findings
   
90.41   Definitions
   
90.42   Euthanizing hopelessly sick and/or seriously injured felines
   
90.43   Felines running at large
   
90.44   Proper disposal of excrement by owners or keeper of felines
   
90.45   Feeding of undomesticated or stray felines
   
90.46   Condition of premises where any feline is kept
   
90.47   Trapping of felines running at large
Dangerous Dogs and Other Animals
   
90.60   Dangerous dogs; definition
   
90.61   Procedure for the determination of a dangerous dog
   
90.62   Control, registration, and confinement
   
90.63   Violation of requirements
   
90.64   Threat to public safety
   
90.65   Aggressive dogs at large
   
90.66   Impounding, redemption, and disposition
 
   
90.99   Penalty
IN GENERAL
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL WARDEN. The person designated as such by the Mayor and Common
Council.
   AT LARGE. Any animal or fowl when not upon property owned or lawfully
occupied by its keeper, or when upon the property of another without the
consent of the owner or lawful occupant of such property shall be deemed to be
AT LARGE unless such animal or fowl is held on a leash or otherwise under the
effective control of a responsible person.
   DANGEROUS DOG. Includes:
      (1)   Any dog with a known propensity, tendency, or disposition to
attack, to cause injury, or otherwise threaten the safety of human beings or
domestic animals;
      (2)   Any dog which, in a vicious or threatening manner, approaches any
person or another domestic animal in an apparent attack upon the person or the
domestic animal;
      (3)   Any dog which attacks or bites, or has attacked or bitten a human
being or domestic animal;
      (4)   Any dog owned or harbored primarily or in part for the purpose of
dog fighting, or any dog trained for dog fighting; or
      (5)   Any dog already determined to be an aggressive dog at large as
defined in this chapter.
   DOG. Include female dogs as well as male dogs.
   ENCLOSURE.
      (1)   A fence or structure of at least six feet in height, forming or
causing an enclosure suitable to prevent the entry of young children and
suitable to confine a dangerous dog.
      (2)   An ENCLOSURE shall be securely enclosed and locked and designed to
prevent the animal from escaping from the ENCLOSURE.
      (3)   If such ENCLOSURE has no bottom secured to the sides, the sides
must be embedded into the ground no less than one foot.
   KEEPER. Any person owning or having possession or custody of an animal or
fowl or any person keeping, harboring, or caring for an animal or fowl shall be
deemed to be the KEEPER thereof; thus, the owner of an animal or fowl shall
continue to be a KEEPER thereof even though another person may be harboring or
caring for such animal or fowl and is likewise a KEEPER thereof.
   OWNER. An individual who has lawful title to a dog, or is the keeper or
harborer of the dog. A parent or legal guardian shall be deemed to be the OWNER
of a dog maintained by or on behalf of a minor upon the premises of the parent
or legal guardian.
(Prior Code, § 4-1) (Ord. passed 11-2-2020)
Statutory reference:
   As to diseases among domestic animals, see W. Va. Code 19-9-1 et seq.
   As to domestic stock law, see W. Va. Code 19-18-1 et seq.
   Authority to regulate and prohibit the keeping of animals, see W. Va. Code
8-12-5(26)
§ 90.02 ANIMALS AT LARGE; IMPOUNDMENT AND DISPOSITION.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any horse, mule,
jack, jennet, swine, cow, cattle, hog, pig, shoat, goat, poultry, or other fowl
to run at large within the city; and any such animal or fowl found at-large
within the city shall be taken up by the animal warden and impounded at a
public pound or other suitable place and kept there for at least three days
and, whenever possible, its owner or other keeper shall be notified of such
happening and the manner in which the animal or fowl may be redeemed, to wit,
by the payment of an impounding fee of $1, or other amount deemed appropriate
by the Municipal Court, plus the cost of care, feeding, and shelter, such
payment to be made within two days from the date of such notice.
      (2)   Any animal or fowl not so redeemed may be sold at a public sale to
recover the impoundment fee and costs herein mentioned; and if no buyer is
found, the animal or fowl in question may be destroyed or given away to some
responsible person.
   (B)   The proceeds of any sale under division (A) above which are in excess
of the impoundment fee, cost of care, feeding and shelter, and the cost of sale
shall be turned over by the animal warden to the City Treasurer and shall be
held by him or her until claimed by the owner of the animal or fowl in question
within three months of the sale; and if no claim is made within such time, such
proceeds so held shall be credited to the General Fund of the city.
(Prior Code, § 4-2) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 HOGS, SWINE, AND THE LIKE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep within the city any live hog,
pig, shoat, or swine.
(Prior Code, § 4-3) Penalty, see §
90.99
Charter reference:
   Authority to prevent animals and fowl from being at large, see Charter § 30
§ 90.04 KEEPER OF CHICKENS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep within the city more than 25
live chickens at any one time, or to keep one or more chickens within the city
contrary to the provisions of any zoning ordinance now or hereafter in force.
(Prior Code, § 4-4) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 MAINTENANCE OF STABLES, PENS, COOPS, AND THE LIKE; ABATEMENT OF
NUISANCES.
   (A)   Each stable, pen, coop, or other place within the city where any
animal or fowl is kept shall be maintained by the keeper at all times in a
clean and sanitary condition and free of offensive odors and solid and liquid
waste matter.
   (B)   Any place where an animal or fowl is kept which is found to be in
violation of this section shall be deemed to be a public nuisance, subject to
abatement by the city at the expense of the person responsible therefor or the
owner of the property whereon it exists.
(Prior Code, § 4-5)
Charter reference:
   Authority to prevent injury or annoyance to the public, see Charter § 30
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances, see
Ch. 92
§ 90.06 SPEED AND MANNER OF RIDING OR DRIVING OF ANIMALS ON THE STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride, drive, or lead a horse or other
animal, whether such animal be hitched to a vehicle or not, upon any street or
other place within the city at such speed or in such manner as to endanger
life, health, or property, or at a speed in excess of that permitted by state
law, this code, or other ordinance for motor vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 4-6) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 CRUELTY TO DOMESTIC ANIMALS AND FOWL.
   No person within the city shall cruelly, unnecessarily, or needlessly beat,
torture, mutilate, kill, overload, or overdrive any domestic animal or fowl,
nor wilfully deprive any domestic animal or fowl of necessary sustenance or
shelter.
(Prior Code, § 4-7)
Statutory reference:
   As to malicious killing of, and cruelty to, animals, see W. Va. Code 61-3-27
and 61-8-19
   Authority to enact this section, see W. Va. Code 8-12-5(27)
§ 90.08 DISPOSITION OF CARCASSES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Street Commissioner to cause to be
promptly removed and buried any animal or fowl found dead on any street,
sidewalk, or public place in this city; and any animal or fowl which be there
killed by any officer or other person under any provision of this chapter or
pursuant to any law, of which killing the Street Commissioner shall be
immediately notified by such officer or other person; provided, that any animal
or fowl which may be killed by any vehicle shall be promptly removed and buried
by and at the expense of the owner of such vehicle, and a failure so to do for
more than one hour shall be unlawful.
   (B)   Whenever any animal or fowl is killed or is found dead upon any lot or
premises owned or occupied by the owner or keeper thereof, such owner or keeper
of such animal or fowl shall cause same to be removed and buried and a failure
to do so for more than 12 hours shall be unlawful.
   (C)   (1)   Whenever any animal or fowl is found dead or is killed upon any
lot or premises in this city not owned or occupied by the owner or keeper of
such animal or fowl, the carcass shall be removed and buried under the
direction of the Street Commissioner, upon the request made by the owner or
occupant of such premises, and the expenses of such removal and burial shall be
paid to the city by the person who was the owner or keeper of such animal or
fowl if such person can be ascertained, unless herein otherwise provided.
      (2)   A bill for such expense shall be made out by the City Clerk upon
information from the Street Commissioner and shall be placed in the hands of
the City Treasurer for collection, and such persons shall pay such bill, within
24 hours after its first presentation, and a failure so to do shall be
unlawful.
   (D)   Whenever any animal or fowl is killed within this city by any person,
save when under some provision of this chapter or pursuant to some law, the
person so killing such animal or fowl shall cause to be removed and buried, and
a failure to do so for more than one hour shall be unlawful.
   (E)   Whenever under any provision of this code or any ordinance of the city
it is made the duty of any person, other than the Street Commissioner, to
remove or bury any dead animal or fowl, and such person fails so to do for 12
hours, the Street Commissioner shall so remove and bury such carcass, and the
expense of so doing shall be paid to the city by the person whose duty it was
to remove or bury it, and the expense shall be collected as provided in
division (C) above, and a failure to pay same as therein provided shall be
unlawful.
   (F)   The payment to the city of the expense of the removing or burying any
carcass by any person whose duty it is so to do, or the payment of a fine for
the failure to pay such expenses as above provided, shall not release such
person from any liability or penalty he or she may have incurred by reason of
his or her previous failure to perform such duty, but same shall be in addition
to such liability or penalty.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cast or put any dead or dying
animal or fowl found on any premises in this city, upon any premises belonging
to or occupied by any other person, or upon any street, alley, or public place.
(Prior Code, § 4-8) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   As to collection by city of taxes and special assessments, see W. Va. Code
8-13-15
   As to prohibited disposition of carcasses, see W. Va. Code 16-9-2 and 16-9-3
§ 90.09 TRANSPORTATION OF CARCASSES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to expose, transport, or move any part
or all of the carcass of any animal or fowl upon any street, sidewalk, or
public place within the city unless such carcass shall be completely covered
from public view and from access of flies, or other disease carrying insects,
by a heavy cloth or other suitable covering.
(Prior Code, § 4-9) Penalty, see §
90.99
DOGS
§ 90.20 ANNUAL HEAD TAX IMPOSED; AMOUNT OF TAX AND WHEN PAYABLE.
   (A)   Every person who owns or keeps within the city a dog over the age of
six months shall pay an annual head tax of $3, or other amount deemed
appropriate by the Municipal Court, for each dog whether male, spayed female,
or unspayed female.
   (B)   The taxes imposed by this section shall be paid on or before July 1 of
each year to the County Assessor or to one of his or her deputies; provided,
that when a person becomes the owner of a dog which is six months or more of
age, or when a dog owned or kept within the city attains the age of six months,
such owner or keeper shall pay the tax imposed by this section at the time of
acquisition of such dog, or at the time such dog attains the age of six months,
as the case may be.
(Prior Code, § 4-10) (Ord. passed 6-8-1981)
Statutory reference:
   As to duty of county assessors to collect and pay taxes, see W. Va. Code 19-
20-2
   Authority of city to impose an annual license tax, see W. Va. Code 8-13-10
§ 90.21 REGISTRATION TAG TO BE WORN.
   Each owner or keeper of a dog within the city shall cause such dog to wear a
suitable collar or harness, to which shall be securely attached the current
year’s registration tag of such dog.
(Prior Code, § 4-11)
§ 90.22 PROHIBITED RUNNING AT LARGE; LIMITATION ON DOGS BEING IN STORES AND THE
LIKE.
   No owner or keeper of a dog within the city shall permit such dog to run at
large; or to enter any store or other place where goods, merchandise, food
stuffs, or other commodities are sold, exchanged, exposed, or offered for sale
or exchange, and it shall be the duty of the owner and occupant of such store
or other place to immediately cause such dog so entering to be expelled
therefrom, but this provision shall not apply to seeing-eye dogs held on leash
by blind persons.
(Prior Code, § 4-12)
§ 90.23 IMPOUNDMENT AND DISPOSITION OF DOGS FOUND RUNNING AT LARGE.
   Dogs found running at large within the city shall be subject to impoundment
and disposition in the same manner as other animals as provided in §
90.02.
(Prior Code, § 4-13)
§ 90.24 YELPING, HOWLING, AND THE LIKE TO ANNOYANCE OF NEIGHBORHOOD.
   No person shall harbor or keep any dog which by loud and frequent or
habitual barking, yelping, or howling shall cause serious annoyance to the
neighborhood or to people passing upon the street.
(Prior Code, § 4-14) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.25 MAD DOGS; PROCLAMATION OF MAYOR THAT MUZZLES BE WORN; IMPOUNDMENT OF
UNMUZZLED DOGS DURING PERIOD OF PROCLAMATION.
   Whenever it shall appear to the Mayor that there is good reason to believe
that any dog within the city is mad, it shall be his or her duty to issue his
or her proclamation requiring that all dogs within the city shall, for a period
named in such proclamation, wear a good substantial muzzle, so securely put on
as to prevent any such dog from biting. If any dog shall be found in the city
during such period without wearing a muzzle, such dog shall be impounded and
treated in all respects as is provided in §
90.02, and moreover, such dog shall not be delivered to anyone until so
muzzled; provided, that if there is a reason to believe that any dog is mad, or
has been bitten by a mad dog, then it shall be the duty of any officer of the
city to immediately kill or cause such dog to be killed and buried.
(Prior Code, § 4-15)
§ 90.26 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER TO PICK UP DOG WASTE.
   No owner or keeper of any dog shall permit the dog to defecate upon the
streets or sidewalks of the city or upon any property not owned by the owner or
keeper of said dog without immediately collecting, removing, and properly
disposing of the canine fecal matter.
(Ord. passed 4-13-1993) Penalty, see §
90.99
CATS
§ 90.40 FINDINGS.
   The City Council does hereby find the following:
   (A)   Improper care, keeping and treatment of, and general control over
felines may constitute abusive or neglectful treatment of animals defined as
cruelty to animals in violation of state statute;
   (B)   Pursuant to state statute, the governing body of a municipality is
expressly permitted to regulate or prohibit the keeping of animals within the
corporate limits; and
   (C)   Various problems have been observed within the corporate limits of the
city respecting the care, keeping of, and general control of felines.
(Ord. passed 9-5-2006)
§ 90.41 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDON. The leaving of any animal without adequate care or attendance,
provisions, or shelter.
   AGENT. Any person who is employed, appointed, or contracted by the Common
Council of the City of Weston.
   ANIMAL. Any living organism other than plant life, but excluding human
beings. ANIMALS in this subchapter include arthropods, amphibians, reptiles,
birds, and mammals.
   CAT. Any member of the feline family, but particularly domesticated or stray
cats of both genders.
   CONTROL. Having the ability to maintain your animal physically by means of a
leash, pen, or within the confines of a residential dwelling.
   CUSTODY. Have ownership or guardianship over an animal.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any person authorized either by this subchapter or
state statute to enforce the provisions hereof, or of state law, and
specifically including the animal control officer and any officer of the City
of Weston Police Department.
   FELINE. Commonly known as a CAT.
   IDENTIFICATION TAGS. A tag on the collar to allow for the proper
identification of the owner of said animal.
   IMPOUNDMENT. The taking of or picking up and confining of an animal by any
enforcement officer.
   OWNERSHIP. A person or persons having an animal in there care or
guardianship.
   REGISTRATION. All felines are to be registered with the City of Weston
through a registration process in which the feline shall be given a tag with
the owner’s name and address.
   TRAPPER. An individual allowed by the Department of Natural Resources and
the State of West Virginia to capture animals through humane efforts.
(Ord. passed 9-5-2006)
§ 90.42 EUTHANIZING HOPELESSLY SICK AND/OR SERIOUSLY INJURED FELINES.
   (A)   Any feline discovered running at large which is observed to be in poor
health or injured, upon impoundment shall be examined as promptly as is
reasonable and convenient by a veterinarian. Upon their findings that the
animal is unlikely to recover from sickness or injuries, that is the procedures
for the feline shall not exceed $100, or other amount deemed appropriate by the
Municipal Court, and then such animal shall be euthanized.
   (B)   Upon determining the owner of any such animal described in division
(A) above, all boarding, impoundment, veterinary, euthanizing, and disposal
costs shall be assessed to and paid by the animal’s owner.
(Ord. passed 9-5-2006)
§ 90.43 FELINES RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   Any owner or keeper of any feline who permits such animal to run at
large shall be deemed to have violated the provisions of this subchapter, and
shall be subject to the penalties of §
90.99(C).
   (B)   All felines are to be registered within the corporate limits of the
city through a tagging process that would allow for the identification of the
animals and their owners or guardians.
(Ord. passed 9-5-2006)
§ 90.44 PROPER DISPOSAL OF EXCREMENT BY OWNERS OR KEEPER OF FELINES.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
90.43, the owner or person having custody of any feline shall nevertheless be
required to periodically to properly and completely collect and dispose of any
and all feline fecal excrement accumulating upon the premises of such owner or
other person having custody of said feline. Any detection of excrement or odor
from feline of any neighboring property shall be deemed to constitute prima
facie evidence of such feline owner or other person’s failure to abide by this
section, and shall be subject to the penalties of §
90.99(C).
(Ord. passed 9-5-2006)
§ 90.45 FEEDING OF UNDOMESTICATED OR STRAY FELINES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place any type of food upon any
property for the purpose of feeding a stray or undomesticated feline; however,
said person may adopt the feline(s) through proper registration.
(Ord. passed 9-5-2006) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.46 CONDITION OF PREMISES WHERE ANY FELINE IS KEPT.
   The premises wherein any feline is kept shall be at all times kept in a
sanitary position and shall not constitute a violation of §
90.44.
(Ord. passed 9-5-2006)
§ 90.47 TRAPPING OF FELINES RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   The city and its agents shall work cooperatively with all state and/or
county agencies and other authorities in alleviating problems and nuisances
created by felines running at large.
   (B)   The city shall establish a humane trapping program for felines running
at large.
   (C)   The city shall apply reasonable means to determine and locate the
owners of these felines. If the owner is unable to be located, said feline
shall be able to be adopted by an adult individual after all associated fees by
the Upshur/Lewis County Animal Shelter are paid. If said owner can not be
located or no adoption occurs, the animal shall be euthanized in a humane
manner.
   (D)   The city, through its agents, shall have the plenary power to
alleviate problems and nuisances caused by stray felines and felines running at
large in accordance with the practices or policies either specifically
established or as specified by the state’s Bureau of Commerce’s Division of
Natural Resources.
   (E)   The trapping, capturing, hunting, drugging, poisoning, or killing of
any feline, except otherwise expressly authorized by this subchapter, shall be
strictly prohibited within the corporate limits of the city. Any person charged
with a violation of this subchapter shall not be permitted to assert as a
defense that the means of trapping, capturing, hunting, drugging, poisoning, or
killing of any feline was intended to help the city or its agents by any means.
(Ord. passed 9-5-2006)
DANGEROUS DOGS AND OTHER ANIMALS
§ 90.60 DANGEROUS DOGS; DEFINITION.
   (A)   Notwithstanding the definition of a dangerous dog in §
90.01, no dog may be declared dangerous if any injury or damage is sustained by
a person or animal who, at the time of such injury or damage was sustained, was
committing or attempting to commit a willful trespass or other crime or tort
upon the premises occupied by the owner of the dog, or was teasing, tormenting,
abusing, or assaulting the dog. Further, no dog may be declared dangerous if
the dog was protecting or defending a human being within the immediate vicinity
of the dog from an unjustified attack or assault.
   (B)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be deemed to regulate or prohibit the
lawful maintenance of dogs by law enforcement agencies.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2020)
§ 90.61 PROCEDURE FOR THE DETERMINATION OF A DANGEROUS DOG.
   (A)   In the event that a humane officer or police officer has probable
cause to believe that a dog is dangerous, as defined in §
90.01 and this subchapter, the Municipal Court Judge may convene a hearing for
the purpose of determining whether the dog in question should be declared
dangerous as defined by §
90.60. Pending the determination, the humane officer or police officer may
order the dog to be impounded at a licensed veterinary clinic or the humane
association. Consistent with §
90.66, the owner of the dog shall be liable for the reasonable costs incurred
for the care, treatment, and boarding of the dog.
   (B)   Notice shall be provided to the owner of the dog that a hearing will
be held before the Municipal Court to determine whether the dog is dangerous,
as defined in §
90.01 and this subchapter; such notice shall provide in writing the date, time,
and place of the hearing. The failure of the owner to attend or participate in
the hearing shall not preclude the Municipal Court Judge from making the
appropriate determination concerning the dog. The hearing shall be held no less
than five, nor more than 20, days after service of notice upon the owner of the
dog. The city shall have the burden of proof to show that the dog is dangerous
pursuant to §
90.60.
   (C)   The Municipal Court Judge shall issue such order in writing as is
appropriate. Upon entry, the Municipal Court Clerk shall serve copies of such
order upon all parties to the action. If a determination is made by the
Municipal Court Judge that the dog is dangerous, the owner shall comply with
the provisions of §
90.62 within 15 days of entry of the order. If the owner fails to comply with
the provisions of §
90.62 within the time provided, the dog shall be euthanized and the owner shall
be responsible for all reasonable costs related thereto.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2020)
§ 90.62 CONTROL, REGISTRATION, AND CONFINEMENT.
   If the Municipal Court Judge determines that a dog is dangerous, the owner
such dog shall comply with the following procedures.
   (A)   Registration. The owner shall:
      (1)   Have a microchip inserted into the dog by a veterinarian, which
microchip shall detail the dangerous dog designation and such other information
as may be appropriate to determine the ownership of the dog. The owner shall be
responsible for all costs associated with the microchip procedure;
      (2)   Maintain an insurance policy in a minimum amount of $50,000, or
other amount deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court, to cover any injuries
to persons or property which may be caused by the dangerous dog; and
      (3)   Annually register the dangerous dog with the city, on forms
designated by the City Manager, which registration shall include proof of
installation and maintenance of the microchip and the required insurance. The
owner shall pay a $50, or other amount deemed appropriate by the Municipal
Court, annual registration fee. The owner shall be responsible for maintaining
with the City Manager the address of the owner of the dangerous dog. Upon any
change of address of the owner, or any change in the place of residence of the
dangerous dog, or any change in ownership of the dangerous dog, the owner shall
within seven days of such change notify the City Manager.
   (B)   Confinement. At all times, except as otherwise provided in this
subchapter, all dangerous dogs shall be confined inside the dwelling of the
owner or inside an enclosure. It shall be unlawful for any owner to allow a
dangerous dog to be outside of the dwelling of the owner or outside the
enclosure unless it is necessary for the owner to obtain veterinary care for
the dangerous dog or for the limited purposes of allowing said dangerous dog to
urinate or defecate or to sell or give away the dangerous dog, or to respond to
such orders of law enforcement officials as may be required. In such event, the
dangerous dog shall be securely muzzled and restrained with a leash not
exceeding four feet in length, and shall be under the direct control and
supervision of the owner of the dangerous dog. The muzzle shall be made and
used in a manner that will not cause injury to the dog or interfere with its
vision or respiration, but shall prevent it from biting any human or other
animal.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.63 VIOLATION OF REQUIREMENTS.
   Any person found guilty of violating the requirements of §
90.62 shall be assessed, fined, and the animal disposed of as follows.
   (A)   Any dangerous dog that is not confined or registered pursuant to §
90.62 shall be impounded by a humane officer or police officer in accordance
with the provisions of §
90.66. Pending the adjudication of a second offense under this section and §
90.99(D)(1), the redemption provision of §
90.66 is suspended. The Municipal Court Judge shall have no authority to
suspend the fine or any portion thereof;
   (B)   Any dangerous dog which, without provocation, attacks, assaults,
wounds, bites, or otherwise injures, or assists in injuring, a human being
shall be impounded by a humane officer or a police officer in accordance with
the provisions of §
90.66. The Municipal Court Judge shall have no authority to suspend the fine
related to this violation, as defined in §
90.99(D)(2), or any portion thereof;
   (C)   Any dangerous dog which, without provocation, attacks, assaults,
wounds, bites, or otherwise injures or assists in injuring any domestic animal
shall be impounded by a humane officer or a police officer in accordance with
the provisions of §
90.66. The Municipal Court Judge shall have no authority to suspend the fine
related to this violation, as defined in §
90.99(D)(3), or any portion thereof.
   (D)   Upon conviction under divisions (B) and (C) above, the Municipal Court
Judge shall order that the owner be deemed to have forfeited all interest in
the dog and that the dog be humanely euthanized; provided, upon presentation of
evidence satisfactory to the Municipal Court Judge that the dangerous dog
should not be euthanized in this case, then such dog may be released to the
custody of the owner upon the payment of the fees and expenses as set forth in
§
90.66 for redemption of the dog by the owner.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.64 THREAT TO PUBLIC SAFETY.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any provision of this subchapter to the contrary and
irrespective of whether the dog has been declared dangerous pursuant to this
subchapter, no person shall harbor, own, or possess a dog that is an immediate
threat to public health and safety.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any provision of this subchapter to the contrary and
irrespective of whether the dog has been declared dangerous pursuant to this
subchapter, the Municipal Court Judge may order any dog destroyed if the
Municipal Court Judge determines that the dog is an immediate threat to public
health, safety, and welfare and that confinement and registration of the dog by
the owner of the dog as provided in this subchapter will not adequately protect
public health, safety, and welfare. In making such determination, the Municipal
Court Judge shall consider the severity of any attack and any other relevant
information.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Vicious dogs, W. Va. Code 8-12-5(26), 19-20-20, and 19-20-21
§ 90.65 AGGRESSIVE DOGS AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own or keep an aggressive dog which
runs at large in the city. Knowledge or acquiescence by the owner is not an
element of the offense. An AGGRESSIVE DOG AT LARGE means any dog at large that,
without provocation, exhibits aggressive or combative behavior toward a person
or another domestic animal, whether said person or domestic animal is
physically attacked or bitten.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.66 IMPOUNDING, REDEMPTION, AND DISPOSITION.
   (A)   (1)   Any dog found running at large in the city may be seized. The
owner or keeper of any dog may retrieve such dog upon paying all of the costs,
fines, and fees imposed for a violation of this subchapter, or by posting
proper bond pending trial for a charge of a violation of this subchapter, in an
amount sufficient to cover the fine and the appropriate impound fees charged,
including any necessary veterinary fees and court costs.
      (2)   If not paid, such dog may be sold, and any costs, fines, or fees
imposed, if any, shall be deducted from the proceeds of the sale, and any
residue of the sale shall be payable to the owner of the dog.
      (3)   If such dog is not sold, it may be placed for adoption. If such dog
is not placed for adoption, it may be properly euthanized and its body disposed
of by the city without liability to the owner.
   (B)   If a trial is requested, bond shall be re-posted every 30 days to
cover the cost of caring for the animal that is being held by the city.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any provision herein to the contrary, no dog impounded
pursuant to this subchapter shall be released to its owner or keeper without
proof of a current license and rabies vaccination.
   (D)   The owner of any impounded dog shall pay a fee as described further in
§
90.99(G). Such fees shall be paid into the City Clerk and deposited and set
aside in a dog and kennel fund.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2020)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter for which no other
penalty is provided shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to obey the provisions of
§
90.26 and, upon the conviction of a violation hereof, shall be fined not less
than $20, nor more than $100, or other amount deemed appropriate by the
Municipal Court.
   (C)   (1)   Except as otherwise expressly provided herein or as otherwise
expressly mandated by state statute, the commission of a first violation of any
provision of §§
90.40 to
90.47 shall be considered a misdemeanor offense and shall, upon conviction
thereof, result in the assessment by the Municipal Court Judge of fine in an
amount not exceeding $25, or other amount deemed appropriate by the Municipal
Court, plus all costs of the proceeding, including any costs assessed by the
County Animal Shelter.
      (2)   Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, the commission of a
second violation of any provision of §§
90.40 to
90.47 shall be considered a misdemeanor offense and shall, upon conviction
thereof, result in the assessment by the Municipal Court Judge of a fine in an
amount not less than $50 nor more than $100, or other amount deemed appropriate
by the Municipal Court, plus all costs of the proceedings, including any costs
assessed by the County Animal Shelter.
      (3)   Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, the commission of a
third violation of any provision of §§
90.40 to
90.47 shall be considered a misdemeanor offense and shall, upon conviction
thereof, result in the assessment by the Municipal Court Judge of a fine in an
amount not less than $100, nor more than $500, or other amount deemed
appropriate by the Municipal Court, plus all costs of the proceedings,
including any costs assessed by the County Animal Shelter. Any person upon
conviction of a third offense by the Municipal Court Judge or subsequent
violation of any provision of §§
90.40 to
90.47 may be ordered to be confined for a period not exceeding 30 days.
   (D)   (1)   Upon a first conviction pursuant to §
90.63(A), in addition to all costs for impoundment, the owner shall be punished
by a fine of $250; upon conviction of a second offense within 24 months of any
prior conviction, in addition to all costs for impoundment, the owner shall be
punished by a fine of $500; or other amounts deemed appropriate by the
Municipal Court; and said dog shall be euthanized.
      (2)   Upon conviction pursuant to §
90.63(B), in addition to all reasonable costs of impoundment, the owner shall
be punished by a fine of $500, or other amount deemed appropriate by the
Municipal Court.
      (3)   Upon conviction pursuant to §
90.63(C), in addition to all reasonable costs of impoundment, the owner shall
be punished by a fine of $250, or other amount deemed appropriate by the
Municipal Court.
   (E)   The Municipal Court Judge shall have the authority to order any such
person convicted of violating §
90.64 to pay a fine of not more than $500, or other amount deemed appropriate
by the Municipal Court.
   (F)   (1)   Any person found guilty of an aggressive dog at large, as
described in §
90.65, shall be punished by a fine as follows, or in other amounts deemed
appropriate by the Municipal Court:
         (a)   For the first offense within a 24-month period: $60;
         (b)   For the second offense within a 24-month period: $80;
         (c)   For the third offense within a 24-month period: $120;
         (d)   For the fourth offense within a 24-month period: $200; and
         (e)   For a fifth or subsequent offense within a 24-month period:
$500.
      (2)   The Municipal Court Judge shall have no authority to suspend the
fine; provided that with regard to a fifth or subsequent offense within a 24-
month period, the Municipal Court Judge shall have the authority to reduce the
fine to an amount no less than $250, or other amount deemed appropriate by the
Municipal Court, if the defendant agrees to forfeit ownership of the animal. In
such cases, all interest of the animal shall vest to the human association for
appropriate disposition. All fines arising from convictions for violations of §
90.65 shall be in addition to any applicable court costs or impoundment fees.
   (G)   The owner of any impounded dog, as described in §
90.66, shall pay a fee of $10 per day for each day a dog is impounded, plus a
fee of:
       (1)   For the first impoundment: $25;
      (2)   For a second impoundment: $50;
      (3)   For a third impoundment: $75;
      (4)   For a fourth impoundment: $100;
      (5)   For a fifth or any subsequent impoundment: $150; or
      (6)   Other amounts deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court.
(Ord. passed 4-13-1993; Ord. passed 9-5-2006; Ord. passed 11-2-2020)
CHAPTER 91: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
Section
General Provisions
   
91.001   Purpose of chapter
   
91.002   Definitions
   
91.003   Requirements as to maintenance of premises and disposal of refuse
   
91.004   Prohibited disposal; extraterritorial application
   
91.005   Litter
   
91.006   Prohibited littering on streets, sidewalks, and public places
   
91.007   Duty to remove debris; collection of refuse from vacant lots
   
91.008   Fallen trees; stumps; debris
   
91.009   Abatement of nuisances and rectifying other conditions which violate
chapter
Garbage and Trash Collection
   
91.020   Collections to be made by the city or private contractor under city
supervision; collection vehicles
   
91.021   Final disposal sites to be designed by city; responsibilities of
contract collector; nonliability of city
   
91.022   Restrictions on private collectors other than contract collectors
   
91.023   Garbage receptacles for use when collection made by contract collector
   
91.024   Rules and regulations
City Dump
   
91.035   Regulation of persons; authority of custodian
Tree Regulations
   
91.050   Definitions
   
91.051   Creation and establishment of a City Tree Board
   
91.052   Compensation
   
91.053   Duties and responsibilities
   
91.054   Operation
   
91.055   Pruning, corner clearance
   
91.056   Dead or diseased tree removal on private property
   
91.057   Removal of stumps
Abandoned and Junk Vehicles
   
91.070   Findings and construction; statement of policy
   
91.071   Definitions
   
91.072   Abandonment of vehicles
   
91.073   Junked vehicles prohibited in certain places
   
91.074   Tires and abandoned appliances prohibited in certain places
   
91.075   Authority; employment of personnel for enforcement; notification to
property owner
   
91.076   Notification of vehicle owner and lienholders
   
91.077   Disposal of unclaimed vehicles
   
91.078   Proceeds from sale
   
91.079   Injunctive relief
 
   
91.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.001 PURPOSE OF CHAPTER.
   This chapter is enacted by the Common Council for the purpose of better
serving and protecting the inhabitants of the city and promoting their well
being and health and protecting their property; to provide for a method of
disposal of garbage and other waste accumulations within the city and for the
maintenance, installation, or improvement of such service; to make illegal the
promiscuous accumulation of garbage, rubbish, and other unsanitary, unsightly,
and harmful waste substances, and the improper disposal thereof; to prevent
injury or annoyance to the public or to individuals from things dangerous,
offensive, or unwholesome; to compel the abatement and removal of nuisances
caused by unauthorized accumulations and disposal of refuse; and, in general,
to preserve and promote the public health by providing regulations for the
disposal of refuse.
(Prior Code, § 13-1)
§ 91.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Include all putrescible wastes, except sewage and body wastes,
including vegetable and animal offal and carcasses of small animals, kitchen
and table refuse, swill, and every accumulation of both animal and vegetable
matter that attends the preparation, decay, or storage of meats, fish, fowl,
birds, or vegetables, but excluding recognizable industrial by-products, and
shall include all such substances from all public and private establishments
and from all residents.
   REFUSE. Include garbage and trash, either or both.
   TRASH. Includes all nonputrescible wastes, including discarded and abandoned
articles.
(Prior Code, § 13-2)
§ 91.003 REQUIREMENTS AS TO MAINTENANCE OF PREMISES AND DISPOSAL OF REFUSE.
   (A)   Refuse which originates upon any premises within the city shall not be
suffered by the owner or occupant of the premises to accumulate in such manner
or in such quantity as to constitute a fire or safety hazard or a danger to
health, or so as to become unsightly or otherwise give offense to persons in
the neighborhood. Garbage and trash shall be disposed of regularly, as provided
in this chapter. Wastes other than garbage and trash shall be disposed of by
the owner or occupant promptly as it originates, in a sanitary and lawful
manner.
   (B)   Garbage and trash to be collected as provided by this chapter shall be
stored, pending collection, in conformity with the requirements of this
chapter.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of owners, occupants, and persons in charge of
premises not devoted to agricultural uses to keep the grass thereon cut to a
height of not more than six inches and to keep all premises free of noxious
weeds and of undergrowths which afford breeding places for insects, reptiles,
and rodents, and to prevent all building materials from accumulating on the
premises for any period longer than 90 days.
(Prior Code, § 13-3) (Ord. passed 12-1-2014)
§ 91.004 PROHIBITED DISPOSAL; EXTRATERRITORIAL APPLICATION.
   (A)   No person shall deposit or dispose of any garbage, trash, or other
waste matter, or any carcass or part thereof or any offal upon any street,
sidewalk, public place or vacant lot, or upon private premises owned or
occupied by another, except that garbage and trash may be set out in
receptacles for collection as provided in this chapter. No person shall deposit
or dispose of any garbage, trash, or other waste matter or any carcass or part
thereof or any offal in any pond, lake, spring, well, or watercourse or in any
gutter or drain. The provisions of this section shall apply within the city,
and within public places (other than an approved dump) and with respect to
ponds, lakes, springs, and watercourses in unincorporated places within one
mile beyond the city in all directions.
(Prior Code, § 13-4)
§ 91.005 LITTER.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to dispose of, or suffer to be
disposed of, litter of any kind at any place within the city except in
receptacles provided for such purpose.
   (B)   Litter originating on any premises shall be disposed of by the owner
or occupant of the premises as provided in §
91.003.
   (C)   Litter shall not be deposited or permitted to remain upon any place
where it would be subject to scattering by children, animals, the elements of
nature or other means.
   (D)   LITTER is hereby defined as paper, cartons, bottles, bottle caps,
cans, fruit peelings and pits, food, glass, scraps, or fragments of any kind,
and other things which have come to be regarded by the public as litter.
(Prior Code, § 13-5) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.006 PROHIBITED LITTERING ON STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person shall deposit or permit to remain on any street, sidewalk, square,
or other public place any grass, scrap iron, nails, tacks, wire, other litter,
or any offensive matter or anything likely to injure the feet of individuals or
animals or the tires of vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 13-6)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of Common Council to enact this section, see W. Va. Code 8-12-5(3)
§ 91.007 DUTY TO REMOVE DEBRIS; COLLECTION OF REFUSE FROM VACANT LOTS.
   Building contractors, excavators, and other persons who in the course of
their respective businesses cause debris or refuse of any kind to accumulate at
any place within the city shall remove and dispose of such debris or refuse
periodically before it becomes a hazard to the public health, safety, or
welfare, and at the completion of each project shall remove all such debris and
refuse and dispose thereof in a sanitary and lawful manner; provided, that when
debris or refuse accumulates on any vacant lot so as to become a nuisance and
is not subject to removal by any contractor or other person as above provided,
the city may collect and dispose of such debris and refuse and the costs of
such collection and disposal shall become a charge against the owner of such
vacant lot and a lien thereon and shall be collectable in the same manner as
taxes.
(Prior Code, § 13-7)
§ 91.008 FALLEN TREES; STUMPS; DEBRIS.
   (A)   Fallen trees, stumps, and debris which are on a public right-of-way
shall be collected and disposed of by the city.
   (B)   Fallen trees, stumps, and debris not on a public right-of-way shall be
removed promptly and disposed of in a sanitary and lawful manner by the owners
or occupants of the properties upon which they are situated.
(Prior Code, § 13-8)
§ 91.009 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES AND RECTIFYING OTHER CONDITIONS WHICH VIOLATE
CHAPTER.
   Premises upon which nuisances or other conditions in violation of this
chapter are found to exist by any city officer shall be reported to the Chief
of Police, who shall, upon finding that such nuisance or violation does in fact
exist, give notice to the owner, occupant, or person in charge of such
premises, in a manner provided by law, to abate such nuisance within a period
of time to be stated in such notice, not more than ten days; and it shall be
unlawful for any person upon whom such notice is served to fail to comply
therewith. Upon any such noncompliance after ten days, the Chief of Police
shall proceed to abate such nuisance or violation, and the costs thereby
incurred shall become a charge against the owner of such premises and a lien
thereon, and shall be collectable in the same manner as taxes.
(Prior Code, § 13-9) Penalty, see §
91.999
Charter reference:
   As to creation of liens, see Charter § 38
   Authority to abate nuisances at the expense of the owners, see Charter § 30
GARBAGE AND TRASH COLLECTION
§ 91.020 COLLECTIONS TO BE MADE BY THE CITY OR PRIVATE CONTRACTOR UNDER CITY
SUPERVISION; COLLECTION VEHICLES.
   All collections of garbage and trash shall be made by or under the direction
and supervision of the city. Nothing herein contained, however, shall be
construed to compel the city to collect garbage or trash in city trucks or by
city personnel; and the Common Council may contract with any person for the
collection, transportation, or disposal of garbage and trash. All vehicles used
in collecting and transporting garbage and trash shall be constructed so as to
prevent any garbage or trash from leaking, spilling, or blowing upon the
streets and premises in the city. Vehicles of the contracting person shall be
kept clean, sanitary, and free from odor.
(Prior Code, § 13-10)
§ 91.021 FINAL DISPOSAL SITES TO BE DESIGNED BY CITY; RESPONSIBILITIES OF
CONTRACT COLLECTOR; NONLIABILITY OF CITY.
   During the term of any contract for the collection of garbage or trash by a
contract collector, garbage and trash shall be disposed of by the contract
collector at a site designated by the city or in an appropriate facility for
deposit of such garbage or trash as approved by the appropriate agency of the
state. The contract collector shall use a lawful and sanitary method for
disposing of all refuse. The responsibility for disposal at any site shall be
that of the contract collector, and the city shall not assume any
responsibility as to the manner and method used by the contract collector.
(Prior Code, § 13-11) (Ord. passed 12-1-2014)
§ 91.022 RESTRICTIONS ON PRIVATE COLLECTORS OTHER THAN CONTRACT COLLECTORS.
   During the term of any contract for the collection of garbage or trash by a
contract collector, private scavengers, pushcart operators, and private garbage
collectors other than the designated contract collector or collectors are
hereby prohibited from engaging in the business of transporting or disposing of
raw or prepared garbage and wastes containing organic waste, putrid, and waste
or excreta subject to putrefaction.
(Prior Code, § 13-12)
§ 91.023 GARBAGE RECEPTACLES FOR USE WHEN COLLECTION MADE BY CONTRACT
COLLECTOR.
   Every person from whose premises garbage is collected by a contract
collector shall comply with the provisions of this chapter with respect
thereto, and shall provide a suitable garbage can or receptacle to be approved
by the contract collector in which such garbage shall be deposited as it, from
time to time, is made or produced. Such receptacle or garbage can shall be
constructed of metal and have a tight-fitting lid.
(Prior Code, § 13-13)
§ 91.024 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Common Council may make rules and regulations not inconsistent with
state law, the city Charters, this code, or other ordinance, and not in
conflict with any contract by and between the city and any contract collector
which may be in effect, providing for the manner in which refuse shall be
stored and set out for collection; the manner in which collections shall be
made and a schedule of days and hours for collection; specifications for
garbage and trash receptacles and the placement thereof for collection
purposes; waste matter which shall not be subject to collection; a schedule of
fees to be charged by the city for collection services, either to cover the
costs of collection by the city or to meet all or any part of the contract
price for collection by a contract collector; and any subject incidental to the
collection and disposal of refuse.
(Prior Code, § 13-14)
CITY DUMP
§ 91.035 REGULATION OF PERSONS; AUTHORITY OF CUSTODIAN.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter or remain upon the premises of
the city dump at any time while such premises are closed to the public, except
by authority of the custodian of the dump or the Mayor. Persons using the dump
shall comply with the directives of the custodian relating to the disposal of
refuse, and shall leave the premises promptly upon making their deposits. All
provisions of this code and other ordinances of the city shall be applicable
upon the premises of the city dump and the rights-of-way for ingress thereto
and egress therefrom. The custodian of the city dump shall have such powers of
a police officer of the city as may be necessary to enforce the provisions of
this code upon the premises of the city dump and the rights-of-way above
mentioned.
(Prior Code, § 13-17) Penalty, see §
91.999
Charter reference:
   As to extraterritorial authority of Common Council, see Charter § 31
Statutory reference:
   Extraterritorial authority of Common Council, see W. Va. Code 8-12-5(43) and
8-12-19
TREE REGULATIONS
§ 91.050 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARK TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation in public
parks having individual names, and all areas owned by the City of Weston, or to
which the public has free access as a park.
   STREET TREES. As trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation upon
or along any sidewalk or street in the City of Weston.
(Ord. passed 4-6-1981)
§ 91.051 CREATION AND ESTABLISHMENT OF A CITY TREE BOARD.
   (A)   There is hereby created a commission to be known and designated as the
“Weston City Tree Commission”, composed of seven residents and voters of the
city who shall be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the Common
Council.
   (B)   (1)   The seven members appointed shall be as follows: three for three
years and three for two years and one for one year, and shall serve until their
successors are duly appointed and approved by the Common Council.
      (2)   After the initial appointment or term, successors shall be
appointed for three years. Vacancies caused by death, resignation, or otherwise
shall be filled for the unexpired term in the same manner as original
appointments are made.
(Ord. passed 4-6-1981)
§ 91.052 COMPENSATION.
   Members of the City Tree Commission shall serve without compensation.
(Ord. passed 4-6-1981)
§ 91.053 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   It shall be the responsibility of the City Tree Commission to study,
investigate, counsel, and develop and/or update annually, and administer a
written plan for the care, preservation, pruning, planting, replanting,
removal, or disposition of trees and shrubs in parks, along streets, and in
other public areas. Such plans shall be presented annually to the Common
Council and upon its acceptance an approval thereof shall constitute the
official comprehensive city tree plan for the city. The Commission, when
requested by the Common Council of the city, shall consider, investigate, make
findings, report, and recommend upon any special matter or question coming
within the scope of its work.
(Ord. passed 4-6-1981)
§ 91.054 OPERATION.
   The Board shall choose its own officers, and make its own rules and
regulations and keep a journal of its proceedings. A majority of the members
shall be a quorum for the transaction of business.
(Ord. passed 4-6-1981)
§ 91.055 PRUNING, CORNER CLEARANCE.
   (A)   Every owner of any tree overhanging any street or right-of-way within
the city shall prune the branches so that such branches shall not obstruct the
light from any street lamp or obstruct the view of any street intersection and
so that there shall be a clear space of eight feet above the surface of the
street or sidewalk. Said owner shall remove all dead, diseased, or dangerous
trees, or broken or decayed limbs which constitute a menace to the safety of
the public.
   (B)   The city shall have the right to prune any tree or shrub on private
property when it interferes with the proper spread of light along the street
from a street lamp or interferes with visibility of any traffic control signal
or device.
(Ord. passed 4-6-1981)
§ 91.056 DEAD OR DISEASED TREE REMOVAL ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   The city shall have the right to cause the removal of any dead or diseased
tree on private property within the city when such tree constitutes a hazard to
life and property, or harbors insects or disease which constitute a potential
threat to other trees within the city. The City Tree Commission will notify in
writing the owners of such trees. Removal shall be done by said owners at their
own expense within 60 days after the date of service of notice. In the event of
failure of owners to comply with such provisions, the city shall have the
authority to remove such trees and charge the costs of removal thereof to the
owners of the property and to file liens therefor in the manner that other
municipal liens are filed and enforced.
(Ord. passed 4-6-1981)
§ 91.057 REMOVAL OF STUMPS.
   All stumps of street and park trees shall be removed below the surface of
the ground so that the top of the stump shall not project above the surface of
the ground.
(Ord. passed 4-6-1981)
ABANDONED AND JUNK VEHICLES
§ 91.070 FINDINGS AND CONSTRUCTION; STATEMENT OF POLICY.
   (A)   (1)   The City Council recognizes and declares that:
         (a)   Abandoned motor vehicles, junked motor vehicles, old vehicle
tires, and certain abandoned or inoperative household appliances are and
constitute a public nuisance and hazard to both adults and children, and,
therefore, are dangerous and constitute a clear and present danger;
         (b)   Such abandoned motor vehicles, junked motor vehicles, old
vehicle tires and certain abandoned or inoperative household appliances serve
as harborage and breeding places for rodents, mosquitoes, fleas, ticks, mice,
rats, and other insects, pests, and flies injurious to the public health,
safety, and general welfare;
         (c)   Abandoned motor vehicles and junked motor vehicles serve
frequently as temporary or permanent places of human residence unconducive to
public health, safety, and welfare;
         (d)   The accumulation and storage of any such items or parts on
private or public property, including, but not limited to, highways, is found
to create a condition tending to reduce the value of private property and to
promote blight and deterioration which, if permitted to remain, will continue
to destroy the natural beauty of the city and have adverse economic and social
effects;
         (e)   Such abandoned motor vehicles, junked motor vehicles, old
vehicle tires, and certain abandoned or inoperative household appliances
constitute an unattractive nuisance creating a hazard to the health and safety
of minors;
         (f)   Such items are nearly always located on public highways or
rights-of-way or within sight of such highway rights-of-way and on private
property within a reasonable proximity, and when so located the cost of
controlling or abating such visual pollution is a deterrent to economic
development; and
         (g)   It is in the public interest and welfare to provide for a
program to eliminate the unsightly practice of abandoning motor vehicles, old
vehicle tires, and certain abandoned or inoperative household appliances.
      (2)   In view of these findings, the City Council declares it to be the
public policy of the city to eliminate the present danger resulting from
abandoned motor vehicles, junked motor vehicles, old vehicle tires, and certain
abandoned or inoperative household appliances and to eliminate the visual
pollution resulting from these items, and that in order to provide for the
public health, safety, welfare, and quality of life, to enact legislation to
that end by providing expeditious means and methods for effecting the disposal
of abandoned motor vehicles, junked motor vehicles, old vehicle tires, and
certain abandoned household appliances. The City Council further finds and
declares that the presence of an abandoned motor vehicle, junked motor vehicle,
old vehicle tire, or an abandoned or inoperative household appliance, or any
part, on private or public property, including, but not limited to, highways,
except as expressly permitted in this subchapter, is a public nuisance
injurious to the public health, safety, and general welfare of the citizens of
this city, which shall be abated as such by the methods provided in this
subchapter.
   (C)   The provisions of this subchapter shall be liberally construed to
accomplish its objectives and purposes.
(Ord. passed 10-20-2020)
§ 91.071 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE. A refrigerator, deep freeze, range, stove,
automatic dishwasher, clothes washer, clothes dryer, trash compactor,
television set, radio, air conditioning unit, commode, or bed springs to which
no person claims ownership and which is not in an enclosed building or a
licensed salvage yard or in the actual possession of a demolisher.
   ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE. Includes:
      (1)   Any motor vehicle or major part which is inoperative and which has
been abandoned on public or private property for any period of time over five
days, other than in an enclosed building or in a licensed salvage yard or at
the business establishment of a demolisher;
      (2)   Any motor vehicle or major part which has remained illegally on
public or private property for any period of time over five days;
      (3)   Any motor vehicle or major part which has remained on private
property without consent of the owner or person in control of the property for
any period of time over three days; or
      (4)   Any motor vehicle or major part which is unattended, discarded,
deserted, and unlicensed and is not in an enclosed building or a licensed
salvage yard or in the actual possession of a demolisher.
   DEMOLISHER. Any person licensed by the Commissioner of the Department of
Highways whose business, to any extent or degree, is to convert a motor vehicle
or any part or an inoperative household appliance into processed scrap or scrap
metal, or into saleable parts, or otherwise to wreck or dismantle vehicles or
appliances.
   ENCLOSED BUILDING. A structure surrounded by walls or one continuous wall,
and having a roof enclosing the entire structure, including a permanent
appendage.
   ENFORCEMENT AGENCY. The City Police Department.
   INOPERATIVE HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE. A refrigerator, deep freeze, range, stove,
automatic dishwasher, clothes washer, clothes dryer, trash compactor,
television set, radio, air conditioning unit, commode, or bed springs which, by
reason of mechanical or physical defects, can no longer be used for its
intended purpose, and which is either not serving a functional purpose or use
or is not in an enclosed building, a licensed salvage yard, or the actual
possession of a demolisher.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE. A motor vehicle, or any part of a motor vehicle (other
than an on-premises farm utility vehicle), which is discarded, wrecked, ruined,
scrapped or dismantled; cannot pass the state inspection required by W. Va.
Code Ch. 17C, Art. 16 (W. Va. Code 17C-16-1 et seq.) and is either not serving
a functional purpose or use or is not in an enclosed building, a licensed
salvage yard, or the actual possession of a demolisher.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle which is or was self-propelled, including, but not
limited to, automobiles, trucks, buses, and motorcycles.
   OLD VEHICLE TIRE. A pneumatic tire in which compressed air is designed to
support a load but which, because of wear, damage, or defect, can no longer
safely be used on a motor vehicle, and which is either not serving a functional
purpose or use or is not in an enclosed building, a licensed salvage yard, or
the actual possession of a demolisher.
(Ord. passed 10-20-2020)
§ 91.072 ABANDONMENT OF VEHICLES.
   No person shall, within the city, abandon a motor vehicle upon the right-of-
way of any public highway, upon any other public property, or upon any private
property which he or she does not own, lease, rent, or otherwise control unless
it be at a licensed salvage yard or at the business establishment of a
demolisher.
(Ord. passed 10-20-2020) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.073 JUNKED VEHICLES PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN PLACES.
   No person within this city shall place or deposit any junked motor vehicle
upon the right-of-way of any public highway or upon any other public property;
nor shall any person within this city place or deposit any junked motor vehicle
upon any private property which he or she does not own, lease, rent, or
otherwise control unless it is at a licensed salvage yard or at the business
establishment of a demolisher.
(Ord. passed 10-20-2020) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.074 TIRES AND ABANDONED APPLIANCES PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN PLACES.
   No person within this city shall place or deposit any old vehicle tire or
inoperative household appliance upon the right-of-way of any public highway or
upon any other public property; nor abandon either upon any private property
which he or she does not own, lease, rent, or otherwise control, unless it is a
licensed salvage yard or at the business establishment of a demolisher.
(Ord. passed 10-20-2020) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.075 AUTHORITY; EMPLOYMENT OF PERSONNEL FOR ENFORCEMENT; NOTIFICATION TO
PROPERTY OWNER.
   (A)   Any enforcement agency which has knowledge of or discovers or finds
any abandoned motor vehicle, any junked motor vehicle, old vehicle tire, or
inoperative or abandoned household appliance on either public or private
property shall take them into his or her custody and possession. For that
purpose, the enforcement agency may employ its own personnel, equipment, and
facilities or hire persons, equipment, and facilities for the purpose of
removing, preserving, and storing abandoned motor vehicles, junked motor
vehicles, old vehicle tires, or inoperative or abandoned household appliances.
   (B)   Before taking any abandoned motor vehicle or junked motor vehicle into
custody and possession from private property, the enforcement agency shall give
the private property owner and the owner of such motor vehicle, if
ascertainable, 30 days’ notice by registered or certified mail that such action
will be taken unless such motor vehicle or the like is restored to a functional
use.
(Ord. passed 10-20-2020)
§ 91.076 NOTIFICATION OF VEHICLE OWNER AND LIENHOLDERS.
   (A)   The enforcement agency which takes into custody and possession an
abandoned motor vehicle or junked motor vehicle shall, within seven days after
taking custody and possession, notify the last known registered owner of such
motor vehicle and all lienholders of record that such motor vehicle has been
taken into custody and possession, such notification to be by registered or
certified mail, return receipt requested. The notice shall:
      (1)   Contain a description of such motor vehicle, including the year,
make, model, manufacturer’s serial or identification number, or any other
number which may have been assigned to such motor vehicle by the Commissioner
of Motor Vehicles, and any distinguishing mark;
      (2)   Set forth the location of the facility where such motor vehicle is
being held and the location where such motor vehicle was taken into custody and
possession;
      (3)   Inform the owner and any lienholders of record of their right to
reclaim such motor vehicle within ten days after the date notice was received
by the owner or lienholders upon payment of all towing, preservation, and
storage charges resulting from taking and placing such motor vehicle into
custody and possession; and
      (4)   State that the failure of the owner or lienholders of record to
exercise their right to reclaim such motor vehicle within such ten-day period
shall be deemed a waiver by the owner and all lienholders of record of all
right, title, and interest in such motor vehicle and of their consent to the
sale or disposal of the abandoned motor vehicle or junked motor vehicle at a
public auction or to a licensed salvage yard or demolisher.
   (B)   If the identity of the last registered owner of the abandoned motor
vehicle or junked motor vehicle cannot be determined, or if the certificate of
registration or certificate of title contains no address for the owner, or if
it is impossible to determine with reasonable certainty the identity and
addresses of all lienholders, notice shall be published as a Class I legal
advertisement in compliance with the provisions of W. Va. Code Ch. 59, Art. 3
(W. Va. Code 59-3-1 et seq.); and the publication area for such publication
shall be the county wherein such motor vehicle was located at the time such
enforcement agency took custody and possession; and such notice shall be
sufficient to meet all requirements of notice pursuant to this subchapter. Any
notice by publication may contain multiple listings of abandoned motor vehicles
and junked motor vehicles. The notice shall be published within seven days
after such motor vehicle is taken into custody and possession and shall have
the same contents required for a notice pursuant to division (A) above, except
that the ten-day period shall run from the date such notice is published.
   (C)   The consequences and effect of failure to reclaim an abandoned motor
vehicle or junked motor vehicle within the ten-day period after notice is
received by registered or certified mail or within ten days after the notice is
published in a newspaper shall be set forth in such notice.
(Ord. passed 10-20-2020)
§ 91.077 DISPOSAL OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLES.
   (A)   If an abandoned motor vehicle or junked motor vehicle is not reclaimed
as provided for in §
91.078, the enforcement agency in possession of the abandoned motor vehicle or
junked motor vehicle shall sell it either at a public auction or to a licensed
salvage yard or demolisher. The purchaser of such motor vehicle shall take
title to such motor vehicle free and clear of all liens and claims of ownership
and shall receive a sales receipt from the enforcement agency which disposed of
such motor vehicle. The sales receipt at such sale shall be sufficient title
only for purposes of transferring such motor vehicle to a licensed salvage yard
or to a demolisher for demolition, wrecking, or dismantling; and no further
titling of such motor vehicle shall be necessary by either the purchaser at the
auction, the licensed salvage yard or the demolisher, who shall be exempt from
the payment of any fees and taxes required under W. Va. Code Ch. 17A, Art. 3
(W. Va. Code 17A-3-1 et seq.). The purchaser at the auction must place such
motor vehicle in the possession of a licensed salvage yard or demolisher within
20 days from the date he or she purchased such motor vehicle, and the licensed
salvage yard or demolisher must demolish, wreck, or dismantle such motor
vehicle; and if such licensed salvage yard or demolisher does not demolish such
vehicle, such licensed salvage yard or demolisher shall be required to pay all
fees and taxes required under W. Va. Code Ch. 17A, Art. 3 (W. Va. Code 17A-3-
1 et seq.).
   (B)   When an enforcement agency has in its custody and possession old
vehicle tires or inoperative or abandoned household appliances collected in
accordance with §
91.075, it shall sell such property from time to time at public auction or to a
licensed salvage yard or demolisher.
(Ord. passed 10-20-2020)
§ 91.078 PROCEEDS FROM SALE.
   (A)   From the proceeds of the sale pursuant to §
91.077, the Police Department shall reimburse itself for any expenses it may
have incurred in conducting the auction, any costs of towing, preserving, and
storing the vehicle which resulted from placing the abandoned vehicle in
custody and all notice and publication costs incurred pursuant to this
subchapter.
   (B)   Any remainder from the proceeds of sale after payment of these costs
shall be held for the last registered owner of the vehicle or entitled
lienholder for 90 days, after which time, if no owner or lienholder claims the
remainder, it shall be deposited in the city treasury to be kept and maintained
as a special revolving account designated as the abandoned vehicle disposal
account; and any money so collected and deposited shall be used solely by the
Police Department for the payment of auction, towing, preserving, storage, and
all notice and publication costs which result from placing other abandoned
vehicles in custody, whenever the proceeds from a sale of those abandoned
vehicles are insufficient to meet these expenses and costs.
   (C)   The abandoned vehicle disposal account shall be under the direction
and control of the Finance Director, who shall assure that all money is
properly deposited in the account by the Police Department and that any money
necessary to pay costs and expenses of those sales, as specified in division
(B), are disbursed in accordance with required accounting procedures applicable
to law enforcement agencies selling an abandoned vehicle.
   (D)   The abandoned vehicle disposal account shall never be maintained in
excess of the amount necessary to efficiently and properly carry out the
intentions of this subchapter, and in no event shall the abandoned vehicle
disposal account be maintained in excess of the sum of $5,000, or other amount
deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court; and whenever the abandoned vehicle
disposal account exceeds that amount, the City Treasurer shall transfer the
excess to the General Revenue Fund.
(Ord. passed 10-20-2020)
§ 91.079 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   In addition to all other remedies provided for in this subchapter, the City
Attorney may apply to the circuit court for an injunction to restrain, prevent,
or abate the maintenance and storage of abandoned motor vehicles, junked motor
vehicles, old vehicle tires, or inoperative or abandoned household appliances
which are in violation of any provision of this subchapter, or for the
violation of any other provision of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 10-20-2020)
§ 91.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter for which no other
penalty is provided shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
91.070 through
91.079 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be
punished by a fine not exceeding $500, or other amount deemed appropriate by
the Municipal Court, or by imprisonment not exceeding 30 days, or by both such
fine and imprisonment. Each day such violation of any provision of §§
91.070 through
91.079 shall continue shall constitute a separate offense. In addition to these
penalties, any person convicted of a misdemeanor under this division (B) shall
have his or her license revoked pursuant to the provisions of §§
91.070 through
91.079.
(Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
In General
   
92.01   Chapter is supplemental to other provisions of this code relating to
nuisances
   
92.02   Nuisances prohibited within city and within area one-half mile beyond
city
   
92.03   Certain nuisances enumerated
   
92.04   Premises to be kept clear of stagnant water, drained, and the like
Abatement
   
92.15   Inspections, investigations, and complaints
   
92.16   Right to enter private premises; duty of occupants
   
92.17   Notice to cease and desist when activity constitutes a nuisance
   
92.18   Notice to abate condition constituting nuisance; appeal
   
92.19   Recourse of city when notice to abate nuisance is ignored; liens
   
92.20   Arrest for committing or maintaining nuisance possible
Loud Noises
   
92.35   Definitions
   
92.36   General declaration
   
92.37   Noise prohibited
   
92.38   Measurement and control of noise
   
92.39   Noise control of construction equipment
   
92.40   Noise control of outdoor implements
   
92.41   Motor vehicle noise control
   
92.42   Preservation of other remedies
On-Site Citations
   
92.55   Adoption
   
92.56   Public nuisance defined
   
92.57   Nuisances affecting health
   
92.58   Nuisances affecting morals
   
92.59   Nuisances affecting peace and safety
   
92.60   Depositing material in waterways
   
92.61   Complaints; notice
   
92.62   Hearing before Municipal Court
   
92.63   Responsibility of owners, lessees, and tenants
   
92.64   Fines and payment
   
92.65   Relationship to State Building Code
 
   
92.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   City policies, see
Ch. 30
   General offenses, see
Ch. 130
   Police Department, see
Ch. 35
IN GENERAL
§ 92.01 CHAPTER IS SUPPLEMENTAL TO OTHER PROVISIONS OF THIS CODE RELATING TO
NUISANCES.
   Various nuisances are defined and prohibited in other chapters of this code,
and it is the intent of the Common Council in enacting this chapter to make it
supplemental to those other chapters in which nuisances are defined and
prohibited; and the provisions of this chapter relating to the abatement of
nuisances shall be regarded as alternative methods and procedures for the
abatement of nuisances in those instances where other methods and procedures
for abatement are provided.
(Prior Code, § 16-1)
§ 92.02 NUISANCES PROHIBITED WITHIN CITY AND WITHIN AREA ONE-HALF MILE BEYOND
CITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, harbor, commit, or maintain,
or to suffer to be caused, harbored, committed, or maintained, any nuisance as
defined by the statute or common law of this state or as defined by this code
or other ordinance of the city at any place within the city or at any place
within the area surrounding the city and within one-half mile of the city
limits.
(Prior Code, § 16-2) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 CERTAIN NUISANCES ENUMERATED.
   (A)   The following acts when committed, or conditions when existing, within
the city or within the area surrounding the city and within one-half mile of
the city limits are hereby defined and declared to be nuisances.
      (1)   An act done or committed or aided or assisted to be done or
committed by any person, or any substance, being, or thing kept, maintained,
placed, or found in or upon any public or private place, which is injurious or
dangerous to the public health or safety;
      (2)   All buildings, bridges, or other structures of whatever character
kept or maintained or which are permitted by any person owning or having
control thereof to be kept or maintained in a condition unsafe, dangerous,
unhealthy, injurious, or annoying to the public;
      (3)   All trees and other appendages of or to realty kept or maintained
or which are permitted by any person owning or having control thereof to be
kept or maintained in a condition unsafe, dangerous, unhealthy, injurious, or
annoying to the public;
      (4)   All ponds or pools of stagnant water, and all foul or dirty water
or liquid when discharged through any drain, pipe, or spout, or thrown into or
upon any street, public place, or lot to the injury or annoyance of the public;
      (5)   All obstructions caused or permitted on any street or sidewalk to
the danger or annoyance of the public, and all stones, rubbish, dirt, filth,
slops, vegetable matter, or other article thrown or placed by any person on or
in any street, sidewalk, or other public place, which in any way may cause any
injury or annoyance to the public;
      (6)   All sidewalks, gutters, or curbstones permitted to remain in an
unsafe condition, or out of repair;
      (7)   All stables, cattle yards, hog, sheep, or cow pens or other places
where animals are kept or yards for poultry, permitted by the owner thereof or
the person responsible therefor to be in such a condition as to become
offensive, annoying, or injurious to the public;
      (8)   All houses or buildings used for special storage of powder,
dynamite, or other explosive substances, except those maintained pursuant to
permit issued by competent authority;
      (9)   Any litter, trash, garbage, or refuse, or any abandoned unlicensed
motor vehicle or any part thereof which is or may be offensive to the
neighborhood or citizens generally; and
      (10)   Any offensive or unwholesome substance or growth of grass, weeds,
or brush upon any lot or parcel of ground within the city or within the area
surrounding the city and within one-half mile of the city limits.
   (B)   The nuisances described in this section shall not be construed as
exclusive, and any act of commission or omission and any condition which
constitutes a nuisance by statute or common law of the state is, when
committed, omitted, or existing within the city or within the area surrounding
the city and within one-half mile of the city limits is hereby declared to
constitute a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 16-3)
§ 92.04 PREMISES TO BE KEPT CLEAR OF STAGNANT WATER, DRAINED, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   No person owning or in possession of any lot, house, building, or
enclosure shall allow or suffer to exist in or upon such premises any stagnant
water, animal or vegetable matter, or other substance liable to become putrid,
offensive, annoying, or unhealthy.
   (B)   Persons owning or in possession of any real estate shall provide
proper and adequate drainage therefor so that no offensive, baneful, or
disagreeable liquids shall flow or seep into any street.
   (C)   Any violation of this section is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 16-4)
ABATEMENT
§ 92.15 INSPECTIONS, INVESTIGATIONS, AND COMPLAINTS.
   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to cause inspections to be made
from time to time of all portions of the city and the area surrounding the city
and within one-half mile of the city limits to determine whether any condition
exists or activity is being practiced which constitutes a nuisance; and he or
she shall cause an investigation to be made upon complaint made by any
responsible person.
(Prior Code, § 16-5)
Charter reference:
   As to extraterritorial jurisdiction of city for police and criminal
purposes, see Charter § 31
   Authority to abate or compel the abatement of nuisances, see Charter § 30
Statutory reference:
   As to extraterritorial jurisdiction of city, see W. Va. Code 8-12-5(43) and
8-12-19
   Authority to abate a public nuisance, see W. Va. Code 8-12-5(23)
§ 92.16 RIGHT TO ENTER PRIVATE PREMISES; DUTY OF OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   Police officers, Fire Department officers, and public health officers
shall have the right to enter upon private premises for the purposes specified
in §
92.15, upon compliance with all applicable provisions of law.
   (B)   Unless it appears probable that advance warning would defeat the
purpose of such entry, occupants of premises to be entered shall be given
reasonable notice in advance, and in any case it shall be unlawful for any
owner or occupant to prevent such entry which is sought to be made in
compliance with law.
(Prior Code, § 16-6) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.17 NOTICE TO CEASE AND DESIST WHEN ACTIVITY CONSTITUTES A NUISANCE.
   If at any time the Chief of Police shall find that an activity or practice
which constitutes a nuisance is occurring within the city or within the area
surrounding the city and within one-half mile of the city limits, he or she
shall promptly and by the most expeditious means notify the violator to cease
and desist forthwith.
(Prior Code, § 16-7)
§ 92.18 NOTICE TO ABATE CONDITION CONSTITUTING NUISANCE; APPEAL.
   (A)   If at any time the Chief of Police shall find that a condition which
constitutes a nuisance exists within the city or within the area surrounding
the city and within one-half mile of the city limits, he or she shall give
notice in writing to the owner, occupant, or person in charge of the premises
upon which such condition exists, stating therein the condition which
constitutes a nuisance, and directing such addressee to remedy the condition
within the time stated in such notice, which shall be not more than ten days;
and it shall be unlawful for any such owner, occupant, or person in charge to
fail to comply with the terms of such notice; provided, that any owner,
occupant, or person in charge may, within two days from the service thereof,
appeal to the Common Council, in which case the terms of such notice shall be
stayed pending action of the Common Council, which shall be final.
   (B)   If the Chief of Police shall state in such notice that the condition
which constitutes a nuisance is such as to be an imminent hazard to the health,
safety, or welfare of the public or any person within or near the premises upon
which such nuisance exists, then the addressee shall comply with the terms of
such notice.
(Prior Code, § 16-8) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.19 RECOURSE OF CITY WHEN NOTICE TO ABATE NUISANCE IS IGNORED; LIENS.
   (A)   (1)   Upon the failure of any person to whom notice has been given
pursuant to §
92.18 to comply with the terms of such, notice, or with the terms imposed by
the Common Council on appeal, as the case may be, the Chief of Police shall
forthwith direct the appropriate city officer to remedy the condition which is
the subject of such notice, and the expense incurred by the city in so doing
shall be charged to the addressee of such notice, to be collected as city
taxes.
      (2)   Such expenses shall constitute a lien upon the premises where such
condition occurred, to be collected as city taxes are collected if not
otherwise first paid to the city.
   (B)   Abatement by the city of any condition which constitutes a nuisance
and reimbursement to the city of expenses incurred thereby shall not bar
prosecution for maintenance of a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 16-9)
§ 92.20 ARREST FOR COMMITTING OR MAINTAINING NUISANCE POSSIBLE.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to prohibit any police officer
from arresting any person for committing or maintaining a nuisance when such
arrest is made pursuant to law.
(Prior Code, § 16-10)
LOUD NOISES
§ 92.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMBIENT NOISE. The all-encompassing noise associated with a given
environment, being either a composite of sounds transmitted by any means from
many sources near and far or from a single predominate source.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Any of the following vehicles when equipped
and identified according to law: a vehicle of a Fire Department; a publicly
owned police vehicle or a privately owned vehicle used by a police officer for
police work under agreement, express or implied, with the local authority to
which he or she is responsible; an ambulance, whether publicly or privately
owned; an emergency vehicle of a municipal department or a public service
corporation; and any volunteer rescue squad.
   DECIBEL (dbA). The unit of sound measured in the “A” weighing scale of a
sound level meter, set on slow response, the weighing characteristics of which
are specified in the latest revision of Standards on Sound Level Meters of the
American National Standards Institute. Use of a properly designed microphone
windscreen is permitted.
   DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS. The Chief of Police of the City of Weston.
   DURATION OF SOUND. Include any continuous, continual, or intermittent sounds
transmitted by any means, the interval of silence between which does not exceed
ten minutes.
   DWELLING. Any building or structure, or portion thereof, including temporary
housing, mobile homes, or recreational trailers, where there are sleeping
accommodations, which is wholly or partly used or intended to be used for
living or sleeping by human occupation.
   EMERGENCY SITUATION. A situation wherein immediate work is necessary to
restore property to a safe condition following a public calamity or immediate
work is required to protect persons or property from an imminent exposure to
danger.
   NOISE. One or a group of loud, harsh, non-harmonious sounds, or vibrations
that are unpleasant and irritating to the ear.
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT. Any block or area in the city which has 50% or more of
its buildings occupied and used for residential or dwelling purposes or any
vacant land which has been plotted or laid off for residential subdivision
purposes, or which adjoins a residential area.
   SILENCE. Absence of any sound or noise.
(Ord. passed 3-2-1981)
§ 92.36 GENERAL DECLARATION.
   There has come into being within the city certain loud, avoidable, unnatural
and unnecessary noises, which, under certain circumstances and conditions,
constitute a serious threat to the public health, welfare, safety, contentment,
and the feeling of well-being of the public. Therefore, the Common Council does
hereby declare that the making of such avoidable noises in a manner prohibited
by, or not in conformity with, the terms of this subchapter constitutes an
undesirable noise and shall be punished as a misdemeanor as hereinafter
provided.
(Ord. passed 3-2-1981) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.37 NOISE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to make, continue, or cause to be made or continued any
noise in excess of the noise levels set forth in this subchapter unless such
noise be reasonably necessary to the preservation of life, health, safety, or
property.
(Ord. passed 3-2-1981) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.38 MEASUREMENT AND CONTROL OF NOISE.
   (A)   Any activity, not expressly exempted by this subchapter, which creates
or produces sound, regardless of frequency, exceeding the ambient noise levels
at the property line of the property, or within a rental dwelling or apartment
house, within any adjoining apartment rooms, by more than six decibels above
the ambient noise levels as designated in the following table, for the duration
of time mentioned, shall be deemed a violation of this subchapter.
 
Duration of Sound                 Sound Level
Less than ten minutes             85 dbA
Between ten minutes and two hours 75 dbA
In excess of two hours            70 dbA
 
   (B)   Sounds emanating from the operation of motor vehicle on a public
highway; aircraft; outdoor implements such as power lawn mowers, snow blowers,
power hedge clippers, and power saws; and pile drivers or jackhammers and other
construction equipment are exempt from the provisions of this section.
   (C)   Sounds emanating from activities involving the production, processing,
cleaning, servicing, testing, or repair of materials, goods, or products,
electric or gas substations, fire stations, police stations, post offices,
railroad rights-of-way, special community events, but not including railroad
yards and shops other than for passenger purposes, railroad commuter passenger
stations, telephone exchanges, telephone transmission equipment buildings, and
microwave-relay towers, water works, reservoirs, pumping stations and
filtration plants, accessory radio and television antennas, maintenance and
equipment storage buildings owned and operated by the city, are exempt from the
provisions of this section.
(Ord. passed 3-2-1981) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.39 NOISE CONTROL OF CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   (1)   Except as hereafter provided, no pile driver, jackhammer, or
other construction equipment shall be operated within the city between the
hours of 6:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. on weekdays or during any hours on Saturdays,
Sundays, and state and federal holidays, except under specific permit from the
Director of Public Works, and no such equipment shall be operated at any time
if the sound level from such operation exceeds 100 decibels measured along any
property line; provided, however, that said decibel maximum sound limit is
reduced to 95 decibels effective the second anniversary of the enactment of
this subchapter, and 90 decibels effective the fourth anniversary; provided
further, however, that such equipment, the operation of which conforms to the
maximum allowable sound levels as provided in §
92.38, may be operated during the above prohibited hours and days.
      (2)   When any of the above named equipment is used for any purpose other
than construction, the ambient noise levels of §
92.38 apply.
   (B)   If an emergency situation exists or if the Director of Public Works
determines that a substantial monetary loss or inconvenience would result
unless allowed additional hours of equipment operation, he or she may grant
permission for extended hours of operation of any construction equipment,
internal combustion engines, and power units.
(Ord. passed 3-2-1981) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.40 NOISE CONTROL OF OUTDOOR IMPLEMENTS.
   Except as hereinafter provided, any power lawn mower, snow blower, power
hedge clipper, power saw, or such other implement designed primarily for
outdoor use shall be operated within the city only between the hours of 7:00
a.m. and 9:00 p.m., on weekdays, weekends, and state and federal holidays;
provided, however, that such equipment, the operation of which conforms to the
maximum allowable sound levels as prescribed in § 92.038, may be operated
during the above prohibited hours.
(Ord. passed 3-2-1981) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.41 MOTOR VEHICLE NOISE CONTROL.
   (A)   No person shall operate or permit to be operated either a motor
vehicle or combination of vehicles of a type subject to registration at any
time or under any condition of grade, load, acceleration, or deceleration in
such manner as to exceed the following noise limit for the category of motor
vehicle based on a distance of 50 feet from the center lane of travel within
the speed limits specified in this section.
 
                                                                               Speed Speed
                                                                               Limit Limit
                                                                               of 35 of
                                                                               MPH   More
                                                                               or    than
                                                                               less  35
                                                                                     MPH
Any motor vehicle with a manufacturer’s gross vehicle weight rating of 6,000 88    93
pounds or more, any combination of vehicles towed by such motor vehicle, and   dbA   dbA
any motorcycle                                                                 86    91
(a) Before January 1, 1975                                                     dbA   dbA
(b) On and after January 1, 1975
Any other motor vehicle and any combination of vehicles towed by such motor    82    87
vehicle                                                                        dbA   dbA
 
   (B)   This section applies to the total noise from a vehicle or combination
of vehicles and shall not be construed as limiting or precluding the
enforcement of any other provisions of law relating to motor vehicle exhaust
noise. For the purpose of this section, a truck, truck tractor, or bus that is
not equipped with an identification plate or marking bearing the manufacturer’s
gross vehicle weight rating shall be considered as having a manufacturer’s
gross vehicle weight rating of 6,000 pounds or more if the unloaded weight is
more than 5,000 pounds. This section shall not apply to an authorized emergency
vehicle.
(Ord. passed 3-2-1981) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.42 PRESERVATION OF OTHER REMEDIES.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall be in addition to and shall not
disturb either the right of the city or the right of individuals affected by
the violation to pursue any other remedy for the abatement of a nuisance, or
any other remedy which might or could be available under the law.
(Ord. passed 3-2-1981)
ON-SITE CITATIONS
§ 92.55 ADOPTION.
   The city enacts the ordinance codified within this subchapter, known as the
“On-Site Citation Ordinance”. This subchapter becomes effective the day after
it was passed, being April 4, 2022. Any prior on-site citation ordinance
(“prior codes”) are hereby repealed and replaced with this subchapter. Any
penalties or civil actions instituted under prior codes are still in effect
until the resolution of such penalties or civil actions.
(Ord. 2022-07, passed 4-4-2022)
§ 92.56 PUBLIC NUISANCE DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, a PUBLIC NUISANCE shall be taken to mean
a thing or act, committed or permitted, failure to act, occupation or use of
property which:
   (A)   Shall annoy, injure, or endanger the safety, health, comfort, or
repose of any number of persons;
   (B)   Shall offend the public decency;
   (C)   Shall unlawfully interfere with, obstruct, or tend to obstruct or
render dangerous for passage any public park, public playground, street, alley,
or highway; or
   (D)   Shall in any way render any number of persons insecure in life or in
the use and enjoyment of their property.
(Ord. 2022-07, passed 4-4-2022)
§ 92.57 NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH.
   The following are hereby declared to be public nuisances affecting health:
   (A)   All decayed or unwholesome food offered for sale to the public, or
kept or maintained so as to be obnoxious;
   (B)   All diseased animals running at large;
   (C)   All ponds, pools of water, or vessels holding stagnant water in which
mosquitoes can breed;
   (D)   Carcasses of animals not buried or otherwise disposed of in a sanitary
manner within 18 hours after death;
   (E)   Accumulation of manure or rubbish which are breeding places for flies,
mosquitoes, or vermin;
   (F)   Privy vaults and garbage cans which are not fly tight;
   (G)   All noxious weeds and other rank growth of vegetation upon public or
private property;
   (H)   All public exposure of persons having contagious disease; and
   (I)   All other acts, omission of acts, occupations, and use of property
which are in fact a menace or detriment to the public health, including
nuisances that may also be identified under the State Building Code, as adopted
by the city.
(Ord. 2022-07, passed 4-4-2022)
§ 92.58 NUISANCES AFFECTING MORALS.
   The following are hereby declared to be public nuisances affecting public
morals and decency:
   (A)   All gambling devices, slot machines, and punchboards not permitted by
state statute;
   (B)   All houses, apartments, tenements, or any part or parts thereof, kept
for the purpose of prostitution or promiscuous sexual intercourse and houses of
ill fame and bawdy houses;
   (C)   All places where intoxicating liquors are manufactured, sold,
bartered, or given away in violation of law, or where persons are permitted to
resort for the purpose of drinking intoxicating liquors kept for sale, barter,
or distribution in violation of law, and all liquors, bottles, kegs, pumps,
bars, and other property kept at and used for maintaining such a place;
   (D)   Any vehicle used for any immoral or illegal purpose;
   (E) All indecent or obscene pictures, books, pamphlets, magazines, and
newspapers;
   (F)   Betting, bookmaking, selling baseball pools, race horse pools, and all
apparatuses used in such connection. This subchapter shall not apply to any
gambling that the state has deemed to be legal; and
   (G)   Gambling houses and all poolrooms where minors under the age of 18
years are permitted to enter and are permitted to loaf and loiter therein;
where punchboards, slot machines, race horse pools, baseball pools, or any
other scheme, device, or apparatus is kept and promoted which constitutes a
game of chance, gambling device, or any other scheme by whatsoever name known
which is classed as and is defined by state statute as a game of chance.
(Ord. 2022-07, passed 4-4-2022)
§ 92.59 NUISANCES AFFECTING PEACE AND SAFETY.
   The following are declared to be public nuisances affecting peace and
safety:
   (A)   All snow and ice not removed from public sidewalks in accordance with
rules and regulations promulgated by the City Manager and approved by the City
Council;
   (B)   All limbs of trees which project over a sidewalk or street and which
are less than eight feet above the surface of such public sidewalk or ten feet
above the surface of such street;
   (C) All buildings, walks, or other structures which have been damaged by
fire, decay, or otherwise, and which are so situated as to endanger the safety
of the public;
   (D)   All explosives, flammable liquids, and other dangerous substances
stored in any manner or in any amount other than that provided by this code of
ordinances or other ordinance of the city;
   (E)   All use or display of fireworks, except as provided by this code or
other ordinance of the city;
   (F)   All loud or unusual noises, either made or permitted to be made or
condoned, and annoying vibrations, which offend the peace and quiet of persons
of ordinary sensibilities;
   (G)   Obstructions and excavations affecting the ordinary use by the public
of streets, alleys, and sidewalks, or public grounds, except under such
conditions as are provided by this code of ordinances or other ordinance of the
city;
   (H)   All hanging signs, awnings, and other similar structures over the
streets or sidewalks so situated or constructed as to endanger public safety;
   (I)   The allowing of rainwater, ice, or snow to fall from any building or
structure upon any street or sidewalk or to flow across any sidewalk;
   (J) All barbed-wire fences which are located within three feet of any public
sidewalk or thoroughfare;
   (K)   The distribution of handbills, except as provided by this code of
ordinances and other ordinance of the city; and
   (L)   All abandoned or discarded items of personal property, junk, or
collection of equipment exposed to public view, including automobiles,
furniture, stoves, refrigerators, freezers, cans, boxes, and containers.
(Ord. 2022-07, passed 4-4-2022)
§ 92.60 DEPOSITING MATERIAL IN WATERWAYS.
   (A)   No person shall deposit, throw, or cause to be deposited or thrown any
offal from any slaughterhouse or any other building or any dead animals or fowl
or other deleterious material into the waterways of the city or its tributaries
within the corporate limits of the city.
   (B)   Upon conviction of a violation of any provision of the first paragraph
of this section, the person so convicted shall have a reasonable time to remove
the offal or dead animal or fowl or other deleterious material involved In the
conviction, within the discretion of the Chief of Police, but such time shall
not exceed two days.
(Ord. 2022-07, passed 4-4-2022) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.61 COMPLAINTS; NOTICE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police, any police officer, the Fire Chief, and the City
Building Code Official or his or her designees shall have the authority to
identify nuisances and provide a warning to the alleged violator. Said warning
shall give the violator a reasonable amount of time to abate the nuisance. In
the event that the alleged violator does not abate the nuisance within the time
given, the city official issuing the warning shall issue a citation to the
alleged violator.
   (B)   Upon receipt of a violation, the alleged violator shall:
      (1)   Pay the citation to the city and alleged violator abate the
nuisance; or
      (2)   Appeal the citation to the Municipal Court. The amount of said fine
shall be used as bond for Municipal Court purposes. Upon a finding of guilty or
upon a failure to appear, the alleged violator shall adhere to whatever
resolution the Municipal Court orders, including, but not limited to, the
alleged violator forfeiting the bond. If the Municipal Court rules in favor of
the alleged violator, the Municipal Court shall release the citation fine/bond
amount back to the alleged violator.
   (C)   (1)   Upon issuing a citation, the city official issuing said citation
shall provide the Municipal Court with a copy of the citation. This citation
shall be considered the alleged violator’s notice to appear in Municipal Court.
      (2)   The Municipal Court shall provide the alleged violator a date,
time, and place to appear before the Municipal Court and to show cause why such
nuisance should not be abated.
      (3)   Such notice shall be served, as other legal notices are served, on
the owner, lessee, agent, manager in charge, or any servant or employee in
charge or control of the premises where the nuisance in question is alleged to
exist, at least five days prior to the time set therein for the hearing before
the City Council.
   (D)   If the alleged violator does not pay the fine and fails to appear in
Municipal Court, then the alleged violator shall be subject to any particular
legal measures the Municipal Court deems necessary to address the situation,
including, but not limited to, any applicable warrant that applies to the
situation.
(Ord. 2022-07, passed 4-4-2022)
§ 92.62 HEARING BEFORE MUNICIPAL COURT.
   (A)   (1)   Pursuant to notice, the Municipal Court shall conduct a hearing
pursuant to this subchapter, at which hearing both the complainant and the
person so charged with maintaining such nuisance, together with such witnesses
as they may produce shall be fully heard.
      (2)   Upon such hearing a continuance for proper cause shown may be
granted at the instance of either party.
   (B)   If, upon the hearing of the matter, the Municipal Court shall
determine that such nuisance exists as charged in the complaint, it shall
provide an order for its abatement as follows:
      (1)   If such nuisance be in a place of business or other establishment
for the conduct of which the city has issued a license, then such license may
be revoked.
      (2)   If the nuisance found to exist be that of conducting a house of ill
fame bawdy house, house of prostitution, gambling house, or place for the
handling, sale, or other disposition of intoxicating liquors contrary to the
statutes of the state or the provisions of this code of ordinances or other
ordinances of the city, the Municipal Court order may order said nuisance to be
abated within any means authorized by city, state, or federal law; and
      (3)   If any nuisance be found to exist other than those specially
enumerated in divisions (A) and (B) above, and the provisions of this
subchapter does not provide for its abatement, the Municipal Court may issue a
warrant, upon the complaint of any official of the city, or any bona fide
resident, filed before the Municipal Court, and prosecution shall immediately
be had of any person shown to be maintaining or harboring such nuisance.
(Ord. 2022-07, passed 4-4-2022)
§ 92.63 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNERS, LESSEES, AND TENANTS.
   Any person having control over any premises upon or in which a nuisance is
maintained or harbored in violation of this subchapter, whether he or she be
the owner, lessee, sublessee, tenant, occupant, or the agent or manager in
charge for any such owner, lessee, sublessee, tenant, or occupant thereof,
shall be subject to the provisions of this subchapter and may be proceeded
against in all respects as fully as is provided in the foregoing provisions of
this subchapter with reference to the occupant of such premises. Prosecutions
under this subchapter shall not be deemed to be exclusive, but shall be in
addition to all other penalties provided by any other provision of this code of
ordinances or other ordinance of the city authorizing the prosecution and
conviction for any violation of the provisions of this code of ordinances or
other ordinances of the city, even though the result of the offense charged
would be the setting up, maintaining, or harboring of a nuisance and within the
purview of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2022-07, passed 4-4-2022)
§ 92.64 FINES AND PAYMENT.
   The Municipal Court shall have the authority to order the city, or its
designees, to abate any nuisance, with the costs of said abatement being
charged as a lien against the property or as a debt to the alleged violator
that may be paid by the alleged violator in a manner suitable to the city. An
alleged violator has the right to appeal any city Municipal Court to any court
of competent jurisdiction. An alleged violator shall have 14 calendar days to
appeal any city Municipal Court order related to this subchapter.
(Ord. 2022-07, passed 4-4-2022)
§ 92.65 RELATIONSHIP TO STATE BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   Nothing in this subchapter is intended to supplant the city’s ability
to utilize the Code Appeals Board for purposes related to enforcement of the
State Building Code, as adopted by the city.
   (B)   This subchapter is just another mechanism to help identify and abate
various public nuisances.
(Ord. 2022-07, passed 4-4-2022)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter for which no other
penalty is provided shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person found guilty of violating, disobeying, omitting,
neglecting, or refusing to comply with, or resisting or opposing the
enforcement, of any of the provisions of §§
92.35 to
92.42, except as otherwise specifically provided, upon conviction thereof,
shall be punished as a misdemeanor by a fine of not less than $15 nor more than
$300 for the first offense, and not less than $50 nor more than $500 for the
second and each subsequent offense, or other amounts deemed appropriate by the
Municipal Court, in any 180-day period, or shall be punishable as a misdemeanor
by incarceration in the county jail for a term not to exceed 30 days. A
separate and distinct offense shall be regarded as committed each day on which
such person shall continue or permit any such violation, or failure to comply
as permitted to exist after notification thereof.
   (C)   For violation of §§
92.57 through
92.59, there shall be a fine for a:
      (1)   First offense shall be between $100 and $250, at the discretion of
the Municipal Court;
      (2)   Second offense for the same nuisance committed within 12 months
shall be between $501 and $750, at the discretion of the Municipal Court;
      (3)   Third offense for the same nuisance committed within 12 months
shall be between $751 and $1000, at the discretion of the Municipal Court; and
      (4)   Any subsequent offenses shall be penalized in a manner deemed
suitable by the Municipal Court, which may include any jail time allowed by
law.
(Ord. passed 3-2-1981; Ord. passed 10-20-2020; Ord. 2022-07, passed 4-4-2022)
Statutory reference:
   Abandoned vehicles; authorized penalty for ordinance violations, see W. Va.
Code 8-11-1, 8-12-5(57), and 8-34-1
CHAPTER 93: PARADES AND DEMONSTRATIONS
Section
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Permit required; exceptions
   
93.03   Application for permit
   
93.04   Consideration of application for permit; granting or denial of permit
   
93.05   Conditions of permit and required compliance therewith
   
93.06   Authority of Common Council to require posting of bond
   
93.07   Weapons; vicious animals
   
93.08   Signs, pennants, stickers, and the like
   
93.09   Dispersal of riots and unlawful assemblies; arrest of persons who
disobey command to disperse
   
93.10   Disturbing paraders/demonstrators prohibited
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. A person who has filed a written application for a parade permit.
   CHIEF OF POLICE. The chief of police for the city or his or her designated
agent.
   DEMONSTRATION. A group of three or more persons assembled together and
acting in concert to then and there call attention of the public to their
opposition to, support of, or position with respect to any political, social,
or other controversial subject; but nothing in this chapter shall be construed
to apply to persons lawfully engaged in picketing in an orderly manner.
   PARADE. Any parade, march, or other procession of six or more persons for
the purpose of calling attention of the public thereto.
   PARADE PERMIT. Written approval from the Chief of Police for a parade or
procession.
   PERMITTEE. The person to whom a parade permit is granted pursuant to this
subchapter.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street intended for the use of pedestrians that
is located between the curb lines, or lateral lines of a roadway, and the
adjacent property lines.
   STREET. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way publically
maintained, when any part is open to the use of the public for purposes of
vehicular travel.
(Prior Code, § 8-1)
§ 93.02 PERMIT REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sponsor, organize, direct, lead, or
participate in any parade or demonstration upon any street or sidewalk or upon
or in any public place within the city unless a city permit has been granted to
hold such parade or demonstration; provided, that this chapter shall not apply
to parades, processions, or convoys of any component of the armed forces of the
United States or the state, to any governmental organization, or to any funeral
procession.
   (A)   A person commits an offense if he or she engages in, participates in,
aids, or commences a pedestrian parade or vehicular parade, or a combination of
both, upon the streets of the city without making written application for and
receiving a parade permit from the Chief of Police.
   (B)   (1)   Application for a parade permit for a parade of more than 25
persons or more than three motor vehicles shall be made not less than five
days, excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays, prior to the date and
time of the commencement of the parade.
      (2)   Application for a parade permit for a parade of 25 persons or less
and/or three motor vehicles or less shall be made not less than 48 hours prior
to the time of the commencement of the parade.
   (C)    No parade permit shall be required under this subchapter for the
following:
      (1)   The armed forced of the United States, the military forces of the
state, and the forces of the Police and Fire Departments acting within the
scope of their duties;
      (2)   A funeral procession proceeding by vehicle under the most
reasonable route from a funeral home, church, or residence of a deceased to the
place of service or place or interment;
      (3)   A peaceful demonstration at a fixed location which is not a street;
or
      (4)   A sidewalk procession which observes and complies with traffic
regulations and traffic control devices, using the portion of a sidewalk
nearest the street, but at no time using more than one-half of the sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 8-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.03 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   The application for a parade permit shall contain the following
information and be signed by the applicant and sworn to before an officer
authorized to administer oaths:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the applicant and of any
other person, organization, firm, or corporation on whose behalf the
application is made;
      (2)   The date and time of day requested for the parade;
      (3)   The parade’s commencement time, the specific route to be traveled,
and the starting and termination points;
      (4)   The estimated number of persons to participate in the parade and
the estimated number of animals that will be used; and
      (5)   The estimated number, if any, of animals and riders, animal-drawn
vehicles, floats, motor vehicles, motorized displays, and marching units or
organizations such as bands, color guards, and drill teams.
   (B)   (1)   An application for a parade permit must be accompanied by a
nonrefundable application fee of $25, or other amount deemed appropriate by the
Municipal Court.
      (2)   The Chief of Police may waive the application fee if he or she
finds, in response to an affidavit by the applicant, that the applicant is
unable to pay the application fee because of indigence.
(Prior Code, § 8-4)
§ 93.04 CONSIDERATION OF APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; GRANTING OR DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Time requirement. Upon receipt of an application of a parade permit,
the Chief of Police shall furnish to the applicant within three days, excluding
Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays, appropriate approval or denial of the
permit.
   (B)   Alternate route. Should the application for a parade permit reveal
that the parade route requested will interfere with orderly flow of vehicular
and pedestrian traffic, the Chief of Police shall have authority to establish a
reasonable alternate route and regulate the width of the parade.
   (C)   Denial. The Chief of Police shall deny a parade permit when the parade
for which the permit is requested would:
      (1)   Cross or use as a route, or as part of a route, any streets
specifically prohibited from being used as a parade route;
      (2)    Begin during, or within two hours after the end of, a parade for
which a permit has been granted and follow a route that passes within one-half
mile of any point of the route of the parade for which a permit has been
granted; or
      (3)   Unreasonable disrupt the orderly flow of traffic, and no reasonable
means of rerouting traffic or otherwise meeting traffic needs is available.
   (D)   Revocation. The Chief of Police shall revoke a parade permit if:
      (1)   The parade fails to begin within 30 minutes of the appointed time
of commencement; or
      (2)   The information contained in the application for a parade permit is
found to be false in any material detail.
   (E)   Appeal. If the Chief of Police denies or revokes a parade permit, this
action shall be final unless the applicant or permittee shall, within two days
after the receipt of notice of the denial or revocation, file with the City
Manager a written appeal. The City Manager shall, within 24 hours after the
appeal is filed, consider all the evidence in support of or against the action
appealed and render a decision either sustaining or reversing the denial or
revocation. The decision of the City Manager shall be final.
(Prior Code, § 8-6)
§ 93.05 CONDITIONS OF PERMIT AND REQUIRED COMPLIANCE THEREWITH.
   In granting a permit pursuant to this chapter, the Common Council may
include therein such prohibitions, conditions, restrictions, and limitations as
it may consider appropriate, under the general police powers of the city, to
safeguard the good government and the peace, safety, health, and welfare of the
city and the inhabitants thereof, as well as to maintain law and order and
acceptable traffic conditions within the city, and it shall be unlawful for any
person covered by the permit to violate or fail to comply with any such
prohibition, condition, restriction, or limitation. The provisions of this
chapter shall be deemed to be a part of each parade or demonstration permit,
whether or not so stated in the permit.
(Prior Code, § 8-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.06 AUTHORITY OF COMMON COUNCIL TO REQUIRE POSTING OF BOND.
   Prior to the granting of a permit pursuant to this chapter, and as a
condition precedent for the granting of such permit, the Common Council may
require that the person named in the application as the one to be responsible
for the conduct of the parade or demonstration shall give bond to the city, in
such amount and with such surety as the Common Council may consider necessary,
conditioned upon the full satisfaction of all judgments and decrees which may
result by reason of any negligent or unlawful act or omission of any person
participating in such parade or demonstration and included within the permit;
with the further condition that he or she will save the city harmless from all
claims and demands whatever which may arise by reason of such parade or
demonstration; and with the further condition that he or she will pay the city
for all extra expenses incurred for clearing the streets, sidewalks, and public
places of litter and waste matter resulting from such parade or demonstration
and for the cleaning and repair of public property which may be soiled or
damaged by acts of vandalism during the period of organizing and holding the
parade or demonstration and within six hours thereafter when such acts of
vandalism are reasonably attributable to the holding of such parade or
demonstration.
(Prior Code, § 8-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.07 WEAPONS; VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person parading or demonstrating pursuant to a permit issued under
the provisions of this chapter shall carry any dangerous weapon; provided, that
the Common Council may, in the exercise of sound discretion, include in such
permit such variations from this division (A) as it may consider appropriate
for members of color guards, drill teams, lodges, and other persons by whom the
display of weapons upon the occasion of such parade or demonstration would not
arouse anxiety on the part of spectators or constitute a threat to the
maintenance of law and order and the preservation of the public peace.
   (B)   No person parading or demonstrating pursuant to a permit issued under
the provisions of this chapter shall cause, or suffer to be caused, any vicious
or apparently vicious animal to participate in or accompany such parade or
demonstration; provided, that the Common Council may, in the exercise of sound
discretion, include in such permit such variations from this division (B) as it
may consider appropriate for circus parades and similar events.
(Prior Code, § 8-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.08 SIGNS, PENNANTS, STICKERS, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   No person parading or demonstrating pursuant to a permit issued under
the provisions of this chapter shall carry or display any sign, pennant,
sticker, or other device which contains language or illustrations that is
likely to cause an immediate violent response from the person to whom the
message is addressed. No sign shall exceed a width of 24 inches or a height of
36 inches.
   (B)   The penalty for violating this section can be found in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 8-11) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Indecent language, see §
130.040
   Signs defined; what constitutes as a sign, see §
157.047
§ 93.09 DISPERSAL OF RIOTS AND UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLIES; ARREST OF PERSONS WHO
DISOBEY COMMAND TO DISPERSE.
   Parades and demonstrations held pursuant to a permit issued under the
provisions of this chapter which become, or which reasonably appear to present
an imminent threat to becoming, a riot, rout, or unlawful assembly shall be
dispersed forthwith by the city police or by any law enforcement officer who
may be present, and persons who are commanded to disperse by any law
enforcement officer shall promptly obey such command and peacefully disengage
themselves from such parade or demonstration and leave the scene thereof, and
persons who fail to obey such command shall be subject to immediate arrest.
(Prior Code, § 8-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.10 DISTURBING PARADERS/DEMONSTRATORS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall hinder, molest, insult, or harass any parader or
demonstrator lawfully parading or demonstrating pursuant to a permit issued
under the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-13) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 94: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
94.01   Board of Park and Recreation Commissioners established
   
94.02   Composition of Board; members, quorum, and the like
   
94.03   Annual organizational meeting; officers and records of Board
   
94.04   Compensation and expenses of Board members; interest in contracts; dual
office holding
   
94.05   Office space; authority of Board as to property, management, and
personnel
   
94.06   Specified powers of Board Commissioners; duty of City Attorney
   
94.07   Charges authorized to be imposed for use of recreational facilities
   
94.08   Appropriations and funds
§ 94.01 BOARD OF PARK AND RECREATION COMMISSIONERS ESTABLISHED.
   A Board of Park and Recreation Commissioners is hereby created for the
purpose of establishing, improving, developing, operating, and maintaining a
municipal public park and recreation system, which shall be a public corporate
body with perpetual existence and a corporate seal. It shall be known as the
“Board of Park and Recreation Commissioners of the City of Weston”, and shall
have power to purchase, hold, sell, and convey real or personal property;
receive any gift, grant, donation, bequest, or devise; sue and be sued;
contract and be contracted with; and do any and all things and acts which may
be necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the purposes and
provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 19-1)
§ 94.02 COMPOSITION OF BOARD; MEMBERS, QUORUM, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   The Board of Park and Recreation Commissioners shall consist of five
members, any three of whom shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of
business, except as hereinafter in this chapter provided.
   (B)   The members of the Board shall be appointed by the Common Council. To
establish the Board, the Common Council shall appoint the members of the first
Board, such appointees to serve two for a term of six years, two for a term of
four years, and one for a term of two years. Thereafter, the appropriate number
of members of the Board shall be appointed in April of each even-numbered year,
to take office on May 1 in the year of his or her appointment. Each member
shall serve a term of six years and continue to serve until his or her
successor is duly appointed and qualified. Any vacancy on the Board shall be
filled by the Common Council.
   (C)   Membership on the Common Council shall not disqualify a person from
serving on the Board, provided that not more than two members of the Common
Council may be appointed to serve on the Board at one time.
   (D)   All members of the Board must be residents and freeholders of the
city. When any member of the Board, during his or her term of office, shall
cease to be a resident and freeholder of the city, he or she shall thereby be
disqualified as a member of the Board and his or her office shall thereupon
become vacant.
(Prior Code, § 19-2) (Ord. passed 11-3-2014)
§ 94.03 ANNUAL ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING; OFFICERS AND RECORDS OF BOARD.
   (A)   After appointment, the members of the Board of Park and Recreation
Commissioners shall qualify by taking and filing with the City Clerk the oath
prescribed by law for public officials, and they shall not be permitted to
serve upon such Board until they have so qualified. If any member of the Board
shall fail to so qualify on or before the date upon which he or she should
assume the duties of his or her office, the other qualified members of the
Board may declare his or her position vacant and appoint a successor as
hereinbefore provided.
   (B)   (1)   On the first Monday in January of each year, the members of the
Board shall organize by electing one of their number President, and another
Vice President, and by electing a Secretary who need not be a member of the
Board.
      (2)   The Secretary shall keep an accurate record of all the fiscal
affairs of the Board, and shall keep a minute book in which he or she shall
record the proceedings and transactions of each meeting of the Board. The
Secretary shall be paid such compensation for his or her services as the Board
shall fix from year to year.
      (3)   The City Treasurer shall be ex officio Treasurer of the Board, and
he or she shall take the oath prescribed by law and shall furnish bond as may
be required by the Board.
(Prior Code, § 19-3)
§ 94.04 COMPENSATION AND EXPENSES OF BOARD MEMBERS; INTEREST IN CONTRACTS; DUAL
OFFICE HOLDING.
   (A)   The members of the Board of Park and Recreation Commissioners shall
receive no compensation for their services but they shall be entitled to
reimbursement for any reasonable expenses incurred in the performance of their
duties as members of the Board.
   (B)   They shall not be personally interested directly or indirectly in any
contract entered into, by the Board, or hold any remunerative position in
connection with the construction, operation, or maintenance of any of the
property under their control as members of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 19-4)
§ 94.05 OFFICE SPACE; AUTHORITY OF BOARD AS TO PROPERTY, MANAGEMENT, AND
PERSONNEL.
   (A)   The Common Council shall furnish the Board of Park and Recreation
Commissioners an office at the municipal building where it may hold its
meetings and keep its records. The Board shall have complete and exclusive
control and management of all of the properties which shall operate in
connection with the public park and recreation systems for the city, and shall
have power to employ such persons as, in its opinion, may be necessary for the
construction, operation, and maintenance of the property under its control, at
such wages or salaries as it shall deem proper, and shall have full control of
all employees.
   (B)   The Board of Park and Recreation Commissioners shall have power to
acquire by purchase, lease, or by exercise of the power of eminent domain, such
land or lands as it shall determine to be necessary or incidental to the
construction, operation, and maintenance of a system of public parks, parkways,
playgrounds, athletic fields, stadiums, swimming pools, skating rinks, and
other like public recreational facilities for the city.
   (C)   The Board of Park and Recreation Commissioners is hereby authorized to
take title in its name or in the name of the city to all real and personal
property acquired by it for the use of the public or useful to the public in
the operation, maintenance, or enjoyment of all public parks, parkways,
playgrounds, athletic fields, stadiums, swimming pools, skating rinks, and all
other like public recreational facilities for the municipality, and shall
manage and dispose thereof as, in its opinion, will best serve the interests of
the public in carrying out the purposes of this chapter. The city and all other
public bodies owning real estate intended to be used for public parks are
hereby authorized to convey such realty to the Board to be held by it for such
purpose; provided that nothing, herein contained shall be construed as limiting
the Board of Park and Recreation Commissioners from going beyond the
territorial limits of the city, anywhere within the state, to lease, purchase,
or otherwise acquire any real estate for the purposes herein set forth;
provided further, that the Board shall have the right to sell and convey only
such part of the real estate that it may acquire by gift, devise, purchase, or
otherwise, as it may determine to be of no advantage in the operation,
management, and maintenance of public parks, parkways, playgrounds, athletic
fields, stadiums, swimming pools, skating rinks, and other like public
recreational facilities; except that the Board shall have authority and power
to make such sales and conveyances of its real estate as may be necessary,
desirable, or convenient, to enable the city to obtain the benefits of W. Va.
Code Ch. 8, Art. 16, entitled “Municipal Public Works; Revenue Bond Financing”,
or any other like act or legislative authorization; and provided further, that
under no circumstances shall any of such property be sold or conveyed except by
unanimous vote of all of the members of the Board. All deeds conveying the real
estate of the Board shall be executed in its official name by its President or
Vice President, and shall have its corporate seal affixed and duly attested by
its Secretary.
(Prior Code, § 19-5)
§ 94.06 SPECIFIED POWERS OF BOARD COMMISSIONERS; DUTY OF CITY ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The Board of Park and Recreation Commissioners shall have the
necessary powers and authority to manage and control all public parks,
parkways, playgrounds, athletic fields, stadiums, swimming pools, skating
rinks, and other recreational facilities of all kinds used as a part of the
public park and recreation systems or as a means of maintaining places of
beauty, education, and recreation, promoting the health, property, lives,
decency, morality, and good order of the general public, and particularly of
the inhabitants of this city and vicinity; to abate or cause to be abated all
nuisances; to regulate or prohibit the selling of any article, goods, wares, or
merchandise within the park and recreation systems so designated; to regulate
or prohibit the placing of signs, billboards, posters, and advertisements
within the park and recreation systems as so designated, or the grounds
immediately adjacent thereto; to have the same kept in good order and free from
obstruction for the use and benefit of the public; to restrict and prohibit
vagrants, mendicants, beggars, tramps, prostitutes, or disorderly persons
therefrom; to construct, improve, and repair such parks, parkways, playgrounds,
athletic fields, stadiums, swimming pools, skating rinks, and other
recreational facilities, on any grounds controlled by the Board; to acquire for
public use by lease or otherwise lands either within or without the limits of
the city; as to cause any public street, road, alley, bridle path, or walkway
which is a part of the public park and recreation systems to be graded,
drained, and surfaced; to construct, operate, and maintain all necessary sewers
and water lines in connection with the public park and recreation systems; and
to do any and all other things or acts which may in anyway be necessary or
incidental to the use and enjoyment of said public park system by the general
public as a place of beauty, education, entertainment, and recreation.
   (B)   In order to accomplish the foregoing purposes, the Board of Park and
Recreation Commissioners is hereby empowered and authorized to promulgate, and
amend from time to time, such rules and regulations as may be necessary,
appropriate, convenient, or incidental thereto; and after codification of such
rules and regulations, or any amendments thereto, by ordinance of the Common
Council which may provide penalties for a violation thereof, which codification
is hereby authorized to enforce the same by appropriate proceedings in any
proper tribunal of this state, or any county, district, or municipality
thereof; and to employ such police officers as it shall deem proper and
necessary. The City Attorney shall be the official counsel for the Board and
shall advise it on all legal matters, but the Board may, in its own discretion,
employ other or additional counsel.
(Prior Code, § 19-6)
§ 94.07 CHARGES AUTHORIZED TO BE IMPOSED FOR USE OF RECREATIONAL FACILITIES.
   The Board of Park and Recreation Commissioners may make reasonable charges
to the public for the privilege of using any of the recreational facilities
provided in any park and may use the funds so received for the purpose of
constructing, operating, and maintaining such park.
(Prior Code, § 19-7)
§ 94.08 APPROPRIATIONS AND FUNDS.
   In carrying out the purposes of this chapter the Board of Park and
Recreation Commissioners is hereby authorized to receive and disburse for such
purposes, any money appropriated to it by the Common Council, together with any
other funds which may come into its hands by gift, grant, donation, bequest,
devise, or from its own operation, or otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 19-8)
CHAPTER 95: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
In General
   
95.001   Bonfires and outdoor rubbish fires
   
95.002   Same, between March 1 to May 1 and October 1 to December 1
   
95.003   Matches
   
95.004   Smoking prohibited under certain conditions
   
95.005   Use of torches for removing paint and sweating pipe joints
   
95.006   Hot ashes and other dangerous materials
   
95.007   Accumulations of waste materials
   
95.008   Handling readily combustible materials
   
95.009   Storage of readily combustible materials
   
95.010   Flammable decorating materials in buildings of mercantile and
institutional occupancy
   
95.011   Storage or display in roofed-over malls
   
95.012   Open flames or lights restricted
   
95.013   Kindling, maintaining, or permitting fires on property of other
persons
   
95.014   Maintenance of chimneys, vents, heat producing appliances, and exhaust
systems
   
95.015   Trapdoors to be closed
   
95.016   Shaftways to be marked
   
95.017   Fireworks
   
95.018   Obedience to orders at scene of fire; arrest of offenders
Fire Prevention Code
   
95.030   Adopted; purpose, application, and the like
   
95.031   Amended
   
95.032   Definitions
   
95.033   Establishment of limits of districts where storage of explosives are
prohibited
   
95.034   Same, where storage of flammable liquids in outside aboveground tanks
is to be prohibited
   
95.035   Same, where bulk storage of liquified petroleum gas is to be
restricted
   
95.036   Permit fees; duration of permits
   
95.037   Administration and enforcement; Fire Prevention Board; Fire Chief
   
95.038   Modifications
   
95.039   Judicial review of decisions of Fire Prevention Board
   
95.040   Conflict of law
   
95.041   Updating provisions
   
95.042   Additional rules and regulations
Fire Department
   
95.055   Property, personnel, and organization generally
   
95.056   Fire Chief
   
95.057   Authority to command; obedience to orders
   
95.058   Unauthorized use of Department property
   
95.059   Limited authority to answer calls within two miles of city
   
95.060   Rules and regulations
   
95.061   Firefighter’s Civil Service Commission; civil service for Fire Chief
   
95.062   Sick leave for firefighters and Chief
   
95.063   Records of sick leave and vacations
Firefighter’s Pension and Relief Fund
   
95.075   Determination of necessity of Fund
   
95.076   Creation, name, and general powers of Board of Trustees
   
95.077   Composition of Board of Trustees and election and terms of Department
members; filling vacancies and the like
   
95.078   Application of state law
   
95.079   Administration of Fund
Municipal Service Fee
   
95.090   Statement of policy; intent
   
95.091   Definitions
   
95.092   Imposition of municipal service fee
   
95.093   Administration by the City Finance Manager
   
95.094   Schedule of payments
   
95.095   Exemptions
   
95.096   Enforcement
   
95.097   Municipal Service Fee Appeal Board
   
95.098   Protest and appeal
 
   
95.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   General offenses, see
Ch. 130
   Nuisances, see
Ch. 92
   Property maintenance, see
Ch. 91
IN GENERAL
§ 95.001 BONFIRES AND OUTDOOR RUBBISH FIRES.
   (A)   Generally; at site of work project. No person shall kindle or maintain
any bonfire or rubbish fire or authorize any such fire to be kindled or
maintained without authorization by the Fire Chief. During construction or
demolition of buildings or structures no waste materials or rubbish shall be
disposed of by burning on the premises or in the immediate vicinity without
having obtained a permit or other proper authorization from the Fire Chief.
   (B)   Location restricted. No person shall kindle or maintain any bonfire or
rubbish fire or authorize any such fire to be kindled or maintained on any
private land unless the location is not less than 50 feet from any structure
and adequate provision is made to prevent fire from spreading to within 50 feet
of any structure, or the fire is contained in a waste burner, of a type
approved by the Fire Chief, located safely not less than 15 feet from any
structure; provided, that no bonfire or rubbish fire shall be kindled or
maintained on any part of the streets, sidewalks, public squares, or other
public places in the city; and provided further, that no bonfire or rubbish
fire shall be kindled or maintained within the fire limits without a permit
from the Fire Chief.
   (C)   Attendance of open fires. Bonfires and rubbish fires shall be
constantly attended by a competent person until such fire is extinguished. This
person shall have a garden hose connected to the water supply or other fire
extinguishing equipment readily available for use.
   (D)   Fire Chief may prohibit. The Fire Chief may prohibit any or all
bonfires and outdoor rubbish fires when atmospheric conditions or local
circumstances make such fires hazardous.
(Prior Code, § 11-1) Penalty, see §
95.999
Charter reference:
   Authority to abate all nuisances and compel the removal thereof, see Charter
§ 30
   Authority to regulate the keeping of gunpowder and dangerous explosives, see
Charter § 30
Statutory reference:
   Authority to enact ordinances to protect the public safety, see W. Va. Code
8-12-5(44)
   Authority to prevent injury to the public, see W. Va. Code 8-12-5(13) to
(15)
   Authority to provide for the elimination of hazards, see W. Va. Code 8-12-5
(23)
§ 95.002 SAME, BETWEEN MARCH 1 TO MAY 1 AND OCTOBER 1 TO DECEMBER 1.
   No person shall kindle or maintain any bonfire or outdoor rubbish fire or
cause to be set on fire any refuse, grass, brush, debris, or any flammable
substance except between the hours of 5:00 p.m. to 5:00 a.m. during the periods
from March 1 to May 31 and October 1 to December 31, inclusive, and except as
permitted by the Chief of the Bureau of Fire Prevention.
(Prior Code, § 11-2) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.003 MATCHES.
   (A)   Permit required. No person shall manufacture matches without a permit.
No person shall store matches exceeding in aggregate 25 cases of matches
without a permit.
   (B)   Wholesale storage. At wholesale establishments and wherever matches
exceeding 25 cases are stored, shipping containers containing matches shall be
arranged in piles not exceeding 18 feet in height, nor 25,000 cubic feet in
volume. Such pile units shall be separated from each other and from other
combustible material by a clear space of not less than four feet. In storage
rooms where shipping containers containing matches are open, the broken
containers and contents shall be neatly piled with other match stock in a
portion devoted to match storage exclusively.
(Prior Code, § 11-3) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.004 SMOKING PROHIBITED UNDER CERTAIN CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Smoking shall mean and include the carrying of lighted pipe, cigar,
cigarette, or tobacco in any form.
   (B)   Where conditions are such as to make smoking a hazard in any areas of
warehouses, stores, industrial plants, institutions, places of assembly, and in
open spaces where combustible materials are stored or handled, the Fire Chief
is empowered and authorized to order the owner or occupant in writing to post
“No Smoking” signs in each building, structure, room, or place in which smoking
shall be prohibited. The Fire Chief shall designate specific safe locations, if
necessary, in any building, structure, or place in which smoking may be
permitted.
   (C)   “No Smoking” signs of approved sized lettering and location required
in accordance with division (B) above shall read “By Order of the Fire Chief”.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove any legally required “No
Smoking” sign or to smoke in any place where such signs are posted.
(Prior Code, § 11-4) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.005 USE OF TORCHES FOR REMOVING PAINT AND SWEATING PIPE JOINTS.
   (A)   Any person using a torch or other flame-producing device for removing
paint from any building or structure shall provide one fire extinguisher, of a
type approved by the Fire Chief, or water hose connected to a water supply in
the area where such burning is done. In all cases, a fire watcher shall remain
on the premises for one hour after the torch or flame-producing device has been
used.
   (B)   Any person using a torch or other flame-producing device for sweating
pipe joints in any building or structure shall have available in the immediate
vicinity where the sweating is done, one such approved fire extinguisher or
water hose connected to a water supply. Combustible material in the close
proximity of flame shall be protected against ignition by shielding, wetting,
or other approved means. In all cases, a fire watcher shall remain in the
vicinity of the sweating operation for one-half hour after the torch or flame-
producing device has been used.
(Prior Code, § 11-5)
§ 95.006 HOT ASHES AND OTHER DANGEROUS MATERIALS.
   (A)   No person shall deposit hot ashes or cinders, or smouldering coals, or
greasy or oily substances liable to spontaneous ignition, into any combustible
receptacle, or place the same within ten feet of any combustible materials,
except in metal or other noncombustible receptacles.
   (B)   Such receptacles, unless resting on a noncombustible floor or on the
ground outside the building, shall be placed on noncombustible stands, and in
every case shall be kept at least two feet away from any combustible wall or
partition or exterior window opening.
(Prior Code, § 11-6) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.007 ACCUMULATIONS OF WASTE MATERIALS.
   Roofs, courts, yards, sidewalks, alleys, vacant lots, and open spaces shall
be kept free and clear of deposits or accumulations of waste paper, hay, grass,
straw, weeds, litter, or combustible waste or rubbish of any kind. All weeds,
grass, vines, or other growth, when same endangers property, or is liable to be
fired, shall be cut down and removed by the owner or occupant of the property.
(Prior Code, § 11-7)
§ 95.008 HANDLING READILY COMBUSTIBLE MATERIALS.
   (A)   No person making, using, storing, or having in charge or under his or
her control any shavings, excelsior, rubbish, sacks, bags, litter, hay, straw,
or combustible waste materials shall fail or neglect at the close of each day
to cause all such material which is not compactly baled and stacked in an
orderly manner to be removed from the building or stored in suitable vaults or
in metal or metal lined, covered receptacles or bins.
   (B)   The Fire Chief shall require suitable baling presses to be installed
in stores, apartment buildings, factories, and similar places where
accumulations of paper and waste materials are not removed at least every
second day.
(Prior Code, § 11-8) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.009 STORAGE OF READILY COMBUSTIBLE MATERIALS.
   (A)   Generally. No person shall keep or permit to be kept on any premises
owned or occupied by him or her any oily waste and oily rags, unless at all
times, when not actually in use, such oily waste and oily rags be kept in a
metal can with self-closing cover and riveted joints.
   (B)   When permit required. No person shall store in any building or upon
any premises in excess of 2,500 cubic feet gross volume of combustible empty
packing cases, boxes, barrels, or similar containers, or rubber tires, or baled
cotton, rubber, or cork, or other similarly combustible material without a
permit.
   (C)   Storage requirements.
      (1)   Storage in buildings shall be orderly, shall not be within two feet
of the ceiling, shall be separated from heaters or heating devices by distance
or shielding so that ignition cannot occur, and not so located as to endanger
exit from the building.
      (2)   Storage in the open shall not be more than 20 feet in height, shall
be so located, with respect to adjacent buildings, as not to constitute a
hazard, and shall be compact and orderly.
(Prior Code, § 11-9) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.010 FLAMMABLE DECORATING MATERIALS IN BUILDINGS OF MERCANTILE AND
INSTITUTIONAL OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Highly flammable materials such as cotton batting, straws, dry vines,
leaves, trees, artificial flowers or shrubbery, and foam plastic materials
shall not be used for decorative purposes in show windows or other parts of
mercantile and institutional occupancies unless first rendered flame-proofed in
accordance with § 27.3 of the Fire Prevention Code. Electric light bulbs in
mercantile and institutional occupancies shall not be decorated with paper or
other combustible materials unless such materials shall first have been
rendered flame-proofed.
(Prior Code, § 11-10)
§ 95.011 STORAGE OR DISPLAY IN ROOFED-OVER MALLS.
   No combustible goods, merchandise, or decorations shall be displayed or
stored in a roofed-over mall unless approved by the Fire Chief.
(Prior Code, § 11-11) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.012 OPEN FLAMES OR LIGHTS RESTRICTED.
   (A)   No person shall take an open flame or light into any building, barn,
or any other place where highly flammable, combustible, or explosive material
is kept, unless such lighter flame shall be well secured in a glass globe, wire
mesh cage, or similar approved device.
   (B)   No heating or lighting apparatus or equipment capable of igniting
flammable material of the type stored or handled shall be used in the storage
area of any warehouse storing rags, excelsior, hair, or other highly flammable
or combustible material; nor in the work area of any shop or factory used for
the manufacture, repair, or renovating of mattresses or bedding; nor in the
work areas of any establishment used for the upholstering of furniture.
   (C)   No person shall install, maintain, or use within any building or other
structure in the city any open flame gas jet, or swinging/bracket light.
(Prior Code, § 11-12) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.013 KINDLING, MAINTAINING, OR PERMITTING FIRES ON PROPERTY OF OTHER
PERSONS.
   No person shall kindle or maintain any fire upon the property of another
without authority of the owner of such property, nor shall any person wilfully
or through neglect permit any fire on his or her own property to spread to the
property of another.
(Prior Code, § 11-13) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.014 MAINTENANCE OF CHIMNEYS, VENTS, HEAT PRODUCING APPLIANCES, AND EXHAUST
SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Chimneys, flues, or similar devices for conveying products of
combustion or hot gases to the exterior of the building shall be maintained in
a matter as not to create a hazardous condition.
      (1)   Existing masonry chimneys which upon inspection are found to be
without flue liner and with open mortar joints which will permit smoke or gases
to be discharged into the building, or which are cracked as to be dangerous
shall be made safe by means of a fire clay liner, fire brick, a corrosion
resistant metal pipe and otherwise repaired if necessary, or the chimney shall
be removed. Metal pipe liners shall be one inch less in diameter than the least
dimension of the flue and entire space between the metal liner and the walls of
the chimney filled with cement mortar.
      (2)   Existing chimneys and vents of metal which are corroded or
improperly supported shall be replaced, unless suitable repairs are made.
      (3)   Existing chimney and vent connectors of metal which are corroded or
improperly supported shall be replaced.
   (B)   All heat producing appliances, including boilers, furnaces,
incinerators, ovens, and restaurant type cooking appliances shall be installed
and maintained so as to be reasonably safe to persons and property. Evidence
that heat producing appliances are installed in accordance with the applicable
standard specified for this division (B) shall be evidence that such heat
producing appliances are installed so as to be reasonably safe to persons and
property.
   (C)   Exhaust systems provided for restaurant cooking equipment shall be
maintained in a manner such as not to create a hazardous condition.
      (1)   Hoods, grease removal devices, fans, ducts, and other devices shall
be inspected periodically and cleaned as needed to remove grease and deposits
of residues.
      (2)   Fire extinguishing systems shall be inspected periodically and
checked for proper operation. These inspections shall include a check that the
supply of extinguishing agent in the system is adequate, and all actuation
components are operating satisfactorily. Fusible links, if employed, shall be
replaced or properly cleaned. Instructions for manually operating the system
shall be posted conspicuously in the kitchen and employees checked for their
knowledge of procedures.
      (3)   Any fire dampers shall be tested periodically to ensure proper
functioning of all parts.
   (D)   Commercial, industrial, and flue-fed incinerators shall be provided
with approved spark arrestors or other effective means for arresting sparks and
fly ash.
   (E)   No person owning or occupying any building or other structure shall
install, maintain, or use therein any rubber pipe, rubber hose or rubber
connection, or other device or apparatus of rubber composition for the
transmission of natural or artificial gas into or within such building or
structure for illuminating or heating purposes therein.
(Prior Code, § 11-14) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.015 TRAPDOORS TO BE CLOSED.
   All trapdoors, except those which are automatic in their operation, in any
factory building or building used for storage shall be closed at the completion
of the business of each day.
(Prior Code, § 11-15)
§ 95.016 SHAFTWAYS TO BE MARKED.
   Every outside window in a building used for manufacturing purposes or for
storage which opens directly on any hoistway or other vertical means of
communication between two or more floors in such building, shall be plainly
marked with the word “SHAFTWAY” in red letters at least six inches high on a
white background; such warning sign to be so placed as to be easily discernible
from the outside of the building. Every door or window opening on such shaftway
from the interior of the building, unless the construction of the partition
surrounding the shaftway is of such distinctive nature as to make its purpose
evident at a glance, shall be similarly marked with the warning word,
“SHAFTWAY” so placed as to be easily visible to any one approaching the
shaftway from the interior of the building.
(Prior Code, § 11-16)
§ 95.017 FIREWORKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ignite, explode, or fire any
firecracker, squib, or fireworks, or to sell or purchase any firecracker,
squib, or fireworks except as provided in W. Va. Code 29-3E-1 to 29-3E-13.
(Prior Code, § 11-17) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.018 OBEDIENCE TO ORDERS AT SCENE OF FIRE; ARREST OF OFFENDERS.
   (A)   Every person present at the scene of a fire shall be subject and
obedient to the orders of firefighter and police officers in any matter
relating to extinguishing the fire, removal and protection of persons and
property endangered by fire, smoke, or water, freedom of Fire Department and
medical personnel and apparatus to perform their duties or to function
properly, and the maintenance of order at or near the scene of the fire, and it
shall be unlawful for any person to disobey any such lawful order of a
firefighters or police officer.
   (B)   Firefighters and police officers shall have authority to arrest
persons who disobey such orders and to hold them in custody until the fire has
been extinguished, at which time the violators shall be dealt with according to
law.
(Prior Code, § 11-18) Penalty, see §
95.999
FIRE PREVENTION CODE
§ 95.030 ADOPTED; PURPOSE, APPLICATION, AND THE LIKE.
   There, is hereby adopted by the Common Council for the purpose of
prescribing regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and property
from fire or explosion that certain code known as the State Fire Code,
recommended and adopted by the state’s Fire Commission, and being the official
State Fire Code of West Virginia as promulgated by the State Fire Commission
and approved by W. Va. Code 29-3-5 in 2020, and being particularly the 2020
addition of the State Fire Code and the whole thereof, save and except such
portions as may hereinafter or hereafter be deleted, modified, or amended, of
which code not less than one copy, certified by the Mayor, has been and is now
filed in the office of the City Clerk, and such Code is hereby incorporated in
and made a part of this section as fully as if set out at length herein, and
the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the limits of the city. Such
Code, as hereinafter modified, deleted, or amended, shall be known and may be
cited as “the Fire Prevention Code”.
(Prior Code, § 11-19) (Ord. passed 7-5-1988; Ord. passed 7-28-2021)
Charter reference:
   Authority to regulate the building of houses and other structures, see
Charter § 30
Cross-reference:
   Building Code amendments, including Fire Prevention Code, see §
150.023
Statutory reference:
   Authority of State Fire Marshal to promulgate rules, see W. Va. Code 29-3-4a
and 29-3-4b
   Authority relating to buildings and safety hazards, see W. Va. Code 8-12-5
(23) and (28)
   Authority to adopt Fire Prevention Code by reference, see W. Va. Code 8-11-4
(b)
   Authority to inspect private premises, see W. Va. Code 8-12-15
   Authority to regulate structures of wood or other combustible material, see
W. Va. Code 8-12-13
   Authority to require permit for construction/repair, see W. Va. Code 8-12-14
§ 95.031 AMENDED.
   (A)   Article 13, “Fireworks”, of the Fire Prevention Code is hereby
deleted, this subject being covered in W. Va. Code 29-3E-1 through 29-3E-13.
   (B)   Article 28, “Precautions Against Fire, General”, of the Fire
Prevention Code is hereby deleted, this subject being covered in §§
95.001 to 95.018.
(Prior Code, § 11-20)
   (C)   Section 101.4.5, “Fire Prevention”, of the Fire Prevention Code is
hereby deleted.
(Ord. passed 7-28-2021)
§ 95.032 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUREAU OF FIRE PREVENTION. The Fire Prevention Board of this city.
   CHIEF OF THE BUREAU OF FIRE PREVENTION. The Fire Chief of this city.
   FIRE CHIEF. The Fire Chief of this city.
   CORPORATION COUNSEL. The City Attorney of this city.
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Weston.
(Prior Code, § 11-21)
§ 95.033 ESTABLISHMENT OF LIMITS OF DISTRICTS WHERE STORAGE OF EXPLOSIVES ARE
PROHIBITED.
   The limits referred to in § 12.5b of the Fire Prevention Code, in which
storage of explosives and` blasting agents is prohibited, are hereby
established as the entire area of the city, except as may be provided otherwise
from time to time by resolution of the Common Council.
(Prior Code, § 11-22)
§ 95.034 SAME, WHERE STORAGE OF FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS IN OUTSIDE ABOVEGROUND TANKS
IS TO BE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The limits referred to in § 16.22a of the Fire Prevention Code, in
which storage of flammable liquids in outside aboveground tanks is prohibited,
are hereby established as the entire area of the city, except as may be
provided otherwise from time to time by resolution of the Common Council.
   (B)   The limits referred to in § 16.61 of the Fire Prevention Code, in
which new bulk plants for flammable or combustible liquids are prohibited, are
hereby established as the entire area of the city, except as may be provided
otherwise from time to time by resolution of the Common Council.
(Prior Code, § 11-23)
§ 95.035 SAME, WHERE BULK STORAGE OF LIQUIFIED PETROLEUM GAS IS TO BE
RESTRICTED.
   The limits referred to in § 21.6a of the Fire Prevention Code, in which bulk
storage of liquefied petroleum gas is restricted, are hereby established as the
entire area of the city, except as may be provided otherwise from time to time
by resolution of the Common Council.
(Prior Code, § 11-24)
§ 95.036 PERMIT FEES; DURATION OF PERMITS.
   (A)   No permit or special permission required by the Fire Prevention Code
shall be issued until the applicable fee required for the particular type of
permit applied for has been paid. The Common Council may by ordinance from time
to time, upon its own volition or upon recommendation of the Fire Chief or the
Fire Prevention Board, establish a schedule of fees for permits required by the
Fire Prevention Code and such schedule may include fees for inspections of
premises or work done under such permits; provided, that until a schedule has
been adopted pursuant to this section, the fee schedule, relative to the
issuance of permits relating to fire protection which is in force and effect
upon the effective date of this city code, shall remain in full force and
effect.
   (B)   Permits issued pursuant to the Fire Prevention Code shall be valid for
the period stated therein, but not more than one year; provided, that when a
city license or other city permit is required in addition to a permit required
by the Fire Prevention Code, such permit may be made valid for an indefinite
period concurrent with the validity of such city license or other city permit.
(Prior Code, § 11-25)
§ 95.037 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT; FIRE PREVENTION BOARD; FIRE CHIEF.
   (A)   The Fire Prevention Code shall be administered and enforced by the
Fire Prevention Board of the city, which is hereby established. The membership
of that Board shall be composed of the Mayor, who shall be its permanent
Chairperson, the President of the city’s Volunteer Fire Department, the
Building Official of the city, and the Director of the County Health
Department.
   (B)   The Fire Prevention Board shall prescribe its own rules and
regulations governing its meetings and proceedings, and may, from time to time,
promulgate, appropriate rules and regulations, not inconsistent with this city
code and other ordinances of the city or the statutes of the state, which the
Board may deem necessary for the proper and orderly administration and
enforcement of the Fire Prevention Code.
   (C)   The Fire Prevention Board may delegate to the Fire Chief certain
functions, duties, and responsibilities relative to the administration and
enforcement of, and compliance with, the Fire Prevention Code; provided
however, that all actions other than those of a routine nature contemplated
being taken by the Fire Chief or his or her agents and inspectors, must first
be reported to the Board as its regular meetings and such actions so
contemplated being taken must first be approved by a majority of the members of
the Board. The Board shall, in its rules and regulations, define those actions
which are to be considered routine in nature.
(Prior Code, § 11-26)
§ 95.038 MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The Fire Prevention Board shall have power to modify any of the
provisions of the Fire Prevention Code or any decision, notice, or order of the
Board or the Fire Chief pursuant to the Fire Prevention Code, upon application
in writing by the owner or lessee of property affected thereby, or his or her
duly authorized agent, when there are practical difficulties in the way of
carrying out the strict letter of the Code; provided, that the spirit of the
Code shall be observed, public safety secured, and substantial justice done.
   (B)   The particulars of such modification when granted or allowed and the
decision of the Fire Prevention Board thereon shall be entered upon the records
of the Board and a signed copy shall be furnished the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 11-27)
§ 95.039 JUDICIAL REVIEW OF DECISIONS OF FIRE PREVENTION BOARD.
   Any person, including any city officer and the Common Council, whether
previously a party to the proceeding or not, may, within 60 days after
rendition of a decision of the Fire Prevention Board, apply to the appropriate
court to correct errors of law in such decision.
(Prior Code, § 11-28)
§ 95.040 CONFLICT OF LAW.
   (A)   Whenever any provision of the Fire Prevention Code is in conflict with
any other provision of this city code or other ordinance of the city, the more
stringent provision shall prevail.
   (B)   Whenever any provision of the Fire Prevention Code is in conflict with
any provision of state law or of any rule or regulation promulgated pursuant to
state law, the more stringent provision shall prevail, unless otherwise
provided by state law or by rule or regulation promulgated pursuant thereto.
(Prior Code, § 11-30)
§ 95.041 UPDATING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   As amendments to the 2020 edition, and as new editions, of the Fire
Prevention Code are published from time to time by the American Insurance
Association, it shall be the duty of the Fire Chief to file a copy of each
thereof in the office of the City Clerk and to notify the Common Council of
such filing and his or her recommendations, if any, as to such changes therein
as he or she may deem advisable in the interest of the city.
   (B)   Upon the adjournment of the second regular meeting of the Common
Council following each such filing and notice by the Fire Chief, the amendments
or new editions so filed by him or her and mentioned in his or her notice to
the Common Council shall be deemed to have been adopted by the Common Council
for incorporation in this subchapter as a part thereof, unless provided
otherwise by the Common Council prior to adjournment of such second regular
meeting; and such amendments or new editions shall become effective when the
copies thereof in the office of the City Clerk have been certified by the Mayor
in compliance with the requirements of W. Va. Code 8-11-4(b).
(Prior Code, § 11-31) (Ord. passed 7-28-2021)
§ 95.042 ADDITIONAL RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   These rules and regulations are in addition to those as set forth in this
chapter and state civil service laws for municipal paid firefighters, W. Va.
Code 8-15-11 to 8-15-27 inclusive.
   (A)   The Fire Chief shall have the authority to temporarily suspend from
duty any paid member or members of the Department for willful violation or
disregard of rules, regulations, or orders and shall as soon as practicable
report such suspension together with a full and complete written report of the
circumstances to the City Manager and the Firefighter’s Civil Service
Commission.
   (B)   The Fire Chief shall promptly report to the City Manager the name and
condition of any member of the Department who by reason of age, illness,
dissipation, neglect, or any other cause does not or cannot fully or
efficiently perform all of the duties required of such member.
   (C)   The Fire Chief may, at his or her discretion, call a meeting of the
paid members of the Fire Department, and all personnel shall be present unless
individually excused. Meetings should be scheduled so as not to conflict with
personnel on vacation or sick leave. Off-duty personnel called back for such
meetings will be paid for their time at these meetings, however, pay will not
exceed two hours per meeting. Written notice shall be posted one week in
advance of said meetings, at the Fire Department.
   (D)   The Fire Chief may rotate the assignment of paid members of the Fire
Department should it become necessary to do so in the interest of efficiency of
operation or for the convenience of the public.
   (E)   Fire Department members shall use city facilities and equipment,
including heat, light, telephone, stationery, and other similar commodities
with due regard to economy and efficiency.
   (F)   No paid member of the Fire Department, while on duty, shall partake of
intoxicating liquors or drugs, including so-called non-intoxicating beer.
   (G)   (1)   All paid members of the Fire Department shall be required to
give satisfactory proof of their fitness or perform the duties to which they
are assigned, and to that end, shall be required to submit to a complete
physical examination annually, during the period of July 1 through July 31.
      (2)   An annual medical and physical examination of each paid member of
the Fire Department shall be made by a local physician of the City Manager’s
choice in conformity with the requirements and standards as established by the
City Manager and the Firefighter’s Civil Service Commission. This examination
shall be conducted to determine whether medical attention is needed by any of
the members and to determine the general state of health and fitness of such
member to perform their assigned duties. Such examination shall include an
electrocardiogram. This physical examination shall be conducted at no expense
to the paid members of the Fire Department. Such expense will be paid by the
city.
      (3)   Failure by any paid member of the Fire Department to comply with
the provisions of divisions (G)(1) and (G)(2) above by no later than August 15
of each year shall be cause for disciplinary action and will subject member to
suspension, removal, or discharge, as the case may require.
   (H)   (1)   Nothing contained in these rules and regulations shall be
construed to conflict with the city code, the state code, or the Constitution
of the United States.
      (2)   Nothing contained in these rules and regulations shall be construed
to limit the power and authority granted the Fire Chief by the laws and
ordinances of the city, state, and the United States of America in the
operation of the Fire Department and of extinguishing any fire and taking the
necessary precautions to prevent the spread thereof.
(Ord. passed 1-7-1975)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 95.055 PROPERTY, PERSONNEL, AND ORGANIZATION GENERALLY.
   The Fire Department shall have such property, equipment, and apparatus, and
such regular or volunteer or regular and volunteer personnel, holding such
ranks, as may from time to time be authorized by the Common Council. The
organization and deployment of the Fire Department shall be as prescribed in
the rules and regulations of the Department promulgated pursuant to this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-32)
Statutory reference:
   As to authority to use fire equipment three miles beyond city limits, see W.
Va. Code 8-15-3
   As to paid fire departments and civil service, see W. Va. Code 8-15-9 et
seq.
   As to volunteer fire companies, see W. Va. Code 8-15-4 to 8-15-8
   Authority to provide for the prevention of fires, see W. Va. Code 8-15-1
§ 95.056 FIRE CHIEF.
   The Fire Chief shall have all such powers as may be necessary and lawful to
meet the responsibilities imposed upon him or her by this section, including,
but not limited to, the following:
   (A)   He or she shall have absolute command, control, management, assignment
to duties, and supervision of every officer, member, and employee of the Fire
Department during a fire and at all practices and drills, and during all hours
when such personnel are on duty:
   (B)   He or she shall have absolute control, authority, and command of the
police officers present at the scene of any fire during the time and
continuance of any fire or conflagration, and all orders issued by him or her
to such police officers, and to other persons present shall be by them
explicitly obeyed and performed;
   (C)   He or she shall have supervision over the engine houses, trucks, and
all apparatus and equipment belonging to the Fire Department. He or she shall
be responsible for the serviceable condition of all equipment belonging to the
Fire Department, and he or she shall be responsible that every piece of fire
apparatus is equipped at all times with the necessary wrenches and all other
equipment belonging to that piece of apparatus and necessary in the successful
fighting of fire;
   (D)   He or she shall have supervision over all repairs to apparatus and the
charge of all supplies, and shall issue them upon his or her own discretion or
upon the authority of the Common Council to the units of the Fire Department,
taking from them the receipt of the commanding officer of the unit to which the
supplies are issued. He or she shall have sole control, management, and command
at fires and alarms, of fire over all apparatus and equipment belonging to the
Fire Department. Whenever any purchases are to be made, or the fire apparatus
used by the Department requires attention or repairs, he or she shall make a
report and recommendations to the Common Council unless the repairs needed are
of such character that will require immediate attention;
   (E)   He or she shall have authority to direct the pulling down or
destroying of any fence, house, building, or other thing, if deemed necessary
to prevent the spreading of a fire; and
   (F)   He or she shall be responsible for the keeping of necessary records
for the Fire Department, which shall be subject to the inspection of the Mayor
and members of the Common Council at any time. Such record shall list and note,
inter alia, the state of repair of all property belonging to the Fire
Department. He or she shall record and report monthly to the Common Council a
statement of all fires occurring since the previous report, the units and
personnel responding to alarms, the loss and insurance as far as ascertaineds
the causes of any such fires, together with such suggestions as he or she may
deem advisable to bring the number of fires to a minimum. He or she shall also
keep at his or her office such books or other records as the Common Council may
prescribe.
(Prior Code, § 11-33)
Statutory reference:
   Removing structures when necessary to prevent spread of fire, see W. Va.
Code 8-15-1 and 8-15-2
§ 95.057 AUTHORITY TO COMMAND; OBEDIENCE TO ORDERS.
   (A)   Authority within the Fire Department shall flow from the Fire Chief
through the Assistant Fire Chief and other officers and firefighters downward
in order of rank and seniority within rank; and subordinates shall have the
powers and perform the duties of their immediate superiors when such superiors
are absent or disabled.
   (B)   Each member of the Fire Department shall obey all lawful orders of his
or her superiors in the chain of command.
(Prior Code, § 11-34)
§ 95.058 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF DEPARTMENT PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, whether or not he or she be an officer
of the city, to use or allow to be used, for any purpose other than in case of
fire or in line of Fire Department duty, any property, equipment, or apparatus
of the Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 11-35) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.059 LIMITED AUTHORITY TO ANSWER CALLS WITHIN TWO MILES OF CITY.
   The Fire Department is hereby authorized and empowered to answer all fire
calls within a radius of two miles outside the corporate limits of the city,
with the further authority to use any equipment of the Fire Department
necessary to combat any fire in such area; provided, that in the event of a
fire within the corporate limits of the city at the same time there is a fire
outside the corporate limits and within such radius, the Fire Department
personnel shall give preference to the city unless, under the circumstances, it
becomes possible to combat both such fires at the same time without
jeopardizing property within the corporate limits by such action.
(Prior Code, § 11-36)
§ 95.060 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Mayor, in consultation with the Fire Chief and the President of
the city’s Volunteer Fire Department, shall prepare rules and regulations, not
inconsistent with state law, the city Charter, or this Code, and with due
consideration of the lawful rules and regulations of the city’s Volunteer Fire
Department, promulgated pursuant to authority of W. Va. Code 8-15-4, for the
organization and government of the Fire Department.
   (B)   Such rules and regulations shall have full force and effect when
approved by resolution of the Common Council and a copy thereof has been placed
on file at Fire Department headquarters for the information of all personnel of
the Department, and it shall then be unlawful for any member or employee of the
Fire Department to violate or fail to comply with any such rule or regulation.
(Prior Code, § 11-37) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.061 FIREFIGHTER’S CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION; CIVIL SERVICE FOR FIRE CHIEF.
   The Firefighter’s Civil Service Commission existing immediately prior to the
effective date of this Code is hereby continued, in full force and effect, and
all of the pertinent provisions of W. Va. Code 8- 15-11 to 8-l5-27, inclusive,
are hereby adopted by the Common Council and made applicable to the regular
members of the Fire Department who are paid on a full-time basis from city
funds, and to applicant for such regular membership. The office of Fire Chief
and Assistant Fire Chief shall be covered by the civil service provisions of W.
Va. Code Ch. 8, Art. 15.
(Prior Code, § 11-38) (Ord. passed 4-10-1974)
§ 95.062 SICK LEAVE FOR FIREFIGHTERS AND CHIEF.
   All regularly employed firefighters of the city duly qualified under the W.
Va. Code 8-15, shall be entitled to one day of sick leave per months
cumulative, to a total of 12 days per calendar year. If such 12 days are not
used in any calendar year, they are not cumulative in any other calendar year.
Before a firefighter is entitled to sick leave, he or she shall first notify
the Fire Chief of his or her illness or injury as soon as reasonably
practicable, and shall thereafter produce a physician’s certificate; for
illness of more than three days duration, to both the Fire Chief and the Mayor,
of his or her illness or injury. The Fire Chief shall likewise be entitled to
the same sick pay benefits as are accorded to other members of the Fire
Department.
(Prior Code, § 11-38.1)
§ 95.063 RECORDS OF SICK LEAVE AND VACATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief to record, in a permanently
bound book open to the inspection of the Mayor and Common Council, the sick
leave time granted to members of the force, and the day, month, and year in
which the same was granted.
   (B)   The Fire Chief shall further record the vacation time granted to
members of the force and the day, month, and year in which the same was
granted.
(Prior Code, § 11-38.2)
FIREFIGHTER’S PENSION AND RELIEF FUND
§ 95.075 DETERMINATION OF NECESSITY OF FUND.
   (A)   The Common Council deems it necessary that a Firefighter’s Pension and
Relief Fund for the paid members of the Fire Department be established and
maintained.
   (B)   The Firefighter’s Pension and Relief Fund shall be administered and
distributed by a Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 11-39)
Statutory reference:
   As to duty of Common Council to levy annual tax for fund, see W. Va. Code 8-
22-19
   Municipal firefighter’s pension and relief funds, see W. Va. Code 8-22-16 to
8-22-28
§ 95.076 CREATION, NAME, AND GENERAL POWERS OF BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   The governing board of the Firefighter’s Pension and Relief Fund shall be a
Board of Trustees which is hereby created, and which, as provided by statute,
shall be a corporation by the name or style of “the Board of Trustees of the
Firefighter’s Pension and Relief Fund of the City of Weston”, by which name it
may sue and be sued, plead and be impleaded, contract and be contracted with,
and take and hold real estate and personal property for the use of such
Firefighter’s Pension and Relief Fund; have and use a common seal but in the
absence of such seal, the private seal of the president of such corporation
shall be equivalent to such common seal. Such Board of Trustees may also, in
their corporate limits, do and perform any and all other acts and business
pertaining to the trust hereby created, or in connection with any conveyance,
gift, devise, or donation made for the uses and purposes of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 11-40)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code 8-22-17
§ 95.077 COMPOSITION OF BOARD OF TRUSTEES AND ELECTION AND TERMS OF DEPARTMENT
MEMBERS; FILLING VACANCIES AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees of the Firefighter’s Pension and Relief Fund
(hereinafter in this division referred to as “the Board of Trustees” or “the
Board”) shall consist of the Mayor and four paid members of the Fire
Department, and such paid members shall serve for a term of four years each and
until their successors are duly elected and qualified. One paid member of the
Fire Department shall be elected annually upon the second Monday in April, and
all votes cast at such election shall be counted and canvassed by the then
existing members of such Board, who after such election shall announce the
result, and the paid member of the Fire Department receiving the highest number
of votes shall be declared to have been elected; and in the case of a tie vote
being received by any two paid members for the office of Trustee, such tie vote
shall be decided by casting lots, or in any other way which may be agreed upon
by the persons for whom such tie vote was cast. The result of such election
shall be entered in the record of the proceedings of the board. In case of
vacancy by death, resignation, or otherwise among the paid members so elected,
the remaining members shall choose the successor, or successors, until the next
annual election at which later time all vacancies shall be filled. The board
shall give due notice of such election to all paid members of the Fire
Department annually during the month of March.
   (B)   The presiding officer of the Board of Trustees shall be the Mayor and
the Secretary thereof shall be appointed by the board, It shall be the duty of
such Secretary to keep a full and permanent record of all the proceedings of
the board, and the trustees may fix his or her compensation for this work,
which shall be paid out of the funds of the Firefighter’s Pension and Relief
Fund.
(Prior Code, § 11-41)
§ 95.078 APPLICATION OF STATE LAW.
   The provisions of W. Va. Code 8-22-19 and 8-22-21 to 8-22-27 shall be
applicable to the Firefighter’s Pension and Relief Fund established by this
division.
(Prior Code, § 11-42)
§ 95.079 ADMINISTRATION OF FUND.
   The Board of Trustees of the Firefighter’s Pension and Relief Fund shall
administer such fund in accordance with the applicable provisions of W. Va.
Code Ch. 8, Art. 22.
(Prior Code, § 11-43)
MUNICIPAL SERVICE FEE
§ 95.090 STATEMENT OF POLICY; INTENT.
   (A)   (1)   The city provides its residents and owners of buildings with the
essential and special services of fire protection, street maintenance, and
police service protection.
      (2)   Under W. Va. Code 8-13-13, as amended, municipalities in the state
are authorized to impose fees upon the users of these services to defray the
costs of providing same. Insomuch as revenues from other sources are
insufficient to allow the city to provide these services adequately, it is
necessary to impose a service fee upon the users thereof to order that these
services may continue for the benefit of the residents and building owners in
the city.
   (B)   (1)   The imposition of the municipal service system contemplated
under this subchapter is pursuant to authorization set forth in W. Va. Code 8-
13-13, as amended.
      (2)   In accordance with said statute, it is a legislative intent of this
subchapter that the fees imposed hereunder are based, in part, upon recognition
of the following legislative finding: the residential, commercial, industrial,
institutional, and/or governmental, use of a building is a factor which affects
the cost of providing municipal services. In order to provide fire protection,
police protection, and street maintenance, the city has acquired and it will be
necessary to acquire in the future, equipment at a substantial expense, and to
establish and regularly train and maintain qualified police officers and
firefighters to enable it to provide effective fire and police protection in
the city, and that nonresidential owner-occupied property as compared to
residential owner-occupied property requires additional equipment and manpower
to provide municipal services and therefore, it is the intent of this
subchapter that owners and occupiers of owner-occupied residential buildings
pay a lesser charge for municipal services to reflect the reduced cost of
providing municipal services.
(Ord. passed 3-2-2009)
§ 95.091 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MUNICIPAL SERVICES. Services rendered for fire protection by the said Fire
Department of the City of Weston, police protection by the Weston Police
Department, and all other municipal services as authorized by W. Va. Code 8-13-
13.
   NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDING OR STRUCTURE, COMMERCIAL BUILDING OR INSTITUTIONAL
OR INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS. Includes places of public assembly, educational,
institutional, stores, and offices, industrial and manufacturing, and storage
as set forth in the uniform code for municipal services.
   PERIOD. The City of Weston’s fiscal year, which is July 1 to June 30 of each
respective calendar year.
   RESIDENTIAL BUILDING STRUCTURE. Any structure which is used or intended by
the nature of its construction to be used by persons for living or sleeping
quarters, but shall not include hotels, motels, or other buildings used for
transient lodging.
   RESIDENTIAL RENTAL BUILDING. Any structure which is rented, in whole or in
part, for the purpose of single- or multiple-family dwelling.
   USER. For the purposes of this subchapter, the terms USER OF MUNICIPAL
SERVICES and USER shall refer to any person, firm, corporation, or governmental
entity of any kind owning any property or structure, whether residential,
commercial, industrial, governmental, or otherwise, within the limits of the
City of Weston which benefit from the fire protection, police protection, or
street maintenance.
(Ord. passed 3-2-2009)
§ 95.092 IMPOSITION OF MUNICIPAL SERVICE FEE.
   (A)   There is hereby imposed upon all users of municipal services provided
by the city pursuant to W. Va. Code 8-13-13, as amended, a municipal service
fee for each lot or parcel of land containing any building or structure owned
by each such user.
   (B)   The municipal service fee shall be imposed at an annual rate as
follows.
      (1)   There is hereby imposed upon the owners of all occupied residential
building structures an annual flat municipal service fee of $100, or other
amount deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court.
      (2)   There is hereby imposed upon the owners of all non-owner-occupied
residential rental buildings (NON-OWNER-OCCUPIED is defined as property that is
not the primary residence of the property owner) an annual flat municipal
service fee of $150, or other amount deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court,
for each non-owner-occupied residence within said building.
      (3)   There is hereby imposed upon the owners of all commercial,
industrial, manufacturing, educational, institutional, and governmental
buildings or structures in the city, an annual basic municipal service fee of
$275, or other amount deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court.
(Ord. passed 3-2-2009; Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 95.093 ADMINISTRATION BY THE CITY FINANCE MANAGER.
   (A)   The City Finance Manager shall administer this subchapter under the
direction of the City Clerk. The Finance Manager shall set up an account for
each such user and shall charge the municipal service fee to each such user on
an annual basis, in advance.
   (B)   The Finance Manager is hereby authorized to promulgate such rules and
regulations as are necessary and reasonable to carry out the provisions of this
subchapter, with the approval of the Common Council, which regulations shall
have the same effect as if fully set forth in this subchapter after adoption by
the Common Council by ordinance.
(Ord. passed 3-2-2009)
§ 95.094 SCHEDULE OF PAYMENTS.
   (A)   This subchapter shall become effective from passage. The municipal
service fee imposed under this subchapter shall be payable on July 1, 2009, and
on the same day of each year thereafter and may be paid in four equal quarterly
installments, on July 1, October 1, January 1, and April 1 each year.
   (B)   Each installment of the municipal service fee shall be due within 30
days of the due date aforesaid. Fees not paid within 30 days of their issuance
shall be delinquent. There shall be added to each delinquent account a penalty
of 10% per annum of the then due municipal service fee.
(Ord. passed 3-2-2009)
§ 95.095 EXEMPTIONS.
   There shall be excepted from the operation of this subchapter, and the
payment of the municipal service fee hereby established, those properties used
solely for religious purposes, as well as properties occupied by benevolent
associations and used exclusively for meetings of such associations; provided,
that properties occupied by benevolent associations which are available for use
or rental by the public to hold parties or other events not attended
exclusively by members of the association and their guests, or are regularly
used for the dispensing of food and/or alcoholic or nonalcoholic beverages to
the membership of such associations or others shall not be exempted from the
operation of this subchapter and the payment of the municipal service fee
hereby established.
(Ord. passed 3-2-2009)
§ 95.096 ENFORCEMENT.
   The city may institute appropriate legal action for the collection of the
municipal service fee from the user at any time such user’s account is
delinquent.
(Ord. passed 3-2-2009)
§ 95.097 MUNICIPAL SERVICE FEE APPEAL BOARD.
   (A)   There shall be established a Municipal Service Fee Appeals Board,
consisting of three members whose terms shall be two years. The term of the
initial Board members shall end on June 30, 2001. One member shall be a Council
member selected by the Mayor, one shall be a representative of the Chamber of
Commerce, and the third shall be a resident of the city selected by Council.
Members shall serve at the will and pleasure of Council. Any vacancy for
whatever cause shall be filled by an appointment made by the official that
appointed the individual that is no longer on the Board.
   (B)   The Board shall have the power to correct the amount of the fees
charged whenever there has been an error of fact or law in the calculation or
billing based upon evidence presented at a protest hearing as provided in this
subchapter. The determination and order of the Board shall be by a majority
vote of the members present and voting.
(Ord. passed 3-2-2009)
§ 95.098 PROTEST AND APPEAL.
   (A)   Any user who feels aggrieved by any charge to his or her municipal
service fee account may protest the same by filing written notice of such
protest with the City Treasurer setting forth his or her objections thereto and
the reasons therefor, on of before the due date of his or her next installment
payment. The City Finance Manager shall review such user’s account, render a
decision on the protest, and forthwith notify the user of such decision in
writing within 15 days of the filing of the protest. If the user is still
aggrieved, he or she may, within 15 days of the date of the Finance Manager’s
decision, petition the Municipal Service Fee Appeal Board, who shall set a date
and a time for hearing on the protest, which hearing shall be held within 30
days from the filing of such appeal.
   (B)   The Appeal Board shall hear evidence relevant to the protest and shall
render its decision on the issues raised at said hearing within 20 days after
the hearing, giving notice of its decision in writing to the user and to the
city’s Finance Manager. The user may, within 30 days from the date of the
decision of the Appeal Board, file a petition, duly verified, with a court of
competent jurisdiction, requesting review of the Board’s decision. If no such
petition be filed within 30 days, the decision of the Appeal Board shall become
final and conclusive. Nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit the accrual
during the course of this appeal process of any penalty upon the balance of any
account ultimately found to be properly charged.
(Ord. passed 3-2-2009)
§ 95.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter for which no other
penalty is provided shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   If any person shall violate or fail to comply with any provision
of the Fire Prevention Code or any notice or order issued pursuant thereto, he
or she shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine not exceeding $100, or
other amount deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court, or by imprisonment for
not exceeding 30 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment, and each day such
violation shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   The imposition of the penalties herein prescribed shall not
preclude the City Attorney from instituting an appropriate action or proceeding
to prevent an unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, addition,
alteration, conversion, removal, demolition, maintenance, or use or to
restrain, correct, or abate a violation, or to prevent the occupancy of a
building or structure or portion thereof, or of the premises, or to prevent an
illegal act, conduct, business, or use in or about any premises.
(Prior Code, § 11-29)
   (C)   (1)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
95.090 to 95.094, or refusing or neglecting to pay the assessments herein
provided to be paid, or failing or refusing to abide by and comply with any of
the rules and regulations promulgated by the Common Council to effectuate the
provisions of §§
95.090 to 95.094 shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not less than $100,
or other amount deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court, in addition to the
cost of prosecution, and each successive day a violation of §§
95.090 to 95.094 exists shall constitute a new and separate offense.
      (2)   As a further penalty, the Common Council shall cause to be
published in a local paper the names of those, if any, who have not paid any
assessment imposed by §§
95.090 to 95.094.
(Prior Code, § 11-49)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   LICENSES
      
111.   ALCOHOL
      
112.   FOOD AND FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS
      
113.   PLUMBING
      
114.   SPECIAL SALES
      
115.   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT
CHAPTER 110: LICENSES
Section
In General
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Purposes for which currently valid, paid up, city license required
   
110.03   Application for and issuance of license; payment of tax and fees; City
Clerk to maintain records
   
110.04   False statements prohibited
   
110.05   Separate license required for each fixed place of business and each
class of business
   
110.06   Expiration date; annual renewal; tax prorated upon start of business
   
110.07   Display of license
   
110.08   License a personal privilege, not assignable; effect of change of
name, location, and the like
   
110.09   License does not legalize unlawful acts
   
110.10   Method for enforcing collection of license taxes, fees, and penalties
   
110.11   Suspension and revocation of licenses, and public hearings upon appeal
from revocation
   
110.12   Prosecution for violations; recourse of city to seek injunctions
License Taxes on and Regulations Governing Certain Businesses
   
110.25   Businesses not otherwise licensed
   
110.26   License issuance fee to be paid by all businesses
   
110.27   Bowling alleys and billiard or pool tables
   
110.28   Cigarette and tobacco vendors
   
110.29   Coin-operated devices; merchandise, service, music and amusement
devices, or vending machines
   
110.30   Same; washing, cleaning, and dry cleaning devices
   
110.31   Collection agencies
   
110.32   Corporations
   
110.33   Hawkers and peddlers
   
110.34   Hospitals, sanatoriums, and extended care facilities
   
110.35   Hotels, motels, boarding houses, and the like; where lodging furnished
   
110.36   Nursing homes
   
110.37   Insurance
   
110.38   Junk dealers and their agents; itinerant junk collectors
   
110.39   Real estate brokers
   
110.40   Small loan companies
   
110.41   Taxicabs
   
110.42   Theatres and theatrical exhibitions
Stores
   
110.55   Store defined
   
110.56   Construction of subchapter
   
110.57   License required
   
110.58   Application for license; filing fee
   
110.59   Action on application; issuance of license
   
110.60   Expiration date and term license; annual renewal required
   
110.61   Annual license fees; Clerk’s fee
   
110.62   Fees for licenses issued for six months or less
   
110.63   Administrative costs; payments by City Clerk into City Treasury
   
110.64   Payment under protest and remedy of persons feeling aggrieved
 
   
110.99   Penalty
IN GENERAL
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Any business, whether a person engaged expressly or impliedly
holds himself or herself out as engaged in business or supplying his or her
products or a commodity or service to the public as a class or a limited
portion of the public or sells any goods, wares, merchandise of any kind, or
provides a service of any kind; provided, that BUSINESS shall not include sales
of products of the farm, garden, or dairy by the producer or grower thereof;
occasional sales by societies acting for charitable, religious, or benevolent
purposes; judicial sales directed by law or court order; or any business the
gross income of which is less than $1,000, or other amount deemed appropriate
by the Municipal Court, per license year and, in this connection, GROSS INCOME
shall mean the gross receipts of the business received as compensation for
personal services and from trade, commerce, or sales and the value accruing
from the sale of tangible property (real or personal), or service or both,
without any deduction on account of the cost of property sold, materials used,
labor costs, taxes, or any other expense whatsoever.
   BUSINESS FRANCHISE REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE. A franchise or certificate,
issued by or in behalf of the state, authorizing a person to conduct business
within the State of West Virginia, and when referred to in this chapter as
certificate or registration shall mean BUSINESS FRANCHISE REGISTRATION
CERTIFICATE.
(Prior Code, § 14-1)
§ 110.02 PURPOSES FOR WHICH CURRENTLY VALID, PAID UP, CITY LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct within the city any business,
profession, calling, or vocation for which a city license is required by this
chapter or elsewhere in this code or other ordinance or for which a business
franchise registration certificate or any other form of state license is
required by law without first obtaining from the city such city license as may
be required therefor, and each person so licensed by the city shall pay such
city license tax or fee as may be imposed thereon by the city and maintain such
city license in a currently valid status at all times while conducting the
business, profession, calling, or vocation to which such city license relates.
(Prior Code, § 14-2) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03 APPLICATION FOR AND ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; PAYMENT OF TAX AND FEES; CITY
CLERK TO MAINTAIN RECORDS.
   (A)   Each applicant for a city license shall make application to the City
Clerk, on a form to be provided by the city, and holders of business franchise
registration certificates or other forms of state licenses authorizing them to
do business within the city shall display such state certificates or licenses
to the City Clerk at the time of making application for a city license. Upon
payment to the City Clerk of such license tax or fee as may be imposed by this
chapter or elsewhere in this code or other ordinance for the particular city
license for which application is made, plus a license issuance fee of $0.50, or
other amount deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court, as compensation to the
City Clerk for his or her services, the City Clerk shall issue the license
applied for; provided, that the application is in proper form and that all
requirements of state law, this code, and other ordinances appear to the City
Clerk to have been complied with, and provided further, that applications for
licenses, which are required to be issued by the Common Council shall be
referred by the City Clerk to the Common Council at its next meeting succeeding
the date of filing thereof, and he or she shall not issue any such license
until authorized so to do by the Common Council, and in any such case the
payment of any license tax or fee shall be deferred until such application has
been approved by the Common Council.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall maintain on file all applications for city
licenses and a record of each license issued which shall set forth the name and
business address of the licensee, the date of issuance and the term for which
issued, the type of license, the amount of license tax or fee paid, the number
of the license, and such additional information as may be pertinent to
establish that all requirements of law and ordinances have been complied with.
(Prior Code, § 14-3)
Statutory reference:
   Required issuance of city license upon application therefor, see W. Va. Code
8-13-4
§ 110.04 FALSE STATEMENTS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly make any false statement in
any application for a city license, or in any tax return, report, or other
statement relating to any activity licensed by the city and which is required
to be made to any city officer or agency.
(Prior Code, § 14-4) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.05 SEPARATE LICENSE REQUIRED FOR EACH FIXED PLACE OF BUSINESS AND EACH
CLASS OF BUSINESS.
   Except as may be provided otherwise in this code or other ordinance, any
person who, at more than one fixed place of business within the city, engages
in or prosecutes any business, profession, calling, or vocation for which a
city license is required, or who within the city engages in or prosecutes more
than one type of business, profession, calling, or vocation for which a city
license is required, shall obtain a. separate license and pay the prescribed
tax or fee therefor for each such fixed place of business and for each such
business, profession, calling, or vocation.
(Prior Code, § 14-5)
Statutory reference:
   Requirement for separate business franchise registration certificate for
each location where business is transacted, see W. Va. Code 11-12-3
§ 110.06 EXPIRATION DATE; ANNUAL RENEWAL; TAX PRORATED UPON START OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   City licenses shall expire at midnight on the last day of June
subsequent to the date of issuance and shall be renewable annually, except such
licenses for which the tax or fee is by the day, week, month, or other period
less than a year, and except as may be provided otherwise by this code or other
ordinance.
   (B)   The license tax or fee for an initial license upon the commencement of
business shall be in proportion to the duration of such license to the annual
tax or fee.
(Prior Code, § 14-6)
Charter reference:
   As to expiration date of city licenses, see Charter § 42
Statutory reference:
   Expiration date of state business franchise registration certificates, see
W. Va. Code 11-12-5
§ 110.07 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Each person to whom a city license has been issued shall keep such
license conspicuously posted upon or within the premises to which such license
relates.
   (B)   Each licensee having no fixed place of business shall carry his or her
license upon his or her person at all times while engaging in the licensed
business or any transaction incidental thereto, and shall display such license
upon request of any person with whom he or she is transacting business or any
law enforcement officer.
(Prior Code, § 14-7)
§ 110.08 LICENSE A PERSONAL PRIVILEGE, NOT ASSIGNABLE; EFFECT OF CHANGE OF
NAME, LOCATION, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Each city license shall confer a personal privilege only to transact
the business, profession, calling, or vocation which is the subject of the
license, and shall not be exercised except by the person holding the same and
shall not be assignable to any other person.
   (B)   (1)   Changes in the name of the person or change of location, or
address, or changes in ownership of the business or changes in real parties of
interest shall be considered a cessation of the business and a new city license
shall be required.
      (2)   Changes of partners or members of firms or officers of a
corporation shall not require a new license to be issued.
(Prior Code, § 14-8)
Statutory reference:
   State business franchise registration certificates, see W. Va. Code 11-12-6
§ 110.09 LICENSE DOES NOT LEGALIZE UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   Nothing in this chapter, and no payment for or issuance of any city license
under the provisions hereof, shall be deemed to legalize any act which
otherwise may be in violation of law, or to exempt any person from any penalty
prescribed for such violation.
(Prior Code, § 14-9)
§ 110.10 METHOD FOR ENFORCING COLLECTION OF LICENSE TAXES, FEES, AND PENALTIES.
   The City Treasurer may distrain upon any real or personal property,
including intangibles, of any person delinquent in the payment of city license
taxes, fees, or penalties accrued and unpaid under the provisions of this
chapter, or he or she may bring a civil action or institute appropriate legal
or equitable procedure for the collection thereof in any court of competent
jurisdiction, and for any such purpose he or she may have the assistance of the
City Attorney, the Chief of Police, or other appropriate city officer.
(Prior Code, § 14-11)
Statutory reference:
   Enforcement procedures for collection of delinquent taxes, see W. Va. Code
Ch. 11A, Art. 2, 11A-2-1 et seq.
§ 110.11 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF LICENSES, AND PUBLIC HEARINGS UPON APPEAL
FROM REVOCATION.
   (A)   The City Clerk, upon reasonable notice to the licensee, may summarily
revoke any license issued by him or her pursuant to the provisions of this code
for any reason which would have been grounds for denial of such license when
first issued, for violation of any term or condition of such license, for
violation of any pertinent provision of state law, this code, or other
ordinance, or for the perpetration or attempted perpetration of fraud,
malpractice, or malfeasance by the licensee, without prejudice to prosecution
of such licensee by the city.
   (B)   Any person having an interest in any license so revoked and who feels
aggrieved thereby may request the City Clerk to further investigate the grounds
for revocation and to reconsider his or her action and, if the City Clerk
accedes to such request, he or she may suspend or reinstate the license pending
his or her final decision. If the City Clerk refuses to accede to such request,
or if, upon reconsideration, he or she affirms his or her revocation of the
license, the party so aggrieved may appeal to the Common Council, which shall,
without delay, afford such person a public hearing at which he or she may
appear in person or by counsel, and may have the attendance of witnesses,
books, and papers in his or her behalf, and may testify in person. The decision
of the Common Council following such hearing shall be final, subject only to
such judicial review as may be provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 14-12)
§ 110.12 PROSECUTION FOR VIOLATIONS; RECOURSE OF CITY TO SEEK INJUNCTIONS.
   If any person engages in or prosecutes any business, profession, calling, or
vocation contrary to any of the provisions of this code, whether without first
obtaining a license therefor or by continuing the same after the termination of
the effective period of any such license, or by any violation of the terms and
conditions of such license, he or she shall be subject to immediate prosecution
in the Police Court and, in addition, the City Attorney may, in the name of the
city, seek such injunctive relief as may be appropriate in any court of
competent jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 14-14)
LICENSE TAXES ON AND REGULATIONS GOVERNING CERTAIN BUSINESSES
§ 110.25 BUSINESSES NOT OTHERWISE LICENSED.
   Every person engaging in any business, profession, calling, or vocation in
the city, for which a state business franchise registration certificate is
required and for which no other city license tax or fee is prescribed in this
code or other ordinance, and which is not exempted from the payment of any city
license tax or fee by state law, this code, or other ordinance, shall obtain
annually a city license therefor and shall pay to the city an annual license
tax of $15, or other amount deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court, for each
location within the city where he or she holds himself or herself out to engage
in or transact business therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 14-15)
Statutory reference:
   State law imposing tax of $15 for each location for which a state business
franchise registration certificate is required, see W. Va. Code 11-12-3
§ 110.26 LICENSE ISSUANCE FEE TO BE PAID BY ALL BUSINESSES.
   In addition to the taxes and other fees imposed by this subchapter, each
applicant for an initial or renewal city license shall pay the license issuance
fee as provided in §
110.03.
(Prior Code, § 14-16)
§ 110.27 BOWLING ALLEYS AND BILLIARD OR POOL TABLES.
   The annual license fee to keep or maintain a bowling alley or a billiard or
pool table, for public use, where any charge is made for the use of same, shall
be $25, or other amount deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court; but if more
than one of such alleys or tables is kept or maintained in the same building by
the same person, the fee shall be $25 for the first one and $15 for each
additional table or alley, or other amounts deemed appropriate by the Municipal
Court.
(Prior Code, § 14-16.1) (Ord. passed 7-17-1972)
§ 110.28 CIGARETTE AND TOBACCO VENDORS.
   Any person engaging in the business of selling cigarettes or tobacco shall
pay an annual city license tax of $15, or other amount deemed appropriate by
the Municipal Court.
(Prior Code, § 14-17)
§ 110.29 COIN-OPERATED DEVICES; MERCHANDISE, SERVICE, MUSIC AND AMUSEMENT
DEVICES, OR VENDING MACHINES.
   (A)   Persons owning and operating coin-operated merchandise service,
amusement, or music devices or vending machines shall obtain annual licenses
and pay the fees prescribed in this section on or before July 1 of each year.
   (B)   The liability for the license to operate any type of coin-operated
merchandise, service, amusement or music devices, or vending machines shall be
upon the owner of the machine. The ownership shall be established by either a
bill of sale, paid invoice, or a conditional sales contract which has been
recorded in the applicable County Clerk’s office. The leasing of such a machine
shall not be considered as a transfer of ownership of the machine and where a
lessor-lessee relationship exists, the lessor shall be liable for the
applicable license and fees.
   (C)   The annual license fee to own and operate a coin-operated baggage or
parcel checking machine or device which is used for the storage of baggage or
parcels of any character shall be $0.50, or other amount deemed appropriate by
the Municipal Court, for each section of any such device which is operated on
the coin-in-the-slot principle; the annual license fee to own and operate any
coin-operated toilet locker or device, sanitary napkin device, or bed vibrator
device shall be $0.50, or other amount deemed appropriate by the Municipal
Court, for every such locker or device. The city will not furnish, deal stamps
for these devices; however, the owner shall identify each machine by installing
on each device an identification label, plainly legible and visible, in such a
manner that the machine need not be moved to observe the identification label,
and the identification label shall contain the name of the owner, his or her
city license number, his or her street address, and name of city and state of
residence.
   (D)   The annual license fee to own and operate a total of 20 or more coin-
operated amusement or music devices of the following types shall be: one cent
devices - $50; five cent devices - $150; ten cent devices - $225; over ten cent
devices - $300; or other amounts deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court. The
operator of more than one type of such devices shall pay the highest fee
prescribed. The license fee to own and operate less than 20 amusement or music
devices shall be upon a per device basis as follows: one cent devices - $2;
five cent devices - $5; ten cent devices - $10; over ten cent devices - $12.50;
or other amounts deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court. Any device taking
more than one denomination of coin shall be licensed on the basis of the
largest denomination of coin taken or the total of the coins necessary to make
the device function or operate.
   (E)   The annual license fee to own and operate a total of 20 or more coin-
operated merchandise or service devices of the following types shall be: one
cent devices - $50; five cent devices - $100; ten cent devices - $150; over ten
cent devices - $250; or other amounts deemed appropriate by the Municipal
Court. The operator of more than one type of such devices shall pay the highest
fee prescribed. The license fee to own and operate less than 20 merchandise or
service devices shall be upon a per device basis as follows: one cent devices -
$2; five cent devices - $5; ten cent devices - $10; over ten cent devices -
$12.50;or other amount deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court. Any device
taking more than one denomination of coin shall be licensed on the basis of the
largest denomination of coin taken or the total of the coins necessary to make
the device function or operate.
   (F)   The fees herein prescribed are on an annual basis, commencing July 1
of each year, expiring on the following June 30, and are not proratable if
taken out during the license year nor shall fees paid be refundable if a
license is revoked, suspended, or business ceased during the license year.
   (G)   No license fee shall be required of stores or businesses owning and
operating such machines or devices owned by them in their own licensed stores;
provided, that where the principal business is the operation of the machines or
devices, then licenses shall be obtained as outlined above; and provided
further, that any person exempt from or not liable for such license shall
identify each machine by installing on each device an identification label,
plainly legible and visible, in such a manner that the machine need not be
moved to observe the identification label and the identification label shall
contain the name of the owner, his or her store license number, his or her
street address, and name of city and state of residence.
   (H)   The provisions of this section shall not be applicable to any pay
telephone, postage stamp vending machines, or currency changing machines
operated on the coin-in-the-slot principle.
   (I)   Application for license required herein shall contain the necessary
information for the proper licensing under the foregoing fee schedule for
machines that are owned and operated on location by the licensee within this
city during the ensuing license year or any part of a fiscal year. Each vending
machine operator shall make application to the City Clerk on forms provided by
him or her and the applicant shall furnish such information as may be required
by the City Clerk, including a certified statement of the total number of
machines, by location, of each coin denomination type in each classification,
viz., service, music or amusement, and merchandise or service machines;
provided, that vending machine operators operating 20 or more machines are only
required to furnish the City Clerk with a certified statement as to the total
number of machines on location in this city, and the applicant shall be subject
to the penalties of false swearing for any untrue statements contained in his
or her application.
   (J)   The City Clerk shall assign each license issued hereunder a number. It
shall be the responsibility and duty of the owners of all coin-operated devices
subject to the licenses herein provided to properly identify each machine by
installing on each device an identification label, plainly legible and visible,
in such a manner that the machine need not be moved to observe the
identification label, and the identification label shall contain the name of
the owner, his or her license number, his or her street address, and name of
city and state of residence.
   (K)   In the event any coin-operated device is found on location and not
bearing the owner’s address and current license number as prescribed above, the
City Clerk or his or her agents may seal the device in such a manner as to make
it inoperable. The seal shall state the date sealed and bear the signature and
title of the sealer. Anyone other than the City Clerk or his or her authorized
agent who shall break or tamper with such seals, or conceal or move a sealed
machine from its location, shall be subject to the criminal provisions of this
chapter.
   (L)   The owner of a sealed machine may petition the City Clerk to remove
seal(s) from the owner’s machine(s) by filing a petition, on forms provided by
the City Clerk, and paying to the City Treasurer a sealing fee of $10 for each
sealed machine, or other amount deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court.
After receiving such petition and fee, and after the owner has complied with
all the applicable provisions of this chapter, the City Clerk shall, within a
reasonable time, cause such petitioned seals to be removed. If the owner of the
sealed device has not, within 30 days from the date the device was sealed, paid
a sealing fee of $10, or other amount deemed appropriate by the Municipal
Court, to the City Treasurer as well as having, to the satisfaction of the City
Clerk, complied with all other applicable provisions of this chapter, then and
in which event, the City Clerk or his or her agents shall take such sealed
device into possession and deliver the same to the Chief of Police, or the
Chief of Police upon direction of the City Clerk shall take such sealed device
into possession and forthwith sell such sealed device in the manner provided by
law for the sale of personal property for taxes; and from the proceeds of sale,
including any currency found in the sealed machine and removed prior to sale,
shall pay his or her costs, including drayage, storage, penalties, and other
fees due the city; and the balance, if any there be, shall be paid to the City
Treasurer for deposit and credit in the same manner as are the license fees
collected under this section.
   (M)   Every person subject to the provisions of this subchapter shall make
such reports and keep such records as may be required by the rules and
regulations of the City Clerk, and shall permit him or her to inspect such
records and the stocks and supplies on hand at any time. Every such person
shall be required to make his or her records available for inspection by the
City Clerk or his or her authorized agents.
   (N)   The City Clerk is hereby authorized to make and promulgate such
reasonable rules and regulations as may be necessary to administer the
provisions of this section and other sections of this subchapter which relate
to coin-operated devices to ensure the collection of the taxes imposed thereby.
(Prior Code, § 14-18)
§ 110.30 SAME; WASHING, CLEANING, AND DRY CLEANING DEVICES.
   (A)   Coin-operated devices which wash, dry, clean, or dry clean items of
any description, exclusive of vehicle washing devices but including clothing
and household items, or dispense merchandise for use in such washing, drying,
cleaning, or dry cleaning, are hereby subject to a license tax.
   (B)   All persons owning the aforementioned devices, or like washing
devices, shall be liable for payment of such license tax. Ownership shall be
deemed established by determining who is the purchaser by either a bill of
sale, paid invoice, or a conditional sales contract or agreement filed and
recorded in the applicable County Clerk’s office in this state or in the office
of the Secretary of State. Leasing of machines will not be deemed a transfer of
ownership.
   (C)   The annual license fee to own machines being operated in this city and
whether operated by the owner or other persons shall be as follows: upon ten or
more machines in any one location, the annual license fee shall be $30, or
other amount deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court; upon fewer than ten
machines in any one location, the annual license fee shall be $3 for each
machine, or other amount deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court; provided,
that in no instance shall the annual license fee be less than $15, or other
amount deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court.
   (D)   It is hereby provided that no machine or device licensed under the
provisions of this section shall be subject to the license fees and taxes
imposed by §
110.29.
(Prior Code, § 14-19)
§ 110.31 COLLECTION AGENCIES.
   The annual license fee to engage in the business of a collection agency in
the city shall be $50, or other amount deemed appropriate by the Municipal
Court. For purposes of this section, solicitation or collection by or through
an agent operating within this city shall be considered to be engaging in the
business of a collection agency in the city.
(Prior Code, § 14-19.1) (Ord. passed 7-17-1972)
§ 110.32 CORPORATIONS.
   Every domestic and foreign corporation whose principal place of business or
chief works are located in this city shall pay an annual city license tax of
$25, or other amount deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court; provided, that
any such domestic corporation, the authorized capital stock of which does not
exceed $5,000, shall pay an annual city license tax of $20, or other amounts
deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court; but this section shall not be
construed as imposing a tax on corporations chartered strictly for educational,
literary, agricultural, religious, cemetery, or charitable purposes, or upon
charters incorporating Masonic Lodges, Odd Fellows Lodges, or other charitable
or beneficiary societies.
(Prior Code, § 14-20)
§ 110.33 HAWKERS AND PEDDLERS.
   (A)   (1)   When used in this section, the term HAWKER AND PEDDLER shall
mean and include all persons who engage or conduct, within this city, in
traveling from place to place within this state, a temporary or transient
business of selling goods, wares, or merchandise for delivery at the time of
sale; and who, for the purpose of carrying on such business may use, lease, or
occupy either in whole or in part, a shed or sheds, open ground, streets,
roads, or highways, a room, building, or other structure or who use, lease, or
occupy for such purposes a room or rooms in any hotel or lodging house, for the
exhibition and sale of goods, wares, and merchandise; or any person who shall
carry goods, wares, or merchandise from place to place on foot or with a
vehicle, either in person or by agent or employee, and sell, for delivery at
the same time, any goods, wares, or merchandise to any purchaser at wholesale
or retail, and any person who shall solicit for the purpose of rendering any
service shall be deemed a HAWKER AND PEDDLER under this section. The person so
engaged shall not be relieved from the provisions of this section by reason of
association temporarily with any local dealer, trader, merchant, or auctioneer,
or by conducting such temporary or transient business in connection with or as
part of the business of, or in the name of, any local dealer, trader, merchant,
or auctioneer.
      (2)   The annual license fee to act as a hawker and peddler, if the
person licensed travels without a vehicle, shall be $10; if he or she travels
with a vehicle of not more than one-half ton capacity, $15; if he or she
travels with a vehicle of more than one-half ton capacity, but not exceeding
one ton capacity, $50; if he or she travels with a vehicle of more than one ton
capacity, but not exceeding two tons capacity, $100; and if he or she travels
with a vehicle of more than two tons capacity, $150, plus $100 for each
additional ton or fraction thereof over two tons capacity; and the person
licensed shall pay at the same rate for each and every vehicle so used; or
other amount deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court. Such person shall carry
his or her license in some conspicuous place in his or her vehicle or about his
or her pack; and in addition thereto, he or she shall cause to be painted or
stenciled in a conspicuous place on the left-hand side of his or her vehicle
the number of such license and the words “Weston Hawker and Peddler” and the
license year for which such license is issued, which information shall be in
black letters on a white background, and the whole thereof shall be at least
eight by 20 inches in size.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any person who sells
any goods, wares, or merchandise to be delivered in the future; or to any of
the following who offer immediate delivery of the goods, wares, or merchandise
being sold:
      (1)   Any person or persons engaged within this state in the business or
calling of agriculture, horticulture, or grazing, who sells or sell
individually or collectively, one or more for the other or others, the products
derived from his, her, or their business or calling aforesaid;
      (2)   Any retail or wholesale business concern, established and operating
continuously for one year or more within this state in the sale of any product
or products over regular routes who are licensed under other provisions of this
subchapter;
      (3)   Any wholesaler or jobber selling soft drinks or nonintoxicating
beer for which he or she is duly licensed under other provisions of this or
another chapter of this code;
      (4)   Any person who sells petroleum products, ice, wood, meat, ice
cream, dairy products, bread, cakes, pies, and other bakery products, butter
and eggs, manufactured, grown, or produced by any such person and not purchased
by him or her for resale;
      (5)   Sales made to persons by commercial travelers, or selling agents in
the usual course of business, nor to bona fide sales of goods, wares, or
merchandise by sample for future delivery; nor to any sales of goods, wares, or
merchandise on the grounds of any agricultural association during the
continuance of any annual fair held by such association; nor to any sales by
organizations acting for charitable, religious, or benevolent purposes; nor to
annual showings or street exhibits, which may include sales of their showings
or exhibits conducted by members of art associations; numismatic or philatelic
societies or antique associations or societies when such showing or exhibit
does not continue for more than one week each calendar year; nor to judicial
sales directed by law or under the orders of any court;
      (6)   Any agent or salesperson selling manufactured products produced by
his or her employer, and who sells the same to retail dealers for the purpose
of resale; and
      (7)   Any firm, corporation, or individual having a stock of goods, or
merchandise, or manufacturing or processing plant or plants kept or operating
at a fixed location in the state, and declared for taxation in the county where
located, and using a vehicle or vehicles over a fixed route or routes for the
purpose of selling or distributing at wholesale, their, his, her, or its said
merchandise, stock of goods, or plant products.
   (C)   Any person who is exempt from the payment of any license fee under
this section, as above provided, shall obtain from the City Clerk a license
receipt, without cost, showing that he or she is so exempt, and which shall run
for a period of one year after the issuance thereof; but to obtain such license
receipt he or she shall make an affidavit as to the facts entitling him or her
to such exemption on a form to be prescribed by the City Clerk. Any licensed
hawker or peddler who shall be guilty of any fraud, cheating, or
misrepresentation, whether through himself, herself, or through an employee,
while acting as a peddler in this city or who shall barter, sell, or peddle any
goods or merchandise or wares other than those specified in his or her
application for a license shall be deemed guilty of a violation of this
section.
(Prior Code, § 14-21) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.34 HOSPITALS, SANATORIUMS, AND EXTENDED CARE FACILITIES.
   Any person engaging in the business of providing the accommodations and
services of hospital, sanatorium, or extended care facility operated in
connection with a hospital shall pay an annual city license tax of $20, or
other amount deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court; provided, that this
section shall not be applicable to any institution owned or operated by the
federal or state government.
(Prior Code, § 14-22)
Statutory reference:
   Licensing of hospitals, sanatoriums, and extended care facilities, see W.
Va. Code 16-5B-2
§ 110.35 HOTELS, MOTELS, BOARDING HOUSES, AND THE LIKE; WHERE LODGING
FURNISHED.
   Any person engaging in the business of providing the accommodations or
services of a hotel, motel, inn, tourist home, rooming house, boarding house,
or other establishment where lodging is furnished for compensation shall pay an
annual city license tax of $20, or other amount deemed appropriate by the
Municipal Court; provided, that this section shall not apply to any such
establishment which provides accommodations and services for not more than four
or more persons.
(Prior Code, § 14-23)
§ 110.36 NURSING HOMES.
   Any person engaged in the business of providing the accommodations and
facilities of a nursing home shall pay an annual city license tax of $20, or
other amount deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court.
(Prior Code, § 14-24)
Statutory reference:
   Licensing of nursing homes, see W. Va. Code 16-5C-8
§ 110.37 INSURANCE.
   (A)   Any person engaging in the transaction of any insurance business as a
broker shall pay an annual city license tax of $10, or other amount deemed
appropriate by the Municipal Court.
   (B)   Any person engaging in the transaction of any insurance business as an
agent or solicitor shall pay an annual city license tax of $5, or other amount
deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court.
(Prior Code, § 14-25)
Statutory reference:
   Insurance business license taxes, see W. Va. Code 33-12-6
   Insurance brokers’ licenses shall be issued only to nonresidents of state,
see W. Va. Code 33-12-4
§ 110.38 JUNK DEALERS AND THEIR AGENTS; ITINERANT JUNK COLLECTORS.
   (A)   Any person engaging in the business of junk dealer shall pay an annual
city license tax of $25, or other amount deemed appropriate by the Municipal
Court; and any person engaged in business as a junk dealers agent shall pay an
annual city license tax of $10, or other amount deemed appropriate by the
Municipal Court; provided, that any person who is a nonresident of the state
who engages in the business of junk dealer or junk dealer’s agent shall pay an
annual city license tax of $100, or other amount deemed appropriate by the
Municipal Court. Any person engaging in the business of itinerant junk
collector shall pay an annual city license tax of $2, or other amount deemed
appropriate by the Municipal Court.
   (B)   The term JUNK as used in this section shall mean old or scrap gold,
copper, brass, rope, rags, batteries, paper, rubber, automobile parts, iron,
steel, and other old scrap ferrous or nonferrous metals. The term JUNK DEALER
shall include any person engaged in the business of buying or selling junk as
hereinabove defined. The term JUNK DEALER’S AGENT shall include any person who
buys or sells junk as hereinbefore defined for or on behalf of the junk dealer,
as hereinabove defined, but the term JUNK DEALER’S AGENT shall not be construed
to include any person regularly employed upon a salary by a regularly licensed
junk dealer engaged in such business within the city. The term ITINERANT JUNK
COLLECTOR shall include only such persons who gather junk from place to place
with the aid of a cart or hand drawn or propelled vehicle, who have no fixed
place of business.
(Prior Code, § 14-26)
§ 110.39 REAL ESTATE BROKERS.
   Any person engaging in the business of real estate broker shall pay an
annual city license tax of $50, or other amount deemed appropriate by the
Municipal Court; provided, that this section shall not be construed to require
an additional broker’s or salesperson’s license from employees of a licensed
broker.
(Prior Code, § 14-27)
§ 110.40 SMALL LOAN COMPANIES.
   Any person engaging in the business of a small loan company shall pay an
annual city license tax of $25, or other amount deemed appropriate by the
Municipal Court.
(Prior Code, § 14-28)
§ 110.41 TAXICABS.
   Any person engaging in the business of operating a taxicab shall pay an
annual city license tax of $25, or other amount deemed appropriate by the
Municipal Court.
(Prior Code, § 14-29)
§ 110.42 THEATRES AND THEATRICAL EXHIBITIONS.
   Any person engaging in the business of public shows, theatrical exhibitions,
exhibiting motion pictures, hypnotic exhibitions, and other performances to
which admission is obtained by the payment of money or other consideration
shall pay an annual city license tax of $40, or other amount deemed appropriate
by the Municipal Court.
(Prior Code, § 14-30)
STORES
§ 110.55 STORE DEFINED.
   The term STORE as used in this subchapter shall be construed to mean and
include any store or stores or any mercantile establishment or establishments
which are owned, operated, maintained, or controlled by the same person, firm,
corporation, copartnership, or association, either domestic or foreign, in
which goods, wares, or merchandise of any kind are sold, either at retail or
wholesale.
(Prior Code, § 14-31)
§ 110.56 CONSTRUCTION OF SUBCHAPTER.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall be construed to apply to every
person, firm, corporation, copartnership, or association, either domestic or
foreign, which is controlled or held with others by majority stock ownership or
ultimately controlled or directed by one management or association of ultimate
management.
(Prior Code, § 14-32)
§ 110.57 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate, maintain, open, or establish
any store in the city without first having obtained a license so to do from the
City Clerk, as hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 14-33) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.58 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; FILING FEE.
   Any person desiring to operate, maintain, open, or establish a store in this
city shall apply to the City Clerk for a license so to do. The application for
a license shall be made on a form which shall be prescribed and furnished by
the City Clerk, and shall set forth the name of the owner, manager, trustee,
lessee, receiver, or other person desiring such license, the name of such
store, and such other facts as the City Clerk may require. If the applicant
desires to operate, maintain, open, or establish more than one such store, he
or she shall make a separate application for a license to operate, maintain,
open, or establish each such store, but the respective stores for which the
applicant desires to secure licenses may all be listed on one application
blank. Each such application shall be accompanied by a filing fee of $0.50, or
other amount deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court, and by the license fee
as prescribed in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 14-34)
§ 110.59 ACTION ON APPLICATION; ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   As soon as practicable after the receipt of any such application, the
City Clerk shall carefully examine such application to ascertain whether it is
in proper form and contains the necessary and requisite information.
   (B)   If, upon examination, the City Clerk shall find that any such
application is not in proper form and does not contain the necessary and
requisite information, he or she shall return such application for correction.
If an application is found to be satisfactory, and if the filing and license
fees, as herein prescribed, shall have been paid, the City Clerk shall issue to
the applicant a license for each store for which an application for license
shall have been made.
(Prior Code, § 14-35)
§ 110.60 EXPIRATION DATE AND TERM LICENSE; ANNUAL RENEWAL REQUIRED.
   (A)   All licenses shall be so issued as to expire on June 30 of each
calendar year. On or before July 1 of each year, every person having a license
shall apply to the City Clerk for a renewal license for the fiscal year next
ensuing. All applications for renewal licenses shall be made on forms which
shall be prescribed and furnished by the City Clerk.
   (B)   No license shall lapse prior to July 31 of the year next following the
year for which such license was issued; if a renewal license has not been made,
the City Clerk shall notify such delinquent license holder thereof, and if
application is not made for and a renewal license issued on or before the last
day of August, next ensuing, the former license shall lapse and become null and
void.
   (C)   Each such application for a renewal license shall be accompanied by a
filing fee of $0.50, or other amount deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court,
and by the license fee as prescribed in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 14-36)
§ 110.61 ANNUAL LICENSE FEES; CLERK’S FEE.
   Every person opening, establishing, or maintaining one or more stores or
mercantile establishments within the city under the same general management,
supervision, or ownership shall pay the license fees hereinafter prescribed for
the privilege of opening, establishing, operating, or maintaining such stores
or mercantile establishments. The annual license fee prescribed herein shall be
as follows: upon one store, the annual license fee shall be $5, or other amount
deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court; upon two stores or more, but not to
exceed five stores, the annual license fee shall be $10 for each additional
store, or other amount deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court. There shall
be a Clerk’s fee of $0.50, or other amount deemed appropriate by the Municipal
Court, of each license so issued.
(Prior Code, § 14-37)
§ 110.62 FEES FOR LICENSES ISSUED FOR SIX MONTHS OR LESS.
   Each and every license issued prior to January 1 of any year shall be
charged for at the full rate, and each and every license issued on or after
January 1 of any year shall be charged for at one-half of the full rate, as
prescribed in §
110.61.
(Prior Code, § 14-38)
§ 110.63 ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS; PAYMENTS BY CITY CLERK INTO CITY TREASURY.
   Any and all expenses incurred by the City Clerk in the administration of
this subchapter shall be paid out of the funds accruing from the fees-imposed
by and collected under the provisions of this subchapter. All money collected
under the provisions of this subchapter shall be paid into the city treasury,
monthly, by the City Clerk, and shall be added to and constitute a part of the
General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 14-39)
§ 110.64 PAYMENT UNDER PROTEST AND REMEDY OF PERSONS FEELING AGGRIEVED.
   Any person claiming that any license is not due, for any reason, shall pay
the tax under protest, with the right to collect the same from the City
Treasurer by an appropriate remedy as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 14-40)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter for which no other
penalty is provided shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person engaging in or prosecuting any business, profession,
calling, or vocation contrary to the provisions of this chapter, whether
without obtaining a city license therefor before commencing the same, or by
continuing the same after the termination of the effective period of any such
city license may, in addition to paying the prescribed license tax or fee, be
liable for a penalty of $50, or other amount deemed appropriate by the
Municipal Court, for each month or fraction thereof during which he or she has
been in default of such payment.
(Prior Code, § 14-10)
   (C)   Except as may herein be expressly provided, any person violating any
provisions under this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not less
than $50 nor more than $100, or other amount deemed appropriate by the
Municipal Court, or imprisoned in the county jail not more than 30 days or both
fined and imprisoned, and each day or part thereof that any violation shall
continue shall be deemed to constitute a distinct and separate offense and be
punishable accordingly.
(Prior Code, § 14-13)
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOL
Section
In General
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   City tax imposed on purchase price of intoxicating liquors sold at
state stores
   
111.03   Prohibited acts generally
   
111.04   License tax for wine distributors and retailers
Nonintoxicating Beer
   
111.15   Annual license required of all brewers and dealers in nonintoxicating
beer doing business in the city
   
111.16   License tax imposed on brewers and dealers; license year; classes of
dealers and amount of tax; fee for issuance of license
   
111.17   Unlawful acts of licensees; penalties
Private Clubs
   
111.30   Annual license fee imposed
   
111.31   When license fee payable; form of license; fund to which fees to be
credited
   
111.32   License fees not refundable or transferable
   
111.33   Disposition of license fees
   
111.34   Duty of local holders of state licenses to report to City Clerk at
stated times to display license and pay city license fee
   
111.35   City Clerk to maintain records of state licenses; receipts for fees;
posting of receipts
   
111.36   Expiration or revocation of state license revokes privileges under
this subchapter
   
111.37   Certain acts of licensee prohibited
 
   
111.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Food establishments, see
Ch. 112
   General Offenses, see
Ch. 130
   Nuisances, see
Ch. 92
IN GENERAL
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. Include alcohol, beer, wine, and spirits, and any liquid
or solid containing more than 3.2% of alcohol by weight and capable of being
used as a beverage.
   BEER. Any beverage obtained by the fermentation of barley, malt, hops, or
any other similar product or substitute, and containing more than 3.2% of
alcohol by weight.
   MANUFACTURE. To distill, rectify, ferment, brew, make, mix, concoct,
process, blend, bottle, or fill any original package with any alcoholic liquor
or nonintoxicating beer.
   NONINTOXICATING BEER. Any beverage obtained by the fermentation of barley,
malt, hops, or any other similar product or substitute, and containing not more
than 3.2% of alcohol by weight.
   ORIGINAL PACKAGE. Any closed or sealed container or receptacle used for
holding alcoholic liquor or nonintoxicating beer.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any place, building, or conveyance to which the public has, or
is permitted to have access, including restaurants, soda fountains, and hotel
dining rooms and lobbies, and corridors of hotels, and any highway, street,
lane, park, or place of public resort or amusement.
   SALE. Any transfer, exchange, or barter in any manner or by any means for a
consideration, and shall include all sales made by principal, proprietor,
agent, or employee.
   SELLING. Include solicitation or receipt of orders, possession for sale, and
possession with intent to sell.
   SPIRITS. Any alcoholic beverage obtained by distillation and mixed with
potable water and other substances in solution, and includes brandy, rum,
whiskey, cordials, and gin.
   WINE. Any beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural content of
fruits, or other agricultural products, containing sugar.
(Prior Code, § 3-1)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of city to tax the sale of nonintoxicating beer, see W. Va. Code
11-16-26
   Authority to prevent the illegal sale of intoxicating liquors, see W. Va.
Code 8-12-5(20)
   Definitions in State Liquor Control Act, see W. Va. Code 60-1-5
   State Liquor Control Act, see W. Va. Code 60-1-1 et seq.
   State Nonintoxicating Beer Act, see W. Va. Code 11-16-1 et seq.
§ 111.02 CITY TAX IMPOSED ON PURCHASE PRICE OF INTOXICATING LIQUORS SOLD AT
STATE STORES.
   (A)   After the effective date of the ordinance codified herein, pursuant to
W. Va. Code 8-13-7, as amended, there is hereby imposed the tax of 5% on the
retail purchase price of any and all intoxicating liquors purchased from the
Alcohol Beverage Control Commissioner or from person licensed to sell wine at
retail to the public under the provisions of W. Va. Code Ch. 60, Art. 8, within
the corporate boundaries of the city.
      (1)   Such tax shall be levied upon the purchaser of said intoxicating
liquor or wine, and shall be added to any collected with the retail purchase
price of such intoxicating liquor or wine. Such tax shall be received by the
municipality from the State Treasury pursuant to the rules and regulations
adopted by the said Alcohol Beverage Control Commissioner.
      (2)   Provided, however, that such tax shall not be collected on
intoxicating liquors, other than wines sold by or purchased from holders of a
license issued under the provisions of W. Va. Code Ch. 60, Art. 7.
      (3)   Provided further, such tax shall be collected upon all sales of
wine to holders of a license issued under the provisions of W. Va. Code Ch. 60,
Art. 7 from a wine distributor licensed pursuant to the provisions of W. Va.
Code Ch. 60, Art. 3 et seq.
   (B)   Pursuant to the provisions of W. Va. Code 8-11-4, as amended, not less
than three printed copies of the ordinance codified herein have been and are
now on file in the office of the City Clerk where the same shall remain on file
and be available to the public for inspection and use during all regular
business hours. Notice of the proposed adoption of this section shall be given
by publication as provided in W. Va. Code 8-11-4, as amended.
(Prior Code, § 3-2) (Ord. passed 8-18-1983)
§ 111.03 PROHIBITED ACTS GENERALLY.
   The following acts are prohibited:
   (A)   For any person to manufacture, acquire, sell, possess, or transport
within the city any intoxicating liquor or nonintoxicating beer except in
accordance with the provisions of the laws of the state;
   (B)   For any person to drink any alcoholic liquor in a public place within
the city; and
   (C)   For any person to tender a drink of alcoholic liquor to another person
in a public place within the city.
(Prior Code, § 3-3) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 LICENSE TAX FOR WINE DISTRIBUTORS AND RETAILERS.
   (A)   By virtue of this section, there is hereby imposed an annual license
tax upon distributors and retailers of wine within the city limits, and to such
end, after the effective date of this section, no person may engage in business
in the capacity of distributor or retailer of wine as provided by W. Va. Code
Ch. 60, Art. 8, as last amended, within the corporate limits of the city,
without first obtaining a license from the city, nor shall a person continue to
engage in any such activity after his or her license has expired, been
suspended or revoked. No person may be licensed in more than one of such
capacities at the same time.
   (B)   The city shall collect an annual fee for license issued under this
section as follows:
      (1)   Twenty-five hundred dollars per year for a distributor’s license;
and
      (2)   One hundred fifty dollars per year for retailer’s license.
   (C)   The license period shall begin on July 1 of each year commencing with
July 1, 1981, and ending on June 13 of the following year, and if the initial
license is granted for less than a year, the fee shall be computed in
proportion to the number of quarters remaining in the fiscal year, including
the quarter in which application is made.
   (D)   A retailer who has more than one place of retail business shall obtain
a license for each separate retail establishment. A retailer’s license may be
issued only to the proprietor or owner of a bona fide grocery store or wine
specialty shop.
   (E)   A copy of this section imposing the tax shall be certified by the
Mayor to the state’s Alcohol Beverage Commission and to the Tax Commissioner.
   (F)   Pursuant to W. Va. Code 8-2-4, as last amended, the Clerk is hereby
authorized and directed to cause notice of the proposed adoption of this
section to be published as a Class 1 legal advertisement stating that a public
hearing shall be held on the date, time, and place of the proposed final vote
on adoption of this section.
(Ord. passed 8-3-1981) Penalty, see §
111.99
NONINTOXICATING BEER
§ 111.15 ANNUAL LICENSE REQUIRED OF ALL BREWERS AND DEALERS IN NONINTOXICATING
BEER DOING BUSINESS IN THE CITY.
   Every person licensed by the state pursuant to the provisions of W. Va. Code
Ch. 11, Art. 16 as a retailer, wholesaler, or brewer of nonintoxicating beer
and who does business as such within this city shall pay to the city an annual
license tax as provided in this subchapter. Upon the payment of each such
annual license tax to the city the licensee shall be issued a city license
corresponding to the state license, which shall be displayed at all times in a
conspicuous place upon the premises thereby licensed. City licenses under this
subchapter shall not be transferable.
(Prior Code, § 3-4)
Charter reference:
   Authority to prevent the illegal sale of intoxicating liquors, beer, and the
like, see Charter § 30
Statutory reference:
   Authority of city to license dealers in nonintoxicating beer, see W. Va.
Code 11-16-26
   Exclusion of nonintoxicating beer from State Liquor Control Act, see W. Va.
Code 60-1-7
   For state Nonintoxicating Beer Act, see W. Va. Code 11-16-1 et seq.
§ 111.16 LICENSE TAX IMPOSED ON BREWERS AND DEALERS; LICENSE YEAR; CLASSES OF
DEALERS AND AMOUNT OF TAX; FEE FOR ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   There is hereby levied and imposed an annual license tax upon all
brewers and dealers in or of nonintoxicating beer within the city, which
license period shall begin on July 1 of each year and end on June 30 of the
following year, and if granted for a less period the same shall be computed
quarterly in proportion to the remainder of the fiscal year as follows.
   (B)   (1)   Retail dealers shall be divided into two classes, Class A and
Class B. In the case of a Class A retail dealer, the license fee shall be $85
for each place of business, or other amount deemed appropriate by the Municipal
Court; the license fee for social, fraternal, or private clubs not operating
for profit, and having been in continuous operation for two years or more
immediately preceding the date of application, shall be $85, or other amount
deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court.
      (2)   Class A licenses issued for social, fraternal, or private clubs as
herein provided shall authorize the licensee to sell nonintoxicating beer at
retail for consumption only on the licensed premises where sold. All other
Class A licenses shall authorize the licensee to sell nonintoxicating beer at
retail for consumption on or off the licensed premises.
      (3)   In the case of a Class B retailer, there shall be two types of a
Class B license. The fee for a Class B license authorizing the sale of
unchilled beer only shall be $15, or other amount deemed appropriate by the
Municipal Court. The fee for a Class B license authorizing the sale of both
chilled and unchilled beer shall be $85, or other amount deemed appropriate by
the Municipal Court. A Class B license shall authorize the licensee to sell
nonintoxicating beer at retail in bottles, cans, or other sealed containers
only, and only for consumption off the licensed premises. Sales under this
license to any person at any one time must be in less quantities than five
gallons. Such license may be issued only to the proprietor or owner of a
grocery store. For the purpose of this section, the term GROCERY STORE means
and includes any retail establishment commonly known as a grocery store or
delicatessen where food or food products are sold for consumption off the
premises.
   (C)   In the case of a wholesaler, the license fee shall be $200 for each
place of business, or other amount deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court.
   (D)   In the case of a brewer with its principal place of business located
in this city, the license fee shall be $500 for each place of manufacture, or
other amount deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court.
   (E)   In addition to the license fees provided in this section, there shall
be an issuance fee of $0.50, or other amount deemed appropriate by the
Municipal Court, payable to the City Clerk as compensation for his or her
services, for each license issued by him or her pursuant to this section.
(Prior Code, § 3-5)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to tax the sale of nonintoxicating beer, see W. Va. Code 8-13-
4 and 11-16-26
   State tax on dealers listed in this section, see W. Va. Code 11-16-9
§ 111.17 UNLAWFUL ACTS OF LICENSEES; PENALTIES.
   It shall be unlawful:
   (A)   For any licensee, his or her servants, agents, or employees to sell,
give, or dispense, or any individual to drink or consume, in or on any licensed
premises or in any rooms directly connected therewith, nonintoxicating beer on
weekdays between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m., or between the hours of
2:00 a.m. and 1:00 p.m. on any Sunday, except in private clubs licensed under
the provisions of this subchapter, where the hours shall conform with the hours
of sale of alcoholic liquors as provided in W. Va. Code Ch. 60;
   (B)   For any licensee, his or her servants, agents, or employees to sell,
furnish, or give any nonintoxicating beer to any person visibly or noticeably
intoxicated, or to any insane person, or to any habitual drunkard, or to any
person under the age of 18 years;
   (C)   (1)   For any distributor to sell or offer to sell, or any retailer to
purchase or receive, any nonintoxicating beer except for cash;
      (2)   Nothing herein contained shall prohibit a licensee from crediting
to a purchaser the actual price charged for packages or containers returned by
the original purchaser as a credit on any sale, or from refunding to any
purchaser the amount paid or deposited for such containers when title is
retained by the vendor;
   (D)   For any brewer or distributor, or his or her agents, to transport or
deliver nonintoxicating beer to any retail licensee on Sunday;
   (E)   For any brewer or distributor to give, furnish, rent, or sell any
equipment, fixtures, signs, or supplies directly or indirectly or through a
subsidiary or affiliate to any licensee engaged in selling products of the
brewing industry at retail, or to offer any prize, premium, gift, or other
similar inducement, except advertising matter of nominal value, to either trade
or consumer buyers; provided, that nothing contained herein shall prohibit a
distributor from offering for sale or renting tanks of carbonic gas;
   (F)   For any licensee to transport, sells, deliver, or purchase any
nonintoxicating beer or product of the brewing industry upon which there shall
appear a label or other informative data which in any manner refers to the
alcoholic content of such beer or product of the brewing industry, or upon the
label of which there appears the word or words “strong”, “full strength”,
“extra strength”, “prewar strength”, “high test”, or other similar expressions
bearing upon the alcoholic content of such product of the brewing industry, or
which refers in any manner to the original alcoholic strength, extract, or
balling proof from which such beverage was produced, except that such label
shall contain a statement that the alcoholic content thereof does not exceed
3.2% by weight;
   (G)   For any licensee to permit in his or her premises, any lewd, immoral,
or improper entertainment, conduct, or practice;
   (H)   For any licensee, except the holder of a license to operate a private
club issued under the provisions of this subchapter, to possess a federal
license, tax receipt, or other permit entitling, authorizing, or allowing such
licensee to sell liquor or alcoholic drinks;
   (I)   For any licensee to obstruct the view of the interior of his or her
premises by enclosure, lattice, drapes, or any means which would prevent plain
view of the patrons occupying such premises. The interior of all licensed
premises shall be adequately lighted at all times; provided, that provisions of
this division (J) shall not apply to the premises of a Class B retailer or to
the premises of a private club licensed under the provisions of this
subchapter;
   (J)   For any licensee to manufacture, import, sell, trade, barter, possess,
or acquiesce in the sale, possession, or consumption of any alcoholic liquors
on the premises covered by such license or on premises directly or indirectly
used in connection therewith, provided, that the prohibitions contained in this
division (J) with respect to the selling or possessing or to the acquiescence
in the sale, possession, or consumption of alcoholic liquors shall not be
applicable with respect to the holder of a license to operate a private club
issued under the provisions of this subchapter;
   (K)   For any licensee to print, paint, or place upon the door, window, or
in any other public place in or about the premises, the word “saloon” or word
of similar character or nature, or for the word “saloon” or similar words to be
used in any advertisement by the licensee;
   (L)   For any retail licensee to sell or dispense nonintoxicating beer
purchased or acquired from any source other than a licensed distributor or
brewer under the laws of this state;
   (M)   For any licensee to permit loud, boisterous, or disorderly conduct of
any kind upon his or her premises or to permit the use of loud musical
instruments if either or any thereof may disturb the peace and quietude of the
community wherein such business is located; provided, that no licensee shall
have in connection with his or her place of business any loudspeaker located on
the outside of the licensed premises that broads, casts, or carries music of
any kind;
   (N)   For any person whose license has been revoked, as in this subchapter
provided, to obtain employment with any retailer within the period of one year
from the date of such revocation, or for any retailer to employ knowingly any
such person within such time;
   (O)   For any distributor to sell, possess for sale, transport, or
distribute nonintoxicating beer except in the original container;
   (P)   For any licensee to permit any act to be done upon the licensed
premises, the commission of which constitutes a crime under the laws of this
state;
   (Q)   For any Class B retailer to permit the consumption of nonintoxicating
beer upon his or her licensed premises;
   (R)   For any licensee, his or her servants, agents, or employees, or for
any licensee by or through such servants, agents, or employees, to allow,
suffer, or permit any person under the age of 18 years to loiter in or upon any
licensed premises; except, however, that the provisions of this division (R)
shall not apply where such person under the age of 18 years is in or upon such
premises in the immediate company of his or her parent, or where and while such
person under the age of 18 years is in, on, or upon such premises for the
purpose of and actually making a lawful purchase of any items or commodities
therein sold, or for the purchase of and actually receiving any lawful service
therein rendered, including the consumption of any item of food, drink, or soft
drink therein lawfully prepared and served or sold for consumption on such
premises; or
   (S)   For any licensee to sell nonintoxicating beer to which wine, spirits,
or alcohol has been added.
The word LICENSEE as used in this section shall mean any person paying a
license tax to the city pursuant to this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-6) Penalty, see §
111.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code 11-16-13
PRIVATE CLUBS
§ 111.30 ANNUAL LICENSE FEE IMPOSED.
   (A)   A licensee who has obtained a state license pursuant to W. Va. Code
Ch. 60, Art. 7, as amended, shall pay an annual license fee, or partial license
fee, as the case may be as follows:
      (1)   The annual license fee for a license issued under the provisions of
this subchapter to a fraternal or veterans organization or a nonprofit social
club shall be $375, or other amount deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court;
and
      (2)   The annual license fee for a license issued under the provisions of
this subchapter to a private club, other than a private club of the type
specified in division (A) above, shall be $500 if such private club has less
than 1,000 members and $1,250 if such private club has 1,000 or more members,
or other amounts deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court.
   (B)   The fee for any such license issued following January 1 of any year
and to expire on June 30 of such year shall be one-half of the annual license
fee prescribed by divisions (A)(1) and (A)(2) above.
(Prior Code, § 3-7) (Ord. passed 7-3-1972)
Statutory reference:
   As to licensing of private clubs, see W. Va. Code 60-7-1 et seq.
§ 111.31 WHEN LICENSE FEE PAYABLE; FORM OF LICENSE; FUND TO WHICH FEES TO BE
CREDITED.
   (A)   All such fees shall be paid in the office of the City Clerk on or
before June 30 for the ensuing fiscal year. Said license shall be on such forms
as prescribed by said Clerk. All such fees so paid shall be credited to the
General Revenue Fund of the city.
   (B)   In the event that any such licenses provided on the state applying to
the same subject matter as §
111.30 is revoked, then in such event, any licenses provided by reason of §
111.30 will be likewise revoked by said Clerk without the necessity of further
proceedings hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 3-8) (Ord. passed 7-3-1972)
§ 111.32 LICENSE FEES NOT REFUNDABLE OR TRANSFERABLE.
   License fees paid to the city pursuant to this subchapter shall not be
refundable should the licensee cease to operate as a private club, nor shall
fees paid by or on behalf of any licensee be transferred to the credit of
another licensee.
(Prior Code, § 3-9)
§ 111.33 DISPOSITION OF LICENSE FEES.
   All private club license fees received by the City Clerk shall be turned
over to the City Treasurer and shall be credited to the General Fund of the
city.
(Prior Code, § 3-10)
§ 111.34 DUTY OF LOCAL HOLDERS OF STATE LICENSES TO REPORT TO CITY CLERK AT
STATED TIMES TO DISPLAY LICENSE AND PAY CITY LICENSE FEE.
   Each licensee holding a state license issued under the provisions of W. Va.
Code Ch. 60, Art. 7 for a private club, the premises of which are situated in
this city, shall, upon first obtaining such license and at the time of each
renewal thereof, report to the City Clerk and display such state license to him
or her and pay the city license fee which is imposed upon him or her by this
subchapter; and it shall be unlawful for any such licensee or any officer,
member, or employee of any private club so licensed, the premises of which
being situated in this city, to sell intoxicating liquor upon such premises
unless all fees due to the city, as provided in this subchapter, have then been
paid.
(Prior Code, § 3-11) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.35 CITY CLERK TO MAINTAIN RECORDS OF STATE LICENSES; RECEIPTS FOR FEES;
POSTING OF RECEIPTS.
   (A)   The City Clerk, upon display to him or her of a state private club
license, shall make a record thereof and preserve such record in his or her
office, and, upon payment to him or her of the city license fee as prescribed
in this subchapter, he or she shall issue to the licensee a receipt for such
payment, which shall indicate the amount paid, the type of private club and its
address within the city, and expiration date of the license for which such city
license fee has been paid.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of each such licensee to maintain such city
receipt on display in a conspicuous place on the premises of the private club
to which it relates.
(Prior Code, § 3-12)
§ 111.36 EXPIRATION OR REVOCATION OF STATE LICENSE REVOKES PRIVILEGES UNDER
THIS SUBCHAPTER.
   In the event that any such licenses provided by the state applying to the
same subject matter as this subchapter is revoked, then any licenses provided
by reason of this subchapter will be likewise revoked by the City Clerk without
the necessity of further proceedings hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 3-13)
§ 111.37 CERTAIN ACTS OF LICENSEE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee under this subchapter, or agent,
employee, or member thereof, on such licensee’s premises to:
      (1)   Sell or offer for sale any alcoholic liquors other than from the
original package or container;
      (2)   Authorize or permit any disturbance of the peace, obscene, lewd,
immoral, or improper entertainment, conduct, or practice;
      (3)   Sell, give away, or permit the sale of gift to, or the procurement
of, any alcoholic liquors, for any minor, mental incompetent, or person who is
physically incapacitated due to the consumption of alcoholic liquor, or the use
of drugs;
      (4)   Sell, give, or dispense alcoholic liquors in or on any licensed
premises or in any rooms directly connected therewith, between the hours of 2:
00 a.m. and 1:00 p.m. on any Sunday;
      (5)   Permit the consumption by, or serve to, on the licensed premises,
any alcoholic liquors covered by this subchapter to any person under the age of
21 years; or
      (6)   With the intent to defraud, alter, change, or misrepresent the
quality, quantity, or brand name of any alcoholic liquor.
   (B)   It shall further be unlawful for any licensee to advertise in any news
media or other means, outside of the licensee’s premises, the fact that
alcoholic liquors may be purchased thereat.
(Prior Code, § 3-14) Penalty, see §
111.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code 60-7-12
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter for which no other
penalty is provided shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
111.15 to
111.17 or who makes any false statement concerning any material fact in
submitting application for license or for a renewal of a license or in any
hearing concerning the revocation thereof, or who commits any of the acts
herein declared to be unlawful, shall be punished for each offense by a fine of
not less than $25 nor more than $500, or other amount deemed appropriate by the
Municipal Court, or imprisoned in the county jail for 30 days, or by both fine
and imprisonment in the discretion of the court.
(Prior Code, § 3-6)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code 60-6-8
CHAPTER 112: FOOD AND FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Adulteration or misrepresentation of food or drink
   
112.03   Permits
   
112.04   Inspections; authority of Health Officer; revocation of permit for
obstructing Health Officer
   
112.05   Sanitation requirements; duties and reports of Health Officer
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVED. Shall be construed as though it were followed by the words “by the
Health Officer”.
   FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. Any place in which food or food products are
manufactured, prepared, packed, handled, stored, sold, or distributed and shall
include hotels, inns, dining rooms, restaurants, lunch counters, cafeterias,
bakeries, bake shops, delicatessens, ice cream plants, fruit stores, fruit
stands, wagons from which food products are sold, markets, meat markets, ice
cream parlors, confectioneries, beer gardens, boarding houses, clubs (private
or public), meat packers or wholesalers thereof, produce houses, bottling
plants, and other similar places located within the city, dispensing or
offering for sale food or food products either at wholesale or retail.
   FOOD PRODUCTS. All articles used for food, drink, flavoring, confectionery,
or condiment by people, whether simple, mixed, or compounded.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The health authority designated by the Common Council to
administer and enforce this chapter, or his or her authorized representatives.
(Prior Code, § 12-1)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of city officers to inspect private premises, see W. Va. Code 8-
12-15
   Authority to protect and promote the public health, see W. Va. Code 8-12-5
(44)
   Hotels and restaurants, see W. Va. Code 16-6-1 et seq.
   Meat and meat products, see W. Va. Code 19-2B-1 et seq.
   Milk and milk products, see W. Va. Code 16-7-5
   State law relating to pure food and drugs, see W. Va. Code 16-7-1 et seq.
§ 112.02 ADULTERATION OR MISREPRESENTATION OF FOOD OR DRINK.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to adulterate, for the purpose of sale,
anything intended for food or drink, or to knowingly sell or barter anything
intended for food or drink, which is not what it is intended or represented to
be or what it is sold for.
(Prior Code, § 12-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.03 PERMITS.
   Any person owning, operating, or managing a food establishment shall, before
engaging or continuing in such business, procure a permit from the Health
Officer. Such permits shall have a life not exceeding one year and shall expire
on December 31 following the date of issue. A permit shall only be issued to a
food establishment when the Health Officer has determined by inspection that
this chapter is being constantly complied with.
(Prior Code, § 12-3)
§ 112.04 INSPECTIONS; AUTHORITY OF HEALTH OFFICER; REVOCATION OF PERMIT FOR
OBSTRUCTING HEALTH OFFICER.
   (A)   Regular visits shall be made by the Health Officer to all food
establishments for the purpose of investigating the methods practiced in the
handling and dispensing of food products and to determine whether or not
provisions of this chapter are being complied with.
   (B)   The Health Officer is hereby vested with authority to adopt and use
inspection forms and public placards for the purpose of improving conditions in
the interest of public health.
   (C)   If any person owning, managing, or operating a food establishment
shall hinder, obstruct, or refuse access, ingress, or egress to the Health
Officer while upon his or her official duties as inspector of the food
establishment, such food establishment shall have its permit revoked.
(Prior Code, § 12-4)
§ 112.05 SANITATION REQUIREMENTS; DUTIES AND REPORTS OF HEALTH OFFICER.
   Every person owning, operating, or managing a food establishment shall
maintain such establishment in a clean and sanitary condition and comply with
the items of sanitation set out in the following divisions:
   (A)   Floors. The floors of all food establishments shall be free from open
cracks, in good repair, and be kept free from litter and accumulated dirt.
   (B)   Walls and ceilings. The walls and ceilings of all food establishments
shall be well plastered, wainscoted, or sealed with metal, wood, or other
approved material and shall be oil painted or finished with an approved
surface. Walls and ceilings shall be kept free from cobwebs, grease, and
accumulated dirt.
   (C)   Lighting, ventilation, and the like. Every building, room, basement,
or cellar occupied or used as a food establishment shall be lighted, drained,
plumbed, and ventilated to the satisfaction of the Health Officer.
   (D)   Screening. All openings to the exterior shall be effectively screened
during fly season with wire screen cloth not coarser than 14 meshes to the
inch. Screen doors shall be equipped with self-closing devices and shall open
outward.
   (E)   Toilet facilities. Adequate sanitary toilet facilities approved by the
Health Officer shall be provided at every food establishment for the use of
employees and shall be kept clean. Toilet rooms shall be ventilated to the
outside and shall be separated from any room in which food is prepared,
handled, sold, or stored by a solid partition. No employee shall engage at work
after visiting the toilet without cleansing his or her hands.
   (F)   Hand washing facilities. Hand washing facilities consisting of a
basin, soap, and sanitary towels shall be provided at every food establishment.
   (G)   Protection against contamination.
      (1)   All food products such as baked goods, cones, confectionery, dates,
figs, dried fruits, butter, cheese, sugar for table use, or any other food
product not ordinarily cooked, peeled, or washed before being eaten, not
protected by a fly-proof and dust-proof container or wrapper, shall be kept
covered in eases of glass, metal, or wood, so as to prevent contamination by
dust, flies, insects, dirt, or other contaminating material. This includes
transportation to and from a food establishment.
      (2)   All bulk goods such as sugar, lard, compound, tea, coffee, or other
foods which are not eaten raw but are used in the preparation of other foods
shall be kept covered to protect the same from all contaminating influences.
      (3)   Certain food products such as unshelled nuts, pineapples, sweet
potatoes, uncut melons, onions, grapefruit, turnips, cabbage, green peas (in
pods), cucumbers, oranges, lemons, bananas with edible portions not exposed,
beets, carrots, and parsnips may be displayed outside the food establishment
without covering; provided, that they are elevated at least 18 inches above the
floor or ground.
   (H)   Cleanliness of equipment. All utensils and appliances, machines,
refrigerators, deep freezers racks, moulds, trucks, tables, blocks, counters,
soda fountains, scales, towels, napkins, table covers, and all other equipment
or articles in use in the preparation, storage, serving, or distributing of
food products shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary manner.
   (I)   Dishwashing facilities. All food establishments where food products
are prepared, served, or sold which have any dishes, utensils, or machinery to
be washed shall provide at least the following:
      (1)   An adequate, accessible supply of hot and cold water of a quality
suitable for drinking purposes;
      (2)   A two compartment sink or tank (or a three compartment sink or tank
depending upon the washing methods employed), as provided in division (J)
below, and drain board constructed of smooth nonabsorbent material or a
mechanical dishwasher of proven efficiency. Wood effectively covered with metal
shall be construed as nonabsorbent; and
      (3)   Facilities for the storage of clean dishes, glassware, utensils,
and equipment that will protect them against dirt, dust, flies, and other
contaminating influences.
   (J)   Washing and sterilization methods; bacterial count.
      (1)   All dishes, glasses, silver, and other implements after each single
service shall be thoroughly washed in a soap or cleaning powder solution, and
be immersed for a period of one minute in clear water which has a minimum
temperature of 180°F or immersed for a period of two minutes in a chlorine
solution containing at least 100 parts per million free chlorine; provided,
that this shall not exclude any other method approved by the Health Officer.
The Health Officer is hereby authorized to test the effectiveness of the
sterilization methods used in washing such dishes, glasses, silver, and other
implements in such food establishments, using the standard rim count procedure
and standards now or hereafter adopted by the state’s Health Department.
      (2)   If the bacterial count, as determined by the rim count procedure,
shall exceed the standard table fixed by the state’s Health Department in any
such food establishment, the sterilization methods of such establishment shall
be considered unsafe and unsatisfactory, and such establishment shall not be
permitted to exhibit the placard of approval of the Health Officer so long as
such condition exists. The standard table of bacterial count established by the
state’s Health Department which shall not be exceeded by food establishments is
as follows:
         (a)   Forks: four colonies per utensil;
         (b)   Spoons: four colonies per utensil;
         (c)   Glasses: 50 colonies per utensil;
         (d)   Plates: 50 colonies per utensil; and
         (e)   Cups: 50 colonies per utensil.
   (K)   Periodic reports of Health Officer. The Health Officer shall at least
once every six months make a public report in writing to the Mayor and Common
Council of the bacterial count, as determined by such rim count procedure, for
each food establishment in the city in which food products are prepared, sold,
or offered for sale for consumption on the premises. Such report shall show
that the bacterial count was determined in accordance with the procedure
approved by the state’s Health Department, and the table of permissible
bacteria by rim count, and an alphabetical list of all such food establishments
in the city and the bacterial counts pertaining thereto. Such reports, when
received by the Common Council, shall be filed and made a part of the records
of the Council.
   (L)   Contaminating surroundings and handling.
      (1)   No person shall sleep or be permitted to sleep in any room where
food products are stored, prepared, cooked, or served. No wearing apparel,
boots, shoes, or other personal effects shall be stored in any kitchen or place
where food products are stored or handled.
      (2)   Newspapers, old sacks, or any paper previously used shall not be
used to wrap, cover, or come in contact with any food product of a kind not
ordinarily cooked, peeled, or washed before being eaten.
      (3)   Food products, such as candies, peanuts, butter squares, crushed
ice, and the like, shall not be handled with the hands where a small scoop,
fork, or ladle can be used.
      (4)   Cracked and battered dishes and utensils shall not be used for
preparing or serving foods.
   (M)   Clothing of food handlers. Every person employed in a food
establishment or engaged in handling food products to be sold or offered for
sale shall be clean in person and habit at all times and shall wear clean
garments when engaged in the preparation or disposition of food.
   (N)   Safe food products. All food products served, sold, or offered for
sale shall be clean, fresh, sound, wholesome, and safe for human consumption.
The Health Officer may order destroyed any spoiled, diseased, unwholesome,
adulterated, or mis-branded food products intended for human consumption. All
canned or preserved food products unless stored in glass or lacquered
containers shall be removed from the original package when opened.
   (O)   Milk. Milk and cream shall be kept at a temperature of 50°F or less.
Milk shall be served to a customer in the distributor’s original container;
except, that this shall not apply to mixed drinks.
   (P)   Garbage cans. All food establishments shall be equipped with tightly
covered, watertight cans of approved materials, and of sufficient size for
retaining and keeping garbage and waste matter. Disposal of garbage shall be
such as to prevent a nuisance.
   (Q)   Cleaning. Sweeping, dusting, and cleaning shall be done in a manner to
allay dust and at a time least apt to affect the comfort and well-being of
customers.
   (R)   Vermin. Food establishments shall be free from vermin and flies.
(Prior Code, § 12-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 113: PLUMBING
Section
General Provisions
   
113.01   Permit required for plumbing work, other than minor repairs
   
113.02   Application for permit; by whom permit issued
   
113.03   Plans and specifications required
   
113.04   Permit fees
   
113.05   Compliance with Plumbing Code
Plumbing Code
   
113.20   Adopted; purpose, application, and the like
   
113.21   Code amended
   
113.22   Additional provisions as to application
   
113.23   Rules for protection of the water supply system
   
113.24   Duties of Building Official and General Manager of Sanitary Board;
records and service of notice
   
113.25   Cooperation of other city officers
   
113.26   Appeals from rulings of Building Official and General Manager of the
Sanitary Board
   
113.27   Conflict of law
   
113.28   Updating provisions
   
113.29   Savings provisions
 
   
113.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 113.01 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR PLUMBING WORK, OTHER THAN MINOR REPAIRS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, no plumbing work shall
be undertaken within the city prior to issuance of a city permit therefor.
   (B)   Repairs involving only the working parts of a faucet or valve, the
clearance of stoppages, repairing of leaks, or replacement of defective faucets
or valves may be made without a permit provided no changes are made in the
piping to the fixtures.
(Prior Code, § 20-1)
Charter reference:
   Authority to provide for elimination of hazards to public health and safety,
see Charter § 30
Statutory reference:
   Authority to provide for the elimination of hazards, see W. Va. Code 8-12-5
(23) and (28)
   Authority to require permit for construction and the like, see W. Va. Code
8-12-14
§ 113.02 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; BY WHOM PERMIT ISSUED.
   Each application for a plumbing permit shall be made on a form to be
provided by the city, and shall be accompanied by the applicable fee, if any.
Permits involving work which is within the province of the Sanitary Board shall
be issued by the General Manager of the Sanitary Board, to whom application for
permit shall be made. Other permits shall be issued by, and applications for
permits shall be made to, the Building Official.
(Prior Code, § 20-2)
§ 113.03 PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS REQUIRED.
   (A)   No plumbing permit shall be issued until plans and specifications
showing the proposed work in necessary detail have been submitted, to the
appropriate issuing officer, and he or she has determined from examination of
such plans and specifications that they give assurance that the work will
conform to the provisions of the Plumbing Code.
   (B)   If a permit is denied, the applicant may submit revised plans and
specifications without payment of additional fee. If, in the course of the
work, it is found necessary to make any change, from the plans and
specifications on which a permit has been issued, amended plans and
specifications shall be submitted and a supplementary permit, subject to the
same conditions applicable to original application for permit, shall be issued
to cover the change.
(Prior Code, § 20-3)
§ 113.04 PERMIT FEES.
   The Common Council may by ordinance from time to time, upon its own volition
or upon recommendation of the Building Official or the General Manager of the
Sanitary Board, establish a schedule of fees for permits required by this
chapter, and such schedule may include fees for inspections of work done under
such permits; provided, that until a schedule has been adopted pursuant to this
section, the fee schedule, relative to the issuance of plumbing permits which
is in force and effect upon the effective date of this city code shall remain
in full force and effect.
(Prior Code, § 20-4)
§ 113.05 COMPLIANCE WITH PLUMBING CODE.
   All installations, repairs, and alterations of plumbing within the city
shall be performed in accordance with the provisions of the Plumbing Code.
(Prior Code, § 20-5)
PLUMBING CODE
§ 113.20 ADOPTED; PURPOSE, APPLICATION, AND THE LIKE.
   There is hereby adopted by the Common Council for the purpose of
establishing standards and regulations for the designing, installing, and
maintaining of plumbing systems, and for other purposes, that certain plumbing
code recommended by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, which is
known as the National Plumbing Code, being particularly the 2015 Edition
thereof and amendments made thereto save and except such portions as are
hereinafter deleted, modified, or amended, of which Code not less than one
copy, certified by the Mayor, has been and now is filed in the office of the
City Clerk, and the same is hereby adopted and incorporated in and made a part
of this section as fully as if set out at length herein, and the provisions
thereof shall subject to the exceptions hereinafter set out, be controlling in
the designing, installing, and maintaining of plumbing and drainage systems
within or on public or private buildings and other premises situated within the
corporate limits of the city. The National Plumbing Code, with its amendments,
shall be known and may be cited as “the Plumbing Code”.
(Prior Code, § 20-6) (Ord. passed 7-28-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to adopt Plumbing Code by reference, see W. Va. Code 8-11-4(b)
§ 113.21 CODE AMENDED.
   The National Plumbing Code of 2015, as amended, adopted by §
113.20, is hereby amended and modified as follows.
   (A)   Section 106.6.2 is hereby amended to incorporate and refer to
“Addendum A”.
   (B)   Section 106.6.3 is hereby amended to insert “5%” in sub-section (2)
and insert “100%” in sub-section (3).
   (C)   Section 108.4 is hereby amended to insert “misdemeanor” for the
offense; insert “$500” in the “no more than” amount; there will be no
imprisonment penalty.
   (D)   Section 108.5 is hereby amended to insert “$75” in the “not less than"
amount and “$750” in the “or more than” amount.
   (E)   Section 305.4.1 is amended to read as follows: “Building sewers that
connect to private sewage disposal systems shall be installed not less than 36
inches (mm) (or current frost line depth if different) below finished grade at
the point of septic tank connection. Building sewers shall be installed not
less than 36 inches (mm) (or current frost line depth if different) below
grade. If for any reason these measurements are not feasible then the person or
entity seeking to install the pipes, connections, or the like shall apply for a
variance with the Building Code Official”.
   (F)   Section 903.1 is amended to insert “twelve (12) inches”.
(Prior Code, § 20-7) (Ord. passed 7-28-2021)
§ 113.22 ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS AS TO APPLICATION.
   (A)   The provisions of the Plumbing Code shall apply to and govern plumbing
as defined in that code, including the practice, materials, and fixtures used
in the installation, maintenance, extension, and alteration of all piping,
fixtures, appliances, and appurtenances in connection with any of the
following: sanitary drainage or storm drainage facilities, the venting system,
and the public or private water supply systems, within or adjacent to any
building or other structure or conveyance; also the practice and materials used
in the installation, maintenance, extension, or alteration of the storm water
or sewage system of any premises to their connection with any point of public
disposal or other terminal.
   (B)   It is recognized that certain facilities in or adjacent to public
streets are referred to in the Plumbing Code, only a portion of which is under
the ownership or the control of the owner or occupant of the building or
premises to which the Plumbing Code applies.
(Prior Code, § 20-8)
§ 113.23 RULES FOR PROTECTION OF THE WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM.
   Any public utility company supplying water to the city or the inhabitants
thereof is hereby authorized to promulgate rules and regulations not
inconsistent with state law, this city code, the Plumbing Code, or other
ordinance of the city for the installation, repair, or alteration of air
conditioning systems, water- treatment equipment, and water-operated devices as
may be deemed necessary to properly protect the water supply system. All such
rules and regulations, when formulated, shall be submitted to the Common
Council to be considered as subject matter for an ordinance of the Common
Council supplementary to the Plumbing Code.
(Prior Code, § 20-9)
§ 113.24 DUTIES OF BUILDING OFFICIAL AND GENERAL MANAGER OF SANITARY BOARD;
RECORDS AND SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   (A)   The Building Official or his or her duly authorized agents shall
enforce the provisions of the Plumbing Code within the city; provided, that the
General Manager of the Sanitary Board or his or her duly authorized agents
shall enforce the provisions of the Plumbing Code which apply to matters which,
by reason of the powers and duties conferred upon the Sanitary Board by
ordinance, fall within the exclusive jurisdiction of the Sanitary Board. In
furtherance of such enforcement or when in the opinion of the Building Official
the public interest so requires, the Building Official, and his or her
authorized agents, upon properly identifying themselves, shall have the
authority to enter any building, structure, or other premises at any reasonable
hour. The General Manager of the Sanitary Board and his or her duly authorized
agents shall have the same enforcement and inspection powers as the Building
Official; provided, that the powers hereby conferred on the General Manager of
the Sanitary Board apply only to the enforcement of those provisions of the
Plumbing Code which concern matters exclusively within the jurisdiction of the
Sanitary Board. The Building Official and the General Manager of the Sanitary
Board shall keep comprehensive records of inspections made, reports rendered,
and notices or orders issued by them relative to the enforcement of the
Plumbing Code.
   (B)   In enforcing the Plumbing Code, the Building Official shall be
initially responsible for interpreting the standards and regulations contained
in that Code, for deciding upon the approval of equipment and materials, and
for granting the special permission or deviations contemplated in a number of
the regulations; provided, that the General Manager of the Sanitary Board shall
be initially responsible for interpreting the standards and regulations
contained in the Plumbing Code when the standards and regulations concern
matters exclusively within the jurisdiction of the Sanitary Board. Any ruling,
interpretation, or notice or other such official act of the Building Official
or of the General Manager of the Sanitary Board shall be reduced to writing and
a copy thereof delivered in person to each party thereby affected. If personal
service be not had, then such copy shall be mailed, by certified mail, to each
party thereby affected at his or her last known post office address, and such
service by mail shall have the same force and effect as if the party thereby
affected had been personally served.
(Prior Code, § 20-10)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to inspect private premises, see W. Va. Code 8-12-15
§ 113.25 COOPERATION OF OTHER CITY OFFICERS.
   The Building Official and the General Manager of the Sanitary Board may
request and shall receive, so far as may be necessary or practical, in the
discharge of their duties, the assistance and cooperation of other officials of
the city.
(Prior Code, § 20-11)
§ 113.26 APPEALS FROM RULINGS OF BUILDING OFFICIAL AND GENERAL MANAGER OF THE
SANITARY BOARD.
   Any person who shall feel aggrieved by any ruling or other official act of
the Building Official or of the General Manager of the Sanitary Board pursuant
to this chapter may, within ten days from the receipt of the personal service
or written mailed notice provided for in §
113.24, petition the Codes’ Appeal Board of the city for a hearing and review
of the ruling of the Building Official or the General Manager of the Sanitary
Board concerning the situation in issue.
(Prior Code, § 20-12)
§ 113.27 CONFLICT OF LAW.
   Whenever any provision of the Plumbing Code is in conflict with any other
provision of this city code or other ordinance of the city, the more stringent
provision shall prevail. Whenever any provision of the Plumbing Code is in
conflict with any provision of state law or of any rule or regulation
promulgated pursuant to state law, the more stringent prevision shall prevail,
unless otherwise provided by state law or by rule or regulation promulgated
pursuant thereto.
(Prior Code, § 20-14)
§ 113.28 UPDATING PROVISIONS.
   As amendments to the 2015 edition, as amended, and as new editions, of the
National Plumbing Code are published from time to time by the American Society
of Mechanical Engineers, it shall be the duty of the Building Official to file
a copy of each thereof in the office of the City Clerk and to notify the Common
Council of such filing and his or her recommendations, if any, as to such
changes therein as he or she may deem advisable in the interests of the city.
Upon the adjournment of the second regular meeting of the Common Council
following each such filing and notice by the City Clerk, the amendments or new
editions so filed by him or her and mentioned in his or her notice to the
Common Council shall be deemed to have been adopted by the Common Council for
incorporation in this subchapter, as a part thereof, unless provided otherwise
by the Common Council prior to adjournment of such second regular meeting; and
such amendments, or new editions, shall become effective when the copies
thereof in the office of the City Clerk have been certified by the Mayor in
compliance with the requirements of W. Va. Code 8-11-4(b).
(Prior Code, § 20-15) (Ord. passed 7-28-2021)
§ 113.29 SAVINGS PROVISIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter, which includes the Plumbing Code, shall be
construed to affect any suit or proceeding pending in any court on March 3,
1969, or any rights acquired, or liability incurred, nor any cause or causes of
action accrued or existing as of March 3, 1969, under any act or ordinance
modified by this chapter; nor shall any right or remedy of any character
existing on March 3, 1969, be lost, impaired, or affected by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 20-16)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   If any person shall violate or fail to comply with any provision of
the Plumbing Code or any notice or order issued pursuant thereto, he or she
shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine not exceeding $100, or other
amount deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court, or by imprisonment for not
exceeding 30 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment, and each day such
violation shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   The imposition of the penalties herein prescribed shall not preclude
the City Attorney from instituting an appropriate action or proceeding to
prevent an unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, addition,
alteration, conversion, removal, demolition, maintenance, or use or to
restrain, correct, or abate a violation, or to prevent the occupancy of a
building or structure or portion thereof, or of the premises, or to prevent an
illegal act, conduct business, or use in or about any premises.
(Prior Code, § 20-13)
CHAPTER 114: SPECIAL SALES
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   Supplemental to other licensing provisions; conflicts
   
114.03   License required; exceptions
   
114.04   Established business condition precedent to license
   
114.05   Interval between sales
   
114.06   Restrictions as to location, branch stores, and the like
   
114.07   Application for license
   
114.08   License fees and tender thereof with application
   
114.09   Terms and effect of license
   
114.10   Renewal of license
   
114.11   Duties of licensee
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIRE AND OTHER ALTERED GOODS SALE. A sale held out in such a manner as to
reasonably cause the public to believe that the sale will offer goods damaged
or altered by fire, smoke, water, or other means.
   GOING-OUT-OF-BUSINESS SALE. A sale held out in such a manner as to
reasonably cause the public to believe that upon the disposal of the stock of
goods on hand the business will cease and be discontinued, including, but not
limited to, the following sales: adjuster’s; adjustment; alteration;
assignee’s; bankrupt; benefit of administrators; benefit of creditors; benefit
of trustees; building coming down; closing; creditor’s committee; creditor’s;
end; executor’s; final days; forced out; forced-out-of- business; insolvents’
last days; lease expires; liquidation; loss of lease; mortgage sale;
receiver’s; trustee’s; quitting business.
   GOODS. Any goods, wares, merchandise, or other property capable of being the
object of a sale regulated hereunder.
   LICENSE OFFICER. The City Clerk.
   REMOVAL OF BUSINESS SALE. A sale held out in such a manner as to reasonably
cause the public to believe that the person conducting the sale will cease and
discontinue business at the place of sale upon disposal of the stock of goods
on hand and will then move to and resume business at a new location in the city
and will then continue business from other existing locations in the city.
(Prior Code, § 24-1)
§ 114.02 SUPPLEMENTAL TO OTHER LICENSING PROVISIONS; CONFLICTS.
   The provisions of this chapter are intended to be in addition to those of
Chapter 110 and other licensing ordinances, and where this chapter imposes a
greater restriction upon persons, premises, businesses, or practices than is
imposed by Chapter 110 or by any other licensing ordinance, then the provisions
of this chapter shall control.
(Prior Code, § 24-2)
§ 114.03 LICENSE REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person in this city to advertise or
conduct any sale of goods, wares, or merchandise which is a:
      (1)   Going-out-of-business sale;
      (2)   Removal of business sale; or
      (3)   Fire and other altered stock sale, unless a city license is first
obtained therefor from the License Officer as provided in this chapter.
   (B)   This chapter shall not be construed to apply to or affect the
following persons:
      (1)   Persons acting pursuant to an order or process of a court of
competent jurisdiction;
      (2)   Persons who are required to file an accounting with a court of
competent jurisdiction;
      (3)   Persons acting in accordance with their powers and duties as public
officers such as sheriffs, constables, and police officers;
      (4)   Any publisher or employee of a newspaper or magazine, or any
operator or employee of a radio or television broadcasting station, who
publishes or broadcasts any advertisement of a sale, in good faith without
knowledge of its false, deceptive, and misleading character or without
knowledge that the provisions of this chapter are not being complied with;
      (5)   Persons conducting sales by and on behalf of licensed insurers; and
      (6)   Duly licensed auctioneers, selling at auction.
(Prior Code, § 24-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.04 ESTABLISHED BUSINESS CONDITION PRECEDENT TO LICENSE.
   Any person who has not been the owner of a business advertised or described
in the application for a license hereunder for a period of at least 12 months
prior to the date of the proposed sale shall not be granted a license;
provided, that upon the death of a person doing business in this city, his or
her heirs, devisees, or legatees shall have the right to apply at any time for
a license hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 24-4)
§ 114.05 INTERVAL BETWEEN SALES.
   Any person who has held a sale as regulated hereunder, at the location
stated in the application, within one year last past from the date of such
application shall not be granted a license.
(Prior Code, § 24-5)
§ 114.06 RESTRICTIONS AS TO LOCATION, BRANCH STORES, AND THE LIKE.
   When a person applying for a license hereunder operates more than one place
of business, the license issued shall apply only to the one store, or branch,
specified in the application, and no other store or branch shall advertise or
represent that it is cooperating with it, or in any way participating in the
licensed sale, nor shall the store or branch conducting the licensed sale
advertise or represent that any other store or branch is cooperating with it or
participating in any way in the licensed sale.
(Prior Code, § 24-6)
§ 114.07 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Any person desiring to conduct a sale regulated by this chapter shall
make a written application to the License Officer setting forth and containing
the following information:
      (1)   The true name and address of the owner of the goods to be the
object of the sale;
      (2)   The true name and address of the person from whom he or she
purchased the goods to be sold and the price therefor, and if not purchased,
the manner of such acquisition;
      (3)   A description of the place where such sale is to be held;
      (4)   The nature of the occupancy whether by lease or sublease and the
effective date of termination of such occupancy;
      (5)   The dates of the period of time in which the sale is to be
conducted;
      (6)   A full and complete statement of the facts in regard to the sale,
including the reason for the urgent and expeditious disposal of goods thereby
and the manner in which the sale will be conducted;
      (7)   The means to be employed in advertising such sale, together with
the proposed contents of any advertisement; and
      (8)   A complete and detailed inventory of the goods to be sold at such
sale as disclosed by the applicant’s records. This inventory shall be attached
to and become part of the required application, and all goods included in such
inventory shall have been purchased by the applicant for resale on bona fide
orders without cancellation privileges and shall not comprise goods purchased
on consignment.
   (B)   It shall not include goods ordered in contemplation of conducting a
sale regulated hereunder, and any unusual purchase or addition to the stock of
goods of the business affected within ten days before the filing of an
application hereunder shall be deemed to be of such character.
(Prior Code, § 24-7)
§ 114.08 LICENSE FEES AND TENDER THEREOF WITH APPLICATION.
   Each applicant for a license hereunder shall submit to the License Officer
with his or her application a license fee of $50, or other amount deemed
appropriate by the Municipal Court. Any applicant for a renewal license
hereunder shall submit to the License Officer with his or her renewal
application a renewal license fee of $50, or other amount deemed appropriate by
the Municipal Court.
(Prior Code, § 24-8)
§ 114.09 TERMS AND EFFECT OF LICENSE.
   A license shall be issued hereunder on the following terms.
   (A)   Licensing period. The license shall authorize the sale described in
the application for a period of not more than 60 consecutive days, Sundays and
legal holidays excluded, following the issuance thereof.
   (B)   Nature of sale. The license shall authorize only the one type of sale
described in the application at the location named therein.
   (C)   Saleable goods. The license shall authorize only the sale of goods
described in the inventory attached to the application.
   (D)   Surrender of general license. Upon being issued a license hereunder
for a going-out-of-business sale, the licensee shall surrender to the License
Officer all other business licenses he or she may hold at that time applicable
to the location and goods covered by the application for a license under this
chapter.
   (E)   Non-transfer ability. Any license herein provided for shall not be
assignable or transferable. (Prior Code, § 24-9)
§ 114.10 RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The License Officer shall renew a license for one period of time only,
such period to be in addition to the 60 days permitted in the original license
and not to exceed 30 consecutive days, Sundays and holidays excluded, when he
or she finds:
      (1)   Facts exist justifying the license renewal;
      (2)   The licensee has filed an application for renewal; and
      (3)   The licensee has submitted with the application for renewal a
revised inventory showing the items listed on the original inventory remaining
unsold and not listing any goods not included in the original application and
inventory.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, any application for a license under
the provisions of this chapter covering any goods previously inventoried, as
required hereunder, shall be deemed to be an application for renewal, whether
presented by the original applicant or by any other person.
(Prior Code, § 24-10)
§ 114.11 DUTIES OF LICENSEE.
   A licensee hereunder shall:
   (A)   Make no additions whatsoever, during the period of the licensed sale,
to the stock of goods set forth in the inventory attached to the application
for license;
   (B)   Refrain from employing any untrue, deceptive, or misleading
advertising;
   (C)   Conduct the licensed sale in strict conformity with any advertising or
holding out incident thereto;
   (D)   Keep available at the place of sale a duplicate copy of the inventory
submitted with the application, and shall present such duplicate to inspecting
officials upon request; and
   (E)   Keep any other goods separate and apart from the goods listed in the
filed inventory as being objects of sale and shall make such distinction clear
to the public by placing tags on all inventoried goods in and about the place
of sale apprising the public of the status of all such goods.
(Prior Code, § 24-11)
CHAPTER 115: ADULT ENTERTAINMENT
Section
   
115.01   Findings of fact
   
115.02   Application of other provisions
   
115.03   Definitions
   
115.04   Employee conduct
   
115.05   Hours of operation
   
115.06   Location of business; limits on proximity to residence, dwelling,
school, and the like
   
115.07   Patrons
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   Based on public input and other evidence and information before it, the
Common Council makes the following findings of fact.
   (A)   Certain conduct occurring on premises offering nude dancing is
detrimental to the public health, safety, and general welfare of the citizens
of the city and, therefore, such conduct must be regulated as provided herein.
   (B)   Regulation of the nude dancing industry is necessary because in the
absence of such regulation the said nude dancing industry will encourage
prostitution, increase sexual assaults, increase sexually transmitted diseases,
and attract other criminal activities.
(Ord. passed 2-2-1998)
§ 115.02 APPLICATION OF OTHER PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter are not intended to supersede the provisions
of any other ordinance of the city or law of the state. The provisions of this
chapter are in addition to any other law or regulation.
(Ord. passed 2-2-1998)
§ 115.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMPLOYEE. Any and all persons, including managers, entertainers, and
independent contractors, who work in or at or render any services related to
the operation of an adult entertainer premises.
   ENTERTAINER. Any person who on any occasion provides adult entertainment on
the premises as defined in this section, whether or not a fee is charged or
accepted for entertainment, or whether or not the entertainer is paid.
   ENTERTAINMENT. Any exhibition or dance of any type, pantomime, modeling, or
any other performance.
   MANAGER. Any person who manages, directs, administers, or is in charge of
the affairs and/or conduct of any portion of any activity involving adult
entertainment occurring at any adult entertainment premises.
   NUDE DANCING or DANCE NUDE. Any exhibition, performance, or dance of any
type conducted in a premises where such exhibition, performance, or dance
involves a person who:
      (1)   Is unclothed or in such attire, costume, or clothing as to expose
to view any portion of the breast below the top of the areola or any portion of
the pubic region, anus, buttocks, vulva, or genitals; or
      (2)   Touches, caresses, or fondles the breast, buttocks, anus, genitals,
or pubic region of a patron, or permits the touching, caressing, or fondling of
their own breast, buttocks, anus, genitals, or pubic region by a patron, with
the intent to sexually arouse or excite the patron.
   NUDE DANCING PREMISES or ADULT ENTERTAINMENT PREMISES. Any premises to which
the public, patrons, or members are invited or admitted and wherein an
entertainer provides nude dancing or provides adult entertainment to a member
of the public, a patron, or a member.
   OPERATOR. Any person operating, conducting, or maintaining an adult
entertainment business or premises.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, corporation, trust, incorporated or
unincorporated association, marital community, joint venture, or other entity
or group of persons however organized.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any area generally visible to public view and includes
streets, sidewalks, bridges, alleys, plazas, parks, driveways, parking lots,
and automobiles whether moving or not.
(Ord. passed 2-2-1998)
§ 115.04 EMPLOYEE CONDUCT.
   The following standards of conduct upon the premises must be adhered to by
employees of any adult entertainment premises.
   (A)   No employee or entertainer shall be unclothed or in such less than
opaque and complete attire, costume, or clothing so as to expose to view any
portion of the breast below the top of the areola or any portion of the pubic
region, anus, buttocks, vulva, or genitals, except upon a stage where
entertainer shall wear at minimum pasties, G-string, and/or similar items of
clothing to at least cover the areola, genitals, and anal cleft.
   (B)   The stage shall be at least 24 inches above the immediate floor level
and removed at least ten feet from the nearest patron or person.
   (C)   No employee or entertainer mingling with any person or the patrons
shall be unclothed or in less than opaque and complete attire, costume, or
clothing, as described herein.
   (D)   No employee or entertainer shall knowingly permit any person upon the
premises to touch, caress, or fondle the breasts, buttocks, anus, or genitals
of any other person.
   (E)   No employees or entertainer shall touch, caress, or fondle the
breasts, buttocks, anus, or genitals of any other person.
   (F)   No employee or entertainer shall wear or use any device or covering
exposed to view which simulates the breast below the top of the areola, vulva
or genitals, anus, buttocks, or any portion of the pubic region.
   (G)   No employee or entertainer shall use artificial devices or inanimate
objects to depict any of the prohibited activities described in this chapter.
   (H)   No entertainer of any adult entertainment premises shall be visible
from any public place during the hours of his or her employment, or apparent
hours of his or her employment, on the premises.
   (I)   No entertainer shall solicit, demand, or receive any payment or
gratuity from any patron for any act prohibited by this chapter.
(Ord. passed 2-2-1998)
§ 115.05 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   It is unlawful for any person to cause any nude dancing premises or adult
entertainment premises to remain open to the public, or to conduct or operate
business, whether for adult entertainment or otherwise, between the hours of 2:
00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
(Ord. passed 2-2-1998) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.06 LOCATION OF BUSINESS; LIMITS ON PROXIMITY TO RESIDENCE, DWELLING,
SCHOOL, AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any and all nude dancing establishments to be
located within 1,000 feet of any residence, dwelling, school, church, or other
business establishment, due to the reasons hereinbefore stated in §
115.01.
(Ord. passed 2-2-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.07 PATRONS.
   No one under the age of 18 years of age shall be permitted to be in or upon
such premises regulated herein.
(Ord. passed 2-2-1998)
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision of this
chapter, and whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not
more than $500, or other amount deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court. A
person convicted of a second or subsequent offense under this chapter shall be
fined not less than $300 nor more than $500, or other amount deemed appropriate
by the Municipal Court, for each subsequent violation.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, proprietor, or manager to operate
or own an adult entertainment establishment or nude dancing premises at such
time as any violation of §
115.04 or of any other portion of this chapter occurs.
(Ord. passed 2-2-1998)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.001   Adultery, fornication, and other offenses against public morals, and
solicitation therefor
   
130.002   Advertising unlawful businesses and articles; defacing lawful
advertisements and notices
   
130.003   Air guns, pistols, and rifles prohibited except on user’s property
   
130.004   Assault and battery; fighting
   
130.005   Attempts; aiding and abetting
   
130.006   Bathing nude in West Fork River
   
130.007   Bill posting on poles and the like without proper authority
   
130.008   Breach of the peace and related offenses; duties of proprietors of
establishments
   
130.009   Brothels and houses used for immoral purposes; maintaining inmates;
loitering about premises
   
130.010   Same, revocation of license of hotel or boarding house for violation
   
130.011   Businesses and activities which are prohibited
   
130.012   Cemeteries
   
130.013   City officers and employees; interfering with employees
   
130.014   Same, duty of bystanders to assist in apprehending persons charged
with crime
   
130.015   Same, interfering with people assisting employees
   
130.016   Same, bribery
   
130.017   Same, impersonation of
   
130.018   Tampering with city property, personal property generally
   
130.019   Same, damage to and trespass upon real property
   
130.020   Same, unauthorized hours for entry
   
130.021   Coal to be weighed prior to sale
   
130.022   Permits required for concerts, music festivals, and the like
   
130.023   Same, when prohibited as public nuisances; personal acts prohibited
   
130.024   Conspiracy to inflict bodily injury or to commit offense against
property
   
130.025   Conversion of personal property from enclosure of another
   
130.026   Disorderly conduct
   
130.027   Same, disturbing lawful assemblage
   
130.028   Same, disturbing churches, meeting houses, and places of amusement
   
130.029   Same, on school premises
   
130.030   Excessive door bell ringing and the like
   
130.031   Drunkenness in public
   
130.032   Embezzlement
   
130.033   False alarms and reports
   
130.034   Fraudulent practices
   
130.035   Gambling, gambling devices, and the like
   
130.036   Same, transmittal of information
   
130.037   Same, doorkeeper for gambling operation
   
130.038   Governmental functions of city not to be hampered by “sit-ins” or
other methods
   
130.039   Hunting and killing animals
   
130.040   Indecent, lewd, obscene, and immoral conduct
   
130.041   Larceny
   
130.042   Loitering
   
130.043   Markers, stakes, and the like indicating street lines, grading, and
the like
   
130.044   Minors under age 18, offenses by and relating to curfew
   
130.045   Peeping Toms
   
130.046   Preparation, distribution, or exhibition of obscene matter
   
130.047   Private property protected; personal property
   
130.048   Same, real property
   
130.049   Same, entry and remaining upon premises when forbidden by owner of
occupant
   
130.050   Profane, obscene, or immoral utterances
   
130.051   Property maintenance standards
   
130.052   Prostitution and related offenses
   
130.053   Rescuing of prisoners prohibited
   
130.054   Shoplifting
   
130.055   Soliciting money or subscriptions
   
130.056   Speeches in unenclosed public places
   
130.057   Spitting and other health endangering acts prohibited
   
130.058   Throwing stones and missiles; depositing glass, nails, and the like
on streets
   
130.059   Trailers used for lying or sleeping purposes regulated
   
130.060   Trees and plants ornamenting streets and other places
   
130.061   Unlawful assemblies, riots, and routs
   
130.062   Vagrancy
   
130.063   Same, brandishing or exposing so as to threaten breach of the peace
   
130.064   Same, prohibited discharge
 
   
130.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Adult entertainment, see
Ch. 115
§ 130.001 ADULTERY, FORNICATION, AND OTHER OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS, AND
SOLICITATION THEREFOR.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage or participate in any
act of fornication, homosexuality, prostitution, or adultery, or any other act
which offends against the public morals.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to solicit or induce any person to
engage or to participate in any act of fornication, prostitution, adultery,
homosexuality, or any other act which offends against the public morals.
(Prior Code, § 17-1) Penalty, see §
130.999
Cross-reference:
   Authority to protect the people within the city, see Charter § 30
§ 130.002 ADVERTISING UNLAWFUL BUSINESSES AND ARTICLES; DEFACING LAWFUL
ADVERTISEMENTS AND NOTICES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to advertise any unlawful business or
article in the city and it shall be unlawful to injure or deface any lawful
advertisement or notice.
(Prior Code, § 17-2) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.003 AIR GUNS, PISTOLS, AND RIFLES PROHIBITED EXCEPT ON USER’S PROPERTY.
   Because the use of air guns in the city has become a nuisance and a danger
to life and property, the use of air guns, air rifles, and air pistols within
the limits of the city by any person except on his or her own property is
hereby prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 17-3) Penalty, see §
130.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority of city to prevent injury to individuals, see W. Va. Code 8-12-5
(13)
§ 130.004 ASSAULT AND BATTERY; FIGHTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to fight or to commit any assault or
battery, or to induce any person to fight or to commit any assault or battery.
(Prior Code, § 17-4) Penalty, see §
130.999
Cross-reference:
   Authority of Common Council to punish assaults and batteries, see Charter §
30
§ 130.005 ATTEMPTS; AIDING AND ABETTING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to attempt to commit any act which
is prohibited by this code or other ordinance or by any rule, regulation,
order, or notice duly promulgated or given pursuant to authority thereof; and
it shall be unlawful for any person to aid or abet another in the commission or
attempted commission of any act which is prohibited by this code or other
ordinance or by any rule, regulation, order, or notice duly promulgated or
given pursuant to authority thereof.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to attempt to avoid the doing of
any act which is required by this code or other ordinance or by any rule,
regulation, order, or notice duly promulgated or given pursuant to authority
thereof; and it shall be unlawful for any person to aid or abet another in the
avoidance or attempted avoidance of any act which is required by this code or
other ordinance or by any rule, regulation, order, or notice duly promulgated
or given pursuant to authority thereof.
(Prior Code, § 17-5) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.006 BATHING NUDE IN WEST FORK RIVER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to bathe in a nude state in the West
Fork River within the limits of the city between the hours of daylight in the
morning and dark in the evening.
(Prior Code, § 17-6) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.007 BILL POSTING ON POLES AND THE LIKE WITHOUT PROPER AUTHORITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to post any bill or advertisement on any
public property, or on any pole located on any street, without the authority of
the Common Council; and it shall be unlawful for any person to post any bill or
advertisement on any property without the consent of the owner thereof.
(Prior Code, § 17-7) Penalty, see §
130.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority of city to regulate the placing of posters, see W. Va. Code 8-12-5
(31)
§ 130.008 BREACH OF THE PEACE AND RELATED OFFENSES; DUTIES OF PROPRIETORS OF
ESTABLISHMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner, operator, or employee of any hotel,
restaurant, tavern, or other place frequented by the public to permit therein
any riot, drunkenness, lewdness, obscenity, or any conduct which tends to
disturb or does disturb the peace, order, or morals of the public. It shall be
unlawful for any person to commit or cause any riot, noise, disorder or tumult,
or loud personal abuse of any person by words to the disturbance, or tending to
the disturbance, of the peace or just quiet of the city.
(Prior Code, § 17-8) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.009 BROTHELS AND HOUSES USED FOR IMMORAL PURPOSES; MAINTAINING INMATES;
LOITERING ABOUT PREMISES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to lease, keep, or use, or permit
any house to be used, for the purpose of prostitution, fornication, adultery,
homosexuality, or any other purpose which offends against the public morals.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or harbor in any house as
mentioned in division (A) above any other person for the purpose of
prostitution; and it shall further be unlawful for any person to be found
lounging or loitering in any house of ill fame or bawdy house, or in any house
reputed to be a house of ill fame or bawdy house; but the person charged with
or arrested for being found lounging or loitering in any house so reputed,
shall be discharged if he or she shall show and establish in defense, upon
trial, that the house is not in fact a house of ill fame or bawdy house.
(Prior Code, § 17-9) Penalty, see §
130.999
Cross-reference:
   Authority of Common Council to prevent immoral, lewd, and indecent conduct,
see Charter § 30
Statutory reference:
   As to detention of female in place of prostitution, see W. Va. Code 61-8-6
   Authority to punish any person connected with a house of ill fame, see W.
Va. Code 8-12-5(18), (19), and (44)
   Houses of ill fame generally, see W. Va. Code 61-8-5
§ 130.010 SAME, REVOCATION OF LICENSE OF HOTEL OR BOARDING HOUSE FOR VIOLATION.
   (A)   If any licensed hotel or rooming house within the city shall be used
for purposes of prostitution or for any of the purposes violative of §
130.009, it shall thereby be deemed a public nuisance and any such use of such
hotel or rooming house shall further constitute good and sufficient cause for
revocation of the license thereof and, if there shall be a conviction of any
proprietor, manager, or operator of such hotel or rooming house of a violation,
of any inhibitions of §
130.009, such conviction shall be promptly reported to the Common Council by
the Trial Officer and the Council shall thereupon issue an order against the
holder of the city license for the operation of such hotel or rooming house
requiring him or her to appear before the Council at a time and place to be
specified in the order, to show cause why such license should not be revoked,
and such licensee shall be served with a certified copy of such order by the
Chief of Police or any other member of the police force.
   (B)   (1)   The officer delegated to serve such order shall be furnished
with two identical certified copies thereof, one to be delivered to the
licensee and on the other of which he or she shall endorse his or her official
return of service, and after so doing, file it with the City Clerk, and at the
time and place specified in the order the Council shall meet, and upon due
proof before it of the conviction, as aforesaid, of the proprietor, manager, or
operator of the hotel or rooming house in question of a violation of any of the
inhibitions of §
130.009, the Council shall adjudge and declare such hotel or rooming house to
be a public nuisance and shall revoke the city license therefor and order the
discontinuance of its use as such or for any purpose violative of the letter or
spirit of §
130.009.
      (2)   After which, such hotel or rooming house shall be closed and its
business as such wholly discontinued and the proprietor thereof shall wholly
desist from using it or permitting its use for any purpose violative of the
letter or spirit of §
130.009.
      (3)   For the enforcement of its order, the Council may authorize and
direct the institution and prosecution in the name of the city against all
necessary or proper parties of a suit in equity in the county circuit court, to
have such hotel or rooming house adjudicated, held, and declared to be a public
nuisance and to be abated as such and for such other ancillary and special and
general relief as may be found proper or effective in the premises.
(Prior Code, § 17-10)
Cross-reference:
   Abatement of nuisances, see Charter § 30
§ 130.011 BUSINESSES AND ACTIVITIES WHICH ARE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to establish or conduct any
slaughterhouse, rendery, tallow chandlery, soap factory, glue factory, tannery,
or any offensive or unwholesome business within the city or within one mile of
the limits thereof.
(Prior Code, § 17-11) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.012 CEMETERIES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to injure, mutilate, deface, remove, or
destroy any tombstone, monument, or grave in any cemetery located within the
city, or in any cemetery owned or operated by the city, regardless of location.
(Prior Code, § 17-12) Penalty, see §
130.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority of city relating to cemeteries, see W. Va. Code 8-12-5(42) and
(43)
§ 130.013 CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES; INTERFERING WITH EMPLOYEES.
   No person shall carelessly or willfully interfere with, resist, hinder, or
obstruct any officer or employee of the city who is engaged in, en route to, or
returning from, the performance of official duty, whether such interference,
resistance, hindrance, or obstruction be by threat, assault, or otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 17-13) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.014 SAME, DUTY OF BYSTANDERS TO ASSIST IN APPREHENDING PERSONS CHARGED
WITH CRIME.
   No person having been called upon by a police officer of the city to assist
in apprehending any person charged with, or convicted of, any offense against
state law, this code, or other ordinance, or in securing such offender and
apprehending or in conveying such offender to the county jail, shall neglect or
refuse such assistance.
(Prior Code, § 17-14) Penalty, see §
130.999
Statutory reference:
   Refusal to obey order of officer, see W. Va. Code 61-5-14
§ 130.015 SAME, INTERFERING WITH PEOPLE ASSISTING EMPLOYEES.
   No person shall carelessly or willfully interfere with, resist, hinder, or
obstruct any person called upon to assist any officer or employee of the city
while in the execution of his or her duty in making an arrest, preserving the
peace, or enforcing the laws of the state or any provision of this code or
other ordinance of the city.
(Prior Code, § 17-15) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.016 SAME, BRIBERY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to give or offer to give any money or
anything of value to any officer or employee of the city, either elected or
appointed, as the consideration for the performance of, or the failure to
perform, any duty or act required of such officer or employee of the city by
the ordinances or Charter of the city or laws of the state; and it further
shall be unlawful for any official or employee of the city, either elected or
appointed, to accept or offer to accept such money or other thing of value for
such purposes.
(Prior Code, § 17-16) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.017 SAME, IMPERSONATION OF.
   (A)   No person shall falsely represent himself or herself to be an officer
or employee of the city, or without proper authority wear or display any
uniform, insignia, or credential which identifies any city officer or employee;
nor shall any person without proper authority assume to act as an officer or
employee of the city, whether to gain access to premises, obtain information,
perpetrate a fraud, or for any other purpose.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent a private
citizen from making a lawful citizen’s arrest for felony or breach of the peace
committed in his or her presence.
(Prior Code, § 17-17) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.018 TAMPERING WITH CITY PROPERTY, PERSONAL PROPERTY GENERALLY.
   No person shall, without proper authority, knowingly use, tamper with,
render inoperative, destroy, damage, remove, deface, molest, or otherwise
interfere with any books, records, furniture, equipment, gear, apparatus,
tools, or other items of personal property belonging to, leased to, or used by
the city or any agency thereof.
(Prior Code, § 17-18) Penalty, see §
130.999
Charter reference:
   Authority to take measures necessary or advisable to protect public and
private property, see Charter § 30
Statutory reference:
   For state law as to crimes against property, see W. Va. Code 61-3-1 et seq.
§ 130.019 SAME, DAMAGE TO AND TRESPASS UPON REAL PROPERTY.
   No person shall, without proper authority, knowingly destroy, damage,
deface, molest, or otherwise interfere with or trespass upon any real property
belonging to, leased to, or used by the city or any agency thereof.
(Prior Code, § 17-19) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.020 SAME, UNAUTHORIZED HOURS FOR ENTRY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter or go upon any building, land,
lot, or public works owned, operated, or leased to the city, including, but not
limited to, cemeteries, office buildings, parks, garbage disposal sites, and
equipment storage areas, between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. except
with the permission of authorized city officials or employees, or except as
authorized by the Common Council.
(Prior Code, § 17-20) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.021 COAL TO BE WEIGHED PRIOR TO SALE.
   (A)   No person shall sell or offer for sale within the city any coal until
it shall have been first weighed and measured upon a weighing or measuring
device which has been inspected and sealed by the State Commissioner of Weights
and Measures as provided by W. Va. Code Ch. 47, Art. 1.
   (B)   At the time such coal is delivered, the person selling or offering
such coal for sale shall furnish and deliver to the purchaser a paper-writing
evidencing the fact that the coal so sold or offered for sale has been weighed
or measured upon a weighing or measuring device which has been inspected and
sealed by the State Commissioner of Weights and Measures as provided by W. Va.
Code Ch. 47, Art. 1. Such paper-writing shall state the weight or measure of
the coal sold or offered for sale; the date when weighed or measured; the name
of the seller; the name of the purchaser; and shall be certified as correct by
the person owning or operating the weighing and measuring device or his or her
duly authorized agent, servant, or employee.
(Prior Code, § 17-21)
Charter reference:
   Authority to provide for the weighing of coal or other articles, see Charter
§ 30
Statutory reference:
   As to penalty for short measurement, see W. Va. Code 47-1-22
   Authority to regulate weighing, see W. Va. Code 8-12-5(35)
§ 130.022 PERMITS REQUIRED FOR CONCERTS, MUSIC FESTIVALS, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   No person shall sponsor, organize, or conduct within the city or
within the area surrounding the city, and within one mile of the city limits,
any concert, music or so-called music festival, dance, or other such diversion
for which an admission fee is to be charged except pursuant to a permit issued
by the Common Council, subject to the provisions of §
130.023.
   (B)   Each application for such a permit shall be in writing, signed and
sworn to by the person who shall be in charge of the activity for which the
permit is sought, and shall set forth the name and address of the applicant,
the place and date for the holding of the activity, the number of persons
expected to attend, arrangements to be provided by the applicant for the
accommodation of the persons expected to attend, and such other information as
may be required by the Common Council. Applications shall be filed with the
City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 17-22)
Cross-reference:
   Jurisdiction of city for law enforcement purposes, see Charter § 31
Statutory reference:
   Extraterritorial jurisdiction of city, see W. Va. Code 8-12-19
§ 130.023 SAME, WHEN PROHIBITED AS PUBLIC NUISANCES; PERSONAL ACTS PROHIBITED.
   Concerts, so-called concerts, music and so-called music festivals, dances,
and other such diversions which attract: crowds of noisy, boisterous, and
disorderly persons; crowds of persons given to drunkenness or to the smoking of
marijuana or the use of drugs or narcotics; crowds of persons in such numbers
as to constitute a burden upon the resources of the city to accommodate or
which impede the orderly flow of traffic upon the city streets or upon highways
leading to or from the city; or crowds of persons for which adequate sanitary
facilities or medical facilities or personnel or eating or sleeping facilities
are not provided; and concerts, so-called concerts, music and so-called music
festivals, dances, and other diversions which for any reason constitute a
hazard to the peace and quiet of the city or to the health, safety, or welfare
of the public or individuals, are hereby declared to be public nuisances and
are prohibited within the city and within the area surrounding the city, which
is within one mile of the city limits; and it shall be unlawful for any person
to sponsor or conduct any such activity so prohibited or to sell or offer for
sale any ticket or other token for admission thereto, or to provide real estate
upon which any such prohibited activity is intended to be conducted.
(Prior Code, § 17-23) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.024 CONSPIRACY TO INFLICT BODILY INJURY OR TO COMMIT OFFENSE AGAINST
PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any two or more persons to combine or conspire
together for the purpose of inflicting any punishment or bodily injury by any
means upon any person, or for the purpose of destroying, injuring, defacing, or
taking and carrying away any property, real or personal, not their own.
(Prior Code, § 17-24) Penalty, see §
130.999
Statutory reference:
   Conspiracy to inflict injury to persons or property, see W. Va. Code 61-6-7
§ 130.025 CONVERSION OF PERSONAL PROPERTY FROM ENCLOSURE OF ANOTHER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to take any goods or chattels from any
house, lot, land, enclosure, or business of another without the consent of the
owner or occupant thereof.
(Prior Code, § 17-25) Penalty, see §
130.999
Cross-reference:
   Larceny, see §
130.041
§ 130.026 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   Any person who shall do or engage in any of the following shall be guilty of
the offense of disorderly conduct:
   (A)   Any person who shall act in a violent or tumultuous manner toward
another whereby any person is placed in danger of safety of his or her life,
limb, or health;
   (B)   Any person who shall act in a violent or tumultuous manner toward
another whereby public property or property of any other person is placed in
danger of being destroyed or damaged;
   (C)   Any person who shall endanger lawful pursuits of another by acts of
violence or threats of bodily harm;
   (D)   Any person who shall cause, provoke, or engage in any fight, brawl, or
riotous conduct so as to endanger the life, limb, health, or property of
another or public property;
   (E)   Any person who shall assemble or congregate with another or others and
cause, provoke, or engage in any fight or brawl;
   (F)   Any person who shall assemble in bodies or in crowds and engage in
unlawful activities;
   (G)   Any person who shall assemble or congregate with another or others and
engage or attempt to engage in gaming;
   (H)   Any person who shall frequent any public place and obtain money from
another by an illegal and fraudulent scheme, trick, artifice, or device, or
attempt to do so;
   (I)   Any person who assembles with another or others and engages in any
fraudulent scheme, device, or trick to obtain any valuable thing in any place
or from any person, or attempts to do so;
   (J)   Any person who utters, in a public place or any place open to the
public, any obscene words or epithets;
   (K)   Any person who frequents any place where gaming or the illegal sale or
possession of alcoholic beverages or narcotics or dangerous drugs is practiced,
allowed, or tolerated;
   (L)   Any person who shall use fight provoking words directed toward any
person who becomes outraged and thus creates turmoil;
   (M)   Any person who shall assemble or congregate with another or others and
do bodily harm to another;
   (N)   Any person who shall, by acts of violence, interfere with another’s
pursuit of a lawful occupation;
   (O)   Any person who shall congregate with another or others in or on any
public way so as to halt the flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic and
refuses to clear such public way when ordered to do so by a peace officer or
other person having authority;
   (P)   Any person who damages, befouls, or disturbs public property or the
property of another so as to create a hazardous, unhealthy, or physically
offensive condition;
   (Q)   Any person who shall conduct himself or herself in a noisy,
boisterous, or tumultuous manner, to the disturbance of the peace of the city,
or the peace and quiet of the neighborhood or of any lawful assembly of people,
or to be intoxicated to such a degree as to be noisy or annoying to a
neighborhood or any of the inhabitants thereof;
   (R)   Any person who shall conduct himself or herself upon any street or
other public place in any manner which shall annoy, worry, or harass another;
or to willfully shove, injure, annoy, obstruct, or hinder any person passing
along or upon any sidewalk or street;
   (S)   Any person who shall engage in any conduct of a disorderly nature, or
to engage in any conduct tending toward a breach of the peace. The causing or
making of any unnecessary loud noise or shouting or yelling shall be considered
disorderly conduct; or
   (T)   Any person who shall be in any of the places mentioned in this section
and there engage in any brawl, quarrel, loud or offensive talking, or engage
another in any dispute or argument, the effect of which is to draw a crowd and
block or partially block any of such places for public use and travel.
(Prior Code, § 17-26) Penalty, see §
130.999
Cross-reference:
   Dispersal of riots and unlawful assemblies; arrest of persons who disobey
command to disperse, see §
93.09
§ 130.027 SAME, DISTURBING LAWFUL ASSEMBLAGE.
   It shall be unlawful and shall constitute disorderly conduct for any person
to molest or disturb by words or conduct any lawful assemblage.
(Prior Code, § 17-27) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.028 SAME, DISTURBING CHURCHES, MEETING HOUSES, AND PLACES OF AMUSEMENT.
   It shall be unlawful and shall constitute disorderly conduct for any person
to behave rudely or disorderly in or near any church, meeting house, or place
of public amusement.
(Prior Code, § 17-28) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.029 SAME, ON SCHOOL PREMISES.
   It shall be unlawful and shall constitute disorderly conduct for any person
to create a disturbance or use loud or profane or obscene language or loiter in
any public, parochial, or private school building or on the premises of any
such school, or to refuse promptly to leave such school building and premises
upon the request of the principal, superintendent, or any officer or employee
of the school.
(Prior Code, § 17-29) Penalty, see §
130.999
Charter reference:
   Authority to protect places of public instruction, see Charter § 30
Statutory reference:
   Disturbing schools, see W. Va. Code 61-6-14
§ 130.030 EXCESSIVE DOOR BELL RINGING AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ring any door bell or rap upon any
door or window with the intent to annoy or disturb any person within the
structure of which such door bell, door, or window is a part.
(Prior Code, § 17-30) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.031 DRUNKENNESS IN PUBLIC.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to appear in a public place in an
intoxicated condition. Any person who shall appear in any public place under
the influence of any drug or intoxicant to such an extent as to stagger, reel,
or otherwise appear in any degree to have lost or partially lost control of his
or her natural powers of locomotion or speech shall be deemed in a drunken
condition within the meaning of this section.
(Prior Code, § 17-31) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.032 EMBEZZLEMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to embezzle or fraudulently convert any
goods, chattels, money, securities, or other personal property of another, the
value thereof being less than $50, or other amount deemed appropriate by the
Municipal Court.
(Prior Code, § 17-32) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.033 FALSE ALARMS AND REPORTS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly give or cause to be given any false alarm of
fire. No person shall knowingly give or cause to be given any false alarm of
explosion or impending danger of explosion.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly give or cause to be given any false alarm of
the need for police protection, assistance, or investigation, or any false
report to the Police Department.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly give or cause to be given any false alarm of
the need for an ambulance or medical assistance.
(Prior Code, § 17-33) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.034 FRAUDULENT PRACTICES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use or practice any trick,
confidence game, or device with intent to swindle or defraud.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to receive or cause to be
furnished any food, lodgings, or other accommodations at any restaurant, hotel,
or boarding house in the city with intent to defraud the owner or keeper of
such hotel, restaurant, or boarding house of the purchase price of such food,
lodgings, or other accommodations. Failure to make payment upon demand by the
owner or employee of the hotel, restaurant, or boarding house shall be
considered as prima facie evidence of intent to defraud.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or to place in any
parking meter, coin box, telephone, or automatic vendor machine any slug or
false, counterfeited, mutilated, or foreign coin with the intent to obtain
therefrom services or merchandise or anything of value, or to obtain such
services or merchandise from such parking meter, coin box, telephone, or
automatic vendor machine by any means, method, trick, or device whatsoever not
lawfully authorized by the owner, lessee, or licensee of such parking meter,
coin box, telephone, or automatic vendor machine.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person without the consent or permission
of the owner or lessee to enter into any hall, building, or enclosed premises
in the city in which any fair, cattle show, exposition, exhibition, horse or
other race, baseball game, picnic, or other show, entertainment, or exhibition
of any kind whatever is being held, for admission to see which a charge is
made.
(Prior Code, § 17-34) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.035 GAMBLING, GAMBLING DEVICES, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or exhibit any gambling
table, punch board, or gambling device of any nature, and any such gambling
table, punch board, or device may be confiscated by any member of the Police
Department.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to bet or play at any gambling
table or gambling device. It shall be unlawful for any person at any place,
public or private, to bet or wage money or anything of value on any game of
chance, and it farther shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to furnish
money or other thing of value to any other person to bet or wager on any game
of chance.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, lessee, or occupant of any room,
office, dwelling, club, or other building or structure to permit or allow any
game of chance or gambling contest of any nature to be played or conducted in
such room, office, dwelling, club, or other building or structure.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sponsor, participate in,
conduct, or manage any lottery, raffle, arrangement, or device involving the
buying or selling of chances or tickets for cash prizes or prizes of
merchandise or personal or real property of any nature; and it further shall be
unlawful for any person to buy or sell any chances or tickets in any gambling,
game, lottery, raffle, gambling arrangement, or gambling device.
   (E)   All money and things of value drawn or proposed to be drawn by any
person within the city, and all money or other things of value received by such
person by reason of his or her being the owner or holder of a ticket or a share
of a ticket, in any lottery or pretended lottery, contrary to the provisions of
this chapter shall be forfeited to the city.
(Prior Code, § 17-35) Penalty, see §
130.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority of city with respect to gambling, see W. Va. Code 8-12-5(22)
   For state law as to gambling generally, see W. Va. Code 61-10-1 et seq.
§ 130.036 SAME, TRANSMITTAL OF INFORMATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to set up, promote, or be connected with
or interested in the management or operation of any poolroom, or engage in the
telephone, telegraph, or radio business to transmit, furnish, or permit to be
transmitted or furnished over or upon or by means of the wires, lines,
apparatus, or appliances thereof to any poolroom, or to any person to be used
at or in connection with any poolroom, any message, token, or information of or
concerning the result of any such event as is herein mentioned. The word
POOLROOM wherever used in this section shall be construed to mean any room
where any pool ticket, chance, voucher, or certificate entitling or purporting
to entitle the holder or promisee thereof, or any other person, to money or
other thing of value, contingent upon the result of any horse race, prize
fight, game of chance, game of skill or science, or other sport or contest, the
information of which result is obtained by telephone, telegraph, wireless
telegraphy, radio, or other electrical device.
(Prior Code, § 17-36) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.037 SAME, DOORKEEPER FOR GAMBLING OPERATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to act as doorkeeper, watch, or guard,
or to employ another person to act as such, for a keeper or exhibitor of any
gaming table, bank, or device, or to resist, or by any means of device,
prevent, hinder, or delay the lawful arrest of such keeper or exhibitor, or the
seizure of the table, bank, or device, or money exhibited or staked thereat, or
to unlawfully take the same from the person or officer seizing it.
(Prior Code, § 17-37) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.038 GOVERNMENTAL FUNCTIONS OF CITY NOT TO BE HAMPERED BY “SIT-INS” OR
OTHER METHODS.
   (A)   The Common Council takes cognizance of reported activities of
organized groups of individuals in other cities in the United States, such as
so-called “sit-ins” held in the offices and hallways of buildings in which
governmental business is transacted; disruption of vehicular and pedestrian
traffic, designed to prevent or delay governmental personnel from reaching
their places of duty; failing or refusing to obey the lawful orders of police
officers and others in authority, and the like, and as is generally known to
all who read the newspapers, all for the avowed purpose of preventing public
officers and employees from performing their duties and thereby preventing
altogether, or hindering and delaying the transaction of governmental business
and nullifying important functions of government.
   (B)   The Common Council takes further cognizance of the fact that this city
is a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the state, with a
representative form of government in harmony with the Constitutions of the
United States and the State of West Virginia, and that the primary purpose of
the city government is to serve the people of the city; and the Common Council
finds that activities of groups of individuals which are intended and designed
to prevent, delay, hinder, or otherwise impair the lawful transaction of city
business or functions of the city government constitute a clear and present
danger to the good order and government of the city for its established
purposes; for though but one such organized effort may not be wholly effective;
nevertheless, if it is not promptly and firmly dealt with, other such efforts
may be expected to follow, so that any one such organized effort does in fact
constitute a clear and present danger to the ability of the city government to
serve the people of the city, and to the very survival of the city as a lawful
municipal corporation. Therefore, and in view of the foregoing findings, it
shall be unlawful for any person, acting alone or in concert with one or more
other persons, to commit any act or omission, otherwise lawful, with intent to
prevent, delay, confuse, disrupt, pervert, or render ineffective the orderly
and timely transaction of any city business or any governmental or proprietary
function of the city.
(Prior Code, § 17-38) Penalty, see §
130.999
Charter reference:
   Authority to maintain good order within the city, see Charter § 30
Statutory reference:
   Authority of city to protect the public welfare, see W. Va. Code 8-12-5(44)
§ 130.039 HUNTING AND KILLING ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in hunting or killing any
animal in the city other than as prescribed by the ordinances of the city.
(Prior Code, § 17-39) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.040 INDECENT, LEWD, OBSCENE, AND IMMORAL CONDUCT.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to make an indecent or
immoral exhibition or exposure of his or her person, or cause or procure any
other person to do the same, in the presence or view of any other person.
      (2)   The acts enumerated herein shall constitute an offense regardless
of whether or not the person so making an indecent or immoral exhibition or
exposure of his or her person is aware of the presence or view of any other
person.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to appear in any public place not
properly or decently clothed, or clothed in any manner which offends against
public morals.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit or perpetrate any
indecent, immodest, lewd, or filthy act, or to utter or speak any lewd or
filthy words or language that is likely to cause an immediate violent response
from the person to whom the words are addressed or, when addressed to a
municipal employee, is likely to prohibit a municipal employee from performing
his or her municipal job functions in any street or other public place or
building within this city.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to assemble with others on any
street or other public place, or in any house, building, out-house, office,
stable, shed, lumber yard, or lot of ground for the purpose of prostitution,
lewdness, or indecency.
(Prior Code, § 17-40) Penalty, see §
130.999
Charter reference:
   Authority to prevent lewd and lascivious conduct, see Charter § 30
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prevent immoral and indecent practices, see W. Va. Code 8-12-5
(19)
   Indecent exposure, see W. Va. Code 61-8-9
§ 130.041 LARCENY.
   (A)   If a person commits simple larceny of goods or chattels of the value
of $1,000 or more, as deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court, such person is
guilty of a felony, designated grand larceny, and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be punished in accordance with the provisions of §
130.999
   (B)   If a person commits simple larceny of goods or chattels of the value
of less than $1,000, such person is guilty of a misdemeanor, designated petit
larceny, and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished in accordance with the
provisions of §
130.999
(Prior Code, § 17-41) Penalty, see §
130.999
Statutory reference:
   Distinction between grand larceny, a felony, and petit larceny, see W. Va.
Code 61-3-13
   Other provisions relating to larceny, see W. Va. Code 61-3-14 to 61-3-19
§ 130.042 LOITERING.
   (A)   The term LOITER as used in this section shall mean remaining in one
place without any business or reasonable excuse therefor.
   (B)   A person commits a violation if he or she loiters or prowls in a
place, at a time, or in a manner not usual for law-abiding individuals under
circumstances that warrant alarm for the safety of persons or property in the
vicinity. Among the circumstances which may be considered in determining
whether alarm is warranted is the fact that the person takes flight upon
appearance of a police officer, refuses to identify himself or herself, or
manifestly endeavors to conceal himself or herself or any object. Unless flight
by the person or other circumstances makes it impractical, a police officer
shall, prior to any arrest for an offense under this section, afford the person
an opportunity to dispel any alarm which would otherwise be warranted by
requesting the person to identify himself or herself and to explain his or her
presence or conduct. No person shall be convicted of an offense under this
section if the police officer did not comply with the preceding sentence, or if
it appears at trial that the explanation given by the person was true and, if
it had been believed by the police officer at the time, would have dispelled
the alarm. Any police officer may arrest any person suspected of being a
loiterer or prowler without a warrant if it reasonably appears that the delay
in arresting the suspect caused by obtaining a warrant would result in the
suspect’s escape.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, after first being warned by a
police officer, or where a “no loitering” sign or signs have been posted, to
loiter, stand, sit, or lie in or upon any public or quasi-public sidewalk,
street, curb, cross-walk, walkway area, mall, or that portion of private
property utilized for public use so as to hinder or obstruct unreasonably the
free passage of pedestrians or vehicles thereon. It shall be unlawful for any
person to block, obstruct, or prevent free access to the entrance to any
building open to the public.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter in or near any
thoroughfare or place open to the public for the purpose of inducing, enticing,
soliciting, or procuring another to commit an act of prostitution. Among the
circumstances which may be considered in determining whether such action is
consistent with the intent to induce, entice, solicit, or procure another to
commit an act of prostitution are that the person is a known prostitute or
panderer and repeatedly beckons in the attempt to stop or engage male or female
passersby in conversation, or repeatedly stops or attempts to stop motor
vehicles by engaging their operators by hailing, waving of arms, or other
bodily gestures. The violator’s conduct must be such as to demonstrate a
specific intent to induce, entice, solicit, or procure another to commit an act
of prostitution.
      (1)   No arrest shall be made for a violation of this division unless the
arresting officer first affords the person an opportunity to explain his or her
conduct, and no one shall be convicted of violating this division if it appears
at trial that the explanation given was true and disclosed a lawful purpose.
      (2)   Upon arrest for violation of this division, the arresting officer
must convey the following Miranda Right: “You have the right to remain silent.
Anything you say can and will be used against you in a court of law. You have a
right to an attorney. If you cannot afford an attorney, one will be appointed
for you”. The phrasing may very from the aforementioned language, but must
convey the similar message. The arresting officer must ensure that the person
being arrested understands his or her rights.
   (E)   For the purpose of this section, PUBLIC PLACE means an area generally
visible to public view, including streets, sidewalks, bridges, alleys, plazas,
parks, driveways, parking lots, automobiles (whether moving or not), and
buildings open to the general public, including those which serve food or drink
or provide entertainment, and the doorways and entrances to buildings or
dwellings and the grounds enclosing them.
(Prior Code, § 17-42) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.043 MARKERS, STAKES, AND THE LIKE INDICATING STREET LINES, GRADING, AND
THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to injure, deface, or destroy any corner
or lot or any line mark of any lot; and it shall be unlawful for any person to
deface, pull up, or destroy any markers or stakes set for street limits or for
grading, paving, or other work or improvements.
(Prior Code, § 17-43) Penalty, see §
130.999
Statutory reference:
   Injuring monuments designating land boundaries, see W. Va. Code 61-3-30
§ 130.044 MINORS UNDER AGE 18, OFFENSES BY AND RELATING TO CURFEW.
   (A)   This section shall be known and may be cited as “the ordinance
regulating the presence and conduct of minors on streets and public places”.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CITY. The City of Weston.
      CUSTODIAN. Any person over the age of 18 who is in loco parentis to a
juvenile.
      GUARDIAN. Any person other than a parent who has legal guardianship of a
minor.
      MINOR. Any person under the age of 18 years.
      PARENT. A natural or adopted parent of a minor.
      PUBLIC PLACE.
         (a)   Any street, alley, highway, sidewalk, park, play ground,
business, or place to which the general public has access and a right to resort
for business attendance, or other lawful purposes.
         (b)   PUBLIC PLACE shall include, but not be limited to, any street,
shop, restaurant, tavern, café, theater, drugstore, pool room, shopping center,
or any other place devoted to business, amusement, or entertainment of the
general public.
         (c)   It shall also include front, rear, and sidewalk area of the
above.
      SHALL. Is always mandatory and not merely directory.
   (C)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any minor to remain, idle, wander,
loiter, stroll, play, or be in or at or upon any public place, either on foot
or, without a set destination, in any motor vehicle or on any bicycle or other
conveyance in the city between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. Sunday
through Saturday unless:
         (a)   Accompanied by parents, guardian, custodian, or other adult
person having legal custody or control of such minor;
         (b)   Unless the minor is on an emergency errand;
         (c)   Unless the minor is returning to his or her place of residence
from attendance at a public school, church, or athletic or recreational
function or activity, at which the minor’s attendance is authorized by his or
her parents, guardian, custodian, or other adult person having legal custody or
control of such minor; or
         (d)   Where the presence of such minor is connected with or required
by some lawful employment, trade, profession, or occupation.
      (2)   All minors shall be required to leave and not be on or about any
public place within one-half hour of the termination of any of the functions or
activities herein mentioned.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation or operator
having charge of any public place to knowingly permit or suffer the presence
therein of minors between the hours as designated and set forth in division (C)
above except as may be authorized and permitted by the provisions thereof.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for the parent, guardian, custodian, or other
adult person having legal custody or control of any minor to suffer, permit, or
allow, or be inefficient or ineffective in the control of minors so as to
permit or allow, such minor to be on any street or sidewalk or on or in or
about any public property or public place within the city in violation of this
section. The provision of this section shall not apply to a minor accompanied
by his or her parent, guardian, custodian, or other adult person having the
legal care, custody, or control of the minor, or if the minor is on an
emergency errand or if the minor is permitted to be on the streets or sidewalks
or in public places or public property otherwise by the provisions of this
section.
   (F)   (1)   To facilitate in the enforcement of the provisions of this
section and to enable minors not to be stopped by police, the sponsor of any
special function, activity, or entertainment of any church, school, club, or
other organization that requires minors to be out past the curfew hour may
register the event in advance with the Chief of Police or his or her designee.
      (2)   The registration shall state the time the function, activity, or
entertainment shall be expected to end. Minors who attend the function,
activity, or entertainment shall be required to be off the streets, sidewalks,
or public places within one-half hour after the function, activity, or
entertainment is ended.
   (G)   (1)   Any police officer, upon finding a minor to be in or on a public
street or sidewalk or public place or property in violation of this section,
shall ascertain the name and address of such minor, advise the minor that he or
she is in violation of this section, and direct the minor to proceed at once to
his or her or her home or place of abode.
      (2)   The police officer shall further immediately report, or attempt to
report, such action to the parents, guardian, custodian, or person having legal
custody or control of such minor by either telephoning or personally contacting
them. If such minor refuses to heed such a warning by any such police officer
or refuses to give such police officer his or her correct name and address, or
if the minor is later observed to be on any street, sidewalk, public place, or
public property, then the minor shall be taken to his or her place of residence
or to the Police Department and the parents, guardian, custodian, or other
adult person having the legal care and custody of such minor shall be notified
to come to the Police Department and take charge of the minor.
      (3)   If the parents, guardian, or other custodian or other person having
the legal care and control of such minor cannot be located or fails to come and
take charge of the minor, the minor shall be dealt with in accordance with the
juvenile laws of the state, but, in no event, shall be placed in confinement or
jail for violation of the provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 17-44) (Ord. passed 2-4-1980; Ord. passed 8-7-2006) Penalty, see
§
130.999
Statutory reference:
   As to child welfare generally, see W. Va. Code Ch. 49
   As to cruelty to children, see W. Va. Code 61-8-25 to 61-8-27
§ 130.045 PEEPING TOMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to go upon any lot or premises without
the consent of the owner or occupant for the purpose of looking into any window
of any dwelling located thereon.
(Prior Code, § 17-45) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.046 PREPARATION, DISTRIBUTION, OR EXHIBITION OF OBSCENE MATTER.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      INDIVIDUAL. Any human being regardless of age.
      KNOWINGLY. To have knowledge of or be aware of the content or character
of obscene matter.
      MATTER. Any book, magazine, newspaper, or other printed or written
material, or any picture, drawing or photograph, motion picture, or other
visual representation, or live conduct, or any recording, transcription, or
mechanical, chemical, or electrical reproduction, or any other articles,
equipment, machines, or materials.
      OBSCENE. Matter which the average individual applying contemporary
community standards would find, taken as a whole, appeals to the prurient
interest; depicts or describes in a patently offensive way ultimate sexual
acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated; or the matter, taken as a
whole, lacks serious literary, artistic, political, and scientific value, and
which either:
         (a)   Depicts or describes patently offensive representation of
masturbation, excretory functions, lewd exhibition of the genitals, sodomy,
fellatio, cunnilingus, bestiality, sadism, masochism, and the like; or
         (b)   Depicts or describes nudity or sexual acts of persons, male or
female, below the age of 18 years.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, firm, association, corporation, or
other legal entity.
      PREPARE. To produce, publish, or print.
      PUBLIC DISPLAY. The placing of material on or in a billboard, viewing
screen, theatre, marquee, newsstand, display rack, window, showcase, display
case, or similar public place so that material can be viewed by individuals.
   (B)   Injunctive relief. The circuit court shall have jurisdiction to issue
an injunction to enforce the purposes of this section upon petition by the
prosecuting attorney or any citizen of the county who can show a good faith and
valid reason for making such application. No bond shall be required unless for
good cause shown.
   (C)   Prosecution by presentment or indictment. No person may be prosecuted
for an offense under this section except by indictment or information.
   (D)   Employees acting within the scope of employment shall not be
prosecuted. No employee shall be guilty of a violation of this section when
such employee is a projectionist, ticket taker, usher, or when such employee
prepares, sells, or makes a public display of obscene matter while acting
within the scope of his or her regular employment, unless such employee has a
proprietary interest in such obscene matter or is a shareholder or officer of a
corporation which has a proprietary interest in such obscene matter.
   (E)   Exceptions. Nothing in this section shall be construed so as to apply
to any person exercising a right secured by the constitution or laws of this
state or of these United States.
(Prior Code, § 17-46) (Ord. passed 10-23-1997) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.047 PRIVATE PROPERTY PROTECTED; PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   No person shall, knowingly and without proper authority, use, tamper with,
render inoperative, destroy, damage, remove, deface, molest, or otherwise
interfere with any personal property of another.
(Prior Code, § 17-47)
Charter reference:
   Authority to protect public and private property, see Charter § 30
Statutory reference:
   Crimes against property, see W. Va. Code 61-3-1 et seq.
§ 130.048 SAME, REAL PROPERTY.
   No person shall, knowingly and without proper authority, destroy, damage,
deface, molest, or otherwise interfere with, or trespass upon, any real
property of another.
(Prior Code, § 17-48) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.049 SAME, ENTRY AND REMAINING UPON PREMISES WHEN FORBIDDEN BY OWNER OF
OCCUPANT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter upon or in any house, lot,
land, enclosure, or business of another without the consent of the owner or
occupant thereof, or to remain therein or thereon after being ordered by the
owner, occupant, or employee thereof to leave or quit the premises.
(Prior Code, § 17-49) Penalty, see §
130.999
Statutory reference:
   Entry upon enclosed premises, see W. Va. Code 61-3-33
§ 130.050 PROFANE, OBSCENE, OR IMMORAL UTTERANCES.
   On any public street or in public space or in any public building, it shall
be unlawful for any person to use language that is likely to cause an immediate
violent response from the person to whom the message is addressed.
(Prior Code, § 17-50) Penalty, see §
130.999
Statutory reference:
   Disorderly conduct, see W. Va. 61-6-1B
§ 130.051 PROPERTY MAINTENANCE STANDARDS.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any lot, land, building, home, or
structure to maintain, or permit to be maintained, any such lot, land,
building, home, or structure or anything therein or thereon, in an unsightly
condition or in such a state so as to constitute a fire hazard or so as to
endanger the health or safety of the public.
(Prior Code, § 17-51) Penalty, see §
130.999
Charter reference:
   Authority to promote the health, safety, and well-being of the inhabitants,
see Charter § 30
Statutory reference:
   Authority to provide for the elimination of hazards, see W. Va. Code 8-12-5
(23)
§ 130.052 PROSTITUTION AND RELATED OFFENSES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any prostitute to be upon or in any street,
alley, or other public place, or in any house, structure, lumber yard, or lot
of ground for the purpose of prostitution, lewdness, or indecency.
   (B)   It shall also be unlawful for any prostitute to be in any such place
or places between sun down and sun up; and it shall be unlawful for any person,
male or female, on any public street, alley, or other public place, or in any
public building, either in the daytime or at night, to solicit, invite, or
entice; or procure another to solicit, invite, or entice a person of the
opposite sex to commit an act of prostitution, lewdness, or indecency.
(Prior Code, § 17-52) Penalty, see §
130.999
Charter reference:
   Authority to prevent lewd or lascivious conduct, see Charter § 30
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prevent immoral, lewd, and indecent practices, see W. Va. Code
8-12-5(19)
   Houses of ill fame, prostitution, and related offenses, see W. Va. Code 61-
8-5 to 61-8-8
§ 130.053 RESCUING OF PRISONERS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall rescue from any officer or employee of the city, any
offender charged with or convicted of any offense against state law, this code,
or other ordinance, or from any person charged with the safe-keeping of such
offender.
(Prior Code, § 17-53) Penalty, see §
130.999
Statutory reference:
   As to aiding prisoner to escape, see W. Va. Code 61-5-8
§ 130.054 SHOPLIFTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to steal or take any goods, wares,
merchandise, or other personal property of value less than $50, or other amount
deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court, from any store, shop, office, or
other place where such property is displayed for sale without first paying for
the same or without first obtaining the permission and consent of the owner or
his or her employee.
(Prior Code, § 17-54) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.055 SOLICITING MONEY OR SUBSCRIPTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, without authority from the Common
Council, to solicit subscriptions, money, or any other thing of value upon any
street or sidewalk, or in any public place in the city.
(Prior Code, § 17-55) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.056 SPEECHES IN UNENCLOSED PUBLIC PLACES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deliver any speech or address
upon any street or sidewalk or within any unenclosed area which is open to the
public with such effect as to then and there incite his or her hearers to
unlawful or violent acts or other breach of the public peace, or with such
effect as to assemble a crowd which obstructs the free flow of vehicular or
pedestrian traffic or the use of such street, sidewalk, or unenclosed area by
others for lawful purposes.
   (B)   (1)   Persons desiring to have any street, sidewalk, or unenclosed
area which is open to the public set aside for the purpose of delivering a
speech or address may apply to the Common Council, through the City Clerk, for
a permit so to do.
      (2)   Upon receipt of any such application, the Common Council may, in
its sound discretion, grant such permit, subject to any conditions which the
Council may deem advisable to incorporate therein for the public well-being and
convenience.
   (C)   (1)   If the Chief of Police denies or revokes such permit, this
action shall be final, unless the applicant or permittee shall, within two days
after the receipt of notice of the denial or revocation, file with the City
Manager a written appeal.
      (2)   The City Manager shall, within 24 hours after the appeal is filed,
consider all the evidence in support of or against the action repealed and
render a decision either sustaining or reversing the denial or revocation.
      (3)   The decision of the City Manager shall be final.
(Prior Code, § 17-56) Penalty, see §
130.999
Cross-reference:
   Dispersal of riots and unlawful assemblies, see §
93.09
§ 130.057 SPITTING AND OTHER HEALTH ENDANGERING ACTS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to urinate upon any sidewalk or street
in the city, or to spit upon the floor in any public place or upon any sidewalk
in the city, or to commit any act therein or thereon which would endanger the
health of the public.
(Prior Code, § 17-57) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.058 THROWING STONES AND MISSILES; DEPOSITING GLASS, NAILS, AND THE LIKE
ON STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful to cast, throw, or propel any rock or missile of any
nature in or on any street or other public place; and it shall be unlawful to
throw or deposit, either wilfully or through neglect, any glass, nails, tacks,
or other similar articles on any street, sidewalk, or other public place.
(Prior Code, § 17-60) Penalty, see §
130.999
Statutory reference:
   Depositing tacks and the like on public places, see W. Va. Code 8-12-5(3)
   Putting glass and the like on highways, see W. Va. Code 17C-14-11
§ 130.059 TRAILERS USED FOR LYING OR SLEEPING PURPOSES REGULATED.
   (A)   The term TRAILER, as used in this section, shall mean any structure
used for living or sleeping purposes, and equipped with wheels or other means
to facilitate movement from place to place, and automobiles when used for
living or sleeping, whether such trailer or other vehicle is placed and used
with or without wheels or other means for being moved about.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use, maintain, permit, operate,
or conduct, for hire or otherwise, any trailer or structure of a like nature
for living or sleeping purposes on any lot or tract of land within the city
except as hereinafter provided in this section.
   (C)   In case of extreme necessity, the Common Council may grant a permit
for temporary periods to the owner of a vacant lot to place upon such lot not
more than one trailer for use and living or sleeping quarters; provided, that
the Common Council may prescribe in any such temporary permit the terms and
conditions of occupancy, maintenance, and use of any such trailer; and upon
failure of any such permittee to comply therewith, the city shall revoke the
same after giving five days’ notice of its intention to do so.
   (D)   The City Clerk, before issuing such temporary permit, shall collect
from such applicant a fee of $5 for issuing such permit for a period of 30 days
and $5 for each additional period of 60 days, or other amount deemed
appropriate by the Municipal Court.
(Prior Code, § 17-61) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.060 TREES AND PLANTS ORNAMENTING STREETS AND OTHER PLACES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to damage, destroy, deface, take, or
steal any ornamental shrub, bush, plant, or tree from any garden, street,
sidewalk, park, or any other place, either public or private.
(Prior Code, § 17-62) Penalty, see §
130.999
Charter reference:
   Authority to protect public and private property, see Charter § 30
Statutory reference:
   Authority of city to protect shade and ornamental trees, see W. Va. Code 8-
12-5(29)
   Protection of flora growing along highways, see W. Va. Code 61-3-48
§ 130.061 UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLIES, RIOTS, AND ROUTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to collect or assemble with or be
a member of any disorderly crowd, or any crowd gathered together for any
unlawful purpose.
   (B)   Riots, routs, and unlawful assemblies shall be dispersed forthwith by
the city police and other law enforcement officers, and all persons present at
the scene of any riot, rout, or unlawful assembly shall, upon command of any
law enforcement officer to disperse, forthwith obey such command and peacefully
disengage themselves from such riot, rout, or unlawful assembly and leave the
scene thereof, and persons who fail to obey such command shall be subject to
immediate arrest.
(Prior Code, § 17-63) Penalty, see §
130.999
Charter reference:
   Authority to preserve and maintain peace, quiet, and good order within city,
see Charter § 30
Statutory reference:
   As to riots, routs, and unlawful assemblages, see W. Va. Code 61-6-1 to 61-
6-6
   Authority to protect the public safety, health, and the like, see W. Va.
Code 8-12-5(44)
§ 130.062 VAGRANCY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for mendicants or vagrants to frequent or remain
upon or within any depot, bus station, store, theater, street, sidewalk, park,
or other public place in the city as detailed in the provisions of §
130.042. Any person found sleeping in any such place, or any person who has no
established domicile or residence or means of support, shall be considered to
be a vagrant or mendicant.
   (B)   As per §
130.042, it shall be unlawful for any person, after first being warned by a
police officer, or where a “no loitering” sign or signs have been posted, to
loiter, stand, sit, or lie in or upon any public or quasi-public sidewalk,
street, curb, cross-walk, walkway area, mall or that portion of private
property utilized for public use, so as to hinder or obstruct unreasonably the
free passage of pedestrians or vehicles thereon. It shall be unlawful for any
person to block, obstruct, or prevent free access to the entrance to any
building open to the public.
(Prior Code, § 17-65) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.063 SAME, BRANDISHING OR EXPOSING SO AS TO THREATEN BREACH OF THE PEACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to carry, expose, brandish, or use any
firearm, knife, razor, billy, metallic or other false knuckles, or other
dangerous or deadly weapon of any kind or character in any way or manner to
cause or threaten a breach of peace.
(Prior Code, § 17-67) Penalty, see §
130.999
Charter reference:
   Authority relating to public nuisances, see Charter § 30
§ 130.064 SAME, PROHIBITED DISCHARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any firearm, slingshot, or
other weapon or instrument which propels a projectile capable of inflicting
bodily injury except in the lawful defense of person or property and except
when necessary in the performance of a lawful duty; provided, that this section
shall not apply to the use of blank ammunition at athletic events, military
funerals, theatrical performances, and other functions at which the use of
blank ammunition is appropriate and does not constitute any danger to any
person or property, nor shall this section apply to the use of ball ammunition
or arrows on authorized target ranges where such use is conducted under
competent supervision and adequate safeguards are provided for the protection
of persons and property.
(Prior Code, § 17-68) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter for which no other
penalty is provided shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person deemed guilty is guilty of a felony, designated grand
larceny, as described in §
130.041(A), shall, upon conviction thereof, shall be imprisoned in the
penitentiary not less than one nor more than ten years, or, in the discretion
of the court, be confined in jail not more than one year and shall be fined not
more than $2,500, or other amount deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court.
      (2)   Any person deemed guilty is deemed guilty of a misdemeanor,
designated petit larceny, as described in §
130.041(B), shall, upon conviction thereof, shall be confined in jail for a
term not to exceed one year or fined not to exceed $2,500, or both, in the
discretion of the court.
(Prior Code, § 17-41)
   (C)   Any parent, guardian, custodian, or other adult person having the
legal custody and control of a minor who is guilty of any violation of the
provisions of §
130.044, or any person, firm, or corporation operating or having charge of any
public place who knowingly permits or suffers the presence of minors on their
premises in violation of the terms of §
130.044, shall be subject to a fine of not more than $200, or other amount
deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court, and/or imprisonment in the county
jail for a period of not more than 30 days. Any minor who violates any
provision of this section shall be dealt with and proceeded against in such
manner as may be authorized by the juvenile laws of the state.
   (D)   Any person who knowingly sends or causes to be sent or causes to be
brought into the city for sale or public display, or prepares, sells, or makes
a public display, or in the city offers to prepare, sell, or make a public
display, or in the city offers to prepare, sell, or make a public display of
any obscene matter to any individual, is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500, or other amount deemed
appropriate by the Municipal Court, or imprisoned in the county jail not more
than 30 days or both fined and imprisoned. A person convicted of a second or
subsequent offense under §
130.046 is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined
not more than $1,000, or other amount deemed appropriate by the Municipal
Court, or imprisoned in the county jail not more than six months or both fined
and imprisoned.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1980; Ord. passed 10-23-1997; Ord. passed 8-7-2006)
Statutory reference:
   Distinction between grand larceny, a felony, and petit larceny, see W. Va.
Code 61-3-13
   Other provisions relating to larceny, see W. Va. Code 61-3-14 to 61-3-19
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDINGS
      
151.   MOBILE HOMES AND HOUSE TRAILERS
      
152.   RENTAL HOUSING REGISTRATION PROGRAM
      
153.   VACANT BUILDING AND PROPERTY REGISTRATION AND MAINTENANCE PROGRAM
      
154.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND PUBLIC PLACES
      
155.   OIL AND GAS WELLS
      
156.   FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS
      
157.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDINGS
Section
In General
   
150.001   Fire limits established
   
150.002   Construction of buildings within fire limits
   
150.003   Moving of buildings over streets and public grounds
   
150.004   Building Official; office established; Fire Chief ex-officio Building
Official; acting Building Official
   
150.005   Same; powers and duties generally; public records
   
150.006   Same; right of entry
   
150.007   Same; duty of other city officers to cooperate with
   
150.008   Liability of violator to city for abatement of nuisances and the like
Building Code
   
150.020   State Building Code adopted
   
150.021   Adoption of state smoke detector requirements
   
150.022   Creation of a Building Board of Appeals
   
150.023   Building Code amendments
Minimum Housing Standards Code
   
150.035   Adopted; purpose, application, and the like
   
150.036   Amended
   
150.037   Definitions
   
150.038   Powers and duties of the Building Official; official records
   
150.039   Conflicts of law
   
150.040   Updating provisions
Buildings Dangerous, Unhealthy, or Unfit for Human Habitation
   
150.055   Definitions
   
150.056   Basis of subchapter; additional powers of the city
   
150.057   City building enforcement agency created; composition
   
150.058   Same; executive officer
   
150.059   Same; powers and duties
   
150.060   Procedure to remedy or demolish unsafe buildings
   
150.061   Same; required findings prior to issuance of order by agency
   
150.062   Same; issuance of orders; recourse of city for noncompliance
   
150.063   Service, posting, and filing of complaints and orders
   
150.064   Appeal from order of agency
   
150.065   Remedies provided are exclusive
   
150.066   Costs of repairs and the like a lien on property; disposition of
proceeds
   
150.067   Funds for administration and enforcement
   
150.068   Violations
   
150.069   Liability of city personnel for damages and the like resulting from
enforcement
   
150.070   Consent of property owner
   
150.071   Obtaining and preserving evidence
 
   
150.999   Penalty
IN GENERAL
§ 150.001 FIRE LIMITS ESTABLISHED.
   The following streets and alleys and all lots abutting thereon in the city
are hereby designated as the “fire limits” of the city, that is to say,
beginning at the intersection of South Center Avenue and Main Avenue west to
the West Fork River, thence following the West Fork River to East Sixth Street,
thence east to Court Avenue, thence south to the intersection of South Court
Avenue and First Street, thence west to the intersection of First Street and
Main Avenue, thence south to the intersection of Main Avenue and South Center
Avenue, and all alleys between streets mentioned within such “fire limits”, or
within the territory enclosed in such “fire limits”.
(Prior Code, § 5-1)
Charter reference:
   Authority relating to buildings generally, see Charter § 30
Statutory reference:
   Authority of State Fire Marshal, see W. Va. Code 15A-10-2 to 15A-10-25
   Authority relating to buildings, hazards, and nuisances, see W. Va. Code 8-
12-5(15), (23), and (28)
§ 150.002 CONSTRUCTION OF BUILDINGS WITHIN FIRE LIMITS.
   In the construction of buildings and structures within the fire limits all
applicable provisions of the Building Code shall be complied with.
(Prior Code, § 5-2)
§ 150.003 MOVING OF BUILDINGS OVER STREETS AND PUBLIC GROUNDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to move, or cause to be moved, any
building, or frame of building, into or upon any of the public streets, parks,
or other public grounds of the city, or otherwise obstruct the free passage of
any street, without the written permission of the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 5-3) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.004 BUILDING OFFICIAL; OFFICE ESTABLISHED; FIRE CHIEF EX-OFFICIO BUILDING
OFFICIAL; ACTING BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   The office of Building Official is hereby created and the executive officer
in charge thereof shall be known as “the Building Official”. The Building
Official shall be nominated for appointment by the Mayor and his or her
appointment made and confirmed by the Common Council. The Building Official
shall serve at the will and pleasure of the Common Council and shall be
compensated for his or her service as such in such amounts and manner as from
time to time shall be determined by the Common Council. During the temporary
absence or disability of the Building Official, the Mayor may, if he or she
deems it necessary, designate an acting Building Official, who shall act in
that capacity during the temporary absence or disability of the Building
Official.
(Prior Code, § 5-4) (Ord. passed 10-4-1982)
§ 150.005 SAME; POWERS AND DUTIES GENERALLY; PUBLIC RECORDS.
   (A)   (1)   The Building Official or his or her authorized representative
shall receive all applications required to be submitted to him or her by this
code, and he or she shall issue permits and certificates.
      (2)   He or she shall examine premises for which permits have been issued
and make necessary inspections to see that the provisions of law are complied
with and that construction is prosecuted safely.
      (3)   He or she shall enforce all provisions of the Building Code. He or
she shall, when requested by proper authority, or when the public interest so
requires, make investigations in connection with matters referred to in the
Building Code and render written reports thereon.
      (4)   To enforce compliance with law, to remove illegal or unsafe
conditions, to secure the necessary safeguards during construction, or to
require adequate exit facilities in buildings and structures, he or she shall
issue such notices or orders as may be necessary.
   (B)   (1)   Inspections required under the provisions of the Building Code
shall be made by the Building Official or his or her duly authorized agents.
The Building Official may accept reports of inspectors of recognized inspection
services, after investigation of their qualifications and reliability.
      (2)   No certificate called for by any provision of the Building Code
shall be issued on such reports unless they are in writing and certified to by
a responsible officer of such service.
   (C)   The Building Official shall keep comprehensive records of
applications, of permits issued, of certificates issued, of inspections made,
of reports rendered, and of notices or orders issued. He or she shall retain on
file copies of required plans and all documents relating to building work so
long as any part of the building or structure to which they relate may be in
existence.
   (D)   All such records shall be open to public inspection for good and
sufficient reasons at the stated office hours, but shall not be removed from
the office of the Building Official without his or her written consent.
   (E)   The Building Official shall make written reports to his or her
immediate superior once each month, or more often if requested, including
statements of permits and certificates issued, and orders promulgated.
(Prior Code, § 5-5)
§ 150.006 SAME; RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The Building Official, in the discharge of his or her official duties, and
upon proper identification, shall have authority to enter any building,
structure, or premises at any reasonable hour, in compliance with law.
(Prior Code, § 5-6)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to inspect private premises, see W. Va. Code 8-12-15
§ 150.007 SAME; DUTY OF OTHER CITY OFFICERS TO COOPERATE WITH.
   The Building Official may request and shall receive so far as may be
necessary, in the discharge of his or her duties, the assistance and
cooperation of other officials of the city.
(Prior Code, § 5-7)
§ 150.008 LIABILITY OF VIOLATOR TO CITY FOR ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES AND THE
LIKE.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, including the
Building Code which constitutes part of this chapter, shall, in addition to
either or both any fine or imprisonment which may be adjudged by reason of such
violation, be liable to the city for any costs or expenses incurred by reason
of such violation or by reason of abatement of any nuisance or hazard thereby
created or by reason of rectifying any condition on any premises found to be in
violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Any liability so incurred shall be enforceable in the same manner as
the collection of other debts and taxes due the city.
(Prior Code, § 5-8)
BUILDING CODE
§ 150.020 STATE BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   There is hereby adopted by the Common Council for the purpose of
establishing rules and regulations for the construction, alteration, removal,
demolition, equipment, use and occupancy, location, and maintenance of
buildings and structures situated within corporate limits of the city that
certain building code, being the most current version of the West Virginia
State Building Code, dated August 1, 2020, as amended, and the whole thereof,
save and except such portions as may hereafter from time to time be deleted,
modified, or amended, of which Code not less than one copy, certified by the
Mayor, has been and now is filed in the office of the City Clerk, and the same
is hereby incorporated and made a part of this section as fully as if set out
at length herein, and the provisions thereof shall be controlling in the
construction, alteration, removal, demolition, equipment, use and occupancy,
location, and maintenance of all buildings and structures located within the
corporate limits of the city. The State Building Code, identified as Title 87,
Legislative Rules, State Fire Commission, Series 4, State Building Code, with
its amendments, as the same may hereafter be modified, deleted, or amended,
shall be known and cited as “the Building Code”.
   (B)   (1)   The City Council expressly adopts all provisions of the West
Virginia State Building Code as have been promulgated pursuant to W. Va. Code
29-3-5(b), as amended. In the event of any subsequent amendment or modification
to the State Building Code’s regulatory provisions, i.e., any amendments or
modifications, then the city’s Building Code shall thereby be amended and
modified immediately upon the enactment date of any amendments or modifications
to the State Building Code by the state, without necessitating the enactment of
any further amendatory ordinances by the City Council.
      (2)   In addition to the regulatory provisions contained and set forth in
the State Building Code, all additional regulatory provisions contained and set
forth in the city’s ordinance adopted on July 28, 2021, as hereinabove
referenced, shall continue to be valid and enforceable and shall be deemed to
supplement the provisions of the State Building Code, which are expressly
hereby adopted by the City Council.
   (C)   The State Building Code, and any amendments thereto, is adopted for
the benefit, health, and welfare of the people of the city.
(Ord. passed 2-7-1983; Ord. passed 10-4-1993; Ord. passed 7-28-2021)
Charter reference:
   Authority to regulate the building of houses and other structures, see
Charter § 30
Statutory reference:
   Authority to eliminate hazards and to abate public nuisances, see W. Va.
Code 8-12-5(23)
   Authority to inspect private premises, see W. Va. Code 8-12-15
   Authority to provide for the regular building of structures, see W. Va. Code
8-12-5(28)
   Authority to regulate dwellings unfit for human habitation, see W. Va. Code
8-12-16
   Authority to regulate the construction or alteration of structures, see W.
Va. Code 8-12-13
   Authority to require permits for construction of structures and equipment,
see W. Va. Code 8-12-14
§ 150.021 ADOPTION OF STATE SMOKE DETECTOR REQUIREMENTS.
   The Common Council expressly adopts all of the state smoke detector
provisions of W. Va. Code 15A-10-12, as amended, and with respect to the
monitoring, compliance, and enforcement of said statutory provisions,
specifically hereby authorizes and empowers the city’s Building Official(s) to
conduct all reasonable and necessary inspections, and further to enforce
compliance with the aforesaid statute in the manner as is more particularly
provided therein, together with all state officials specifically empowered by
the state to enforce compliance with the aforesaid statute.
(Ord. passed 10-4-1993)
§ 150.022 CREATION OF A BUILDING BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   (1)   The Building Official, as defined pursuant to an ordinance
adopted by the City Council on October 4, 1982, and recorded in Ordinance Book
2 at Page 263, shall for all purposes continue to be the person authorized by
the City Council to act as the administrator in the day-to-day application of
all building and housing standards adopted by the city’s ordinance of February
7, 1983, as found in Ordinance Book 2 at Page 266, and of the Building Code
provisions therein, and herein contained and set forth.
      (2)   A Building Board of Appeals shall be created consisting of five
members appointed by the City Council. Such Board shall consist of individuals
with a practical knowledge and/or expertise in the areas of construction,
architecture, electrical and plumbing systems, and sanitation. Each member
shall be appointed for the following terms: one for a term of one year, two for
a term of two years, and two for a term of three years. Thereafter, as their
terms expire, each new appointment should be for a term of three years. Any
vacancy should be filled for the unexpired term only. A Board member may be
removed for official misconduct or neglect of duty by action of City Council
upon presentation of written charges. The Board shall organize and elect a
Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson from its membership and should prescribe rules
for the conduct of its affairs in accordance with applicable law.
      (3)   The Building Board of Appeals shall hear and determine appeals from
and review any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by an
administrative official or board charged with the enforcement of any ordinance
of regulation adopted pursuant to this subchapter. In exercising its powers,
the Board may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the order,
requirement, decision, or determination appealed from as in its opinion ought
to be done in the premises, and so that in the end shall have all the powers of
the officer or board from whom the appeal is taken.
      (4)   The procedure for an appeal to the Building Board of Appeals shall
be as follows.
         (a)   Any appeal from the requirements of this subchapter shall be
taken within ten days from the date of receipt of the order of the Building
Official(s) by filing with the officer from whom the appeal is taken and with
the Building Board of Appeals, a notice of appeal, specifying the grounds
thereof. The officer from whom the appeal is taken shall forthwith transmit to
the Building Board of Appeals copies of all of the documents in the officer’s
possession regarding the action upon which the appeal is taken.
         (b)   The appellant shall, at the time of filing his or her appeal,
pay the enforcing officer a fee of $25, or other amount deemed appropriate by
the Municipal Court, to defray or help defray the cost of required advertising
and other expenses.
         (c)   Each appeal shall be tried on its merits at a public hearing.
Notice of such appeal shall be given by publishing in a newspaper of general
circulation in the city and in accordance with the applicable law. The Building
Board of Appeals shall give additional notice as required by law to all parties
in interest, and they may adjourn the hearing for the purpose of giving such
further notice.
         (d)   The Building Board of Appeals shall sit and decide each appeal
within a reasonable time and notice thereof shall be given to all parties
interested. The decision of the Building Board of Appeals shall be immediately
filed in the place designated for the keeping of its records. In the exercise
of its functions upon such appeals, the Building Board of Appeals may, in
conformity with law, reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or modify the order,
requirement, decision, or determination as in its opinion be made.
         (e)   Any person aggrieved by any decision of the Building Board of
Appeals may appeal therefrom, within 30 days, to the County Circuit Court as
provided by the laws of the state.
   (B)   Code Appeals Board.
      (1)   The city will utilize a “State Building Code” appeals board instead
of a separate appeals board for each national code adopted in § 
150.001 and further described in this chapter. This Board may also be referred
to as Code Appeals Board. Code Appeals Board shall mean the board which hears
appeals stemming from the State Building Code.
      (2)   The city may adopt one or more appendices of these national codes
that are not included in the State Building Code. The city will make that
determination to adopt appendices at a later date.
(Ord. passed 10-4-1993; Ord. passed 7-28-2021)
§ 150.023 BUILDING CODE AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   International Building Code, 2015 Edition, amendments. The following
amendments are made and incorporated into the codes adopted in §
150.001.
Section 101.1: Insert “the City of Weston”.
Section 101.4.5: Fire Prevention: [DELETE ENTIRE SECTION].
Section 113.3: Qualifications: DELETE AND REPLACE WITH:
“The Board of Appeals shall consist of five members, with up to three
alternates, who are qualified to pass on matters pertaining to building
construction and are not employees of the jurisdiction. They may include, but
are not limited to, a WV Registered Professional Architect, or a WV Licensed
General Building, Residential, Electrical, Piping, Plumbing, Mechanical or Fire
Protection Contractor, with at least 10 years experience, five of which shall
be in responsible charge or work. No less than one of the members of such Board
of Appeals shall be a WV Registered Professional Architect or Engineer, of a WV
Licensed General Building, Residential, Electrical, Piping, Plumbing,
Mechanical or Fire Protection Contractor.”
Section 1612.3: Insert “the City of Weston”. Insert “April 19, 2010”.
   (B)   International Property Maintenance Code, 2015 Edition. The following
amendments are made and incorporated into the codes adopted in §
150.001.
Section 103.5: Incorporate and refer to “Addendum A”.
Section 106.4: This section shall be amended by adding a new paragraph as
follows:
“Any such person who shall violate a provision of this code, or fail to comply
therewith, or with any of the requirements thereof, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not less than $50 nor more than $500.”
Section 112.4: Insert “$75” in “not less than” amount and $750 in the “or more
than” amount.
Section 302.4: Insert “six (6) inches”.
Section 304.14: Insert “January 1 to December 31”.
Section 602.3: Insert “January 1 to December 31”.
Section 602.4: Insert “January 1 to December 31”.
   (C)   International Fuel Gas Code, 2015 Edition. The following amendments
are made and incorporated into the codes adopted in §
150.001.
Section 106.6.2: Incorporate and refer to “Addendum A”.
Section 106.6.3: Insert “5%” in sub-section (2) and insert “100%” in sub-
section (3).
Section 108.4: Insert “misdemeanor” for the offense; insert “$500” in the “no
more than” amount; there will be no imprisonment penalty.
Section 108.5: Insert “$75” in the “not less than” amount and “$750” in the “or
more than” amount.
   (D)   International Plumbing Code, 2015 Edition. The following amendments
are made and incorporated into the codes adopted in §
150.001.
Section 106.6.2: Incorporate and refer to “Addendum A”.
Section 106.6.3: Insert “5%” in sub-section (2) and insert “100%” in sub-
section (3).
Section 108.4: Insert “misdemeanor” for the offense; insert “$500” in the “no
more than” amount; there will be no imprisonment penalty.
Section 108.5: Insert “$75” in the “not less than" amount and “$750” in the “or
more than” amount.
Section 305.4.1: This section shall read as follows:
“Building sewers that connect to private sewage disposal systems shall be
installed not less than 36 inches (mm) (or current frost line depth if
different) below finished grade at the point of septic tank connection.
Building sewers shall be installed not less than 36 inches (mm) (or current
frost line depth if different) below grade. If for any reason these
measurements are not feasible then the person or entity seeking to install the
pipes, connections, or the like shall apply for a variance with the Building
Code Official.”
Section 903.1: Insert “twelve (12) inches”.
   (E)   International Mechanical Code, 2015 Edition. The following amendments
are made and incorporated into the codes adopted in §
150.001.
106.5.2: Incorporate and refer to “Addendum A”.
106.5.3: Insert “5%” in sub-section (2) and insert “100%” in sub-section (3).
Section 108.4: Insert “misdemeanor” for the offense; insert “$500” in the “no
more than” amount; there will be no imprisonment penalty.
Section 108.5: Insert “$75” in the “not less than” amount and “$750” in the “or
more than” amount.
   (F)   International Energy Conservation Code for Residential Buildings, 2009
Edition. The following amendments are made and incorporated into the codes
adopted in §
150.001.
Section 107.2: Incorporate and refer to “Addendum A”.
Section 108.4: Insert “$75” in the “not less than” amount and “$750” in the “or
more than” amount.
   (G)   ANSI/ASHRAE/IESNA Standard 90.1, 2010 Edition for Commercial
Buildings. [This division has been intentionally left blank.]
   (H)   2015 International Residential Code for One-and Two-Family Dwellings.
The following amendments are made and incorporated into the codes adopted in §
150.001.
Table R301.2( 1): Insert the following:
“Ground Snow Load: 30 psf;
Speeded(mph): 115(51);
Topographic Effects: No;
Special Wind Region1: No;
Wind-borne Debris Zonem: 1;
Seismic Design Categoryf: A;
Weatheringa: Severe;
Frost Line Depthb: 32 inches;
Termitec: Yes;
Winter Design Tempe: 10;
Ice Barrier Underlayment Requiredh: Yes;
Flood Hazards8:
Flood Insurance Study: August 18,1992;
Date of First Adoption of Flood Plain Management Ordinance: February 8, 2010;
Panel Numbers: 136,137,138,150;
Current Effective Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM): April 19, 2010;
Air Freezing Indexi: 1500 or less; and
Mean Annual Tempj: 52.2.”
Concerning Table R301.2(l), if the relevant State Building Code charts, graphs,
tables, or numbers contradict these numbers, then the State Building Code
chart, graphs, tables, or numbers shall be used.
Section P2603.5.1: This section shall read as follows:
“Building sewers that connect to private sewage disposal systems shall be
installed not less than 36 inches (mm) (or current frost line depth if
different) below finished grade at the point of septic tank connection.
Building sewers shall be installed not less than 36 inches (mm) (or current
frost line depth if different) below grade. If for any reason these
measurements are not feasible then the person or entity seeking to install the
pipes, connections, or the like shall apply for a variance with the Building
Code Official.”
   (I)   ICC/ANSI A117.1 American National Standards for Accessibility & Usable
Buildings and Facilities, 2017 Edition. [This division has been intentionally
left blank.]
   (J)   International Existing Building Code, 2015 Edition. The following
amendments are made and incorporated into the codes adopted in §
150.001.
Section 1401.2: Insert “August 1, 2021”.
   (K)   Edition of the National Electric Code, 2017 Edition. [This division
has been intentionally left blank.]
   (L)   International Swimming Pool and Spa Code, 2015 Edition. The following
amendments are made and incorporated into the codes adopted in §
150.001.
Section 105.6.2: Incorporate and refer to “Addendum A”.
Section 105.6.3: Insert “5%” in sub-section (2) and insert “100%” in sub-
section (3).
Section 107.4: Insert “misdemeanor” for offense; insert “$500” in the fine
amount; there will be no imprisonment penalty.
Section 107.5: Insert “$75” in the “not less than” amount and “$750” in the “or
more than” amount.
Addendum A: Addendum A shall be as follows:
“Fees and Schedules
-   Building Permits: $15
-   $5 charge for every $1,000 of total cost of job/project
Example Chart
$5 for first $1,000
$10 for $1,000.01 to $2,000
$15 for $2,000.01 to $3,000
$20 for $3,000.01 to $4,000
For job/project costing over $4,000, the fee schedule will proceed in a manner
consistent with the above-cited Example Charter.”
(Ord. passed 7-28-2021)
MINIMUM HOUSING STANDARDS CODE
§ 150.035 ADOPTED; PURPOSE, APPLICATION, AND THE LIKE.
   The Common Council finds that the general health, safety, and welfare of the
citizens of the city will be served by the adoption of a code establishing
minimum standards and requirements dealing with the regulation, restriction,
and supervision of housing maintained for human habitation within the city, and
therefore adopts hereby that certain housing code entitled “The BOCA Basic
Property Maintenance Code 1981”, as amended, and the whole thereof, save and
except such portions as may hereafter may be deleted, modified, or amended, of
which Code not less than one copy, certified by the Mayor, had been and now is
filed in the office of the City Clerk, and such Code is hereby incorporated in
and made a part of this section as fully as if set out at length herein, and
the provisions thereof shall be controlling upon owners and occupants of
dwellings located within the city with regard to minimum standards, facilities,
conditions, and uses required of, or permitted in, all such dwellings and
dwelling units kept or maintained for human habitation. “The BOCA Basic
Property Maintenance Code 1981”, as hereafter modified, deleted, or amended,
shall be known and cited as “the Minimum Housing Standards Code”.
Charter reference:
   Authority to regulate the building of houses and other structures, see
Charter § 30
Statutory reference:
   Authority to adopt codes by reference, see W. Va. Code 8-11-4(b)
   Authority to adopt ordinances regulating the unfit dwellings, see W. Va.
Code 8-12-16
   Authority to provide for elimination of health and safety hazards, see W.
Va. Code 8-12-5(23)
(Prior Code, § 5-16) (Ord. passed 2-7-1983)
§ 150.036 AMENDED.
   Section H-111.0, Conflict with other Ordinances, of the Minimum Housing
Standards Code, is hereby amended to read as follows.
   (A)   Section H-111.0. Conflicts of law. Whenever any provision of this Code
is in conflict with any provision of the Weston City Code or other ordinance of
the city, the more stringent provision shall prevail. Whenever any provision of
this Code is in conflict with any provision of state law or of any rule or
regulation promulgated pursuant to state law, the more stringent provision
shall prevail, unless otherwise provided by state law or by rule or regulation
promulgated pursuant thereto.
   (B)   Section H-140.3, Penalty for violations, of the Minimum Housing
Standards Code is hereby deleted, as covered elsewhere in this chapter.
   (C)   Section H-141.0, right of appeal, of the Minimum Housing Standards
Code is hereby deleted, as appeals are now taken to the codes appeal board.
(Prior Code, § 5-17)
§ 150.037 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of the Minimum Housing Standards Code, the following terms
shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section.
   BOARD or BOARD OF HOUSING AND HYGIENE. The codes’ Appeal Board of this city.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. The Building Official of the city or his or her duly
authorized agent or inspector.
   CORPORATION COUNSEL. The City Attorney.
   HEALTH DIRECTOR. The Director of Health of the Lewis County Health
Department or his or her duly authorized agent or inspector.
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Weston.
(Prior Code, § 5-18)
§ 150.038 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE BUILDING OFFICIAL; OFFICIAL RECORDS.
   (A)   (1)   The Building Official or his or her duly authorized agents
shall, acting alone or in conjunction with the Director of Health of the County
Health Department or his or her agents, enforce the provisions of the Minimum
Housing Standards Code within the limits of the city. In furtherance of such
enforcement, he or she, or his or her agents, shall examine dwellings and
housing units, the maintenance of which require the obtaining of a permit. He
or she shall, when requested by proper authority, or when the public interest
so requires, make investigations in connection with matters referred to in the
Minimum Housing Standards Code, and render written reports of the results
thereof to the Mayor.
      (2)   To enforce compliance with that Code and to remove or abate illegal
or unsafe conditions, the Building Official shall, either alone or in
conjunction with the Health Director, issue such notices or orders as may be
necessary and which are authorized by that Code or any amendments thereto.
   (B)   The Building Official shall keep comprehensive records of applications
received, of permits issued, of inspections made, of reports rendered, and of
notices or orders issued relative to the enforcement of the Minimum Housing
Standards Code. Such records shall be open to public inspection for good and
sufficient reasons during regular office hours, but shall not be removed from
the office of the Building Official without his or her written consent.
(Prior Code, § 5-19)
§ 150.039 CONFLICTS OF LAW.
   Whenever any provision of the Minimum Housing Standards Code is in conflict
with any other provision of this city code or other ordinance of the city, the
more stringent provision shall prevail. Whenever any provision of the Minimum
Housing Standards Code is in conflict with any provision of state law or of any
rule or regulation promulgated pursuant to state law, the more stringent
provision shall prevail, unless otherwise provided by state law or by rule or
regulation promulgated pursuant thereto.
(Prior Code, § 5-21)
§ 150.040 UPDATING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   As amendments to the 1970 edition, and as new editions of the BOCA
Basic Housing Code are published from time to time by the Building Officials
Conference of America, it shall be the duty of the Building Official to file a
copy of each thereof in the office of the City Clerk and to notify the Common
Council of such filing and his or her recommendations, if any, as to such
changes therein as he or she may deem advisable in the interests of the city.
   (B)   Upon the adjournment of the second regular meeting of the Common
Council following each such filing and notice by the Building Official, the
amendments or new editions so filed by him or her and mentioned in his or her
notice to the Common Council shall be deemed to have been adopted by the Common
Council for incorporation in this subchapter as a part thereof, unless provided
otherwise by the Common Council prior to adjournment of such second regular
meeting, and such amendments or new editions shall become effective when the
copies thereof in the office of the City Clerk have been certified by the Mayor
in compliance with the requirements of W. Va. Code 8-11-4(b).
(Prior Code, § 5-22)
BUILDINGS DANGEROUS, UNHEALTHY, OR UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION
§ 150.055 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENCY. The city building enforcement agency created pursuant to this
subchapter, exercising the powers, rights, and duties as hereinafter provided.
   DWELLINGS, BUILDINGS, AND STRUCTURES. Any house, dwelling, building,
structure, and appurtenances regardless of character, form, designation, or
otherwise.
   OFFICER. The officers authorized under this subchapter.
   OWNER. The holder of the title in fee simple and every lien holder of
record.
   PARTIES IN INTEREST. All persons who have interests of record in such
dwellings, buildings, and structures and any who are in actual possession
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 5-24)
§ 150.056 BASIS OF SUBCHAPTER; ADDITIONAL POWERS OF THE CITY.
   This subchapter is enacted pursuant to authority contained in W. Va. Code 8-
12-16, and nothing herein contained shall be construed to abrogate or impair
the power of any department of the city to enforce any provision of its Charter
or this code or other ordinance or regulation; nor to prevent or punish
violations, and the powers conferred by this subchapter shall be in addition
and supplemental to the powers conferred by any other law of the state or
ordinance of the city.
(Prior Code, § 5-25)
§ 150.057 CITY BUILDING ENFORCEMENT AGENCY CREATED; COMPOSITION.
   There is hereby created the city building enforcement agency, hereinafter
referred to as “the agency”, which shall consist of the Mayor, the Building
Official, or the City Engineer or person acting as City Engineer, as determined
by the Common Council, plus one member at large to be selected by and serve at
the will and pleasure of the Mayor. The Fire Chief shall be ex officio a member
of the agency. The County Health Officer, if he or she agrees to serve, shall
also be ex officio a member of the agency.
(Prior Code, § 5-26)
Statutory reference:
   As to composition of such agency, see W. Va. Code 8-12-16
§ 150.058 SAME; EXECUTIVE OFFICER.
   The agency shall designate and appoint an executive officer to exercise
powers granted it, and such officer shall serve at the will and pleasure of the
agency and shall be paid such compensation as the agency may prescribe, subject
to limitations of funds appropriated and available for such purpose.
(Prior Code, § 5-27)
§ 150.059 SAME; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The agency shall exercise such powers as may be necessary or convenient to
carry out and effectuate the purposes of this subchapter, including the
following powers in addition to others granted:
   (A)   To investigate the conditions of the dwellings, buildings, and
structures in the city in order to determine which are dangerous, unhealthy, or
unfit for human habitation;
   (B)   To administer oaths, affirmations, examine witnesses, and receive
evidence;
   (C)   To enter upon premises for the purpose of making examinations;
provided, that any entrance upon premises for the purpose of making
examinations shall be made in such manner as to cause the least possible
inconvenience to the persons in possession;
   (D)   To appoint and fix the duties of such officers, agents, and employees
as it deems necessary to carry out the purposes of this subchapter; and
   (E)   To delegate any of its functions and powers under this subchapter to
such officers and agents as it may designate.
(Prior Code, § 5-28)
§ 150.060 PROCEDURE TO REMEDY OR DEMOLISH UNSAFE BUILDINGS.
   Whenever a petition is filed with the agency or its executive officer by at
least five residents of the city who are property owners, charging that any
dwelling, building, or structure is dangerous unhealthy or unfit for human
habitation, or whenever it appears to the agency or executive officer that any
dwelling, building, or structure is dangerous, unhealthy, or unfit for human
habitation, the executive officer shall, if his or her preliminary
investigation discloses a basis for such charges, issue and cause to be served
upon the owner of and parties in interest in such dwelling, building, or
structure a complaint stating the charges and containing a notice that a
hearing will be held before the agency, at a place therein fixed, not less than
ten nor more than 30 days after the serving of such complaint. The owner and
parties in interest shall have the right to file an answer to the complaint
prior to such hearing and to appear in person, or otherwise, and give testimony
at the time and place fixed in the complaint; the hearing shall be informal and
strict rules of procedure shall not be followed or required.
(Prior Code, § 5-29)
§ 150.061 SAME; REQUIRED FINDINGS PRIOR TO ISSUANCE OF ORDER BY AGENCY.
   (A)   Before the agency takes any action with respect to the condemnation,
repair, alteration, improvement, vacating, closing, or demolishing, or before
ordering any of the foregoing, the agency shall determine that a dwelling,
building, or structure is dangerous, unhealthy, or unfit for human habitation
for the owner or occupant or other residents of the city; such findings may
include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Dilapidation, deterioration, age, and obsolescence;
      (2)   Inadequate provision for ventilation, air, and sanitation;
      (3)   Existence of conditions which endanger life or property by fire or
other causes;
      (4) Conditions conducive to ill health, transmission of disease, infant
mortality, juvenile delinquency, and crime; or
      (5)   Condition constituting a nuisance.
   (B)   The agency may provide from time to time additional standards for
determining the conditions above stated.
(Prior Code, § 5-30)
§ 150.062 SAME; ISSUANCE OF ORDERS; RECOURSE OF CITY FOR NONCOMPLIANCE.
   (A)   If, after such notice and hearing, as provided in §
150.060, the agency determines that the dwelling, building, or structure is
dangerous, unhealthy, or unfit for human habitation, it shall state in writing
its findings of fact in support of such determination and shall issue and cause
to be served upon the owner and parties in interest thereof an order requiring:
      (1)   The owner or parties in interest to repair, alter, or improve such
dwelling, building, or structure within the time specified in the order so as
to eliminate its condition of danger, unhealthfulness, or unfitness for human
habitation as the case may be; or
      (2)   The owner or parties in interest to demolish and remove such
dwelling, building, or structure if the repair, alteration, or improvement of
such dwellings building or structure so as to make it safe, healthful, and fit
for human habitation cannot be made at a cost of not more than 25% of the value
thereof, exclusive of the real estate upon which it stands as determined by the
agency.
   (B)   If the owner or parties in interest fail to comply with the order of
the agency to repair, alter, or improve such dwelling, building, or structure,
the agency may cause it to be repaired, altered, or improved, or to be vacated
and closed; and from and after the date specified in the order of the agency
for the repair, alteration, improvement, or vacating and closing of the
dwelling, building, or structure, the executive officer may cause to be posted
on such dwelling, building, or structure a placard with the following words:
“THIS BUILDING HAS BEEN CONDEMNED BY ORDER
OF THE WESTON CITY BUILDING AGENCY.”
   (C)   If the owner fails to comply with an order of the agency to demolish
and remove the dwelling, building, or structure within the time ordered by the
agency, the agency may cause such dwelling to be demolished and removed at cost
to the owner or parties in interest as set forth below.
(Prior Code, § 5-31)
§ 150.063 SERVICE, POSTING, AND FILING OF COMPLAINTS AND ORDERS.
   All complaints and orders issued by the agency shall be served upon the
owners of the premises and the parties in interest personally or by publication
in accordance with the laws of the state and shall, in addition thereto, be
posted in a conspicuous place on the premises affected by the complaint or
order. A copy of such complaint or order shall also be filed for record in the
office of the Clerk of the County Court among the lis pendens notices.
(Prior Code, § 5-32)
Statutory reference:
   As to filing and effect of lis pendens notices, see W. Va. Code 55-11-2
§ 150.064 APPEAL FROM ORDER OF AGENCY.
   Any person affected by an order issued by the agency or its executive
officer may petition the County Circuit Court for an injunction restraining the
agency from carrying out the provisions of such order and for a temporary
injunction restraining the agency pending the final disposition of the cause;
provided, that such petition shall be filed not more than 60 days after the
service and posting of the order.
(Prior Code, § 5-33)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to authorize petition for injunctive relief, see W. Va. Code 8-12-
16
§ 150.065 REMEDIES PROVIDED ARE EXCLUSIVE.
   The remedies provided by this subchapter shall be exclusive remedies, and no
person affected by an order of the agency shall be entitled to recover any
damages for action taken pursuant to its order, or because of noncompliance by
such persons with any order of the agency.
(Prior Code, § 5-34)
§ 150.066 COSTS OF REPAIRS AND THE LIKE A LIEN ON PROPERTY; DISPOSITION OF
PROCEEDS.
   (A)   The amount of the cost of repairs, alterations, or improvements, or
vacating and closing, or removal or demolition shall be a lien against the real
property upon which such cost was incurred.
   (B)   If the dwelling, building, or structure is removed or demolished by
the executive officer, under the authority of the agency, and if there be any
significant salvage value, he or she shall sell the materials of such
dwellings, and shall credit the proceeds of such sale against the cost of the
removal or demolition, and any balance remaining shall be disbursed to the
persons found to be entitled thereto; provided, that nothing in this section
shall be construed to impair or limit in any way the power of the city to
define and declare nuisances and to cause their removal or abandonment, by
summary proceedings or otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 5-35)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code 8-12-16
§ 150.067 FUNDS FOR ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   The cost of equipment, personnel, and supplies necessary for periodic
examinations and investigations for the purposes of determining the fitness of
dwellings, buildings, or structures in the city and for the enforcement and the
administration of this subchapter, shall be made by appropriations from the
revenues of the city as the Common Council may deem necessary, and the agency
may accept and apply grants or donations to assist it in carrying out the
provisions thereof.
(Prior Code, § 5-36)
§ 150.068 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, occupant, lessee, or other
person in interest of such dwelling, building, or structure as determined by
the agency to be dangerous, unhealthy, or unfit for human habitation to fail to
comply with any order to repair, vacate, or demolish and remove same, or any
other order of the agency from which no appeal or other remedy has been
invoked.
      (2)   The imposition of one penalty for any violation shall not excuse
subsequent violations or permit subsequent impositions of fines or imprisonment
or both for continuing violations; and all such persons shall be required to
correct or remedy such violations or defects within a reasonable time, and when
not otherwise specified, each ten days that prohibited conditions continue
shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove any notice or order of
the agency posted as required under any of the provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully obstruct, impede, or
interfere with the agency, or any representative or officer of the agency, or
with any person who owns or holds any estate or interest in any dwelling which
has been ordered by the agency to be vacated, demolished, or removed, or with
any person to whom such dwelling has been lawfully sold, pursuant to the
provisions of this subchapter, whenever any such representative or officer of
the agency, purchaser, or person having an interest or estate in such dwelling
is engaged in repairing, vacating, closing, or demolishing any such dwelling,
or in performing any necessary act preliminary to or incidental to such work.
(Prior Code, § 5-37) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.069 LIABILITY OF CITY PERSONNEL FOR DAMAGES AND THE LIKE RESULTING FROM
ENFORCEMENT.
   No officer, agent, or employee of the city shall be personally liable for
any damage incurred or alleged to be incurred as a result of any act required,
permitted, or authorized to be done or performed in the discharge of his or her
duties pursuant to this subchapter, and any suit brought against any officer,
agent, or employee of the city as a result of any act required, permitted, or
authorized in the discharge of his or her duties under this subchapter shall be
defended by the city.
(Prior Code, § 5-38)
§ 150.070 CONSENT OF PROPERTY OWNER.
   The agency or executive officer shall make a reasonable effort to procure
the consent of the owner or parties in interest before requiring any act to be
performed, but the lack of such consent shall in no way limit the powers and
authority granted in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-39)
§ 150.071 OBTAINING AND PRESERVING EVIDENCE.
   The agency or executive officer shall obtain any and all evidence,
photographic, documentary, oral, written, or otherwise, it reasonably can to
sustain and support any and all findings of fact, and shall preserve such
evidence in the file of the case.
(Prior Code, § 5-40)
§ 150.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter for which no other
penalty is provided shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   If any person shall violate or fail to comply with any provision
of the Minimum Housing Standards Code or any notice or order issued pursuant
thereto, he or she shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine not exceeding
$500, or other amount deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court, or by
imprisonment for not exceeding 30 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment;
and each day such violation shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   The imposition of the penalties herein prescribed shall not
preclude the City Attorney from instituting an appropriate action or proceeding
to prevent an unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, addition,
alteration, conversion, removals, demolition, maintenance, or use or to
restrain, correct, or abate a violation or to prevent the occupancy of a
building or structure or portion thereof, or of the premises, or to prevent an
illegal act, conduct, business, or use in or about any premises.
(Prior Code, § 5-20)
CHAPTER 151: MOBILE HOMES AND HOUSE TRAILERS
Section
   
151.01   Findings of Common Council
   
151.02   Definitions
   
151.03   Placement and location prohibited in residential areas
   
151.04   Application of present and future ordinances regulating trailer or
mobile home parks; general prohibition against placement on certain lots
   
151.05   Certain exceptions as to homes in place on December 7, 1970
   
151.06   Location in nonresidential area, subject to consent of neighbors and
the Common Council
   
151.07   Map showing location of trailers as of December 7, 1970
   
151.08   City permits not to issue, or sewer connections made, for homes which
are in violation of chapter
   
151.09   Permit requirement for alteration into dwelling
   
151.10   Concealment of open area between base and ground
   
151.11   Permit requirement
   
151.12   Prohibited parking areas
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 FINDINGS OF COMMON COUNCIL.
   The Common Council makes the following findings of fact:
   (A)   Numerous house trailers or mobile homes have been located in various
areas of the city in recent years without adequate regard and consideration for
planning, for traffic, parking, health, and the general welfare of the citizens
of the city;
   (B) The location and occupancy of such house trailers and mobile homes have
created and are creating serious traffic and health problems and endangering
the general welfare of the citizens of the city;
   (C)   It is therefore necessary, in order to protect the public welfare,
health, and safety of the citizens of the city to prohibit the further location
and occupancy of house trailers and mobile homes in certain residential areas
of the city; and
   (D)   The Common Council has the authority to enact this chapter under the
provisions of W. Va. Code 8-12-5(30), the Charter of the city, and other
statutes and laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 15-1)
Charter reference:
   Authority to promote the health and well-being of the inhabitants of the
city, see Charter § 31
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prohibit occupied mobile homes in residential areas, see W. Va.
Code 8-12-5(30)
   Authority to promote the public safety and welfare, see W. Va. Code 8-12-5
(44)
§ 151.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HOUSE TRAILER and MOBILE HOME. Any vehicle or similar portable structure
having no foundation other than wheels, jacks, or skirtings, or any vehicle or
similar portable structure which originally had no foundation other than
wheels, jacks, or skirtings, and which has been mounted on block or other
foundations, or is otherwise situated and located within the city, and which is
so designated or constructed so as to permit occupancy for dwelling or sleeping
purposes.
   RESIDENTIAL AREA. Any block or area in the city which has 50% or more of its
buildings occupied and used for residential or dwelling purposes, or any vacant
land which has been platted or laid off for residential subdivision purposes,
or which adjoins a residential area.
(Prior Code, § 15-2)
§ 151.03 PLACEMENT AND LOCATION PROHIBITED IN RESIDENTIAL AREAS.
   It shall be unlawful hereafter for any person to place or locate any house
trailer or mobile home in any residential area of the city.
(Prior Code, § 15-3) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.04 APPLICATION OF PRESENT AND FUTURE ORDINANCES REGULATING TRAILER OR
MOBILE HOME PARKS; GENERAL PROHIBITION AGAINST PLACEMENT ON CERTAIN LOTS.
   The location and occupancy of house trailers or mobile homes in
nonresidential and therefore non- prohibited areas of the city shall be in
accordance with the provisions of any ordinance of the city now in existence or
hereinafter enacted regulating trailer or mobile home parks, and, in no event,
shall any house trailer or mobile home be placed on a lot containing less than
5,000 square feet and not having available sewerage and water facilities
approved by the proper officer therefor of the city.
(Prior Code, § 15-4) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.05 CERTAIN EXCEPTIONS AS TO HOMES IN PLACE ON DECEMBER 7, 1970.
   The prohibition against locating house trailers or mobile homes in
residential areas of the city, as herein contained, shall not affect any house
trailer or mobile home which was located upon any lot or other area in the city
on December 7, 1970, and has continued in place since that date; provided,
however; this provision notwithstanding, that no person shall, after December
7, 1970, locate or place any additional house trailer or mobile home on any lot
or other location being used for house trailers or mobile homes on December 7,
1970, in any prohibited residential areas of the city; and further provided,
that the owner of any house trailer or mobile home which was located upon any
lot or other area in the city on December 7, 1970, and which has since then
continued in place may replace such house trailer or mobile home with another
house trailer or mobile home at any time in accordance with the provisions of
any currently existing ordinance requiring permission of the city therefor.
(Prior Code, § 15-5)
§ 151.06 LOCATION IN NONRESIDENTIAL AREA, SUBJECT TO CONSENT OF NEIGHBORS AND
THE COMMON COUNCIL.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, one house trailer or
mobile home may be placed upon any lot or other area of land containing at
least 5,000 square feet, and not situated in a residential area as hereinbefore
defined; provided, that at least 75% of the owners of real estate situated
within 300 feet of the boundary line of the lot or area of land in any
direction shall consent, in writing, prior to the location and placement of
such house trailer or mobile home, and providing that such written consent is
filed with the Common Council and a permit for the location of such house
trailer or mobile home is granted by the Common Council.
(Prior Code, § 15-6)
§ 151.07 MAP SHOWING LOCATION OF TRAILERS AS OF DECEMBER 7, 1970.
   The City Clerk, assisted by the Police Cheif and the Police Department of
the city, shall compile a map showing thereon the location and ownership of all
house trailers and mobile homes on December 7, 1970.
(Prior Code, § 15-7)
Editor’s note:
   This map has been made and is on file in the office of the City Clerk
§ 151.08 CITY PERMITS NOT TO ISSUE, OR SEWER CONNECTIONS MADE, FOR HOMES WHICH
ARE IN VIOLATION OF CHAPTER.
   In order to aid the enforcement of this chapter, no building, wiring,
plumbing, or other required permit shall hereafter be granted for any house
trailer or mobile home which is located, or attempted to be located, on any lot
or other area in violation of any provision of this chapter, and no connections
to or with the sanitary sewerage system of the city for any such house trailer
or mobile home shall be permitted.
(Prior Code, § 15-8)
§ 151.09 PERMIT REQUIREMENT FOR ALTERATION INTO DWELLING.
   (A)   Whenever any trailer or mobile home is occupied as a dwelling, or used
for sleeping or other residential purposes and has been rendered immobile by
the removal of wheels or other transporting device, a permit to do so must be
obtained from the Building Official of the city as required for the
construction of a new building.
   (B)   Any such alteration shall be construed as converting the trailer or
mobile home into a building and subject to the requirements of the zoning and
building ordinances relating to construction, wiring, plumbing, sewer
facilities, and other regulations applicable to single-family dwellings.
(Prior Code, § 15-9)
§ 151.10 CONCEALMENT OF OPEN AREA BETWEEN BASE AND GROUND.
   Any trailer or mobile home occupied as a dwelling or used for sleeping or
other residential purposes, which has not been rendered immobile by the removal
of wheels or other transporting device, shall cover the area between the base
of the trailer and the ground upon which it rests by underpinnings which are
sufficient to conceal such open area.
(Prior Code, § 15-10)
§ 151.11 PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever any trailer or mobile home is occupied as a dwelling,
or used for sleeping or other residential purposes, and has been rendered
immobile by the removal of wheels or other transporting device, a permit to do
so must be obtained from the Building Official of the city as required for the
construction of a new building.
      (2)   Any such alteration shall be construed as converting the trailer or
mobile home into a building and subject to the requirements of the zoning and
building ordinances, relating to construction, wiring, plumbing, sewer
facilities, and other regulations applicable to single-family dwellings.
   (B)   Any trailer or mobile home occupied as a dwelling or used for sleeping
or other residential purposes which has not been rendered immobile by the
removal of wheels or other transporting device shall cover the area between the
base of the trailer and the ground upon which it rests, by underpinnings which
are sufficient to conceal such open area.
(Ord. passed 3-6-1972)
§ 151.12 PROHIBITED PARKING AREAS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to park motor vehicles on the east
side of Court Avenue in the city, between the intersection of First Street and
Court Avenue, and the junction of Court Avenue and Stonecoal Creek.
   (B)   Division (A) above shall not apply to school buses.
(Ord. passed 4-3-1972) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter for which no other
penalty is provided shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   The penalty for each and every violation of §
151.12 shall be a fine of not less than $5 nor more than $25, or other amount
deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court.
(Ord. passed 4-3-1972)
CHAPTER 152: RENTAL HOUSING REGISTRATION PROGRAM
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Purpose
   
152.02   Scope
   
152.03   Definitions
Enforcement
   
152.15   Illegal conditions
   
152.16   Fees and conditions
   
152.17   Inspections
   
152.18   Certificate of use and occupancy, display, transfer, and expiration
   
152.19   Notice of violation
   
152.20   Right of appeal
   
152.21   Conflict of law
   
152.22   Minimum requirements may not be waived
   
152.23   Application of other codes
 
   
152.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish and promote health and safety
standards for rental housing and to secure and preserve the integrity and
character of residential districts within the city. These standards relate to
the condition, maintenance, and occupancy of rental dwelling units and are
intended to ensure that rental housing is safe, sanitary, and suitable in
accordance with applicable provisions of the State Building Code and other
regulations as adopted by the city.
(Ord. passed - -2018)
§ 152.02 SCOPE.
   This chapter applies to all rental dwelling units within the city. This
chapter shall not apply to owner- occupied dwellings wherein roomers or
boarders are maintained in common living areas in accordance with other
applicable codes and ordinances. This chapter shall not apply to hotels,
motels, dormitories, lodging, and boarding houses and other transient
residential occupancies. Buildings housing business or commercial uses in
addition to rental dwelling units shall be subject to the provisions of the
State Building Code which apply to such mixed uses.
(Ord. passed - -2018)
§ 152.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of interpreting this chapter, certain words, terms, and
expressions are herein defined. Words used in the present tense include the
future; the singular number includes the plural, the plural includes the
singular; the word SHALL is always mandatory. The words DWELLING, DWELLING
UNIT, and PREMISES shall be construed as though they were followed by the words
“or any part thereof”.
   APARTMENT. A room or group of rooms intended to be occupied for living
persons.
   BOARDING HOUSE. A building under single management renting sleeping
accommodations to 15 persons or fewer without individual bathroom or eating
facilities.
   CERTIFICATE OF USE AND OCCUPANCY. The certificate issued by the Code
Official, which permits the use of a building and which certifies compliance
with the provisions of law for the use and occupancy of the building in its
several parts together with any special stipulations or conditions.
   CODE OFFICIAL. The officer or other designated authority charged with the
administration and enforcement of the Building Code of the City of Weston or a
duly authorized representative.
   DORMITORY. A building under single management renting sleeping
accommodations to more than 15 persons without individual bathroom or eating
facilities.
   DWELLING. Any house, building, or mobile home intended to be occupied as the
place of habitation of human beings on a permanent basis.
   DWELLING UNIT. A single unit providing complete, independent living
facilities for one or more persons, including permanent provisions for living,
sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation.
   HOTEL. A building under single management in which more than 15 rooms are
rented providing sleeping accommodations for transients with or without meals,
having an annual turnover of room occupancy exceeding 300% in which the rooms
are not directly accessible from an outdoor parking area.
   LANDLORD. The owner of a building, including one or more dwelling units.
   LODGING HOUSE. The same as BOARDING HOUSE.
   MOTEL. An establishment under single management which provides lodging and
parking for transients and in which the rooms are so designed to provide
accessibility from an outdoor parking area and having an annual turnover of
room occupancy exceeding 300%.
   OCCUPANT. Any person living, sleeping, cooking or eating in, or having
actual possession of a dwelling unit.
   OPERATOR. Any person, including the owner, who has charge, care, or control
of a building, including one or more dwelling units.
   OWNER.
      (1)   Any person who alone, jointly, or as tenant in common with others,
has legal or equitable title to any dwelling unit with or without accompanying
actual possession thereof.
      (2)   For the purposes of this subchapter, OWNER includes an agent of the
owner empowered by the owner to act on the conditions or under the
circumstances in question.
   OWNER-OCCUPIED DWELLING. Any townhouse, condominium, or detached dwelling
that is occupied as a dwelling by the owner.
   PERSON. A natural person, his or her heirs, executors, administrators, or
assigns and also a firm, partnership, or corporation and its, or their,
successors or assigns.
   PREMISES. A parcel or lot of land and its buildings or other improvements.
   RENT. To grant the possession and enjoyment of premises, dwelling, or
dwelling unit in return for the payment of money, goods, labor, service, or
otherwise from the tenant for the use of the premises, dwelling, or dwelling
unit.
   RENTAL DWELLING UNIT. Any dwelling unit which is offered in whole or part
for residential purposes and for which remuneration is received.
   TENANT. An occupant of a rental dwelling unit who has signed a lease or made
a verbal contract exceeding a seven consecutive day commitment.
   TRANSIENT. An individual who rents sleeping, living, and sanitary facilities
on a daily or weekly basis.
(Ord. passed - -2018)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 152.15 ILLEGAL CONDITIONS.
   After the passing of this chapter, an owner or operator shall not rent or
offer for rent any dwelling unit for use in whole or in part for human
habitation unless a certificate of use and occupancy has been issued for said
dwelling unit by the Code Official indicating that inspection found the
premises to be in substantial compliance with the State Building Code.
(Ord. passed - -2018)
§ 152.16 FEES AND CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Each property owner shall be charged a compliance inspection fee of
$10 per year per unit. Such fee shall be reduced by 50% for the inspection of
all units in excess of 11 contained either within a single multi-family
apartment building or located in separate buildings on the same lot.
   (B)   Charge for missed appointments: $10, unless providing notification at
least 24 hours prior to the scheduled appointment.
   (C)   Court appearances: $15 per hour shall be charged to the requesting
party when scheduling is at least 24 hours in advance; $30 per hour when
appearances are scheduled within 24 hours of hearing.
   (D)   Real estate pre-sale inspections: $50 per hour, a one hour minimum
charge shall be assessed where an inspection is requested to determine if a
rental property is in compliance with the State Building Code.
   (E)   Preparation and issuance of duplicate certificate of use and
occupancy: $1.
   (F)   Re-inspections: $10 per unit for each inspection requiring more than
two inspections for compliance.
   (G)   Application fees for Board of Appeals hearings shall be $30.
(Ord. passed - -2018)
§ 152.17 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Code Official shall inspect, on the effective date of this
chapter, all rental dwelling units constructed prior to adoption of this
chapter. The owner shall provide access to all areas of any building containing
rental dwelling units, and the Code Official shall be accompanied by the owner
or an agent of the owner during inspection. All inspections shall be scheduled
during regular business hours.
   (B)   Where a certificate of use and occupancy has been issued in accordance
with the State Building Code for any building that has been erected, altered,
or converted to residential use, said dwelling shall not be subject to re-
inspection for the purpose of this chapter for one year following the date of
issuance of said certificate.
(Ord. passed - -2018)
§ 152.18 CERTIFICATE OF USE AND OCCUPANCY, DISPLAY, TRANSFER, AND EXPIRATION.
   (A)   If, upon inspection, the rental dwelling unit is found to conform to
the requirements of this chapter, the Code Official shall issue a certificate
of use and occupancy at the time of inspection.
   (B)   A one year certificate of use and occupancy shall be issued for the
dwelling unit after the Code Official finds the unit in substantial conformance
with this chapter.
   (C)   The certificate of use and occupancy shall be transferable to
subsequent owners of the respective dwelling unit(s).
   (D)   A copy of the certificate of use and occupancy shall be available for
inspection at the Building Inspector’s office during regular business hours.
   (E)   A copy of the certificate of use and occupancy issued after the
effective date of this chapter shall expire one year from the date of issuance
by the Code Official unless sooner revoked.
   (F)   The owner/agent shall post a copy of the certificate of use and
occupancy and city business rental license in a conspicuous location in the
interior of the premises or near the interior electrical fuse or circuit box of
each dwelling unit.
(Ord. passed - -2018)
§ 152.19 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   When, in the course of the inspection required under this chapter,
violations are discovered on the premises which do not affect the habitability
or safety of a rental dwelling, such violations shall be cited in accordance
with the administrative provisions of the applicable code or ordinance. Such
violations shall not be construed as grounds to withhold or revoke the
certificate of use and occupancy.
   (B)   (1)   Where conditions exist which affect the habitability of the
dwelling but which do not pose an imminent hazard to the occupants, a
certificate of use and occupancy shall be issued along with a notice of
violation. The notice of violation shall be in writing, shall be served to the
owner or agent, shall contain a description of the property sufficient for
identification, and shall include a statement of the reason(s) for which it was
issued, a correction order specifying repairs to be made, a reasonable time in
which repairs are to be completed, and a state of the owner’s right of appeal.
      (2)   The owner shall, within the time period specified in the notice of
violation, correct all deficiencies cited in violation of the State Building
Code and city codes. The certificate of use and occupancy shall be revoked and
a notice to vacate issued if the dwelling unit is not in compliance within the
time specified in the notice of violation; however, the Code Official may, upon
written request, extend the period for compliance where the work has been
delayed despite good-faith efforts to comply and where such extension presents
no immediate threat to the health or safety of the occupants of the dwelling
units or other units or properties. A notice of violation shall not be
construed to verify substandard housing except where conditions exist which
require the vacation of the dwelling or dwelling unit.
   (C)   Where violations are found which, in the judgment of the Code
Official, are sufficient to withhold or revoke the certificate of use and
occupancy, the Code Official shall issue a notice to vacate. The notice to
vacate shall be in writing, shall be served to the owner or owner’s agent,
shall contain a description of the property sufficient for identification,
shall state the reasons therefor, shall include a copy of any relevant notices
of violation, and shall include notification of the owner’s right of appeal.
   (D)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent the Code
Official from ordering the immediate vacation of any dwelling or dwelling unit
where violations are discovered which post an imminent threat to the health or
safety of the occupants. Appeal shall not stay an order to vacate under such
conditions.
   (E)   Occupancy of any rental dwelling unit in violation of a notice to
vacate shall subject the owner/agent and/or the occupants to the penalties
prescribed in §
152.99.
(Ord. passed - -2018)
§ 152.20 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   Any property owner or agent shall have the right to appeal to the Board of
Appeals from a decision of the Code Official where it is alleged that the
intent of this chapter, or the codes referenced herein, have been incorrectly
interpreted, the provisions of this chapter do not fully apply, or an
equivalent remedy to any violation may be employed. Such appeal shall be in
writing, stating the reasons therefor, and shall be submitted to the Code
Official within 20 days of receipt of the notice of violation.
(Ord. passed - -2018)
§ 152.21 CONFLICT OF LAW.
   This chapter is not intended to abrogate any of the rights and
responsibilities normally ascribed to the tenant or the landlord under the laws
of the state whether set out by case law or by the state code, or any other
applicable laws.
(Ord. passed - -2018)
§ 152.22 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS MAY NOT BE WAIVED.
   The minimum requirement of this chapter may not be waived either
intentionally or impliedly by either party to a rental agreement.
(Ord. passed - -2018)
§ 152.23 APPLICATION OF OTHER CODES.
   (A)   This chapter is in addition to all housing requirements of other city
ordinances and the laws of the state.
   (B)   This chapter shall take effect upon the date of passage.
(Ord. passed - -2018)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of this chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor punishable by a
fine of not less than $100 nor more than $500. Each day that a violation
continues after notification of the same by the Code Official shall be deemed a
separate offense. The imposition of penalties prescribed herein shall not
relieve the owner from responsibility for full compliance with all other
applicable codes and ordinances, including any and all separate fines and
penalties imposed thereunder.
(Ord. passed - -2018)
CHAPTER 153: VACANT BUILDING AND PROPERTY REGISTRATION AND MAINTENANCE PROGRAM
Section
   
153.01   Adoption
   
153.02   Purpose
   
153.03   Definitions
   
153.04   Registration
   
153.05   Inspection
   
153.06   Corrective action
   
153.07   Right of appeal; waiver of registration fee
   
153.08   Amending information
   
153.09   Reinspection
   
153.10   Non-payment of fees/liens
   
153.11   Unpaid registration fees; legal remedies
   
153.12   Registration fees used for specific purposes
   
153.13   Relation to other codes and laws
   
153.14   Schedule of fee rates; process example
 
   
153.99   Penalty
§ 153.01 ADOPTION.
   (A)   Pursuant to W. Va. Code 8-12-16C, the city enacts an updated vacant
building and property registration and maintenance program. Any prior vacant
structure or vacant building and property registrations programs or codes or
ordinances (“prior codes”) are hereby repealed and replaced with this chapter.
   (B)   Buildings and property registered under prior codes shall be
considered registered for the purpose of this chapter. However, the owners of
said buildings and/or property must alert the Building Code Official to prior
registration(s) and the Building Code Official shall take measures to
transition any registration payments or time computations into the parameters
set by this chapter.
   (C)   Any civil actions or other legal processes brought under prior codes
are still in effect until the resolution of such issue and shall be governed by
the language and rules of the prior code under which the issue was instituted.
(Ord. 2022-06, passed 3-7-2022)
§ 153.02 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The city has determined that uninspected and unmonitored vacant
structures may present a fire hazard; may provide temporary occupancy for
transients (including drug abusers and traffickers); may detract from private
and/or public efforts to rehabilitate or maintain surrounding buildings; and
that the health, safety, and welfare of the public is served by the regulation
of such vacant buildings.
   (B)   Owners of vacant structures shall register such vacant buildings with
the city, make payment of a fee for the registration thereof, and otherwise
conform to these vacant building regulations.
   (C)   It is the intent of this chapter that, through a registration,
inspection, and monitoring process, vacant structures will be kept weather
tight and secure from trespassers, will provide safe entry to police officers
and firefighters in times of emergency, will not impede private and/or public
efforts to rehabilitate or maintain surrounding properties, and will not
present otherwise a public hazard.
   (D)   The city, by and through its departments (particularly the Building
Code Enforcement Department) shall inspect and monitor vacant buildings, shall
assess the effects of the condition of those buildings on nearby structures,
and shall promote substantial efforts to rehabilitate and develop such
buildings when appropriate.
   (E)   The provisions of this chapter shall streamline and consolidate the
existing procedure (that is, complaint, research, notification, inspection,
orders, fines, liens, appeals, and due process lien enforcement) by placing the
responsibility to register and maintain a vacant structure on the owner of such
structure before a condition of the structure falls into disrepair or otherwise
merits a complaint.
(Ord. 2022-06, passed 3-7-2022)
§ 153.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARDED. A building or structure subject to the provisions of this chapter
shall be deemed to be “boarded” if in place of one or more exterior doors,
other than a storm door, or of one or more windows, there is a sheet or sheets
of plywood or similar material covering the space for such door or window.
   EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE AND MAJOR SYSTEMS. The safe and lawful maintenance of
the facade, windows, doors, roof, and other parts of the exterior of the
structure and the maintenance of its major systems consisting of the roof,
electrical and plumbing systems, water supply system, sewer system, and
sidewalk, driveway, if any, area of the lot, as applicable and as enforced by
the ECDD, particularly in connection with codes adopted by the city as well as
all applicable local, state, and federal laws.
   LAWFUL BUSINESS. Any business not forbidden by federal, state, or municipal
laws. The term LAWFUL BUSINESS shall also mean that the business owner has
acquired and maintains a business license issued by the city.
   OCCUPY/OCCUPIED/OCCUPIES. Any building or structure shall be deemed to be
“occupied” if one or more persons actually conducts a lawful business or
lawfully resides in the building or structure as the licensed business
occupant, or as the legal or equitable owner/occupant(s) or tenant(s) on a
permanent, non-transient basis, or any combination of the same. For purposes of
this section, evidence offered to prove that a building or structure is so
OCCUPIED may include, but shall not be limited to, the regular receipt of
delivery of regular mail through the United States Postal Service; proof of
continual telephone, electric, gas, heating, water, and sewer services; a valid
city business license, or the most recent federal, state, or city income tax
statements indicating that the subject property is the official business or
residence address of the person or business claiming occupancy; or proof of
bona fide pre- rental inspection.
   OPEN. A building or structure subject to the provisions of this chapter
shall be deemed to be “open” if any one or more exterior doors other than a
storm door is broken, open, and/or closed, but without a properly functioning
lock to secure it, or if one or more windows is broken or not capable of being
locked and secured from intrusion, or any combination of the same.
   OWNER. An owner of the freehold of the premises or any lesser estate
therein, a mortgagee, a vendee-in-possession, assignee of rents, receiver,
executor, trustee, lessee, agent, or any other person, firm, or, corporation
that is directly or indirectly in control of a building subject to the
provisions of this chapter, and as set forth below.
   VACANT BUILDING/ VACANT STRUCTURE.
      (1)   A building or structure shall be deemed to be vacant if:
         (a)   No person or persons actually currently conducts a lawfully
licensed business, including city business, on the premises;
         (b)   Lawfully resides, dwells, or lives in any part of the building
as the legal or equitable owner(s) or tenant-occupant(s), or owner-occupant(s),
or tenant(s) on a permanent, non-transient basis; and/or
         (c)   A building or structure shall be deemed vacant and subject to
the registration and possible penalty provisions provided herein if the
exterior maintenance and other relevant systems of the building and the
surrounding real property thereof are in violation of the city building codes
or applicable city health and sanitation codes and if there is not proof of
continual utility service evidencing actual use of electric, gas (e.g.,
applicable heating sources), water service, and the like. “Continued” is meant
to be without more than one 30-day interruption in any given 360-day period. In
order for such continual utility service to be considered as being actually in
use as described in this chapter, it must be more than merely registered to the
owner for purposes of billing and must be utilized, at a minimum, in order to
keep the property and the major systems of the building in compliance with
building and safety codes. The person or entity asserting that there has been
continued utility service has the burden to produce actual bills evidencing
utility service for the relevant period.
      (2)   All vacant structures shall also comply with the following
criteria:
         (a)   Exterior property areas are to be mowed regularly and non-
cultivated gardens maintained at no more than six inches of growth. All noxious
weeds are prohibited;
         (b)   Structure is to be broom swept and cleared of all contents, not
including building materials or components to be used in the future renovation
at that structure;
         (c)   Electrical service is to be provided to the building via
temporary pole service on the exterior of the structure or create a permanent
service for the structure and install two GFCI protected receptacles;
         (d)   NEC and OSHA compliant string lighting is to be provided to the
entire structure so that it may be illuminated as needed to view the structure;
         (e)   Unstable interior and exterior surfaces and components are to be
removed. Unstable or unsound accessory buildings are to be razed or renovated;
         (f)   Using wood sheet goods: all loose, deteriorated, and broken
windows and doors are to be covered to eliminate the danger of their falling
and to prevent the unwanted entry of trespassers. Such wood sheet goods are to
be cut and neatly fit, not just nailed over the opening;
         (g)   All loose or deteriorated trim, gutter, or overhang extensions
(masonry or frame) are to be removed or reattached to prevent falling;
         (h)   Regular routine monitoring of the structure is to occur by the
owner to ensure that the building is being kept in compliance with the above
items;
         (i)   Utilities need to be connected to the structure;
         (j)   The Building Code Official may allow, at his or her discretion,
deviations from these requirements if the situation and fairness allow such
deviation(s); and
         (k)   The property or structure shall not be deemed as occupied simply
because the above measures have been taken or are being taken to conform to
these requirements.
   VACANT PROPERTY/VACANT LOT. Any real estate on which no building is erected
and no routine activity occurs; provided, however, that proper routine
maintenance of a vacant lot whereon no property violations exist shall
constitute as routine activity for the purposes of this chapter, whether or not
that VACANT PROPERTY/LOT is used in conjunction with improved adjacent real
estate. For further provisions, see the definition of “vacant building/vacant
structure” above.
(Ord. 2022-06, passed 3-7-2022)
§ 153.04 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   The registration of buildings and payment of fees shall adhere to the
schedule of fees and payments outlined in §
153.14 and other applicable provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   The requirements of this chapter shall be applicable to each
owner of any building that is found to be vacant pursuant to the language
contained herein.
      (2)   Each such owner shall cause to be filed with the city:
         (a)   A notarized registration statement including the street address
and parcel number of each such vacant property or building;
         (b)   The names and addresses of all owners, as hereinafter described;
and
         (c)   Any other information deemed necessary by the Building Code
Enforcement Department.
      (3)   In the event the owner(s) of structure/property deemed vacant does
not register the structure, the city shall cause the structure/property to be
registered, and in the event the owner(s) do not pay the registration fees then
the city shall have the authority to institute legal proceedings consistent
with legal remedies identified in this chapter.
   (C)   The registration fee(s) as required by this chapter shall be billed to
the owner(s) and shall be paid within 30 days of the date of billing.
   (D)   For purposes of this chapter, the following shall also be applicable:
      (1)   If the owner is a corporation, the registration statement shall
provide the names and residence addresses of all officers and directors of the
corporation and shall be accompanied by a copy of the most recent annual
franchise tax report filed with the secretary of state;
      (2)   If an estate, the name and business address of the executor of the
estate;
      (3)   If a trust, the name and address of all trustees, grantors, and
beneficiaries;
      (4)   If a partnership, the names and residence addresses of all partners
with an interest of 10% or greater;
      (5)   If any other form of unincorporated association, the names and
residence addresses of all principals with an interest of 10% or greater; or
      (6)   If an individual person, the name and residence address of that
individual person.
   (E)   (1)   On June 1, 2022, all owners of property within the city that
contain a vacant structure, as defined in §
153.03, shall register the same with the Building Code Enforcement Department.
For those structures that subsequently qualify as a vacant structure after June
1, 2022, the owner thereof shall be required to register the structure with the
Building Code Enforcement Department within 30 days after the structure is
found to meet the definition of a vacant structure. The registration form shall
require information from the registrant deemed necessary by the City Manager,
Building Code Official, Fire Chief, and Chief of Police of the city, so as to
ensure that the purposes of this chapter are met. Specifically, the above named
city officers shall have the authority to require that the property owner
provide a professional opinion (e.g., an architect, engineer, and the like) to
determine the structural integrity of the building, the repairs necessary to
ensure its structural integrity and that it will be safe for entry by
firefighters and police officers in time of emergency, and that the building
and its contents do not present a hazard to the public during the time the
building remains vacant. The above named officers shall have the authority to
issue orders to the owner for corrective action deemed necessary. The Building
Code Official and Fire Chief shall rely upon the West Virginia State Building
Code and Fire Code, as well as other applicable law, for guidance during any
such structural review.
      (2)   If none of the vacant structure or vacant property owners at issue
are shown at an address within the state, the registration statement also shall
provide the name and address of a person who resides within the state and who
is authorized to accept service of process on behalf of the owners and who
shall be designated as a responsible, local party or agent, both for purposes
of notification in the event of an emergency affecting the public health,
safety, or welfare and for purposes of service of any and all notices or
registration statements as herein authorized and in connection herewith.
Registration shall be required for all vacant buildings, whether vacant and
secure, vacant and open, or vacant and boarded, and shall be required whenever
any building has remained vacant for 30 consecutive days or more.
      (3)   In no instance shall the registration of a vacant building and the
payment of registration fees be construed to exonerate the owner, agent, or
responsible party for compliance with any other building code or housing code
requirement. One registration statement may be filed to include all vacant
buildings of the owner so registering, but each structure constitutes a
separate fee. See §
153.14 for registration and vacant building fees.
(Ord. 2022-06, passed 3-7-2022) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.05 INSPECTION.
   At the time of registration, the Building Code Official, Fire Chief, and
Chief of Police shall determine whether it is necessary for any or all of them
to inspect the structure so as to identify any public safety issues needing
addressed. Inspections shall also be available to verify the status of any
property concerning occupancy, vacancy, and the like. If an internal inspection
is deemed necessary, the owner will be notified of the same and arrangements
made for the same. If the owner fails or refuses to consent to and arrange for
an inspection, the city, before performing any inspection, must seek an
administrative search warrant from a court of competent jurisdiction, which
shall include the Municipal Court, to authorize inspection of the premises for
the purpose of determining the structural integrity of the building, the
repairs necessary to ensure its structural integrity and that it will be safe
for entry by firefighters and police officers in time of emergency, and that
the building and its contents do not present a hazard to the public during the
time that the building remains vacant.
(Ord. 2022-06, passed 3-7-2022)
§ 153.06 CORRECTIVE ACTION.
   The property owners shall be notified, in writing, of any corrective action
deemed necessary for life, safety, and Building Code matters by city officials,
the applicable code provisions or regulations, and will be afforded a
reasonable time to perform the corrective action. Corrective action concerning
the occupancy of vacant structures is discussed later herein.
(Ord. 2022-06, passed 3-7-2022)
§ 153.07 RIGHT OF APPEAL; WAIVER OF REGISTRATION FEE.
   (A)   Appeal rights. The owner shall have the right to appeal the imposition
of the registration fees to the City Manager. An appeal shall exist upon the
filing of an application, in writing, to the Building Code Enforcement
Department no later than 15 calendar days after the date of the billing
statement. On appeal, the owner shall bear the burden of providing satisfactory
objective proof of occupancy as defined in this chapter.
      (1)   Within five days of receiving an appeal, the Building Code Official
shall alert the City Manager to such appeal and the City Manager shall hear
said appeal within 30 calendar days of the date the appeal was filed. The City
Manager shall provide the parties with adequate notice of any hearing. Parties
to the hearing may be represented by another person.
      (2)   The decision of the City Manager may be appealed to the Municipal
Court.
      (3)   The decision of the Municipal Court may be appealed to any court of
competent jurisdiction.
   (B)   One-time waiver of registration fee. A one-time waiver of the
registration fee per property/structure is available. A waiver shall not last
more than 60 days unless, in his or her discretion, the City Manager permits a
longer waiver or an extension of any waiver. A party may seek such waiver
through the Building Code Enforcement Department. The Building Code Official
shall provide such waiver to the City Manager within five days of receiving
such waiver request. The waiver may be granted by the City Manager or his or
her designee, upon review and advice of the Building Code Official and/or other
relevant authorities, if the owner:
      (1)   Demonstrates with satisfactory proof to the City Manager or his or
her designee that he or she is in the process of demolition, rehabilitation, or
other substantial repair of the vacant building; and
      (2)   Objectively demonstrates to the City Manager or his or her designee
a reasonable anticipated length of time for the demolition, rehabilitation, or
other substantial repair of the vacant building;
      (3)   Provides satisfactory proof to the City Manager or his or her
designee that he or she was actively attempting to sell or lease or rent the
property during the vacancy period; or
      (4)   Provides satisfactory proof to the City Manager, to be evaluated on
a case-by-case basis, that the vacancy is temporary and may be due to illness
of the owner, active military service, or some other reasonable explanation
believed to be short term in nature and document able as necessary.
   (C)   Grant or denial of request. Within 30 days, or as soon thereafter as
possible, after the waiver application is received by the City Manager or his
or her designee, the City Manager or his or her designee shall grant or deny
the waiver or request for extension, in writing, and dispatch the written
decision by mail to the owner.
      (1)   If the owner properly submitted an application for a one-time
waiver or request for extension to the City Manager or his or her designee, and
the City Manager or his or her designee rendered a decision which the owner
seeks to appeal, the owner may appeal to the Municipal Court.
      (2)   To constitute a timely appeal, the owner must file an application
in writing no later than 15 calendar days from the date of the City Manager or
his or her designee’s decision. The Municipal Court shall either grant or deny
the appeal.
      (3)   Thereafter the decision of the Municipal Court is final, unless
within 15 days of such decision is appealed to a court of competent
jurisdiction. Such appeal shall stay any registration and/or payment of
registration fees or other actions available to the city concerning the
property/structure at issue related to vacant building registration.
(Ord. 2022-06, passed 3-7-2022)
§ 153.08 AMENDING INFORMATION.
   (A)   Duty to amend registration statement. If the status of the
registration information changes, it is the responsibility of the owner,
responsible party, or agent for the same to contact the Building Code
Enforcement Department with 30 days of the occurrence of such change and advise
the Building Code Official, in writing, of those changes.
   (B)   Exceptions. This chapter shall not apply to any building owned by the
United States, the state, the city, or any of their respective agencies or
political subdivisions.
   (C)   Violations and penalties for failure to register. The Building Code
Official, or his or her designee, shall have the authority to determine fine
amounts for failure to register a vacant building. The failure or refusal for
any reason of any owner, or agent of an owner acting on behalf of the owner, to
register a vacant building upon adoption of this chapter or to pay any fees
required to be paid pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, within 30 days
after they become due shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2022-06, passed 3-7-2022) Penalty, §
153.99
§ 153.09 REINSPECTION.
   All vacant structures are subject to reinspection on an annual basis or as
deemed necessary pursuant to §
153.05.
(Ord. 2022-06, passed 3-7-2022)
§ 153.10 NON-PAYMENT OF FEES/LIENS.
   (A)   After the owner is given notice of the amount of the registration fee
due, except for those owners that have properly perfected an appeal pursuant to
§
153.07, and the owner fails to pay the amount due, said amount shall constitute
a debt due and owing to the city and the city may commence a civil action to
collect such unpaid debt.
   (B)   Lien, or liens, as used in this chapter shall arise whenever the fees
and charges as described in this chapter are levied or imposed. The liens
created in this chapter shall be subject to the provisions of relevant federal,
state, or municipal law that control liens, legal processes related to liens,
and remedies related to liens, or other laws that are related to liens.
   (C)   If an owner fails to pay the registration fee as assessed and the city
begins the collection action to enforce its lien, then the city shall post the
written notice on the property and send the written notice to the owner(s) by
certified and regular mail.
   (D)   (1)   The city may take action to sell the subject property by means
of forfeiture and the court ordered enforcement process to collect the debt
owed the city. The city shall institute the process of forfeiture in any court
of competent jurisdiction, with an aggrieved party having all available rights
to appeal said court decision.
      (2)   Should the city take the steps necessary to sell the subject
property, the city shall do so, subject to all liens and real and personal
property taxes that are due.
      (3)   Purchasers of the subject property shall be similarly responsible
for registration pursuant to this chapter in the same manner as the prior owner
and must begin the registration process anew if said property remains vacant.
(Ord. 2022-06, passed 3-7-2022) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.11 UNPAID REGISTRATION FEES; LEGAL REMEDIES.
   For unpaid registration fees, the city is authorized to take any legal
measures necessary and available to obtain any unpaid fees. Unpaid registration
fees will result in the inability of the owner to obtain other city permits,
such as building, business, and the like. The Building Code Official may use
his or her discretion to determine any hardship exceptions to this rule.
(Ord. 2022-06, passed 3-7-2022)
§ 153.12 REGISTRATION FEES USED FOR SPECIFIC PURPOSES.
   Consistent with W. Va. Code 8-12-16C, all registration fees shall be
deposited into their own account and the fees collected shall be used to:
   (A)   Improve public safety efforts, especially for police and fire
personnel, who most often contend with the dangerous situations manifested in
vacant properties;
   (B)   Monitor and administer this program; and
   (C)   Repair, close, or demolish a vacant structure as authorized by W. Va.
Code 8-12-16.
(Ord. 2022-06, passed 3-7-2022)
§ 153.13 RELATION TO OTHER CODES AND LAWS.
   (A)   It is to be understood that the intent and purpose of this chapter are
separate and distinct from other parts and sections of the this code of
ordinances and the general laws of the state which may also be applicable.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter are applicable to the owners of such
vacant buildings as set forth herein and are, in addition to, and not in lieu
of, any and all other applicable provisions of this code of ordinances, the
city’s Building Code, or any other applicable provisions of the city’s
municipal code.
(Ord. 2022-06, passed 3-7-2022)
§ 153.14 SCHEDULE OF FEE RATES; PROCESS EXAMPLE.
   (A)   Registration process.
      (1)   Step 1: The building gets registered on ____(date) and non-
refundable registration fee is paid.
      (2)   Step 2: From ____(date) to the first day of the second full quarter
after ____(date), the owner pays no vacant fees and hopefully gets the building
un-vacant (this ensures that no matter what date the applicant registers,
everyone gets a full quarter to get un-vacant).
      (3)   Step 3: On first day of second full quarter after ____(date), the
city begins billing the owner a vacant property fee. The bill is quarterly. The
owner is responsible for alerting city to the property becoming un-vacant.
      (4)   Step 4: If the building becomes un-vacant between ____(date) and
start of second full quarter after ____(date), then no vacant fee is charged
and the registration fee is not refunded.
         (a)   Example:
             1.   Quarters begin on: January 1, April 1, July 1, and October 1.
            2.   Building gets registered on March 31, 2022.
            3.   Owner pays registration fee within 30 days of March 31, 2022.
            4.   March 31, 2022, is still in first quarter.
            Thus, the vacant building fees do not begin to be added up until
July 1. The quarter from April 1 to June 30 is the “grace quarter”.
         (b)   If the owner becomes un-vacant in the midst of a quarter, the
quarterly fee shall be prorated for that quarter and be paid before removal
from registry; removal from registry shall also include a valid certificate of
occupancy as proof the structure is not vacant.
         (c)   In the event the owner becomes re-vacant, the same process
begins again.
   (B)   Registration fee. The following registration fees shall be subject to
change based on the decision of the Municipal Court:
      (1)   For expenses in operating this program: $250 per property/
structure; and
      (2)   If voluntarily registered by owner: $125 per property/structure.
The $250 fee shall remain for any buildings that the city must register.
   (C)   Vacancy fee structure. The following vacancy fees shall be subject to
change based on the decision of the Municipal Court:
 
Year        Commercial/Industrial Fee Residential Fee
6 or longer $7,000 per quarter        $4,000 per quarter
 
(Ord. 2022-06, passed 3-7-2022)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   The failure or refusal for any reason of any owner, or agent of an
owner acting on behalf of the owner, to register a vacant building upon
adoption of this chapter or to pay any fees required to be paid pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter, within 30 days after they become due, shall
constitute a violation, punishable upon conviction thereof by a fine in the
amount of not less than $100, nor more than $500, or other amounts deemed
appropriate by the Municipal Court, for each failure or refusal to pay a
required vacant building fee, as applicable. In such cases, whenever the
minimum fine of $100 is imposed, it shall not be subject to suspension or
reduction for any reason. The Building Code Official, or his or her designee,
shall have the authority to suspend or reduce fines that amount to over $100.
The Building Code Official shall use his or her discretion in suspending or
reducing fines. An aggrieved party may challenge such fine court by using the
procedure(s) outlined in §
153.07.
(Ord. 2022-06, passed 3-7-2022)
CHAPTER 154: STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND PUBLIC PLACES
Section
General Provisions
   
154.001   Work on streets to be under supervision of Street Commissioner
   
154.002   Requirements for construction of driveways, drive-ins, and the like
   
154.003   Placement of obstructions restricted
   
154.004   Closing of streets and sidewalks while undergoing repairs
   
154.005   Encroachments, coal holes, and the like
   
154.006   Projecting eaves
   
154.007   Barb wire fences
   
154.008   Where trees may be planted
   
154.009   Maintenance of trees by property owners
   
154.010   Utility companies; authority to remove obstructions; interference
with power lines
   
154.011   Same; poles supporting wires to be inspected by city, and
deficiencies to be remedied by parties responsible
   
154.012   Same; duty to furnish list of poles to city
   
154.013   Prohibited accumulation of snow, ice, and debris on sidewalks;
abatement by the city
   
154.014   Prohibited acts
Curbs and Sidewalks
   
154.025   Standards and specifications for connection, extension, repair, and
maintenance
   
154.026   City may set line of curbing along streets
   
154.027   Sidewalks to conform to grade of street
   
154.028   Grass plots in sidewalks situated in residential areas
   
154.029   Paving and repair of sidewalks at expense of owners of abutting
property; notices; collection of costs
   
154.030   Driveways across sidewalks
   
154.031   Animals and vehicles prohibited on sidewalks
Numbering of Buildings on Streets
   
154.045   Assignment of numbers to properties abutting streets; map of street
numbers
   
154.046   Placement and maintenance of street numbers upon premises by owners
of properties having buildings thereon
   
154.047   Only assigned numbers to be used
   
154.048   Tampering with street numbers prohibited
Excavations
   
154.060   Purposes for which permit required; public place
   
154.061   Classes of applicants for permit
   
154.062   Applications for permits
   
154.063   Action on applications; granting permits; appeal to Common Council
when denied
   
154.064   Persons in first class may execute bonds; approval, terms, and
conditions of bonds
   
154.065   Bond required of public and private utility companies when acting by
and through a contractor
   
154.066   Deposits required of applicants in the second class; schedule of
costs
   
154.067   Purpose and application of deposits; restoration of surface by city
when depositor fails to do so; determination of disputes between depositors and
city
   
154.068   Required precautions to protect persons and property
   
154.069   Diligent prosecution of work and restoration of surface; supervision
by Street Commissioner
   
154.070   Certificate of approval
   
154.071   Violations; forfeiture of deposits upon conviction of depositors
   
154.072   Same; restoration work by city and action on bond in cases of
violations by persons in the first class
Outdoor Advertising
   
154.085   Purpose and finding
   
154.086   Definitions
   
154.087   General regulations for outdoor advertizing
   
154.088   Exceptions to restrictions
   
154.089   Jurisdiction
 
   
154.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.001 WORK ON STREETS TO BE UNDER SUPERVISION OF STREET COMMISSIONER.
   All work done on streets of the city shall be under the supervision and
direction of the Street Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 25-1)
§ 154.002 REQUIREMENTS FOR CONSTRUCTION OF DRIVEWAYS, DRIVE-INS, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   The Street Commissioner is hereby authorized and empowered to approve
the location and construction of driveways, drive-ins, and any other means of
vehicular ingress and egress to and from the public rights-of-way, prior to the
issuance of permits for the construction of such facilities that will require
such means of ingress and egress and that may generate or cause to generate
additional or hazardous traffic movements in the public right-of-way.
   (B)   After final acceptance of the work, a written certificate of approval
shall be furnished by the Street Commissioner to the effect that the work has
been done in accordance with the requirements, as specified in the permit, and
in accordance with the established city lines and grades; and no sidewalk,
curb, or curb and gutter work shall be deemed to comply with this subchapter
until such written certificate of approval has been furnished.
(Prior Code, § 25-2)
§ 154.003 PLACEMENT OF OBSTRUCTIONS RESTRICTED.
   (A)   No materials such as are used in repair or construction projects may
be piled in or upon any public street, sidewalk, or public place by any person
without the permission of the Street Commissioner, and he or she may specify
the manner and place where such materials may be deposited, and require their
removal upon completion of the work.
   (B)   Except as provided above in division (A) above, it shall be unlawful
for any person to obstruct any street, sidewalk, or public place in the city by
placing anything thereon or therein that will interfere with travel or the free
use thereof for the purpose for which they are intended.
(Prior Code, § 25-3) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.004 CLOSING OF STREETS AND SIDEWALKS WHILE UNDERGOING REPAIRS.
   The Street Commissioner may close any street or sidewalk in the city to the
passage of pedestrians or vehicles when any work is being done or is to be done
under the direction of the city authorities, while such work is in progress,
and shall notify the Police Department and Fire Department of such closings.
(Prior Code, § 25-4)
§ 154.005 ENCROACHMENTS, COAL HOLES, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   No person, without the consent of the Common Council, shall encroach
upon any street, sidewalk, or public ground of the city with any building,
porch, balcony, steps, veranda, bay window, show window, lamp, hitching post,
fence, awning, wall, railing, signpost, signboard, electric pole, telephone or
telegraph pole, or in any way or manner appropriate any part of any street,
sidewalk, or other public ground for private use.
   (B)   No person, without the consent of the Common Council, shall build any
cellarway, window way, coal hole, or other opening of any kind or character, in
or through any sidewalk or footwalk, or maintain any such cellarway or other
excavation in any sidewalk or footway, or use the same in such way that
pedestrians may fall therein, or use the same at any time without giving some
warning to pedestrians of the dangers during the whole time the same is open.
(Prior Code, § 25-5) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.006 PROJECTING EAVES.
   All persons owning property within the city, the eaves of any building on
which project on or over the sidewalks along the streets of the city, shall
cause such eaves to be either removed or well spouted.
(Prior Code, § 25-6)
§ 154.007 BARB WIRE FENCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner or occupier of property to erect or
maintain barb-wire fences or fences of like nature where any such fence borders
on the streets of the city.
(Prior Code, § 25-7) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.008 WHERE TREES MAY BE PLANTED.
   It shall be lawful to plant shade and ornamental trees upon any of the
pavements of the city at a distance not greater than nine inches from the
inside of any curbstone fronting upon any street in the city. (Prior Code, §
25-8)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to protect and conserve trees and removal of trees, see W. Va.
Code 8-12-5(29)
§ 154.009 MAINTENANCE OF TREES BY PROPERTY OWNERS.
   (A)   All shade and ornamental trees upon or along any sidewalk in the city
shall be kept so trimmed that there shall be a clear space of at least eight
feet between the lower limbs of each such tree and the level of the sidewalk.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the owner or occupant of any property abutting
on any such sidewalk to cause all shade and ornamental trees upon or along such
sidewalk to be trimmed and kept trimmed in accordance with this section, and a
failure to do so shall be unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 25-9) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.010 UTILITY COMPANIES; AUTHORITY TO REMOVE OBSTRUCTIONS; INTERFERENCE
WITH POWER LINES.
   (A)   Any officer, employee, or agent of any public utility company engaged
in the transmission or distribution of electric current whose wires, lines, or
other conduits come, or are liable to come, in contact with any tree,
structure, projection, or obstruction extending on or over any street,
sidewalk, or other public place of the city shall have and is hereby given full
authority and permission to cut away or remove such tree, structure,
projection, or obstruction in such manner that there may be no danger of any
outage from such electric wires, lines, or other conduits onto such tree,
structure, projection, or obstruction.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to molest or interfere with, in
any way, any other person engaged in the cutting away or removing of any tree,
structure, projection, or obstruction under authority of this section.
(Prior Code, § 25-10) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.011 SAME; POLES SUPPORTING WIRES TO BE INSPECTED BY CITY, AND
DEFICIENCIES TO BE REMEDIED BY PARTIES RESPONSIBLE.
   It shall be the duty of the Street Commissioner to periodically inspect all
poles and structures for the support of electric or communications wires within
the city, and each such pole or structure shall be of strong and sound
material, firmly planted, and of sufficient height so that the lowest wire
thereon shall be at least 25 feet above ground level; and if for any cause
whatever any such pole or structure shall be found deficient in any respect, he
or she shall notify the responsible party to remedy such deficiency forthwith,
and it shall be unlawful for such responsible party to fail to comply with the
terms of the notice.
(Prior Code, § 25-11) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.012 SAME; DUTY TO FURNISH LIST OF POLES TO CITY.
   It shall be the duty of all telegraph, telephone, and other corporations,
firms, and individuals owning or using poles in the streets, sidewalks, or
public places of the city, which are not assessed with, nor pay taxes for
municipal purposes, to furnish to the Common Council not later than June 1 in
each year, a correct list of the number of poles owned or used by them on that
day within the limits of the city for the support of their wires, but such list
shall not be conclusive upon the city as to the number so owned or used by such
corporations, firms, or individuals, and every such corporation, firm, or
individual hereby required to furnish such list who shall fail to do so or
knowingly furnish a false or incorrect list of the number of poles owned or
used by it or him or her on the public grounds of the city shall be subject to
prosecution for violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 25-12)
§ 154.013 PROHIBITED ACCUMULATION OF SNOW, ICE, AND DEBRIS ON SIDEWALKS;
ABATEMENT BY THE CITY.
   No person shall permit the accumulation of snow or ice upon the sidewalk
adjacent to any property owned or occupied by him or her within the city, but
shall remove the same within a reasonable time not later than 9:00 a.m. and 4:
00 p.m. each day that snow or ice accumulates thereon. No person shall permit
the accumulation of trash, debris, or anything unsanitary upon the sidewalk
adjacent to any property owned or occupied by him or her within the city, or
within five feet of any such sidewalk. Upon the accumulation of any snow, ice,
or debris upon any sidewalk or within five feet of any sidewalk in violation of
this section the city, if the owner or occupant of the adjacent property fails
to do so upon notice, may remove such snow, ice, or debris and the expense of
such removal shall be charged to the owner of such adjacent property and shall
constitute a lien upon such property.
(Prior Code, § 25-13) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.014 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, by himself or herself or agent, without
lawful authority so to do, to destroy, injure, or deface any of the guide
boards, milestones or posts, parapets, walks, culverts, bridges, masonry of any
kind, railing, post, or guard along any street in the city; or to obstruct or
injure any such street or any ditch made for the drainage thereof, or; any of
its sewers, curbing, gutters, drains, or culverts; or to place or leave in any
street of the city any ashes, cinders, earth, stone, or other material
obstructive to the travel and use of such street; or to place or leave in such
street any vehicle or conveyance of any kind, or any kind of implement, so as
to interfere with travel thereon; or to divert any stream of water from its
regular course or channel so as to injure or endanger such street; or to
connect any road with such street in such manner as to impede the flow of water
in the ditches or gutters thereof or obstruct or impede travel thereon; or to
throw or place, or cause to be thrown or placed, on any such street, any tacks,
nails, scrap metal, glass, crockery, wire, or other substance injurious to the
feet of persons or animals, or the tires of vehicles; or to remove, injure, or
destroy any material or equipment used or intended for use in the construction,
reconstruction, repair, or maintenance of any such street; or to kill a tree
and leave it standing within 50 feet of such street or highway.
(Prior Code, § 25-14) Penalty, see §
154.999
CURBS AND SIDEWALKS
§ 154.025 STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS FOR CONNECTION, EXTENSION, REPAIR, AND
MAINTENANCE.
   Curbstones, curbing, and sidewalks shall be constructed, extended, repaired,
and maintained in conformity with standards and specifications prepared by the
Street Commissioner and approved by action of the Common Council entered upon
its journal, a copy of which shall be maintained on file, in current status, in
the office of the Street Commissioner and shall there be available to the
public for inspection and use during all regular business hours.
(Prior Code, § 25-15)
§ 154.026 CITY MAY SET LINE OF CURBING ALONG STREETS.
   The Common Council may cause a line of curbing to be set or reset along any
street, or any portion thereof, at the expense of the city.
(Prior Code, § 25-16)
§ 154.027 SIDEWALKS TO CONFORM TO GRADE OF STREET.
   The pavements of sidewalks shall be of a uniform grade with the street or
any alley on which they border, and shall rise from the curbstone at a uniform
angle of elevation of one-half inch in every foot of the width thereof. Each
pavement shall be of a material which is authorized by the city.
(Prior Code, § 25-17)
§ 154.028 GRASS PLOTS IN SIDEWALKS SITUATED IN RESIDENTIAL AREAS.
   (A)   In such residential portions of the city as may not be from time to
time excepted from this provision by resolution of the Common Council, where a
sidewalk is not less than ten feet in width, a grass plot 24 inches in width
between the inside of the curb and the sidewalk proper may be sodded in lieu of
paving; and where such sidewalk is less than ten and more than five feet in
width a grass plot 18 inches in width between the inside of the curb and the
sidewalk proper may be sodded in lieu of paving thereon, but no margin
adjoining the property line will be permitted.
   (B)   Such margins shall be neatly sodded with grass by the owners of the
adjacent lands.
(Prior Code, § 25-18)
§ 154.029 PAVING AND REPAIR OF SIDEWALKS AT EXPENSE OF OWNERS OF ABUTTING
PROPERTY; NOTICES; COLLECTION OF COSTS.
   (A)   The owner of any lot or ground fronting on any street or alley in this
city and where the sidewalks are not paved, shall, within 20 days from the time
a notice shall be served upon such owner by the Street Commissioner at the
instance of the Common Council, requiring him or her so to do, properly pave
the whole of the sidewalk in front of his or her property, whether curbing
shall exist or shall have been set along the same or not, in such manner as to
comply with the requirements of the standards and specifications of the Street
Commissioner as approved by the Common Council; but the Council may, on account
of freezing weather or for other good cause, by a resolution adopted by it,
extend for a definite period, not exceeding 30 days, the time within which such
paving may be done.
   (B)   Whenever the owner of any lot of ground shall fail or refuse to cause
such sidewalk to be paved as required by division (A) above, within the time
therein mentioned, or within the time limited by the Common Council if the
Council shall have granted an extension of time, it shall be the duty of the
Council to cause the sidewalk to be paved, in conformity with the city
standards and specifications, upon the most reasonable terms obtainable, and to
deliver to the City Clerk a statement of the cost of such pavement, and also to
deliver to such property owner or his or her agent a copy of such statement.
   (C)   Whenever in the opinion of the Common Council the pavement of any
sidewalk in the city shall need any repair, it shall give notice to the owner
of the adjacent property or, in case the owner have an agent for the management
of the property, to either the owner or the agent, or if neither such owner or
agent be found in the city, then to any tenant of the premises, requiring such
pavement to be repaired in a manner and to an extent to be reasonable,
described in the notice, within a time to be specified in the notice, and if
such repairs be not made within the time and in the manner required by the
notice, it shall be the duty of the Common Council to cause such repairs to be
made and to assess the actual cost thereof upon such owner and to deliver a
statement of such assessment of the actual cost to the City Clerk and a copy
thereof to such owner, his or her agent or tenant.
   (D)   Any statement of costs and expenses as is mentioned in this section
shall be a special tax or assessment in favor of the city against such owner;
and the provision requiring the delivery of a copy of such assessment of the
actual cost to the owner, his or her agent or tenant, is intended to facilitate
the collection of the assessment, and a failure to deliver it shall in nowise
invalidate the assessment or delay the collection by distress or levy.
   (E)   (1)   If within ten days after the receipt of such statement by the
City Clerk there be not filed therewith the receipt of the City Treasurer for
the amount thereof, the City Clerk shall deliver a statement thereof to the
Chief of Police, and charge the same to him or her in his or her account with
the city as an additional or supplemental assessment to be credited to the
General Fund of the city.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to collect the amount
of any and all such bills from the owner of such grounds or from the persons in
the possession or occupancy thereof, by distress and sale, in the manner in
which other taxes levied for the benefit of the city are or may be collected.
(Prior Code, § 25-19)
Statutory reference:
   As to pavement and repair of sidewalks by city at expense of owners, see W.
Va. Code 8-18-1
§ 154.030 DRIVEWAYS ACROSS SIDEWALKS.
   Any person desiring a driveway across the sidewalk of his or her premises
shall cause the sidewalk to be paved with cement or other material designated
by the Street Commissioner and shall, when required by the Street Commissioner,
replace the curbstone that may be injured or destroyed by the use of such
driveway.
(Prior Code, § 25-20)
§ 154.031 ANIMALS AND VEHICLES PROHIBITED ON SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle or to ride,
drive, or to lead any horse or other beast of burden along or across any
sidewalk in the city, except upon such part of any sidewalk as may be made for
crossing thereof.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or having charge of a
horse, cow, or mule to hitch such animal on, or to surfer any such animal to
lie on, feed on, or befoul any sidewalk in the city.
(Prior Code, § 25-21) Penalty, see §
154.999
NUMBERING OF BUILDINGS ON STREETS
§ 154.045 ASSIGNMENT OF NUMBERS TO PROPERTIES ABUTTING STREETS; MAP OF STREET
NUMBERS.
   (A)   Each lot and parcel of land or fraction thereof within the city which
abuts upon any street shall have a street number; and even-numbers shall face
their next consecutive odd-numbers on the opposite side of each street. The
number of lineal feet along any street for which one number shall be designated
may vary from one locality to another according to circumstances, but, in
general, in business districts the assignment of one number for ten lineal feet
is considered desirable, and in residential districts the assignment of one
number for 25 lineal feet is considered desirable.
   (B)   The Street Commissioner shall prepare and maintain in his or her
office for the benefit of the public, a street map of the city which shall show
the street numbers of lots and parcels of land, and fractions thereof, which
abut upon city streets.
(Prior Code, § 25-22)
§ 154.046 PLACEMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF STREET NUMBERS UPON PREMISES BY OWNERS
OF PROPERTIES HAVING BUILDINGS THEREON.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of each owner of any building or other structure
now standing or hereafter erected upon any premises abutting upon any street
and to which premises a street number or numbers has been assigned pursuant to
this subchapter to place and maintain upon or within the immediate vicinity of
such building or structure the correct street number or numbers so assigned.
   (B)   In placing numbers upon or within the immediate vicinity of buildings
and structures pursuant to division (A) above, property owners shall securely
affix to or mark upon the outside thereof, at or near the entrance thereto, the
correct Arabic numerals of the assigned street number or numbers, or, in lieu
thereof, may erect and maintain an appropriate sign bearing such Arabic
numerals unless such sign be prohibited by any other provision of this code or
other ordinance; and, in either case, such numerals shall be of sufficient
size, color, and legibility, and displayed at such a place upon the building or
premises, as to be readily seen and easily read by an ordinarily observant
person in a vehicle upon the center of the street which abuts such premises.
(Prior Code, § 25-23)
§ 154.047 ONLY ASSIGNED NUMBERS TO BE USED.
   No number different from that prescribed by this subchapter shall be used by
any property owner or occupier of any building or structure.
(Prior Code, § 25-24)
§ 154.048 TAMPERING WITH STREET NUMBERS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, without proper authority, to alter,
remove, obliterate, screen from view, or otherwise tamper with any street
number which is in place pursuant to this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 25-25) Penalty, see §
154.999
EXCAVATIONS
§ 154.060 PURPOSES FOR WHICH PERMIT REQUIRED; PUBLIC PLACE.
   No person shall dig or excavate in any street, sidewalk, or other like
public place (hereinafter sometimes designated as “public place”) within the
city, or install, repair, or replace any property or equipment in, or do any
other work in or on, any such public place which requires the removal or
breaking of the surface or under part of any such public place, unless and
until such person shall have first procured, in the manner hereinafter
provided, a permit so to do.
(Prior Code, § 25-26)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to open streets, sidewalks, and public places, see W. Va. Code 8-
12-5(2)
§ 154.061 CLASSES OF APPLICANTS FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   For the purpose of granting permits under this subchapter, applicants
shall be divided into two classes: the first class shall be constituted of all
those to whom permission shall be given to execute a bond in lieu of the
deposit in cash hereinafter set forth; and the second class shall be
constituted of all those of whom a cash deposit shall be required. The Common
Council may, from time to time as it sees fit, by appropriate resolutions,
designate any person so making or about to make such application to be in the
first class, and when so designated those in the first class may give the bond
as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Those persons who, immediately preceding the effective date of this
code, comprised the “first class” under this section, shall continue in that
class until otherwise provided by resolution of the Common Council.
(Prior Code, § 25-27)
§ 154.062 APPLICATIONS FOR PERMITS.
   To obtain an excavation permit, each applicant therefor shall file with the
Street Commissioner, except in the case of emergency work to be done by a
person in the first class, a written application setting forth the character
and location of such work to be done in any public place, and the proper number
of square yards of surface to be removed, and the probable date of beginning
and completion. (Prior Code, § 25-28)
§ 154.063 ACTION ON APPLICATIONS; GRANTING PERMITS; APPEAL TO COMMON COUNCIL
WHEN DENIED.
   Upon receipt of an application for an excavation permit, the Street
Commissioner shall without delay either grant or deny such permit, but in the
absence of the Street Commissioner, the application may be delivered to the
Mayor, who shall either grant or deny the permit applied for and, in either
case, upon rejection of the application, the applicant shall have the right to
present the matter to the Common Council, the order of which shall be final in
such matter, and upon final rejection any deposit of money shall be returned to
the depositor thereof.
(Prior Code, § 25-29)
§ 154.064 PERSONS IN FIRST CLASS MAY EXECUTE BONDS; APPROVAL, TERMS, AND
CONDITIONS OF BONDS.
   All persons in the first class, before they dig or excavate in any public
place, shall deposit with the City Treasurer a bond to be approved by the City
Attorney, in a principal sum to be fixed by the Mayor and Street Commissioner,
with good and sufficient corporate surety, to be approved by the Mayor and
Street Commissioner or by the Common Council, and conditioned upon the prompt
and immediate replacement of such place in as good condition as it was
immediately before such person had so excavated or dug into or otherwise
molested or altered in any particular any such public place, which bond shall
be and continue to be effective and binding on the parties signing the same for
the period of five years from the date thereof, unless sooner revoked by the
agreement of the parties, and as much longer as may be necessary to determine
compliance therewith as hereinafter provided; and the city shall have the right
to recover on any such bond for violation of any condition thereof after 18
months from the time of the completion of any replacement project; and such
bond shall be upon other conditions properly relating to the purpose of such
bond as the City Attorney may prescribe; and the waiver or release by the city
of any violation of any condition of the bond, or the failure of the city to
act within the time specified upon any violation of any condition of the bond,
shall not be taken to be, and shall not be, a waiver, release, or abandonment
of any other violation.
(Prior Code, § 25-30)
§ 154.065 BOND REQUIRED OF PUBLIC AND PRIVATE UTILITY COMPANIES WHEN ACTING BY
AND THROUGH A CONTRACTOR.
   Any other provision of this subchapter to the contrary notwithstanding, any
utility company, whether public or private, disturbing the surface of any
public street, sidewalk, or place of the city by digging or tunneling under the
surface thereof and so acting by and through a contractor, not in the course of
emergency work, shall require that its contractor post a bond in the amount of
$50,000, or other amount deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court, conditioned
that such public street, sidewalk, or place so disturbed by digging or
tunneling, shall be restored by the contractor to as good a condition as they
were in prior to such digging or tunneling, to the satisfaction of a majority
of the members of the Common Council.
(Prior Code, § 25-31) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.066 DEPOSITS REQUIRED OF APPLICANTS IN THE SECOND CLASS; SCHEDULE OF
COSTS.
   (A)   All persons in the second class, upon making application for an
excavation permit, shall pay to the City Treasurer a sum of money to be based
upon the square yards of surface of such public place to be removed, to be
determined by the City Treasurer as provided in a schedule to be prepared by
the Street Commissioner and approved by resolution of the Common Council; and
such schedule shall provide for a deposit adequate in each instance to backfill
the excavation, restore the surface to as good condition as it was prior to
making the excavation, install and maintain barriers, lights, and other
safeguards should the permit holder fail to do so, to remove and dispose of any
rubble that may remain after the work of restoration has been completed, and to
reimburse the city for any additional expense that may be incurred by it and
incidental to the permit. In the preparation of any such schedule, the cost of
materials and labor for the several types of paving used in the city shall be
given due consideration.
   (B)   Until such schedule has been prepared and approved as hereinabove
provided, the amount of deposit shall be determined as in the manner prescribed
in pertinent ordinances in effect immediately preceding the effective date of
this code.
   (C)   The City Treasurer shall make, and provide to each depositor, his or
her written receipt for each deposit made pursuant to this section.
(Prior Code, § 25-32)
§ 154.067 PURPOSE AND APPLICATION OF DEPOSITS; RESTORATION OF SURFACE BY CITY
WHEN DEPOSITOR FAILS TO DO SO; DETERMINATION OF DISPUTES BETWEEN DEPOSITORS AND
CITY.
   The deposit of money made shall constitute a guarantee and may be employed
by the city for the replacement of such public place in as good condition as it
was immediately before such excavation or diggings and upon default of such
person so making such deposit in restoring immediately such public place to as
good condition as it was immediately before such excavation or digging was done
by him or her, the Street Commissioner may employ the whole or any part of such
deposit of money necessary for such restoration, upon the restoration of such
public place to such condition as it was immediately before such digging or
excavation the City Treasurer shall, upon the certificate of the Street
Commissioner or Mayor, restore to the person so making such deposit such sum of
money so deposited, or in case any part thereof is employed by the city for
such restoration of such public place, upon such certificate the City Treasurer
shall refund such part of such sum of money so remaining, any controversy
between the one making such deposit and the City Treasurer or the Street
Commissioner, or the Mayor, respecting any of the duties to be performed by any
of them, may be submitted to the Common Council by any of the parties, and when
so submitted the action of the Council thereon shall be binding on all the
parties.
(Prior Code, § 25-33)
§ 154.068 REQUIRED PRECAUTIONS TO PROTECT PERSONS AND PROPERTY.
   Upon the granting of an excavation permit, and in all other cases herein
provided for, it shall be the duty of the permit holder before beginning any
such work, to enclose the place or places where such work is being done or
otherwise afford adequate protection to persons and property and to street
traffic, and to post and keep posted at such place a placard or placards that
the work is being done under permit granted by the city, with sufficient other
information thereon to give ample warning to those using such public place that
the same is out of repair or being repaired, and in addition thereto with
sufficient markings at night by red light or otherwise to so notify those
having the right to use the same that such public place, or part thereof, is
closed, and to take such other measures as may be adequate at all times to
prevent injury to persons or property.
(Prior Code, § 25-34)
§ 154.069 DILIGENT PROSECUTION OF WORK AND RESTORATION OF SURFACE; SUPERVISION
BY STREET COMMISSIONER.
   All work done pursuant to an excavation permit shall be promptly started and
completed without delay after such permission shall have been granted, and such
public place shall be, immediately upon the completion of such work, restored
to the same or as good condition as the same was before such work was done
thereon; and such work and restoration shall be at all times in all respects in
compliance with the orders and supervision of the Street Commissioner from time
to time given such person for such purpose.
(Prior Code, § 25-35)
§ 154.070 CERTIFICATE OF APPROVAL.
   After final acceptance of the work, a written certificate of approval shall
be furnished by the Street Commissioner to the effect that the work has been
done in accordance with the requirements, as specified in the permit, and in
accordance with the established city lines and grades; and no sidewalk, curb,
or curb and gutter work shall be deemed to comply with this subchapter until
such written certificate of approval has been furnished.
(Prior Code, § 25-36)
§ 154.071 VIOLATIONS; FORFEITURE OF DEPOSITS UPON CONVICTION OF DEPOSITORS.
   It shall be unlawful for the holder of any permit under this subchapter to
fail to begin work promptly or to complete such work without delay, or upon the
completion of such work, to fail to restore such public place to the same or as
good condition as it was before such work was done, or to fail to comply with
the reasonable rules or regulations of the Street Commissioner from time to
time given to such person for the completion and restoration of such public
place. Upon conviction of any person for a violation of this section any
deposit made by him or her with the City Treasurer pursuant to this subchapter
shall stand and be forfeited to the city as money due to the city, and such
forfeiture shall be in addition to any fine or imprisonment imposed for such
violation.
(Prior Code, § 25-37) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.072 SAME; RESTORATION WORK BY CITY AND ACTION ON BOND IN CASES OF
VIOLATIONS BY PERSONS IN THE FIRST CLASS.
   Upon the failure of any permit holder of the first class to make such
repairs hereinbefore mentioned in the manner or in the time required, the
Street Commissioner is empowered and authorized to cause such repairs to be
made and such public place to be restored to its original condition, and the
cost thereof, plus 10% thereof, shall be charged to and paid by such permittee
who so fails to make such repairs, and such sum of money shall constitute and
be a debt due from such permittee to the city, and in addition to any other
remedy fixed by law, an action shall lie upon his or her bond against the
principal and sureties or surety, who shall be liable jointly and severally.
(Prior Code, § 25-38)
OUTDOOR ADVERTISING
§ 154.085 PURPOSE AND FINDING.
   (A)   Outdoor advertising is a legitimate, commercial use of private
property adjacent to roads and highways.
   (B)   Outdoor advertising is an integral part of the business and marketing
function of an establishment segment of the national economy which serves to
promote and protect private investments in commerce and industry.
   (C)   The erection and maintenance of outdoor advertising signs and
displays, and devices in areas adjacent to roads and highways, to promote
recreational value of public travel, to preserve natural beauty, and to promote
reasonable, orderly, and effective display of such signs, displays, and
devices.
   (D)   Council further finds and declares that fiscal actualities reflect
that the people of the city would suffer economically if the city failed to
enact provisions to recover its costs of enacting this subchapter, among other
things, to provide a statutory basis for regulation of outdoor advertising
consistent with the public policy relating to areas adjacent to roads and
highways, including federal-aid interstate and primary highways as declared by
the Congress of the United States.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.086 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEVICE. Each and any card, cloth, paper, metal, vinyl, or wooden advertising
emblem or sign of any kind or character which is posted, stuck, glued, tacked,
nailed, painted, or otherwise fastened or affixed to or upon any fence, post,
tree, or thing other than an advertising sign or structure.
   DISPLAY. Each and any poster, bill, printing, writing, drawing, painting, or
advertising material of any kind or character whatsoever, designed and intended
to draw the attention of the public to each of any goods, merchandise,
property, real or personal, business service, entertainment, or amusement
produced, bought, sold, conducted, furnished, or dealt in by any person, which
is placed, posted, painted, tacked, nailed, glued, or otherwise affixed or
fastened to any advertising sign or structure, or otherwise displayed outdoors.
   SIGN. Each and any structure erected for advertising purposes, including,
but not limited to, each structure commonly known as a billboard, upon which
any poster, printing, writing, drawing, painting, vinyl sheet, or advertising
material of any kind or character whatsoever, may be planned, posted, painted,
tacked, nailed, glued, or otherwise fastened, affixed, or displayed.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.087 GENERAL REGULATIONS FOR OUTDOOR ADVERTIZING.
   The following restrictions shall apply to all advertising signs, displays,
and devices erected and maintained adjacent to any roads within the city:
   (A)   No advertising sign shall be erected or maintained which involves
rapid motion or rotation of the structure or any part thereof;
   (B)   No advertising display or device shall use the word “stop” or “danger”
or present or imply the need or requirement of stopping, or the existence of
danger;
   (C)   No advertising sign, display, or device shall be a copy or imitate a
traffic sign or other official sign;
   (D)   No advertising display or device shall attempt or purport to direct
traffic;
   (E)   No advertising display or device shall contain lighting which is not
appropriately shielded and any lighting shall be of such low intensity as not
to cause a glare or impair the vision of the operator of any motor vehicle, nor
be a nuisance to any adjacent residential area;
   (F)   No advertising display or device shall be compromised of or
illuminated by any rapid flashing, intermittent light or lights;
   (G)   No advertising display or device shall be painted, affixed, or
attached to any natural feature;
   (H)   No advertising sign display or device shall hinder the clear,
unobstructed view of approaching or merging traffic, or obscure from view any
traffic sign or other official sign, or obscure the view of signs, displays, or
devices advertising activities conducted on the property on which they are
located;
   (I)   No advertising sign display or device shall be so located as to
obscure the view of any connecting road or intersection;
   (J)   No advertising sign display or device shall be erected within 500 feet
of any church, school property, cemetery, public park, public reservation,
public playground, or state or national forest;
   (K)   No advertising sign display or device shall be larger than 300 square
feet per advertising surface area; nor be within 1,000 of the nearest adjacent
advertising sign, display, or device; nor be within 500 feet of any residence
or residential area; nor be less than 15 feet in height at the lowest point of
the sign itself, nor greater than 40 feet in height at the highest point of the
sign itself, nor be within 60 feet, or 150%, of the highest point on the
structure or sign, of any building or other structure, nor shall stacked, side
by side, tri-vision (three-sided) spinning, automatically - electronically, LED
(light emitting diode), mechanically, or similar types - display changing signs
be permitted in any location in the city nor be closer than 25 feet from the
nearest edge of any public roadway or highway or any regularly used right- of-
way above or upon the surface of the ground;
   (L)   No sign, display, device, or any outdoor advertising of any kind
located within the city shall, directly or indirectly, contain, indicate, or
make reference to any obscene, abusive, or offensive language, act, or
depiction deemed not appropriate for display within the city. Further, in the
interest of the public, the city reserves the right to limit the number of
advertisement making reference to certain subjects including, but not limited
to, alcoholic or intoxicating beverages (including beer, non-alcoholic beer,
wine, liquor, or similar beverages), gambling, tobacco, or activities referring
to nudity or of a lewd, indecent, lascivious, or obscene nature.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.088 EXCEPTIONS TO RESTRICTIONS.
   The provisions of §
154.087 shall not apply to the following:
   (A)   Directional and other official signs and notices required or
authorized by law, including, but not limited to, signs and notices pertaining
to natural wonders, farm wineries, and scenic and historical attractions, which
said signs and notices shall conform to standards respecting lighting, size,
number, spacing, and such other appropriate requirements as may be designed and
specified by the state’s Secretary of Transportation;
   (B)   Signs, displays, and devices advertising the sale or lease of property
upon which they are located;
   (C)   Signs, displays, and devices advertising activities conducted on the
property on which they are located; and
   (D)   Signs, displays, and devices giving specific information in the
interest of the traveling public, which may be erected and maintained pursuant
to authorization of the Mayor, within the rights-of-way of roadways and
highways.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.089 JURISDICTION.
   The territory under the jurisdiction of the City Council, for the purposes
of this subchapter, shall include all of the city. The Mayor and his or her
designee, under his or her direction, in the performance of their functions and
duties under the provisions of this subchapter, may enter into and upon which
displays or devices are exhibited and make such examinations and surveys, and
take such actions, as may be relevant.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter for which no other
penalty is provided shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any public utility or private utility violating the requirements of §
154.065 shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not less than $5 nor more than
$100, or other amount deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court, and each day
that any such utility company shall continue the violation shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 25-31)
CHAPTER 155: OIL AND GAS WELLS
Section
   
155.01   Definitions
   
155.02   City permit required; application
   
155.03   Restrictions as to drilling in streets and alleys
   
155.04   Drilling within 300 feet of a building; consent required
   
155.05   Application for permit; filing fee
   
155.06   Issuance or refusal of permit; terms and conditions; mandatory
compliance
   
155.07   Termination of permit by laches
   
155.08   Insurance and bond required of permittee prior to start of drilling or
operation
   
155.09   Oil and Gas Well Inspector
   
155.10   Deeper drilling of well
   
155.11   Derricks and rigs
   
155.12   Pits
   
155.13   Casing
   
155.14   Setting and cement casing
   
155.15   Valves and blowout preventers
   
155.16   Drilling fluids
   
155.17   Drill stem test and fractures
   
155.18   Tubing
   
155.19   Bradenhead
   
155.20   Christmas tree and well head connections
   
155.21   Premises to be kept clean and sanitary
   
155.22   Mufflers
   
155.23   Storage tanks and separators
   
155.24   Fence
   
155.25   Venting and flaring of gas
   
155.26   Abandonment and plugging
   
155.27   Disposal of salt water
   
155.28   Violation of state and federal laws and regulations constitute
violations of this chapter
 
   
155.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Licenses, see
Ch. 110
§ 155.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section; provided, that all
technical or oil and gas industry words or phrases used herein and not
specifically defined herein shall have that meaning customarily attributable
thereto by prudent operators in the oil and gas industry.
   LEASE. Any tract of land subject to an oil, gas, and mineral lease or other
oil and gas development contract, or any unit composed of several tracts and
leases but operated as one lease, and any tract of land in which the minerals
are owned by an operator or someone holding under it or him or her, but which,
due to the fee royalty ownership is developed and operated as a separate tract.
   PERMITTEE. The person to whom is issued a permit for the drilling and
operation of a well under this chapter, and his, her, or its administrators,
executors, heirs, successors, and assigns.
   WELL. Any hole or holes, bore or bores, to any sand, formation, strata, or
depth for the purpose of producing and recovering any oil, gas, liquid
hydrocarbon, or any of them.
(Prior Code, § 18-1)
§ 155.02 CITY PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person acting either for himself or
herself or acting as agent, employee, independent contractor, or servant of any
other person, to commence to drill, to drill, or to operate, any well within
the city limits of the city or to work upon or assist in any way in the
prosecution or operation of such well without a currently valid permit therefor
having first been issued by the authority of the Common Council in accordance
with the terms of this chapter.
   (B)   Further, upon application for such permit from the city, the applicant
or permittee shall evidence to the city that in his or her application for a
permit to drill for oil or gas from the state’s Bureau of Mines he or she has
stated therein that the well is to be drilled within the corporate limits of
the city.
(Prior Code, § 18-2) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.03 RESTRICTIONS AS TO DRILLING IN STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   No well shall be drilled and no permit shall be issued for any well to be
drilled at any location which is within any of the streets or alleys of the
city; and no street or alley shall be blocked, encumbered, or closed in any
drilling or production operation except by special permit by order of the
Common Council, and then only temporarily.
(Prior Code, § 18-3)
§ 155.04 DRILLING WITHIN 300 FEET OF A BUILDING; CONSENT REQUIRED.
   No well shall be drilled and no permit shall be issued for any well to be
drilled at any location which is nearer than 300 feet of any residence or
commercial building without the applicant having first secured the written
permission of the owner or owners thereof.
(Prior Code, § 18-4)
§ 155.05 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; FILING FEE.
   (A)   Every application for a permit to drill and operate a well shall be in
writing, signed by the applicant or by some person duly authorized to sign on
his or her behalf, and it shall be filed with the City Clerk and be accompanied
with a filing fee of $300 in cash, or other amount deemed appropriate by the
Municipal Court.
   (B)   An application shall include full information, including the
following:
      (1)   The date of application;
      (2)   Name of the applicant;
      (3)   Address of the applicant;
      (4)   Proposed site of the well, including:
         (a)   Name of the fee owner;
         (b)   Name of the lease owner; and
         (c)   Brief description of the land.
      (5)   Type of derrick to be used;
      (6)   The proposed depth of the well; and
      (7)   The proposed casing program.
(Prior Code, § 18-5)
§ 155.06 ISSUANCE OR REFUSAL OF PERMIT; TERMS AND CONDITIONS; MANDATORY
COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   The Common Council, within 20 days after the filing of the application
for a permit to drill and operate a well, shall determine whether or not the
application complies in all respects with the provisions of this chapter, and
if it does, the Council shall then fix the amount of the principal of the bond
and insurance provided for in §
155.08, and, after such determination, shall issue a permit for the drilling
and operation of the well applied for.
   (B)   Each permit issued under this chapter shall:
      (1)   By reference have incorporated therein all the provisions of this
chapter with the same force and effect as if this chapter were copied verbatim
in said permit;
      (2)   Specify the well location with particularity to lot number, block
number, name of addition or subdivision, or other available correct legal
description;
      (3)   Contain and specify that the term of such permit shall be for a
period of one year from the date of the permit and as long thereafter as the
permittee is engaged in drilling operations with no cessation of such
operations for more than 90 days, or oil or gas is produced in commercial
quantities from the well drilled pursuant to such permit; provided, that if at
any time after discovery of oil or gas the production thereof in commercial
quantities shall cease, the term shall not terminate if the permittee commences
additional reworking operations within 90 days thereafter, and if they result
in the production of oil or gas, so long thereafter as oil or gas is produced
in commercial quantities from said well;
      (4)   Contain and specify such conditions as are by this chapter
authorized;
      (5)   Specify the total depth to which the well may be drilled, not
exceeding the projected depth; and
      (6)   Contain and specify that no actual operations shall be commenced
until the permittee shall file and have approved an indemnity bond in the
designated principal amount as so determined by the Common Council and
conditioned as specified in §
155.08.
   (C)   Such permit, in duplicate originals, shall be signed by the Mayor, and
prior to delivery to the permittee shall be signed by the permittee (with one
original to be retained by the city and one by the permittee); and when so
signed shall constitute the permittee’s drilling and operating license and the
contractual obligation of the permittee to comply with the terms of such
permit, such bond, and this chapter.
   (D)   If the permit for the well be refused, or if the applicant notifies
the Common Council in writing that he or she does not elect to accept the
permit as tendered and wishes to withdraw his or her application, or if the
bond of the applicant be not approved and the applicant notifies the Council in
writing that he or she wishes to withdraw his or her application, then upon the
happening of said events the cash deposit provided for to be filed with the
application shall be returned to the applicant, except that there shall be
retained therefrom by the city $100 as a processing fee, or other amount deemed
appropriate by the Municipal Court.
(Prior Code, § 18-6)
§ 155.07 TERMINATION OF PERMIT BY LACHES.
   When a permit shall have been issued, it shall terminate and become
inoperative without any action on the part of the city unless, within 90 days
from the date of issuance, actual drilling of the well shall have commenced.
The cessation for a like period of the drilling operations or the cessation of
the production of oil or gas from the well after production shall have
commenced shall operate to terminate and cancel the permit, and the well shall
be considered as abandoned for all purposes of this chapter, and it shall be
unlawful thereafter to continue the operation or drilling of such well without
the issuance of another permit.
(Prior Code, § 18-7) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.08 INSURANCE AND BOND REQUIRED OF PERMITTEE PRIOR TO START OF DRILLING OR
OPERATION.
   (A)   In the event a permit be issued by the Common Council under the terms
of this chapter for the drilling and operation of a well, no actual drilling
operations shall be commenced until the permittee shall file with the City
Clerk a bond and certificate of insurance, as follows.
      (1)   A bond in the principal sum of such number of dollars as has been
so determined by the Common Council, but not to be less than $5,000, or other
amount deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court, such bond to be executed by a
reliable insurance company authorized to do business in the State of West
Virginia, as surety, and with applicant as principal, running to the city for
the benefit of the city and all persons concerned, conditioned that the
permittee will comply with the terms and conditions of this chapter in the
drilling and operation of the well. Such bond shall become effective on or
before the date it is filed with the City Clerk and remain in force and effect
for at least a period of six months subsequent to the expiration of the term of
the permit issued, and in addition, the bond shall be conditioned that the
permittee will promptly pay off fines, penalties, and other assessments imposed
upon permittee by reason of his or her breach of any of the terms, provisions,
and conditions of this chapter and that the permittee will promptly restore the
streets and sidewalks and other public property of the city which may be
disturbed or damaged in the operations to their former condition; and that the
permittee will promptly clear all premises of all litter, trash, waste, and
other substances used, allowed, or occurring in the drilling or producing
operations and will, after abandonment, grade, level, and restore said property
to the same surface condition, as nearly as possible, as existed when
operations for the drilling of the well or wells were first commenced; and that
the permittee will indemnify and hold the city harmless from any and all
liability growing out of or attributable to the granting of such permit. If at
any time the Common Council shall deem any permittee’s bond to be insufficient
for any reason, it may require the permittee to file a new bond.
      (2)   In addition to the bond required in division (A)(1) above, the
permittee shall carry a policy or policies of standard comprehensive public
liability insurance, including contractual liability covering bodily injuries
and property damage, naming the permittee and the city, in an insurance company
authorized to do business within the state, said policy or policies in the
aggregate shall provide for the following minimum coverages, or in other
amounts deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court:
         (a)   Bodily injuries: $50,000 one person; $100,000 one accident; and
         (b)   Property damage: $50,000.
   (B)   Permittee shall file with the City Clerk certificates of such
insurance as above stated, and shall obtain the written approval thereof by the
Mayor who shall act thereon within ten days from the date of such filing. Such
insurance policy or policies shall not be cancelled without written notice to
the City Clerk at least ten days prior to the effective date of such
cancellation. In the event such insurance policy or policies are cancelled, the
permit granted shall terminate and permittee’s rights to operate under the
permit shall cease until permittee files additional insurance as provided
herein.
(Prior Code, § 18-8)
§ 155.09 OIL AND GAS WELL INSPECTOR.
   The Common Council shall appoint an Oil and Gas Well Inspector, who may be
removed at the will of the Common Council. It shall be the duty of the Oil and
Gas Well Inspector to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 18-9)
§ 155.10 DEEPER DRILLING OF WELL.
   (A)   Once any well has either been completed as a producer or abandoned as
a dry hole, it shall be unlawful for any person to drill such well to a deeper
depth than that reached in the prior drilling operations without the permittee
as to such well obtaining a supplemental permit; after filing a supplemental
application with the City Clerk specifying:
      (1)   The then condition of the well and the casing therein;
      (2)   The depth to which it is proposed such well be deepened, not to
exceed in any event a total true vertical depth from the surface in excess of
12,000 feet;
      (3)   The proposed casing program to be used in connection with proposed
deepening operations; and
      (4)   Evidence of adequate, current tests showing that the casing strings
in such well currently pass the same tests as are in this chapter provided for
in case of the drilling of the original well.
   (B)   In the event the Common Council is satisfied that such well may be
deepened with the same degree of safety as existed in the original well, a
supplemental permit may be issued without additional filing fee to the
permittee authorizing the deepening and operation of the well to such specified
depth as applied for, not exceeding in any event a total true vertical depth
from the surface in excess of 12,000 feet. In any deeper drilling or any deeper
completion or any deeper production operations the permittee shall comply with
all other provisions contained in this chapter and applicable to the drilling,
completion, and operation of a well or wells.
(Prior Code, § 18-10) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.11 DERRICKS AND RIGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use or operate in connection with the
drilling or reworking of any well within the city limits any wooden derrick or
any steam-powered rig, and all engines shall be equipped with adequate mufflers
approved by the Oil and Gas Well Inspector; or to permit any drilling rig or
derrick to remain on the premises or drilling site for a period longer than 60
days after completion or abandonment of the well. At all times from the start
of erection of a derrick, or a mast, or a gin-pole, until the well is abandoned
and plugged or completed as a producer and enclosed with a fence as herein
provided, the permittee shall keep a watchman on duty on the premises at all
times; provided, that it shall not be necessary to keep an extra watchman on
duty on the premises when other workers or permittees are on such premises.
(Prior Code, § 18-11) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.12 PITS.
   Either earthen or steel slush pits shall be permitted in connection with the
drilling operation. In the event a steel pit is used, the pit and its contents
shall be removed from the premises and the drilling site within 30 days after
completion of the well. In the event an earthen slush pit is used, it shall be
filled and leveled within 120 days after completion of the well.
(Prior Code, § 18-12)
§ 155.13 CASING.
   (A)   All casing, including surface protection and production strings, shall
be either seamless steel or equivalent quality oil well casing. Each production
string of casing must comply with at least the following minimum internal
pressure yield strength, computed in accordance with A.P. I. standards, to wit.
Depth of String in Feet Internal Pressure Rating (psi)
Depth of String in Feet Internal Pressure Rating (psi)
10 3/4” Casing
0 – 1,160’          1,140 lbs.
1,160 – 1,260’      1,820 lbs.
8 5/8” Casing
0 – 1,690’          1,340 lbs.
1,690 – 2,540’      2,950 lbs.
7” Casing
0 – 1,960’          1,440 lbs.
1,960 – 2,440’      2,310 lbs.
2,440 – 3,410’      2,720 lbs.
3,410 – 4,440’      3,740 lbs.
5 1/2” Casing
0 – 4,340’          3,110 lbs.
4,340 – 5,640’      4,270 lbs.
5,640 – 6,860’      5,810 lbs.
4 1/2” Casing
0 – 3,410’          1,990 lbs.
3,410 – 4,530’      3,190 lbs.
4,530 – 5,900’      4,380 lbs.
 
   (B)   Each joint and length of each particular casing string shall have,
prior to setting, unconditionally passed a complete cold water test.
(Prior Code, § 18-13)
§ 155.14 SETTING AND CEMENT CASING.
   (A)   No well shall be drilled within the city limits without properly
setting surface casing to a minimum depth of 800 feet. No well shall be drilled
within the city limits without cementing the surface casing by the pump and
plug method with sufficient cement to completely fill all of the annular space
behind such casing to the surface of the ground; and without cementing the
production string by the pump and plug method with sufficient cement to
completely fill all the annular space behind the production string to at least
600 feet above the highest oil and/or gas bearing horizon; and in the event a
protection string of casing be required under the terms of this chapter without
cementing the protection string by the pump and plug method with sufficient
cement to completely fill all the annular space behind the protection string to
at least 600 feet above the highest oil and/or gas bearing horizon.
   (B)   It is provided however, that in noncongested areas or for other
reasons he or she may feel valid, the Oil and Gas Well Inspector, if it is
evidenced to him or her by the permittee or operator that the well completion
is to be consistent with safe and acceptable completion methods, he or she may,
in his or her discretion, recommend to the Common Council for approval the
waiver of all or any part of the requirements set forth in this section.
(Prior Code, § 18-14)
§ 155.15 VALVES AND BLOWOUT PREVENTERS.
   No well shall be drilled within the city limits without properly equipping
the surface casing when set with at least one master valve, and without
properly equipping the protection easing when set with at least one master
valve and one fluid-operated ram type, blow-out preventer; and without properly
equipping the production casing during completion operations and workover
operations with at least one master valve and at least one fluid-operated ram
type blow-out preventer. On each well drilled a valve cock or kelly cock shall
be installed on the kelly used. Each blow-out preventer shall test 6,000 pounds
and its mechanical operation shall be tested at least once every eight-hour
period and all control equipment shall be in good working condition and order
at all times. It is provided, however, that in noncongested areas or for other
reasons he or she may feel valid, the Oil and Gas Well Inspector, if it is
evidenced to him or her by the permittee or operator that the well completion
is to be consistent with safe and acceptable completion methods, he or she may,
in his or her discretion, recommend to the Common Council for approval the
waiver of all or any part of the requirements set forth in this section.
(Prior Code, § 18-15)
§ 155.16 DRILLING FLUIDS.
   No well shall be drilled within the city limits without using mud as the
drilling fluid after the setting of surface casing as provided in §
155.15. Prior to the time the well reaches the depth of the first known or
encountered oil or gas bearing horizon, the weight of the mud laden drilling
fluid shall be at all times maintained at not less than ten pounds per gallon.
After the well reaches the depth of the first known or encountered oil or gas
bearing horizon, the weight of the mud laden drilling fluid shall be at all
times maintained at such weight as will provide a hydrostatic head of not less
than 250 pounds per square inch in excess of the formation pressure. In
reworking a well, a drilling fluid shall be at all times maintained at such
weight as will provide a hydrostatic head of not less than 250 pounds per
square inch in excess of the formation pressure.
(Prior Code, § 18-16)
§ 155.17 DRILL STEM TEST AND FRACTURES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person in connection with the drilling or
reworking operations of any well within the city limits to take and to complete
any drill stem test or tests except during daylight hours and then only if the
well effluent, during the test is produced through an adequate oil and gas
separator to storage tanks, and the effluent remaining in the drill pipe at the
time the tool is closed is flushed to the surface by circulating drilling fluid
down the annulus and up the drill pipe.
   (B)   Fracturing of a well formation shall be done during daylight hours and
the permittee or operator shall be fully responsible for any and all resulting
damage to underground city water connections as well as city owned or privately
owned under ground sewer or drain tiles, and all public utility lines. Upon the
completion of the fracture and during the period in which the well is flowed
open to relieve the well bore of fracture fluid, it shall be the responsibility
of the permittee and operator to confine’s such flow of fracture fluid to the
immediate well location by means of suitably sized flow lines or in such other
manner as to ensure that adjacent property and the public safety are not
endangered. It is further provided however that in noncongested areas the Oil
and Gas Well Inspector may, in his or her discretion, recommend to the Common
Council for approval the waiver of the requirements set forth in this section.
(Prior Code, § 18-17) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.18 TUBING.
   All tubing used in any well within the city limits shall be seamless steel
tubing having not less than a minimum internal pressure yield strength of 5,280
pounds per square inch if used in connection with a well completion at a depth
not exceeding 7,000 feet, or less than a minimum internal pressure yield
strength of 7,260 pounds per square inch if used in connection with a well
completion at a depth in excess of 7,000 feet.
(Prior Code, § 18-18)
§ 155.19 BRADENHEAD.
   (A)   Each well drilled within the city limits shall be equipped with a
bradenhead with a working pressure of not less than 3,000 pounds per square
inch.
   (B)   Bradenheads shall not be of the homemade welded type. The bradenhead
installed on the surface casing shall be set above ground level and shall be
equipped with fittings having a working pressure rating of not less than 3,000
pounds per square inch. The bradenhead pressure shall be checked at least once
each calendar month and if pressure is found to exist, proper remedial measures
shall be immediately taken to eliminate the source and the existence of the
pressure.
(Prior Code, § 18-19)
§ 155.20 CHRISTMAS TREE AND WELL HEAD CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   The Christmas tree and all well head connections on each well drilled
within the city limits shall be as follows: on all flowing wells completed at a
depth of above 4,000 feet the Christmas tree and well head connections shall
have at least a minimum working pressure of 2,000 pounds per square inch and a
minimum test pressure of at least 4,000 pounds per square inch; and on all
wells completed to a depth of from 4,001 to 7,000 feet the Christmas tree and
well head connections shall have at least a minimum working pressure of 3,000
pounds per square inch and a minimum test pressure of at least 6,000 pounds per
square inch; and on all wells completed below a depth of 7,000 feet the
Christmas tree and well head connections shall be at least a minimum working
pressure of 5,000 pounds per square inch and minimum test pressure of at least
10,000 pounds per square inch.
   (B)   All piping and fittings connecting the well head to an oil gas
separator shall have at least the same minimum working pressure and minimum
test pressure as hereinabove specified for Christmas tree and well head
connections. In the event the surface shut-in pressure of any well in the city
limits exceeds 2,000 pounds per square inch, the flow wing of the Christmas
tree shall be equipped with an automatic closing safety valve in addition to
the regular control valves.
(Prior Code, § 18-20)
§ 155.21 PREMISES TO BE KEPT CLEAN AND SANITARY.
   The premises shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition, free from
rubbish of every character, to the satisfaction of the health officer having
jurisdiction at all times drilling operations or reworking operations are being
conducted, and as long thereafter as oil and/or gas is being produced
therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 18-21)
§ 155.22 MUFFLERS.
   Motive power for all operations after completion of drilling operations
shall be electricity or properly muffled gas, gasoline, or diesel engines; such
mufflers to be approved by the Oil and Gas Well Inspector prior to their use.
(Prior Code, § 18-22)
§ 155.23 STORAGE TANKS AND SEPARATORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use, construct, or operate in
connection with any producing well within the city limits any crude oil storage
tanks except to the extent of five steel tanks for oil storage, not exceeding
100 barrels capacity each, and so constructed and maintained as to be vapor
tight and each surrounded with an earthen fire wall at such distance from the
tanks as will under any circumstances hold and retain at least one and one-half
times the maximum capacity of such tank. A permittee may use, construct, and
operate a steel conventional separator, and such other steel tanks and
appurtenances as are necessary for treating oil, with each of such facilities
to be so constructed and maintained as to be vapor tight. Each oil gas
separator shall be equipped with both a regulation pressure relief safety valve
and a bursting head.
(Prior Code, § 18-23) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.24 FENCE.
   Any person who completes any well as a producer shall have the obligation to
enclose such well, together with its surface facilities and storage tanks, by a
substantial smooth net wire fence sufficiently high and properly built so as to
ordinarily keep persons and animals out of the enclosure, with all gates
thereto to be kept locked when the permittee or his or her employees are not
within the enclosure. It is provided, however, that in noncongested areas the
Oil and Gas Well Inspector, in his or her discretion, may waive the requirement
of any fence or may designate the type of fence to be erected.
(Prior Code, § 18-24)
§ 155.25 VENTING AND FLARING OF GAS.
   No person engaged in drilling or operating any well shall permit gas to
escape or be vented into the air unless said gas be flared and burned. All gas
flared or burned from a torch, pipe, or any other burning device within the
city limits must be done in such manner so as not to constitute a fire hazard
to any property; and the location of the torch, pipe, or other burning device,
the construction thereof, the maintenance thereof, and the operation thereof,
shall at all times be in full compliance with such regulations as may from time
to time be issued by the Oil and Gas Well Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 18-25)
§ 155.26 ABANDONMENT AND PLUGGING.
   During initial abandonment operations it shall be the obligation of the
permittee and the operator of the well to flood the well bore with mud-ladened
fluid weighing not less than ten pounds per gallon. It shall further be the
obligation of the permittee or operator to comply strictly with the abandonment
procedures and precautionary measures as prescribed for in the permit to
abandon issued by the state’s Bureau of Mines.
(Prior Code, § 18-26)
§ 155.27 DISPOSAL OF SALT WATER.
   Permittee shall make adequate provisions for the disposal of all salt water
or other impurities which he or she may bring to the surface, such disposal to
be made in such manner as to not contaminate the water supply, present or
prospective, or to injure surface vegetation.
(Prior Code, § 18-27)
§ 155.28 VIOLATION OF STATE AND FEDERAL LAWS AND REGULATIONS CONSTITUTE
VIOLATIONS OF THIS CHAPTER.
   Any violation of the laws of the state or any rules, regulations, or
requirements of any state or federal regulatory body having jurisdiction in
reference to drilling, completing, equipping, operating, producing,
maintaining, or abandoning an oil or gas well or related appurtenances,
equipment, or facilities, or in reference to fire wells, fire protection, blow-
out protection, safety protection, or convenience of persons or property shall
also be a violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 18-28)
§ 155.99 PENALTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate or neglect to comply with any
provision hereof irrespective of whether or not the verbage of each section
hereof contains the specific language that such violation or neglect is
unlawful and is an offense. Any person who shall violate any of the provisions
of this chapter or any of the provisions of a drilling and operating permit
issued pursuant hereto, or any condition of the bond filed by the permittee
pursuant to this chapter or who shall neglect to comply with the terms hereof,
shall, on conviction thereof, be fined in any sum not less than $5 nor more
than $100, or other amount deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court, or
imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both so fined and imprisoned, and the
violation of each separate provision of this chapter, and of said permit, and
of said bond, shall be considered a separate offense. In addition to the
foregoing penalties, it is further provided that the Common Council, at any
regular or special session or meeting thereof, may, provided ten days’ notice
has been given to the permittee that revocation is to be considered at such
meeting, revoke or suspend any permit issued under this chapter and under which
drilling or producing operations are being conducted in the event the permittee
thereof has violated any provision of said permit, said bond, or this chapter.
In the event the permit be revoked, the permittee may make application to the
Common Council for a re-issuance of such permit, and the action of Council
thereon shall be final.
(Prior Code, § 18-29)
CHAPTER 156: FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
156.001   Intent
   
156.002   Application
   
156.003   Interpretation; definitions
   
156.004   Establishment of the floodplain area
   
156.005   Utilization of the floodplain area
   
156.006   Liability
   
156.007   Matters not specifically provided for; abrogation and greater
restrictions
   
156.008   Government actions
Criteria for Building Permit Site Plan Approval
   
156.020   Generally
   
156.021   Basic format
   
156.022   Elevation and flood-proofing information
   
156.023   Site plan criteria
Specific Requirements
   
156.035   Design and construction standards
   
156.036   Basements and lowest floor
   
156.037   Manufactured home placement
   
156.038   Recreational vehicle placement
   
156.039   Fill
   
156.040   Placement of structures
   
156.041   Anchoring
   
156.042   Storage
   
156.043   Utility and facility requirements
   
156.044   Drainage
   
156.045   Appurtenant structures
   
156.046   Flood protection setback
   
156.047   Backflow preventers
Administration
   
156.060   Designation of Floodplain Administrator
   
156.061   Development permits and site plan approvals required
   
156.062   Approval of permits and plans
   
156.063   Application procedures
   
156.064   Charges
   
156.065   Placards
   
156.066   Start of construction
   
156.067   Stop work orders, inspection, and revocation
   
156.068   Certificate of compliance; fees
Appeals
   
156.080   Appeals
   
156.081   Appeal review criteria
 
   
156.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.001 INTENT.
   The intent of this chapter is to:
   (A)   Promote the general health, welfare, and safety of the community;
   (B)   Encourage the utilization of appropriate construction practices in
order to prevent or minimize flood damage in the future;
   (C)   Minimize danger to public health and safety by protecting water
supply, sanitary sewage disposal, and natural drainage;
   (D)   Reduce financial burdens imposed on the community, its governmental
units, and its residents by preventing the unwise design and construction of
development in areas subject to flooding;
   (E)   Assure County E-911 addresses are obtained to maintain the currency of
established emergency response dispatch systems; and
   (F)   Reduce financial burdens imposed on the community, its governmental
units, and its residents by preventing the unwise design and construction of
development in areas subject to flooding.
(Ord. passed 2-8-2010)
§ 156.002 APPLICATION.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any contractor, person, partnership,
business, or corporation to undertake or cause to be undertaken any development
or the new construction, substantial improvement, or the placement or
relocation of any structure (including manufactured homes) within the city,
unless a permit application has been completed and a permit or certificate of
compliance has been obtained from the Floodplain Administrator.
      (2)   Additionally, where land partially or fully in the floodplain is to
be developed, subdivided, utilized for a manufactured home park or subdivision,
or otherwise developed, a site plan must be submitted to, and approved by, the
Floodplain Administrator prior to any such development.
   (B)   Provisions of all other codes, ordinances, and regulations shall be
applicable insofar as they are consistent with the provisions of this chapter
and the community’s need to minimize the hazards and damage resulting from
flooding.
(Ord. passed 2-8-2010) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.003 INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following interpretations shall
apply:
      (1)   Words used in the present tense include the future tense;
      (2)   The singular includes the plural;
      (3)   The plural includes the singular;
      (4)   The word “person” includes corporation, unincorporated association
or partnership as well as an individual;
      (5)   The term “shall” or “will” is always mandatory;
      (6)   The word “building” or “structure” shall be construed as if
followed by the phrase “or part thereof”; and
      (7)   The word “ordinance” shall refer to the floodplain ordinance.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      APPURTENANT STRUCTURE. A structure on the same parcel of property as the
principal structure and the use of which is incidental to the use of the
principal structure. This does not include a gas or liquid storage tank.
      BASE FLOOD. The flood which has been selected to serve as the basis upon
which the floodplain management provisions of this chapter and other ordinances
have been prepared, for purposes of this chapter, the 100-YEAR FLOOD.
      BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below
ground level) on all sides.
      CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE. A certification that the entire development,
including the elevation of fill or the lowest floor of a structure, is in
compliance with all of the provisions of this chapter.
      CONTRACTOR. Based on W. Va. Code 21-11-3(c), a person who, in any
capacity for compensation, other than as an employee of another, undertakes,
offers to undertake, purports to have the capacity to undertake, or submits a
bid to construct, alter, repair, add to, subtract from, improve, move, wreck,
or demolish any building, highway, road, railroad, structure, or excavation
associated with a project, development, or improvement, or to do any part
thereof, including the erection of scaffolding or other structures or works in
connection therewith, where the cost of the undertaking is $1,000 or more, or
other amount deemed appropriate by the Municipal Court.
         (a)   CONTRACTOR includes a construction manager who performs
management and counseling services on a construction project for a professional
fee.
         (b)   CONTRACTOR does not include:
            1.   One who merely furnishes materials or supplies without
fabricating or consuming them in the construction project;
            2.   A person who personally performs construction work on the site
of real property which the person owns or leases whether for commercial or
residential purposes;
            3.   A person who is licensed or registered as a professional and
who functions under the control of any other licensing or regulatory board,
whose primary business is real estate sales, appraisal, development,
management, and maintenance, who, acting in his or her respective professional
capacity, and any employee of such professional, acting in the course of his or
her employment, performs any work which may be considered to be performing
contracting work;
            4.   A pest control operator licensed under the provisions of Art.
16A, Ch. 19, § 7 of this code to engage in the application of pesticides for
hire, unless the operator also performs structural repairs exceeding one
thousand dollars on property treated for insect pests; or
            5.   A corporation, partnership, or sole proprietorship whose
primary purpose is to prepare construction plans and specifications used by the
contractors defined in this section and who employs full time a registered
architect licensed to practice in this state or a registered professional
engineer licensed to practice in this state. CONTRACTOR also does not include
employees of such corporation, partnership, or sole proprietorship.
      CRITICAL FACILITY. Any facility in which even a slight chance of flooding
is too great a threat. Typical critical facilities include hospitals, fire
stations, police stations, storage of critical records, and similar facilities.
These should be given special consideration when formulating regulatory
alternatives and floodplain management plans. A CRITICAL FACILITY should not be
located in a floodplain if at all possible. If a CRITICAL FACILITY must be
located in a floodplain, it should be provided a higher level of protection so
that it can continue to function and provide services during a flood.
      DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
      EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park
or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lot
on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of this chapter.
      EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lot on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
      FLOOD. A general and temporary inundation of normally dry land areas.
      FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). The official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency or Federal Insurance Administrator has delineated
both the areas of special flood hazard areas and the risk premium zones
applicable to the community.
      FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report in which the Federal Emergency
Management Agency has provided flood profiles, floodway information, and water
surface elevations
      FLOODPLAIN. Includes:
         (a)   A relatively flat or low land area adjoining a river, stream, or
watercourse which is subject to partial or complete inundation; and
         (b)   An area subject to the unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff
of surface waters from any source.
      FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The Mayor shall be the FLOODPLAIN
ADMINISTRATOR. The FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR may also be identified as the
FLOODPLAIN MANAGER.
      FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent
land area that must be reserved to discharge the base flood without increasing
the water surface elevation of that flood more than one foot at any point.
      FLOOD-PROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural
additions, changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate
flood damage to real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary
facilities, structures, and their contents.
      FREEBOARD. A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood
level for purposes of floodplain management. FREEBOARD tends to compensate for
unknown factors that may contribute uncertainty to flood heights of any given
flood and floodway condition, such as wave action, blockage at stream
crossings, and increased runoff from urbanization of the watershed.
      HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface prior to construction next to the proposed foundation of a structure.
      HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
         (a)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places
(a listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
         (b)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
         (c)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
         (d)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
            1.   By an approved state program as determined by Secretary of the
Interior; or
            2.   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
      LICENSED MANUFACTURED HOME DEALER. A business licensed to sell
manufactured homes in the state, as set forth in the West Virginia Code.
      LICENSED MANUFACTURED HOME INSTALLER. A contractor licensed to install
Manufactured Homes in the state, as set forth in the West Virginia Code.
      LICENSED PROFESSIONAL SURVEYOR. Any person licensed by the State Board of
Examiners of Land Surveyors to engage in the practice of land surveying, as
defined in the West Virginia Code.
      LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure constructed with flood-
resistant materials, as defined in FEMA Technical Bulletin 2-93 (FIA-TB-2),
usable solely for parking of vehicles, building access, or storage in an area
other than a basement area is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR;
provided, that such enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in
violation of the applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
      MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections,
which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
      MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels)
of land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
      NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction as
herein defined commenced on or after April 15, 1982, and includes any
subsequent improvements to such structures.
      NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of this chapter.
      ONE-HUNDRED (100) YEAR FLOOD. A flood that has one chance in 100 or a 1%
chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
      PERSON. Any individual or group of individuals, corporation, partnership,
association, or other entity, including state and local governments and
agencies.
      PRACTICE OF ENGINEERING.
         (a)   Any service or creative work, as described in W. Va. Code
Article 13, the adequate performance of which requires engineering education,
training, and experience in the application of special knowledge of the
mathematical, physical, and engineering sciences to such services or creative
work as consultation, investigation, evaluation, planning, and design of
engineering works and systems; planning the use of land and water; teaching of
advanced engineering subjects, engineering surveys and studies; and the review
of construction for the purpose of assuring compliance with drawings and
specifications any of which embraces such services or work, either public or
private, in connection with any utilities, structures, buildings, machines,
equipment, processes, work systems, projects, and industrial or consumer
products or equipment of a mechanical, electrical, hydraulic, pneumatic, or
thermal nature, insofar as they involve safeguarding life, health, or property,
and including such other professional services as may be necessary to the
planning, progress, and completion of any engineering services. Engineering
surveys include all survey activities required to support the sound conception,
planning, design, construction, maintenance, and operation of engineered
projects.
         (b)   Any person who practices any branch of the profession of
engineering or who, by verbal claim, sign, advertisement, letterhead, card, or
in any other way represents himself or herself to be a registered professional
engineer, or by using another title implies that he or she is a registered
professional engineer or that he or she is registered under W. Va. Code Article
13, or who holds himself or herself out as able to perform, or who performs any
engineering service or work or any other service designated by the practitioner
which is recognized as engineering, is considered to practice or offer to
practice engineering within the meaning and intent of W. Va. Code Article 13.
      PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. Where at least 51% of the actual cash value of
a structure, less land value, is above ground.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
         (a)   Built on a single chassis;
         (b)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
         (c)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
         (d)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
      REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER. A person who has been duly registered
or licensed as a registered professional engineer by the State Board of
Registration for Professional Engineers as required under W. Va. Code Article
13 et seq.
      REMEDY A VIOLATION. To bring a structure or other development into
compliance with the requirements of this chapter, or, if full compliance is not
possible, to reduce the adverse impacts of the non-compliance to the greatest
extent feasible.
      REASONABLY SAFE FROM FLOODING. During the base flood, water will not
damage structures and any subsurface waters related to the base flood will not
damage existing or proposed structures.
      SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. The land in the floodplain subject to a 1% or
greater chance of flooding in any given year. SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS are
designated by the Federal Emergency Management Agency in Flood Insurance
Studies and on Flood Insurance Rate Maps as Zones A, AE, AO, Al -30, and A99.
The term includes areas shown on other flood hazard maps that are specifically
listed or otherwise described in this chapter.
      START OF CONSTRUCTION. (The definition for start of construction is to be
used only when calculating the starting time for expiration of a permit.) For
other than new construction or substantial improvements under the Coastal
Barrier Resources Act, being 16 U.S.C. §§ 3501 et seq., includes substantial
improvements, and means the date the building permit was issued, provided the
actual START of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
placement, or other improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The
ACTUAL START means either the first placement of permanent construction of a
structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation
of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the initial
excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Although a
permit must be obtained prior to beginning, permanent construction does not
include land preparation, such as clearing, grading, and filling; nor does it
include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure. For an alteration, the actual START OF
CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other
structural part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the
external dimensions of the building.
      STATE COORDINATING OFFICE. The West Virginia Division of Homeland
Security and Emergency Management.
      STREAM. As defined in W. Va. Code 7-1-3U, any watercourse, whether
natural or manmade, distinguishable by banks and a bed, regardless of their
size, through which water flows continually or intermittently, regardless of
its volume.
      STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid
storage tank, that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
      SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE also means cumulative flood-related damages sustained by a
structure on two separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost
of repairs at the time of each flood event equals or exceeds 25% of the market
value of the structure before the damage occurred. See the definition of
substantial improvement below.
      SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation,
addition, or other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure before the start of
construction of the improvement.
         (a)   This term includes structures which have incurred substantial
damage, as defined above, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The
term does not, however, include either:
            1.   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
            2.   Any alteration of a “historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure.
         (b)   Historic structures undergoing repair or rehabilitation that
would constitute a SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT as defined above, must comply with
all ordinance requirements that do not preclude the structure’s continued
designation as a historic structure. Documentation that a specific ordinance
requirement will cause removal of the structure from the National Register of
Historic Places or the State Inventory of Historic places must be obtained from
the Secretary of the Interior or the State Historic Preservation Officer. Any
exemption from ordinance requirements will be the minimum necessary to preserve
the historic character and design of the structure.
         (c)   For the purpose of this definition, “improvement” is considered
to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other
structural part of the building commences whether or not that alteration
affects the external dimensions of the structure.
   TOP OF BANK. The lines depicted on the FIRM maps delineating each side of a
stream indicate the TOP OF BANK. In the field a professional familiar with
fluvial geomorphology should document the TOP OF BANK. When a professional is
not employed the TOP OF THE BANK will be considered to be the top of the first
significant slope landward of the waters edge when it is followed by at least
50 feet of relatively flat land.
   VIOLATION. The failure of any structure or development to be fully compliant
with all requirements of this chapter. A structure or other development without
the elevation certificate, other certifications, or other evidence of
compliance required by this chapter is presumed to be in VIOLATION until such
time as that documentation is provided.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1992; Ord. passed 2-8-2010)
§ 156.004 ESTABLISHMENT OF THE FLOODPLAIN AREA.
   (A)   Identification.
      (1)   The identified floodplain area shall be those areas of the city
which are subject to the 100-year flood, as shown on the Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM) and described in the Flood Insurance Study (FIS) prepared for the
city by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) dated April 19, 2010, or
the most recent revision thereof.
      (2)   The identified floodplain area shall also be those areas which have
been identified as flood hazard areas by the city by use of historic or other
technical data and shown on the city’s Local Flood Hazards Map. These areas
shall be designated as appropriate with the level of technical data described
below and shall be managed accordingly.
   (B)   Description of floodplain areas. The identified floodplain area shall
consist of the following four specific areas:
      (1)   The floodway area (F1) shall be those areas identified as such in
the FIS and as shown on the FIRM. The term shall also include floodway areas
identified in studies required to be used in the approximate areas as discussed
below;
      (2)   The floodway fringe area (F2) shall be those areas for which
specific 100-year flood elevations have been provided in the FIS, but which lie
beyond the floodway area. These areas are shown on the FIRM;
      (3)   The AE area without floodway (F3) shall be those areas identified
as an AE Zone on the FIRM included in the FIS prepared by FEMA for which 100-
year flood elevations have been provided, but no floodway has been delineated;
and
      (4)   The approximated area (F4) shall be those areas identified as an A
Zone on the FIRM included in the FIS prepared by FEMA and for which no one
hundred 100-year flood elevations have been provided.
   (C)   Changes in designation of area.
      (1)   The delineation of the identified floodplain area may be revised by
the City Council where natural or human-made changes have occurred and/or more
detailed studies conducted or undertaken by the United States Army Corps of
Engineers, a River Basin Commission, or other qualified agency or individual
document the necessity for such changes. However, prior to any such change,
approval must be obtained from the Federal Insurance Administration (FIA).
      (2)   A community’s base flood elevations may increase or decrease
resulting from physical changes affecting flooding conditions. As soon as
practicable, but not later than six months after the date such information
becomes available, the community shall notify the NFIP Administrator of the
changes by submitting technical or scientific data.
      (3)   The city may identify and regulate new flood hazard or ponding
areas. These areas may be delineated on a Local Flood Hazard Map using best
available topographic data and locally derived information such as flood of
record, historic high water marks, and/or approximate study methodologies.
   (D)   Elevations prevail. If the lowest natural grade adjacent to proposed
development within an identified flood hazard area is at or above the base
flood elevation specified in the flood insurance study, the structure shall not
be required to conform to the flood prevention design and construction
standards or flood-related development codes in §§
156.035 through
156.047. Topographic data certified by a registered professional engineer or
licensed professional surveyor shall be submitted in sufficient detail to allow
a thorough review by the Floodplain Administrator. The applicant is advised to
apply for a letter of map amendment (LOMA) from FEMA to have the special flood
hazard area designation removed from the parcel or structure. If the lowest
natural grade adjacent to proposed development is below the base flood
elevation specified in the Flood Insurance Study, the site shall be considered
to be within the floodplain area and the proposed structure shall be required
to conform to all appropriate provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   Boundary disputes. Should a dispute concerning any district boundary
arise, an initial determination shall be made by the Permit Officer and any
party aggrieved by this decision may appeal to the City Council. The burden of
proof shall be on the appellant/applicant.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1992; Ord. passed 2-8-2010)
§ 156.005 UTILIZATION OF THE FLOODPLAIN AREA.
   (A)   Floodway (F1).
      (1)   Within any floodway area, no encroachments, including fill, new
construction, substantial improvements, or other development shall be permitted
unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic analysis
performed in accordance with standard engineering practice that the proposed
encroachment will not result in any increase in the base flood elevation.
      (2)   Because floodways present increased risk to human life and property
due to their relatively faster and deeper flowing waters the floodway shall be
preserved to the greatest extent possible.
         (a)   New development shall not be permitted in the floodway where
reasonable alternatives exist elsewhere. In addition to the requirements below
the applicant shall demonstrate that there are no reasonable alternatives other
than the floodway encroachment before a permit is issued.
         (b)   When the floodway is the only reasonable alternative the
applicant shall demonstrate that the floodway encroachment is the minimum
necessary to accomplish the project.
         (c)   All permitted uses, activities, and development shall be
undertaken in strict compliance with the flood-proofing and related provisions
contained herein, and in all other applicable codes, ordinances, and
regulations.
   (B)    Floodway fringe (F2). Within any floodway fringe areas, any
development and/or use of land shall be permitted; provided that all such uses,
activities, and/or development shall be undertaken in strict compliance with
the flood-proofing and related provisions contained herein and in all other
applicable codes, ordinances, and regulations.
   (C)   AE Zone without floodway. Within any AE without floodway area, no new
construction or development shall be allowed unless it is demonstrated that the
cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other
existing and anticipated development, will not increase the elevation of the
100-year flood more than one foot at any point. This requirement can be
satisfied by utilization of the floodway area where determined.
   (D)   Approximated floodplain (Zone A). Within any approximated floodplain
area:
      (1)   The Floodplain Administrator shall use elevation and floodway
information from federal, state, or other acceptable sources when available to
determine the elevation above which development will be reasonably safe from
flooding; and
      (2)   (a)   When data from an acceptable source is not available, the
Floodplain Administrator shall review, or shall cause to be reviewed; all
proposed development to determine the amount being invested and the specific
flood risk at the site. The Floodplain Administrator shall then require the
applicant to determine the elevation above which the development will be
reasonably safe from flooding using the techniques set forth in the city’s
approximate A Zone administrative procedures.
         (b)   When hydrologic and hydraulic analyses are required, they shall
only be undertaken by a registered professional engineer who shall certify that
the methods used correctly reflect currently accepted technical concepts. The
resultant study shall include a cover letter, signed by the responsible
professional, providing a statement of findings in basic terms. In addition,
studies, analyses, computations, and the like shall be submitted in sufficient
detail to allow a thorough technical review by the Floodplain Administrator.
      (3)   Any development and/or use of land shall be permitted provided that
all such uses, activities, and/or development shall be undertaken in strict
compliance with the flood-proofing and related provisions contained herein and
in all other applicable codes, ordinances, and regulations.
   (E)   Alteration or relocation of a stream.
      (1)   Whenever a developer intends to alter or relocate a stream within
the floodplain area, the developer shall notify, in writing, by certified mail,
the city’s Floodplain Administrator, the State Coordinating Office, any
adjacent communities and any adjacent property owners of all such intended
activities prior to the alteration or relocation of the stream. Copies of all
required notifications must be submitted to the Federal Insurance
Administration. In addition prior to issuing the local permit, the Floodplain
Administrator shall require copies of all necessary permits from those
governmental agencies from which federal or state law requires approval.
Contact information for state and federal permitting authorities as well as
addresses for required notification of appropriate county, state, and federal
government agencies are contained in the city’s stream alteration
administrative procedures.
      (2)   The developer shall also assure the city in writing that the flood
carrying capacity within the altered or relocated portion of the stream will be
maintained. The Floodplain Administrator may require the applicant to
demonstrate that the altered or relocated portion of stream will provide equal
or greater conveyance than the original stream segment. If hydrologic and
hydraulic analyses are required, they shall only be undertaken by a registered
professional engineers, who shall certify that the methods used correctly
reflect currently accepted technical concepts. The resultant study shall
include a cover letter, signed by the responsible professional, providing a
statement of findings in basic terms. In addition, studies, analyses,
computations, and the like shall be submitted in sufficient detail to allow a
thorough technical review by the Floodplain Administrator.
      (3)   Alteration of a stream includes placement of culverts, bridges, or
other stream crossings. The Floodplain Administrator may require the use of
certain best practice techniques in the construction of bridges, culverts, or
stream crossings to prevent damage, loss of stream crossings, and localized
flooding caused by blockage. These techniques may include, but are not limited
to, wing walls, trash grates, or requiring openings to be of sufficient size to
pass debris and/or anticipated future increases in flood heights.
      (4)   All new and replacement bridges, culverts, and other stream
crossings shall adhere to the relevant anchoring requirements contained in this
chapter.
      (5)   The developer is required to provide the community a legal
agreement detailing all scheduled inspections and maintenance to be performed
on altered or relocated watercourses, including culverts, bridges, and other
stream crossings. It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to transfer
this agreement to the new owner when the land associated with the watercourse
alteration is transferred. A copy of all new agreements shall be provided to
the Floodplain Administrator. Failure to transfer the agreement and provide a
signed copy to the Floodplain Administrator shall subject the violator to the
penalties set forth in §
156.999.
      (6)   The applicant must submit any maps, computations, or other material
required by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to revise the flood
insurance study and/or flood insurance rate maps, when notified by the
Floodplain Administrator, and must pay any fees or other costs assessed by FEMA
for this purpose.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1992; Ord. passed 2-8-2010)
§ 156.006 LIABILITY.
   The granting of a permit or approval of a subdivision or development plan in
an identified flood- prone area shall not constitute a representation,
guarantee, or warranty of any kind by the city or by any official or employee
thereof of the practicability or safety of the proposed use, and shall create
no liability upon the city. All applicants proposing development in or near a
flood hazard area are urged to locate development as far away from, and as high
above, all flooding sources as possible.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1992; Ord. passed 2-8-2010)
§ 156.007 MATTERS NOT SPECIFICALLY PROVIDED FOR; ABROGATION AND GREATER
RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The ordinance codified within this chapter supersedes any ordinance
currently in effect in flood- prone areas. Any ordinance, however, shall remain
in full force and effect to the extent that its provisions are more
restrictive.
   (B)   Where conditions are encountered that are not specifically provided
for herein, the Floodplain Administrator shall determine the applicability of
the provisions of this chapter in accordance with its intent, and shall require
the applicant to take appropriate measures pursuant to such determination.
(Ord. passed 2-8-2010)
§ 156.008 GOVERNMENT ACTIONS.
   (A)   Municipal annexation.
      (1)   The county floodplain ordinance in effect on the date of annexation
shall remain in effect and shall be enforced by the municipality for all
annexed areas until the municipality adopts and enforces an ordinance which
meets the requirements for participation in the National Flood Insurance
Program,
      (2)   Municipalities with existing floodplain ordinances shall pass a
resolution acknowledging and accepting responsibility for enforcing floodplain
ordinance standards prior to annexation of any area containing identified flood
hazards.
      (3)   All plats or maps of annexation shall show the floodplain
boundaries, base flood elevation, and location of the floodway where
determined.
      (4)   In accordance with the 44 C.F.R. subpt. (B), § 59.22(a)(9)(v), all
NFIP participating communities must notify the Federal Insurance
Administration, in writing, whenever the boundaries of the community have been
modified by annexation or the community has otherwise assumed or no longer has
authority to adopt and enforce floodplain management regulations for a
particular area. In order that all flood insurance rate maps accurately
represent the community’s boundaries, a copy of a map of the community suitable
for reproduction, clearly delineating the new corporate limits or new area for
which the community has assumed or relinquished floodplain management
regulatory authority, must be included with the notification.
      (5)   NFIP participating communities must notify the State Coordinating
Office, in writing, whenever the boundaries of the community have been modified
by annexation or the community has otherwise assumed or no longer has authority
to adopt and enforce floodplain management regulations for a particular area. A
copy of a map of the community suitable for reproduction, clearly delineating
the new corporate limits or new area for which the community has assumed or
relinquished floodplain management regulatory authority, must be included with
the notification.
   (B)   Permits for government entities. Unless specifically exempted by law,
all public utilities and municipal, county, state, and federal entities are
required to comply with this chapter and obtain all necessary permits. Any
entity claiming to be exempt from the requirements of this chapter must provide
a written statement setting forth the rationale for exemption. In addition, the
entity claiming exemption shall provide copies of all relevant legal
documentation demonstrating the exemption.
(Ord. passed 2-8-2010)
CRITERIA FOR BUILDING PERMIT SITE PLAN APPROVAL
§ 156.020 GENERALLY.
   Building permits are required in order to determine whether all new
construction or substantial improvements are:
   (A)   Located in an identified floodplain, floodway, or other flood hazard
area;
   (B)   Designed (or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and
hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy;
   (C)   Constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood
damage as outlined in FEMA Technical Bulletin 2-93 (FIA-TB-2), or the most
recent revision thereof;
   (D)   Constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
   (E)   Constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air
conditioning equipment, and other service facilities that are designed and/or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding;
   (F)   To comply with W. Va. Code 11-3-3a, concerning County Assessor
building or real property improvement notice; and
   (G)   Approved by the County Health Department for well, septic, and other
permits to assure facilities are designed and located in compliance with the
flood damage reduction requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1992; Ord. passed 2-8-2010)
§ 156.021 BASIC FORMAT.
   The basic format of the building permit shall include the following:
   (A)   Name and address of applicant;
   (B)   Name and address of owner of land on which proposed construction is to
occur;
   (C)   Names, addresses, and valid state license numbers of all contractors
working at the building site, or affidavits stating that work is being
performed by individuals exempt from contractor licensing as set forth in W.
Va. Code 28-2-3.9(b) of state regulations or the most recent revision thereof;
   (D)   A description of site location sufficient to locate the project
including tax map and parcel number and most recent deed book and page number;
   (E)   A standard site plan showing size and location of the proposed
development as well as any existing buildings or structures. The site plan
shall also show all adjacent roads and watercourses with direction of flow, the
lowest adjacent grade to the proposed foundation and/or toe of fill, the base
flood elevation and the location of the floodway boundary when applicable;
   (F)   An acknowledgment that the applicant agrees to pay any and all fees
associated with the permitting process as set forth in §
156.068;
   (G)   An acknowledgment that the applicant agrees to allow authorized
representatives of floodplain management programs access to the development to
inspect for compliance; and
   (H)   (1)   The contract required by W. Va. Code Title 28, Series 4, and all
addendums to the contract(s) shall be presented to the floodplain administrator
for review within five business days of contract signing.
      (2)   The community does not require and will not keep copies of the
contracts or addendums. Failure to present contract or addendums for review
shall void the permit. If a licensed contractor is not involved, or the work is
of an aggregate value of less than $10,000 including materials and labor, a
brief written description of proposed work and the estimated value will
suffice.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1992; Ord. passed 2-8-2010)
§ 156.022 ELEVATION AND FLOOD-PROOFING INFORMATION.
   All applicants are encouraged to exceed the minimum elevation requirements
contained herein. Flood insurance rates can be lowered significantly by
increasing the elevation of the lowest floor above the freeboard height
required by this chapter. Depending on the type of structure involved, the
following information shall also be included with the application for
development within the floodplain area:
   (A)   For structures to be elevated to the base flood elevation:
      (1)   A plan showing the size of the proposed structure and its relation
to the lot where it is to be constructed;
      (2)   A determination of elevations of the existing ground, proposed
finished ground, and lowest floor, certified by a registered professional
engineer or licensed professional surveyor;
      (3)   Plans showing the method of elevating the proposed structure
includes details of proposed fills, pile structures, retaining walls,
foundations, erosion protection measures, and the like. When required by the
Floodplain Administrator, these plans shall be prepared by a registered
professional engineer or architect;
      (4)   Plans showing the methods used to protect utilities (including
sewer, water, telephone, electric, gas, and the like) from flooding to the base
flood elevation at the building site;
      (5)   During the course of construction, as soon as the basic elements of
the lowest floor are in place and before further vertical construction, it is
highly recommended that the applicant check for error by obtaining elevation
data completed by a registered professional engineer or licensed professional
surveyor certifying the height of the lowest floor. If a mistake in elevation
has been made, this is the best time to correct the error;
      (6)   A finished construction elevation certificate must be prepared by a
licensed professional surveyor or others of demonstrated qualification. The
elevation certificate must confirm that the structure in question together with
attendant utilities is elevated in compliance with permit conditions;
      (7)   A Nonconversion Agreement shall be signed by the applicant whenever
the community determines that the area below the first floor could be converted
to a non-conforming use (generally applies to enclosed areas below base flood
elevation that are five feet high or more). This agreement shall state:
         (a)   The area below base flood elevation shall not be converted for
use other than for parking, building access or for allowable storage as
detailed in this chapter; and
         (b)   The applicant agrees to notify prospective buyers of the
existence of the non-conversion agreement. It shall be the responsibility of
the applicant to transfer the agreement at closing to the new owner via
notarized signature, a copy of all new agreements shall be provided to the
Floodplain Administrator.
         (c)   Failure to transfer the agreement and provide a signed copy to
the Floodplain Administrator shall subject the violator to the penalties set
forth in §
156.999.
   (B)   (1)   For structures to be flood-proofed to the base flood elevation
(nonresidential structures only):
         (a)   Plans showing details of all flood-proofing measures prepared by
a registered professional engineer, showing the size of the proposed structure
and its relation to the lot where it is to be constructed;
         (b)   A determination of elevations of base flood, existing ground,
proposed finished ground, lowest floor, and flood-proofing limits; certified by
a registered professional engineer or licensed professional surveyor; and
         (c)   A flood-proofing certificate, FEMA 81-65, as revised by FEMA,
shall be prepared by the registered professional engineer or architect who
prepared the plans in division (B)(1)(a) above, that the structure in question,
together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, is designed so that:
            1.   The structure is watertight with walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water from the lowest structural element to two
feet above the base flood elevation; and
            2.   The structure will withstand the hydrostatic, hydrodynamic,
buoyant, impact, and other forces resulting from the flood depths, velocities,
pressures, and other factors associated with the base flood.
      (2)   All applicants are encouraged to exceed the minimum flood-proofing
requirements contained herein. Flood insurance rates can be lowered
significantly by increasing the level of flood-proofing above the height
required by this chapter. In order to obtain an elevation-credited flood
insurance rate on dry flood-proofed buildings, flood-proofing must extend at
least one foot above the base flood elevation.
   (C)   For structures constructed of flood-resistant materials used solely
for parking of vehicles, or storage (appurtenant structures only):
      (1)   A site plan prepared by a licensed professional surveyor or others
of demonstrated qualifications showing elevation of existing ground, proposed
finished ground, and lowest floor. The plan shall also show details of proposed
flood-resistant materials usage and the size of the proposed structure and its
relation to the lot where it is to be constructed. The location of the floodway
boundary shall be represented on the plan when a floodway is present on the
site;
      (2)   An elevation certificate, based on finished construction, must be
prepared by a licensed professional surveyor or others of demonstrated
qualifications. This certificate or report must confirm that the structure in
question, together with attendant utilities, is designed so that:
         (a)   Flood-resistant materials as detailed in FEMA Technical Bulletin
2-93 (FIA-TB-2) are used in the construction of the structure from the lowest
structural element to two feet above the base flood elevation and that all
utilities are located at least two feet above the base flood elevation;
         (b)   Hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls are equalized by
allowing for automatic entry and exit of flood waters. Designs for meeting this
requirement must either be certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect or meet or exceed the following minimum criteria:
            1.   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided;
            2.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade; and
            3.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or
other coverings or devices, provided that they permit the automatic entry and
exit of flood waters.
      (3)   In addition, the applicant shall sign a Non-conversion Agreement
and notify prospective buyers of the existence of the Agreement. It shall be
the responsibility of the applicant to transfer the Non-conversion Agreement to
any new owner at closing via notarized signature. A signed copy of the
transferred Non-conversion Agreement shall be provided to the Floodplain
Administrator. Failure to transfer the agreement and provide a signed copy to
the Floodplain Administrator shall subject the violator to the penalties set
forth in §
156.999.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1992; Ord. passed 2-8-2010) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.023 SITE PLAN CRITERIA.
   (A)   Site plans are required for all development, new construction, and
substantial improvements determined to be located in a mapped floodplain area
and all proposed subdivisions and manufactured home parks. These proposals
shall be reviewed by the Floodplain Administrator to assure that they are
consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.
   (B)   The owner or developer of any proposed subdivision, manufactured home
park or subdivision, or other development shall submit a site plan to the
Permit Officer, which includes the following information:
      (1)   Name of registered professional engineer, licensed professional
surveyor, or other qualified person responsible for providing the information
required in this section;
      (2)   A map showing the location of the proposed subdivision and/or
development with respect to the floodplain areas, proposed lots and sites,
fills;
      (3)   Where the subdivision and/or development lies partially or
completely in the floodplain areas, the plan map shall include detailed
information giving the location and elevation of proposed roads, public
utilities, and building sites. All such maps shall also show contours at
intervals of two or five feet depending upon the slope of the land and identify
accurately the boundaries of the floodplain areas. A registered professional
engineer or licensed professional surveyor must certify the site plan;
      (4)   All subdivision proposals and other proposed new developments which
are proposed to take place either fully or partially within the approximated
floodplain area (F4) and which are greater than ten lots or two acres,
whichever is the lesser, shall include base flood elevation data and shall
delineate a floodway:
         (a)   When a Flood Insurance Study (FIS) is available from FEMA, the
data contained in that study must be used to substantiate the base flood;
         (b)   If a FEMA Flood Insurance Study is not available the required
data may be available from an authoritative source, such as the United States
Army Corps of Engineers, United States Geological Survey, Natural Resource
Conservation Service, or State and Local Water Resource Department; and
         (c)   If the required data is not available from other sources, the
applicant shall develop the technical data using detailed methodologies
comparable to those contained in a Flood Insurance Study. This data shall be
prepared and certified by a registered professional engineer, who shall certify
that the methods used correctly reflect currently accepted technical concepts.
      (5)   Where the subdivision or other development site lies partially in
the floodplain area and all proposed development including fill will take place
on natural grade a significant vertical distance above the approximated
floodplain area (Zone A) boundary depicted on the map, development of detailed
base flood elevation data may not be necessary. In these cases, the site plan
for the proposed development must show contours at intervals of two or five
feet depending on the slope, and clearly delineate the area to be developed and
the location of the floodplain boundary as scaled from the FEMA map. A
registered professional engineer, licensed professional surveyor, or others of
demonstrated qualifications must certify the site plan.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1992; Ord. passed 2-8-2010)
SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS
§ 156.035 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   In order to prevent excessive damage to buildings, structures, and related
utilities and facilities, the following restrictions apply to all development,
subdivision proposals, manufactured home parks, new construction, and to
construction of substantial improvements, and the repair of substantial damage
to existing structures occurring in the floodplain area.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1992; Ord. passed 2-8-2010)
§ 156.036 BASEMENTS AND LOWEST FLOOR.
   (A)   Residential structures. All new construction, relocation, substantial
improvements, including repair of substantial damage, of residential structures
must have the lowest floor (including basement) ductwork and utilities,
elevated to two feet above the base flood elevation.
   (B)   Non-residential structures. All new construction, relocation,
substantial improvements, including repair of substantial damage, of
nonresidential structures must have the lowest floor (including basement)
elevated to two feet above the base flood elevation or, together with attendant
utility and sanitary facilities, be designed so that below the base flood
elevation the structure is water-tight with walls substantially impermeable to
the passage of water from the lowest structural element to two feet above the
base flood elevation.
   (C)   Openings. For all new construction, relocation, substantial
improvements, and repair of substantial damage, those fully enclosed areas
below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking of vehicles, building
access, or storage in an area other than a basement and which are subject to
flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces
on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of flood waters. Designs
for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a registered
professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following minimum
criteria:
      (1)   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less than
one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided;
      (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above
grade; and
      (3)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
flood waters.
   (D)   A Non-conversion Agreement shall be signed by the applicant on all
flood-proofed structures and any elevated structures when the community
determines that the area below the first floor could be converted to a non-
conforming use (generally applies to enclosed areas below base flood elevation
that are five feet high or more). This agreement shall state:
      (1)   The area below base flood elevation shall not be converted for use
other than for parking, building access or for allowable storage as detailed in
this chapter; and
      (2)   The applicant agrees to notify prospective buyers of the existence
of the non-conversion agreement. It shall be the responsibility of the
applicant to transfer the agreement at closing to the new owner via notarized
signature, a copy of all new agreements shall be provided to the Floodplain
Administrator. Failure to transfer the agreement and provide a signed copy to
the Floodplain Administrator shall subject the violator to the penalties set
forth in §
156.999.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1992; Ord. passed 2-8-2010)
§ 156.037 MANUFACTURED HOME PLACEMENT.
   Certain unique characteristics of manufactured homes installed in flood
hazard areas pose an elevated risk of substantial damage to property.
   (A)   All manufactured homes to be sited within any floodplain areas of the
city shall be installed by a contractor possessing a valid state manufactured
home installer’s license. The installer shall use an installation design
engineered to withstand flood hazards specific to the particular home site.
Manufactured homes to be placed or substantially improved within the flood
hazard areas shall be installed in accordance with the following standards:
      (1)   The lowest floor, ductwork, and utilities including HVAC/heat pump
shall be elevated two feet above the base flood elevation;
      (2)   Elevation shall be on reinforced piers on a permanent foundation or
other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength engineered for use in
a flood hazard area. Installation designs incorporating dry stacked block piers
shall not be used in flood hazard areas;
      (3)   All manufactured homes shall be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system in compliance with the requirements of W. Va. Code
42-19-10.1, 42-19-10.2, and 42-19-10b as authorized by W. Va. Code 21-9-4. The
anchoring shall be adequate to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement.
Methods of anchoring may include but are not limited to the over-the-top and
frame ties, attached to permanent foundation elements. Ground anchors may not
be adequate to satisfy flood specific anchoring requirements. This requirement
is in addition to applicable state and local anchoring requirements for
resisting wind forces;
      (4)   Permanently attached rigid skirts and perimeter wall skirts of
brick or block must have openings; this type of skirting can collapse during
floods and compromise supporting piers. The openings must be designed to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces by allowing for entry and exit
of flood waters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified
by a registered professional engineer or meet or exceed the following minimum
criteria:
         (a)   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade; and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices; provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
flood waters.
      (5)   Any additions to a manufactured home shall be similarly anchored
and vented.
   (B)   The licensed state manufactured home installer placing the unit shall
perform a site inspection and certify, in writing, that the manufactured home
has been installed to the standards set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1992; Ord. passed 2-8-2010)
§ 156.038 RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PLACEMENT.
   Recreational vehicles to be placed within any floodplain area shall either:
   (A)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
   (B)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use. A recreational vehicle is
ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to
the site only by quick disconnect utilities and security devices, and has no
permanently attached additions; or
   (C)   Be installed in accordance with the manufactured home placement
requirements and all other flood reduction requirements contained in this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1992; Ord. passed 2-8-2010)
§ 156.039 FILL.
   (A)   The City Council officially recognizes the beneficial functions the
floodplain serves in storage and transportation of water during floods.
Placement of fill in the floodplain area is discouraged and should be
minimized. No fill shall be permitted in the floodway.
   (B)   All fill placed in other floodplain areas shall meet or exceed the
following standards:
      (1)   Fill shall be used only to the extent to which it does not
adversely affect adjacent properties. The city may require the applicant to
demonstrate, through engineering reports, that proposed fill would not
adversely affect adjacent properties. When required, hydrologic and hydraulic
analyses shall be undertaken only by professional engineers who shall certify
that the technical methods used correctly reflect currently accepted technical
concepts. The resultant study shall include a cover letter, signed, and sealed
by the responsible professional, providing a statement of findings in basic
terms. In addition, studies, analyses, computations, and the like shall be
submitted in sufficient detail to allow a thorough technical review by the
city. During permit review, the community shall consider the following issues
that have the potential to cause adverse impact to adjacent properties:
         (a)   Unacceptable increases in flood heights;
         (b)   Blocking drainage from adjacent property;
         (c)   Deflection of flood waters onto adjacent existing structures;
         (d)   Increases to stream velocity initiating or exacerbating erosion
problems; and
         (e)   Other unique site conditions may be considered when determining
whether fill will cause adverse impact to adjacent property including, but not
limited to, subsidence areas, karst topography, stream blockages, and steep
topography adjacent to the channel.
      (2)   Fill shall be used only to the extent to which it does not
adversely affect the capacity of channels or floodways of any tributary to the
main stream, drainage ditch, or any other drainage facility or system;
      (3)   Filled site must be contoured to drain properly (to avoid ponding);
      (4)   Fill shall extend beyond a structure for a sufficient distance to
provide acceptable access. For residential structures, fill shall extend
laterally 15 feet beyond the building line from all points before the start of
sloping required in following section. For nonresidential structures, fill
shall be placed to provide access acceptable for intended use;
      (5)   At grade access, with fill extending laterally 15 feet beyond the
building line, shall be provided to a minimum of 25% of the perimeter of a
nonresidential structure;
      (6)   Fill shall consist of soil or rock material only. Sanitary
landfills shall not be permitted; no trash or woody debris shall be buried on
site;
      (7)   Fill material shall be compacted to provide the necessary stability
and resistance to erosion, scouring or settling. Fill compaction standards must
be appropriate to proposed post fill use, particular attention is necessary
when fill is being used to elevate a structure;
      (8)   Fill slopes shall be no steeper than one vertical on two
horizontal, unless substantiating data justifying steeper slopes are submitted
to and approved by the Floodplain Administrator;
      (9)   Fill site and fill must be protected from erosion;
      (10)   All applicants placing fill in a mapped flood hazard area must
obtain a conditional letter of map revision (CLOMR) from FEMA when directed to
do so by the Floodplain Administrator before a permit can be issued. After fill
is finished, the applicant must convert the CLOMR to a letter of map revision
based on fill (LOMR-F) before a certificate of compliance can be issued; and
      (11)   The applicant must submit any maps, computations, or other
material required by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to revise
the Flood Insurance Study and/or Flood Insurance Rate Maps, when notified by
the Floodplain Administrator, and must pay any fees or other costs assessed by
FEMA for this purpose.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1992; Ord. passed 2-8-2010)
§ 156.040 PLACEMENT OF STRUCTURES.
   (A)   All structures and other developments shall be constructed and placed
on the lot so as to offer the minimum obstruction to the flow of water and
shall be designed to have a minimum obstruction effect upon the flow and height
of flood water.
   (B)   Whenever possible, structures shall be constructed with the
longitudinal axis parallel to the direction of flood flow.
   (C)   So far as practicable, structures shall be placed approximately on the
same flood-flow lines as those of adjoining structures.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1992; Ord. passed 2-8-2010)
§ 156.041 ANCHORING.
   All structures and other developments, including stream crossings, shall be
firmly anchored in accordance with accepted engineering practices to prevent
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement, thus reducing the threat to life and
property and decreasing the possibility of the blockage of bridge openings and
other restricted sections of the watercourse. All air ducts, large pipes, and
storage tanks located at or below the base flood elevation shall be firmly
anchored to resist flotation.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1992; Ord. passed 2-8-2010)
§ 156.042 STORAGE.
   (A)   No materials that are buoyant, flammable, explosive, or, in times of
flooding, could be injurious to human, animal, or plant life shall be stored
below base flood elevation.
   (B)   Storage of other material or equipment may be allowed if not subject
to major damage by floods and firmly anchored to prevent flotation or readily
removable from the area within the time available after flood warning.
   (C)   Due to the potential of masking the natural elevation and making it
more difficult to enforce this chapter, material that resembles fill material
shall not be considered storage material for purposes of this section.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1992; Ord. passed 2-8-2010)
§ 156.043 UTILITY AND FACILITY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All new or replacement water systems, whether public or private, shall
be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the
systems.
   (B)   All new or replacement sanitary disposal systems, whether public or
private, shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood
waters into the systems and discharges from the systems into flood waters.
   (C)   All other new or replacement public and/or private utilities and
facilities shall be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damage.
   (D)   Onsite waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1992; Ord. passed 2-8-2010)
§ 156.044 DRAINAGE.
   Adequate drainage shall be provided to reduce exposure to flood hazard.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1992; Ord. passed 2-8-2010)
§ 156.045 APPURTENANT STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, appurtenant structures shall
be located out of the floodplain area or elevated to two feet above the base
flood elevation.
   (B)   Where appurtenant structures not connected to the principal structure
are to be located on sites below the base flood elevation, the following flood
damage reduction provisions apply:
      (1)   Structures shall be no more than 600 square feet in size and valued
at less than $10,000;
      (2)   Floors shall be at or above grade on at least one side;
      (3)   Structures shall be located, oriented, and constructed to minimize
flood damage;
      (4)   Structures shall be designed (or modified) and adequately anchored
to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure resulting
from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy;
      (5)   Flood-resistant materials as detailed in FEMA Technical Bulletin 2-
93 (FIA-TB-2) shall be used in the construction of the structure from the
lowest structural element to two feet above the base flood elevation;
      (6)   Machinery, electric devices or appliances, and all utilities shall
be located at least two feet above the base flood elevation;
      (7)   The venting requirements contained in §
156.036 are applicable and shall be strictly adhered to.
   (C)   In addition, a Non-conversion Agreement shall be signed by the
applicant stating that the use of the appurtenant structure or detached or
attached garage shall not be changed from the use permitted, acknowledging that
the structure may be subject to greater flood risk and that higher flood
insurance premiums may be possible, and that a change in use may require full
compliance with this chapter. The applicant agrees to notify prospective buyers
of the existence of this agreement. It shall be the responsibility of the
applicant to transfer the agreement at closing to the new owner via notarized
signature, a copy of all new agreements shall be provided to the Floodplain
Administrator. Failure to transfer the agreement and provide a signed copy to
the Floodplain Administrator shall subject the violator to the penalties set
forth in §
156.999.
(Ord. passed 2-8-2010) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.046 FLOOD PROTECTION SETBACK.
   (A)   A flood protection setback equal to twice the width of the watercourse
channel measuring from the top of one bank to the top of the opposite bank or
50 feet, whichever is less, shall be maintained from the top of the banks of
all watercourses. To reduce erosion, natural vegetation shall be maintained in
this area. Where natural vegetation does not exist along the watercourse and
conditions for replanting are suitable, high priority shall be given to
planting vegetation in the setback area to stabilize banks and enhance aquatic
resources.
   (B)   Necessary public works and temporary construction may be exempted from
this section.
   (C)   The Floodplain Administrator may consider an appeal to the flood
protection setback requirement if the applicant demonstrates that it is
impossible to allow any development without encroachment into the flood
protection setback area. The appeal conditions shall be the minimum necessary
and shall be made only after due consideration is given to varying other siting
standards, such as side, front, and back lot line setbacks.
(Ord. passed 2-8-2010)
§ 156.047 BACKFLOW PREVENTERS.
   Backflow prevention valves should be used for all enclosed structures with
sewage or drainage facilities located in the floodplain.
(Ord. passed 2-8-2010)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 156.060 DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The city’s Floodplain Manager is hereby appointed as Floodplain
Administrator to administer and implement this local law by granting or denying
floodplain development permits in accordance with its provisions.
(Ord. passed 2-8-2010)
§ 156.061 DEVELOPMENT PERMITS AND SITE PLAN APPROVALS REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any contractor, person, partnership, business, or
corporation to undertake or cause to be undertaken any development or the new
construction, substantial improvement, repair of substantial damage, the
placement or relocation of any structure (including manufactured homes) within
the city, unless a permit has been obtained from the Floodplain Administrator.
In addition, where land is to be subdivided, utilized for a manufactured home
park or subdivision, or otherwise developed, a detailed site plan must be
submitted to, and approved by, the Floodplain Administrator prior to any such
development.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1992; Ord. passed 2-8-2010) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.062 APPROVAL OF PERMITS AND PLANS.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator shall review, or shall cause to be
reviewed; all permit applications and plans in order to determine whether
proposed building sites are reasonably safe from flooding.
   (B)   All permits and plans shall be approved only after it has been
determined that the proposed work to be undertaken will be in conformance with
the requirements of the state and all other applicable codes and ordinances.
   (C)   The Floodplain Administrator shall not issue a permit to any person
who does not possess a valid contractor’s license when a contractor’s license
is required by W. Va. Code 21-11-10.
   (D)   (1)   The Floodplain Administrator, before issuance of the permit,
shall require the applicant to furnish satisfactory proof that such person is
duly licensed as a contractor under the provisions of West Virginia Code.
      (2)   If the applicant is not licensed a written affidavit that such
person is not subject to licensure as a contractor or subcontractor as defined
in W. Va. Code 21-11-3 shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator and
placed in the permit file.
   (E)   The Floodplain Administrator shall require copies of all necessary
permits from those governmental agencies from which approval is required by
federal or state law.
   (F)   The Floodplain Administrator shall provide a copy of all permits to
the County Assessor as required by W. Va. Code 11-3-3A.
   (G)   The Floodplain Administrator shall provide a copy of all permits for
new structures to the County E-911 Addressing Coordinator.
   (H)   The County E-911 Addressing Coordinator shall provide a copy of all
requests for addresses for new structures to the County Floodplain
Administrator.
   (I)   The city shall provide sufficient space to allow the Floodplain
Administrator to keep on file in perpetuity, in a location safe from natural
hazards, all information collected during the course of the administration of
this chapter.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1992)
§ 156.063 APPLICATION PROCEDURES.
   Application for building permit and site plan approvals shall be made, in
writing, on the forms supplied by the city and shall include all information
stipulated under §§
156.020 through
156.023.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1992; Ord. passed 2-8-2010)
§ 156.064 CHARGES.
   After the issuance of a permit or site plan approval by the Floodplain
Administrator, no changes of any kind shall be made to the application, permit,
or any of the plans, specifications, or other documents submitted with the
application without the written consent or approval of the Floodplain
Administrator.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1992; Ord. passed 2-8-2010)
§ 156.065 PLACARDS.
   The Floodplain Administrator shall issue a permit placard, which shall be
prominently displayed on the premises during the time construction is in
progress. This placard shall show the number of the building, permit, the date
of its issuance, and be signed by the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1992; Ord. passed 2-8-2010)
§ 156.066 START OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Work on the proposed construction shall begin within 180 days after
the date of issuance of the building permit or the permit shall expire unless a
time extension is granted, in writing, by the Floodplain Administrator. All
work on the proposed development must be completed within 18 months of permit
issuance, at which time the permit shall expire, unless a time extension is
granted in writing by the Floodplain Administrator. The request for a time
extension shall be in writing and shall state the reasons for the extension.
   (B)   When considering an extension, the Floodplain Administrator shall
consider the following criteria:
      (1)   If the developer has diligently pursued the completion of the
proposed development during the 18 months; and
      (2)   If the granting of the extension will be detrimental to public
safety, health, or welfare or injurious to other property.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1992; Ord. passed 2-8-2010)
§ 156.067 STOP WORK ORDERS, INSPECTION, AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   Stop work orders. The Floodplain Administrator shall issue, or cause
to be issued, a stop work order notice for any development found ongoing
without having obtained a permit. Disregard of a stop work order shall subject
the violator to the penalties described in §
156.999. The Floodplain Administrator shall issue, or cause to be issued, a
stop work order notice for any development found non-compliant with the
provisions of this law and/or the conditions of the permit. Disregard of a stop
work order shall subject the violator to the penalties described in §
156.999.
   (B)   Inspections and revocation. During the construction period, the
Floodplain Administrator or other authorized official may inspect the premises
to determine that the work is progressing in compliance with the information
provided on the permit application and with all applicable laws and ordinances.
      (1)   If the Floodplain Administrator discovers that the work does not
comply with the permit application or any applicable laws and ordinances or
that there has been false statement or misrepresentation by any applicant, the
Floodplain Administrator shall issue a stop work order notice revoke the permit
and request a temporary injunction.
      (2)   The Floodplain Administrator or other authorized official may
inspect any development covered by this code of ordinances or a previous
ordinance to determine whether any portion of the development has been altered
to be in non-compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1992; Ord. passed 2-8-2010) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.068 CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE; FEES.
   (A)   Certificate of compliance.
      (1)   In areas of flood hazard it shall be unlawful to occupy, or to
permit the use or occupancy, of any building or premises, or both, or part
thereof hereafter created, erected, installed, changed, converted, or wholly or
partly altered or enlarged in its use or structure until a certificate of
compliance has been issued by the Local Floodplain Administrator stating that
the building or land conforms to the requirements of this local law. Occupying
or using a building or premises in violation of this section shall subject the
violator to the penalties described in §
156.999.
      (2)   In areas of flood hazard it shall be unlawful to inspect and
approve a permanent utility connection to any building or premises, or both, or
part thereof hereafter created, erected, installed, or rebuilt until the
inspector is in possession of a copy of the certificate of compliance issued by
the local Floodplain Administrator stating that the particular development
being inspected conforms to the requirements of this local law. Inspection and
approval of utilities in violation of this section shall subject the violator
to the penalties described in §
156.999.
      (3)   In areas of flood hazard it shall be unlawful to install a
permanent utility connection to any building or premises, or both, or part
thereof hereafter created, erected, installed, or rebuilt until a certificate
of compliance has been issued by the local Floodplain Administrator stating
that the development conforms to the requirements of this local law.
Installation of utilities in violation of this section shall subject the
violator to the penalties described in §
156.999.
      (4)   A certificate of compliance shall be issued by the local Floodplain
Administrator upon satisfactory completion of all development in areas of
special flood hazard.
      (5)   Issuance of the certificate shall be based upon the inspections
conducted as prescribed in this chapter or local administrative procedures, and
any finished construction elevation certificate, hydraulic data, flood-proofing
certificate, or encroachment analyses which may have been required as a
condition of permit approval.
   (B)   Fees.
      (1)   A foodplain determination fee shall be assessed on all proposed
development. This shall be a flat fee as established by the city.
      (2)   Application for a permit for proposed development determined to be
occurring in a flood hazard area regulated by this chapter shall be accompanied
by an additional fee, payable to the city based upon a set schedule approved by
the city using the estimated value of the proposed construction as determined
by the Floodplain Administrator.
      (3)   In addition, the applicant shall be responsible for reimbursing the
city for any additional costs for services necessary for review and/or
inspection of proposed development. Services include, but are not limited to,
professional engineering and surveying. The Floodplain Administrator may
require a deposit towards these additional costs. Additional costs may include
reimbursement for contracted services.
      (4)   (a)   Due to the increased cost of processing, when any work for
which a permit is required by this chapter is started or proceeded with prior
to obtaining a permit the fees above specified shall be doubled. The additional
fee is intended to partially reimburse the city for the additional cost of
processing permits for work already underway.
         (b)   To more fully recover this cost the fees above shall be tripled
for every subsequent occurrence by the same person. Payment of the increased
fee shall not relieve any person from complying fully with the requirements of
this chapter in the execution of the work or from other penalties prescribed
herein.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1992; Ord. passed 2-8-2010)
APPEALS
§ 156.080 APPEALS.
   (A)   Whenever any person is aggrieved by a decision of the Floodplain
Administrator with respect to the provision of this chapter, it is the right of
that person to appeal to the City Council which shall be known as the Appeals
Board. Such appeal must be filed, in writing, within 30 days after notification
of the decision.
   (B)   Upon receipt of such appeal, the Appeals Board shall set a time and
place not less than ten nor more than 30 days for the purpose of hearing the
appeal. Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be given to all
parties at which time they may appear and be heard.
   (C)   The determination by the Appeals Board shall be final in all cases.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1992; Ord. passed 2-8-2010)
§ 156.081 APPEAL REVIEW CRITERIA.
   (A)   All appeals contesting only the permit fee, the cumulative substantial
damage requirement, the flood protection setback requirement, or the freeboard
requirements may be handled at the discretion of the Appeals Board.
   (B)   All decisions on appeals to all other provisions of this chapter shall
adhere to the following criteria.
      (1)   Affirmative decisions shall only be issued by the Appeals Board
upon a showing of good and sufficient cause, a determination that failure to
grant the appeal would result in exceptional hardship to the applicant, and a
determination that the granting of an appeal will not result in increased flood
heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public expense,
create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public, or conflict
with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (2)   An affirmative decision shall be issued only upon a determination
that it is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief. Financial hardship, as the sole criterion, shall not be considered
sufficient justification to grant an appeal.
      (3)   An affirmative decision may be issued for the repair or
rehabilitation of historic structures only upon a determination that the
proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s continued
designation as a historic structure and the variance is the minimum necessary
to preserve the historic character and design of the structure.
      (4)   The Appeals Board shall notify the applicant in writing over the
signature of a community official that the issuance of a decision to allow
construction of a structure below the base flood elevation will result in
increased premium rates for flood insurance, such construction below the base
flood elevation increases risk to life and property. Such notifications shall
be maintained with a record of all decisions as required in division (B)(2)
above.
      (5)   The Appeals Board shall maintain a record of all decisions,
including justification for their issuance, and report such decisions issued in
its biennial report submitted to the Federal Insurance Administration.
      (6)   An affirmative decision shall not be granted for any construction,
development, use, or activity within any floodway area that would cause any
increase in the base flood elevation.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1992; Ord. passed 2-8-2010)
§ 156.999 PENALTY.
   Any person who fails to comply with any or all of the requirements or
provisions of this chapter or direction of the Floodplain Administrator, or any
other authorized employee of the community, shall be unlawful and shall be
referred to the Prosecuting Attorney, who shall expeditiously prosecute all
such violators. A violator shall, upon conviction, pay a fine of not less than
$50, nor more than $500, or other amount deemed appropriate by the Municipal
Court, plus cost of prosecution. In default of such payment, such person shall
be imprisoned in county prison for a period not to exceed ten days. Each day
during which any violation of this chapter continues shall constitute a
separate offense. In addition to the above penalties, all other actions are
reserved including an action in equity for the proper enforcement of this
chapter. The imposition of a fine or penalty for any violation of, or
noncompliance with, this chapter shall not excuse the violation or
noncompliance with this chapter or permit it to continue; and all such persons
shall be required to correct or remedy such violations or noncompliances within
a reasonable time. Any structure constructed, reconstructed, enlarged, altered,
or relocated in noncompliance with this chapter may be declared by the City
Council to be a public nuisance and abatable as such.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1992; Ord. passed 2-8-2010)
CHAPTER 157: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
157.001   Purpose
   
157.002   Authority
   
157.003   Scope and jurisdiction
   
157.004   Interpretation and conflict of law
   
157.005   Non-exclusionary intent
   
157.006   Official zoning map
   
157.007   Enactment
Zoning Administration
   
157.020   Zoning Officer and zoning permit
   
157.021   Planning Commission
Board of Zoning Appeals
   
157.035   Board established
   
157.036   BZA membership; eligibility requirements
   
157.037   Meeting of the Board of Zoning Appeals
   
157.038   Powers and duties of the Board of Zoning Appeals
   
157.039   Variances
   
157.040   Conditional uses
   
157.041   Nonconformities
   
157.042   Appeals to the Board of Zoning Appeals
   
157.043   Notice and hearing of appeal
   
157.044   Injunction
   
157.045   Interpretation of code
   
157.046   Use definitions
   
157.047   General definitions
Zoning Districts and Requirements
   
157.060   Districts established
   
157.061   Use table
   
157.062   Classification of districts and district boundaries
   
157.063   Procedures relating to annexed or vacated areas
   
157.064   Uses not expressly permitted or conditional
   
157.065   SF, Single-Family Residential
   
157.066   R-2, Multi-Family Residential
   
157.067   MH, Manufactured Home Neighborhood District
   
157.068   P, Park District
   
157.069   MU, Mixed-Use District
   
157.070   NC, Neighborhood Commercial District
   
157.071   C-1, General Commercial District
   
157.072   Historic Overlays, HO1 and HO2
Supplemental Regulations
   
157.085   Purpose
   
157.086   Abandoned vehicle
   
157.087   Adult business
   
157.088   Automobile repair/service
   
157.089   Bed and breakfast inn
   
157.090   Boat storage
   
157.091   Car wash, automobile
   
157.092   Child day care facility
   
157.093   Dog day care
   
157.094   Dwelling, townhouse
   
157.095   Garage sales
   
157.096   Gas station
   
157.097   Greenhouse, non-commercial
   
157.098   Home-based business (low impact)
   
157.099   Home-based business (no impact)
   
157.100   Medical cannabis organizations
   
157.101   Telecommunications facilities
   
157.102   Urban agriculture
   
157.103   Wind energy systems
   
157.104   Video gaming or lottery establishments
Additional Regulations
   
157.115   Purpose
   
157.116   Accessory buildings, uses, and structures
   
157.117   Yard/setback requirements
   
157.118   Swimming pools
   
157.119   Additional principal buildings
   
157.120   Orientation of principal structures
   
157.121   Fences, landscaping, and screening
   
157.122   Clear sight triangle
   
157.123   Lot lines and irregular lots
   
157.124   Temporary uses
   
157.125   Height exceptions
   
157.126   Storage, general
   
157.127   Storage of trailers, camping, and recreational equipment
   
157.128   Performance standards
   
157.129   Lighting
   
157.130   Parking
   
157.131   Off-street loading requirements
Sign Regulations
   
157.145   Findings, purpose, and intent; interpretation
   
157.146   Permit required
   
157.147   Permit not required
   
157.148   Prohibited signs
   
157.149   General requirements
   
157.150   Nonconforming signs
   
157.151   Maintenance and removal
   
157.152   Temporary signs
   
157.153   Signs for Single-Family Residential, Multi-Family Residential,
Manufactured Home Neighborhood, and Parks District
   
157.154   Signs for Mixed-Use Districts
   
157.155   Signs for Neighborhood Commercial Districts
   
157.156   Signs for General Commercial District
 
   
157.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Official zoning map
   
Appendix B:   Use table
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 157.001 PURPOSE.
   (A)   This chapter shall be known as “the zoning ordinance of the City of
Weston, West Virginia”, hereinafter referred to as “this code”.
   (B)   The zoning ordinance is consistent with the city’s comprehensive plan
and was developed to promote the health, safety, and general welfare of the
public. Other purposes of the ordinance include:
      (1)   To plan so that adequate light, air, convenience of access, and
safety from fire, flood, and other danger is secured;
      (2)   To ensure attractiveness and convenience is promoted;
      (3)   To lessen congestion;
      (4)   To preserve historic landmarks, sites, districts, and buildings;
and
      (5)   To promote the orderly development of land.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.002 AUTHORITY.
   Whereas, by act of the State Legislature, as recorded in state code, the
governing body of any county or municipality may, by ordinance, classify the
territory under its jurisdiction into districts of such number, shape, and size
as it may deem best suited to carry out the purpose of zoning.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.003 SCOPE AND JURISDICTION.
   (A)   The provisions of this code shall apply to the construction, addition,
alteration, moving, repair, and use of any building, structure, parcel of land,
or sign within the city, except work located primarily on a public way or road,
or on public utility towers and poles, and public utilities unless specifically
mentioned in this code.
   (B)   The provisions of this code are intended to benefit the public as a
whole and not any specific person or class of persons. Although the
implementation, administration, and enforcement of this code may entail a mix
of advantages and disadvantages for specific individuals in the use and
enjoyment of their properties, such is an unavoidable byproduct of the several
benefits, especially a higher quality of life, that it is the purpose and goal
of this code to provide to the city overall. Therefore, unintentional breaches
of the obligations of administration and enforcement imposed on the city hereby
shall not be enforceable in tort.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.004 INTERPRETATION AND CONFLICT OF LAW.
   (A)   In their interpretation and application, the regulations set forth in
the provisions of this zoning ordinance shall be held to be the minimum
requirements for the promotion of the public health, safety, and general
welfare of the people of the city.
   (B)   The provisions of this zoning ordinance are not intended to interfere
with, abrogate, or annul any other ordinance, rule or regulation, statute, or
other provisions of law. Where the conditions imposed by, or pursuant to, these
regulations are different from those imposed by any other provision of these
regulations or any other ordinance rule or regulation, statute, or other
provision of law, the provisions which are more restrictive and which impose
the higher or greater standards shall control. If any portion of this code is
held invalid for any reason, the remaining herein shall not be affected.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.005 NON-EXCLUSIONARY INTENT.
   It is not the intent of this code to exclude any economic, racial,
religious, or ethnic group from enjoyment of residence, land ownership, or
tenancy within the city; nor is it the intent of this code to use public powers
in any way to promote the separation within the city of economic, racial,
religious, or ethnic groups, except as may be an incidental result of meeting
the purposes outlined in this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.006 OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   (A)   The city’s zoning ordinance shall include the ordinance and the
accompanying zoning map, included in Appendix A, which shall be considered an
integral part of the zoning ordinance.
   (B)   The official zoning map shall be the map certified by the Clerk of the
City Council.
   (C)   All subsequent amendments (i.e., rezoning) of the official zoning map
also shall be certified by the Clerk of the City Council.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.007 ENACTMENT.
   Therefore, be it ordained by the City Council, for the purpose of
accomplishing the objectives set out in the state code and §
157.001, the following be enacted as the city’s zoning ordinance.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
ZONING ADMINISTRATION
§ 157.020 ZONING OFFICER AND ZONING PERMIT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to ensure that the processes
by which this zoning ordinance are effectuated have been clearly identified and
delineated. This chapter shall outline the duties and powers of the Planning
Commission, Board of Zoning Appeals, Zoning Officer, the zoning permit process,
the appeals process, and other enforcement related provisions.
   (B)   Powers and duties of Zoning Officer. Council shall appoint a Zoning
Officer, who shall have the authority to administer and enforce this code. This
includes, but is not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Keep a record of applications for zoning permits and all zoning
permits and accompanying plans issued with notations as to special conditions.
All records shall be open for public inspection;
      (2)   Review permit applications and notifications as necessary to
determine compliance with the provisions of this chapter. No permit shall be
issued unless it conforms to all applicable ordinances, statutes, and
regulations;
      (3)   All questions or interpretation and enforcement shall be initially
presented and determined by the Zoning Officer, except where otherwise
specified. Subsequent recourse shall be, in order, to the Board of Zoning
Appeals and the courts;
      (4)   Upon finding that provisions of this chapter have been violated,
notify the person or party in writing responsible for the violation(s), order
the action necessary to correct the violation, and if correction is not
completed within the time specified in the notice of violation, begin legal
actions necessary to compel correction of the violation;
      (5)   Maintain official zoning maps;
      (6)   Provide information on planning and zoning upon request by citizens
and public agencies;
      (7)   Submit, at least annually, a written report on all permits issued
and notice and orders issued; and
      (8)   Perform additional tasks and duties as may be prescribed by the
City Council.
   (C)   Zoning permit.
      (1)   No building or structure shall be constructed, erected, expanded,
enlarged, or otherwise structurally altered until a zoning permit has been
issued by the Zoning Officer.
      (2)   Applications for a zoning permit shall be made available at City
Hall.
      (3)   All applications for zoning permits shall be made in writing by the
owner of the property or lot or the owner’s authorized agent and shall be filed
with the Zoning Officer. The application shall:
         (a)   Include a statement as to the proposed use of the structure or
land; and
         (b)   Be accompanied by a plan, drawn to scale, showing the dimensions
of the lot to be built upon or otherwise affected; the exact size and location
of the building to be constructed or otherwise affected upon the lot, accessory
buildings to be erected or otherwise affected upon the lot, and such other
information as may be deemed necessary by the Zoning Officer in determining and
providing for the enforcement of this code.
      (4)   If the zoning permit application is approved by the Zoning Officer,
then an appropriate placard issued by the city and containing the approval of
the Zoning Officer shall be returned together with the zoning permit to the
applicant, following payment of the appropriate fee. The placard shall be
posted by the applicant in a conspicuous place upon the building or
construction site prior to the commencement of any construction and shall
remain upon the building or construction site during all construction
operations.
      (5)   A zoning permit does not alleviate the necessity to obtain a
building permit as required by the city’s municipal code.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.021 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Powers and duties of the Planning Commission. For the purpose of this
chapter, the Planning Commission has the following duties:
      (1)   Initiate proposed amendments to this chapter; and
      (2)   Review all proposed amendments to this chapter and make
recommendations to City Council.
   (B)   Amendments to zoning ordinance.
      (1)   The City Council may amend this zoning ordinance. Before amending
this zoning ordinance, the City Council, with the advice of the Planning
Commission, must find that the amendment is consistent with the adopted
comprehensive plan. If the amendment is inconsistent, then the governing body
with the advice of the Planning Commission must find that there have been major
changes of an economic, physical, or social nature within the area involved
which were not anticipated when the comprehensive plan was adopted and those
changes have substantially altered the basic characteristics of the area.
      (2)   The City Council may amend this zoning ordinance without holding an
election, or otherwise by holding an election on the proposed amendment, or by
holding an election on the proposed amendment pursuant to a petition.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS
§ 157.035 BOARD ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby created a Board of Zoning Appeals to hear appeals on zoning
issues, to hear conditional use permit applications and variance applications,
and to review nonconforming uses, to be known as “the city’s Board of Zoning
Appeals”.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.036 BZA MEMBERSHIP; ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The city’s Board of Zoning Appeals shall have five members to be
appointed by the governing body. Each member of the city’s Board of Zoning
Appeals shall be a resident of the city for at least three years preceding his
or her appointment. A member cannot be a member of the Planning Commission and
cannot hold any other elective or appointive office in the city.
   (B)   The members shall be appointed for the following terms: one for a term
of one year; two for a term of two years; and two for a term of three years.
The terms shall expire on January 1 of the first, second, and third years,
respectively, following appointment. Thereafter, members shall serve three-year
terms. If a vacancy occurs, the governing body shall appoint a member for the
unexpired term.
   (C)   The governing body may appoint up to one additional member to serve as
an alternate member of the city’s Board of Zoning Appeals. The alternate member
must meet the same eligibility requirements as set out in division (A) above.
The term for an alternate member is three years.
   (D)   An alternate member shall serve on the Board when one of the regular
members is unable to serve. The alternate member shall serve until a final
determination is made in the matter to which the alternate member was initially
called on to serve during the alternate member’s term.
   (E)   The city’s Board of Zoning Appeals shall establish written rules and
procedures for designating an alternate member. An alternate member shall have
the same powers and duties of a regular Board member.
   (F)   The members and alternate members of the city’s Board of Zoning
Appeals shall serve without compensation but shall be entitled to reimbursement
for all reasonable and necessary expenses actually incurred in the performance
of their official duties.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.037 MEETING OF THE BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   (A)   The city’s Board of Zoning Appeals shall meet at least quarterly and
may meet more frequently at the written request of the Chairperson or by two or
more members.
   (B)   Notice for a special meeting must be in writing, include the date,
time, and place of the special meeting, and be sent to all members at least two
days before the special meeting.
   (C)   Written notice of a special meeting is not required if the date, time,
and place of the special meeting were set in a regular meeting.
   (D)   The city’s Board of Zoning Appeals must have a quorum to conduct a
meeting. A majority of the members of the Board shall constitute a quorum. No
action of the Board is official unless it is authorized by a majority of the
members present at a regular or properly called special meeting.
   (E)   At its first regular meeting of each year, the city’s Board of Zoning
Appeals shall elect a Chairperson and Vice Chairperson from its membership. The
Vice Chairperson shall have the power and authority to act as Chairperson
during the absence or disability of the Chairperson.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.038 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   The city’s Board of Zoning Appeals shall have the following powers and
duties:
   (A)   Hear, review, and determine appeals from an order, requirement,
decision, or determination made by an administrative official charged with the
enforcement of this zoning ordinance or rule and regulation adopted pursuant
thereto;
   (B)   Authorize exceptions to the district rules and regulations only in the
classes of cases or in particular situations as specified in this zoning
ordinance;
   (C)   Hear and decide conditional uses of this zoning ordinance upon which
the Board is required to act under this zoning ordinance;
   (D)   Authorize, upon appeal in specific cases only as provided in this
zoning ordinance, a variance to this zoning ordinance;
   (E)   Reverse, affirm, or modify the order, requirement, decision, or
determination appealed from so long as the action of the Board taken on appeal
is consistent with the rules, regulations, and requirements of this zoning
ordinance;
   (F)   Authorize, upon appeal, the substitution of one legal nonconforming
use existing at the effective date of this zoning ordinance for another similar
nonconforming use; provided further, that upon substitution all applicable
landscaping requirements of this code shall be satisfied;
   (G)   Promulgate and adopt written rules and regulations concerning:
      (1)   The filing of appeals, including the process and forms for appeal;
      (2)   Application for variances and conditional uses;
      (3)   The giving of notice; and
      (4)   The conduct of hearings necessary to carry out the Board’s duties
under the terms of this subchapter.
   (H)   Keep minutes of the Board’s proceedings;
   (I)   Keep an accurate and complete audio record of all the Board’s
proceedings and official actions and keep the audio record in a safe manner,
which audio record is accessible within 24 hours of demand, for three years;
   (J)   Record the vote on all actions taken;
   (K)   Take responsibility for the custody and preservation of all papers and
documents of the Board. All minutes and records shall be filed in the office of
the Board and shall be public records;
   (L)   With consent of the governing body, hire employees necessary to carry
out the duties and responsibilities of the Board, provided that the governing
body sets the salaries; and
   (M)   Supervise the fiscal affairs and responsibilities of the Board.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.039 VARIANCES.
   (A)   A variance is a deviation from the minimum standards of the zoning
ordinance and shall not involve permitting land uses that are otherwise
prohibited in the zoning district nor shall it involve changing the zoning
classifications of a parcel of land.
   (B)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall grant a variance to the zoning
ordinance if it finds that the variance:
      (1)   Will not adversely affect the public health, safety, or welfare, or
the rights of adjacent property owners or residents;
      (2)   Arises from special conditions or attributes which pertain to the
property for which a variance is sought and which were not created by the
person seeking the variance;
      (3)   Would eliminate an unnecessary hardship and permit a reasonable use
of the land; and
      (4)   Will allow the intent of the zoning ordinance to be observed and
substantial justice done.
   (C)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall not grant a variance to allow the
establishment of a use in a zoning district when such use is prohibited by the
provisions of this code.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.040 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   The conditional use permit procedure is intended to provide the Board
of Zoning Appeals with review of requests to establish uses that may be
appropriate in a zoning district, but that may have the potential for negative
impacts on the health, safety, and welfare of the public. The conditional use
standards provided in this section are intended to avoid, minimize, or mitigate
adverse impacts conditional uses may have on the health, safety, and welfare of
the public.
   (B)   All applications for a conditional use permit shall demonstrate that:
      (1)   The use is consistent with the policies and intent of the
corresponding purpose for the zoning district in which it lies and the city’s
comprehensive plan;
      (2)   The use is physically and operationally compatible with the
surrounding neighborhood and surrounding existing uses;
      (3)   The use will be designed, constructed, operated, and maintained so
that it does not cause substantial injury to adjoining property;
      (4)   The use will be adequately served by public facilities and services
which include but are not limited to water, sewer, electric, schools, streets,
fire and police protection, storm drainage, public transit, and public parks
and trails;
      (5)   Adequate off-street parking will be provided on the same property
as the proposed conditional use as well as adequate ingress and egress to the
property in compliance with the standards set forth in this code;
      (6)   Any storage of hazardous material will comply with all state,
federal, and local regulations, and all such material will be listed and made
known to the Fire Chief;
      (7)   The use will not endanger public health, safety, or welfare or
constitute a public nuisance; and
      (8)   The use will not conduct operations in connection with the use that
are offensive, dangerous, or destructive of the environment,
   (C)   Conditions may be imposed on a proposed conditional use to ensure that
potential significant adverse impacts on surrounding uses will be reduced to
the maximum extent feasible, including but not limited to, conditions or
measures addressing:
      (1)   Location on a site of activities that generate potential adverse
impacts such as noise and glare;
      (2)   Hours of operation and deliveries;
      (3)   Location of loading space and delivery zones;
      (4)   Light intensity and hours of full illumination;
      (5)   Placement of outdoor vending machines;
      (6)   Loitering;
      (7)   Litter control;
      (8)   Placement of trash receptacles;
      (9)   On-site parking configuration and facilities;
      (10)   On-site circulation; and
      (11)   Privacy concerns of adjacent uses.
   (D)   Conditional use permit decisions are made by the Board of Zoning
Appeals (BZA). In considering the proposed conditional use, the BZA must
determine whether the applicable standards and requirements under this section
have been met. The BZA may impose additional conditions and safeguards deemed
necessary.
   (E)   The breach of any condition, safeguard, or requirement shall be
considered a violation of the conditional use permit approval. If the applicant
fails to comply with any of the applicable requirements of this zoning
ordinance, the BZA shall have the authority to revoke any conditional use
permit after providing notice to the property owner and after public hearing is
held in the same manner as the original approval.
   (F)   Any conditional use approved by the Board of Zoning Appeals under
which the premises are not used, work is not started within six months, or the
use or work has been abandoned for a period of one year, shall lapse and cease
to be in effect. The BZA may permit one, six-month extension if the extension
is applied for in writing by the applicant prior to the expiration of the
approval, provided that the BZA finds that the extension is warranted due to
circumstances beyond the control of the applicant.
   (G)   No application which has been denied wholly or in part by the Board of
Zoning Appeals shall be resubmitted for a period of one year from the date of
the last denial, unless permitted by the BZA after demonstration by the
applicant of a change of circumstances from the previous application.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.041 NONCONFORMITIES.
   (A)   Purpose and applicability. The purpose of this section is to regulate
and limit the continued existence of uses, structures, and lots established
prior to the effective date of this zoning ordinance or any amendment thereto
that do not conform to this code.
   (B)   General provisions.
      (1)   Nonconforming lots, structures, or uses may continue to exist, be
bought or sold, altered, restored, or extended only in accordance with the
provisions of this code.
      (2)   Nothing in this code shall prevent the strengthening or restoring
to a safe condition any portion of a nonconforming structure declared unsafe by
a proper authority.
      (3)   Nothing in this zoning ordinance shall be interpreted as
authorization for or approval of the continuance of the illegal use of a
structure or premises in violation of zoning controls in existence at the time
of the effective date of legal enactment of this code.
      (4)   Whenever the boundaries of a district shall be changed so as to
transfer an area from one district to another district of a different
classification, the foregoing provisions shall apply to any nonconformities
existing therein.
      (5)   Nothing in this section prohibits alterations or additions to or
replacement of buildings or structures owned by any farm, industry, or
manufacturer, or the use of land presently owned by any farm, industry, or
manufacturer but not used for agricultural, industrial, or manufacturing
purposes, or the use or acquisition of additional land which may be required
for the protection, continuing development, or expansion of any agricultural,
industrial, or manufacturing operation of any present or future satellite
agricultural, industrial, or manufacturing use.
   (C)   Nonconforming uses.
      (1)   If a nonconforming use has ceased for one year, abandonment shall
be presumed and the nonconforming use shall not resume. Any future use of the
land or structures shall conform to and be in accordance with this zoning
ordinance. Abandonment of a nonconforming use shall be presumed if one or more
of the following conditions exists, indicating intent on the part of the
property owner to abandon the nonconforming use:
         (a)   When the intent of the owner to discontinue the use is apparent;
         (b)   Utilities, such as water, gas, and electricity, to the property
have been disconnected;
         (c)   The property, buildings, and grounds have fallen into disrepair
as evidenced by proper code violation documentation;
         (d)   When the nonconforming use has been replaced by a conforming
use;
         (e)   When the nonconforming use has been changed to a use permitted
or conditional use by the city; or
         (f)   The business license issued by the city has expired.
      (2)   Once a nonconforming use has been changed or converted to a
conforming use, it shall not thereafter be used for any nonconforming use.
      (3)   Upon authorization by the Board of Zoning Appeals, a nonconforming
use may be changed to another equal or less intense nonconforming use.
   (D)   Nonconforming buildings or structures.
      (1)   A lawful nonconforming structure, which is damaged the extent of
50% or more of its reconstruction cost exclusive of foundations, shall not be
restored unless it is in full conformance with this code.
      (2)   A lawful nonconforming structure which is damaged, by neither
malfeasance nor wanton disregard by an interested party, to the extent of less
than 50% of reconstruction costs exclusive of foundations, if such
reconstruction is undertaken within 12 months of when the damage occurred, may
be reconstructed, provided that:
         (a)   The reconstructed structure shall not exceed the height, area,
or volume of the original structure; and
         (b)   Reconstruction shall be commenced within one year from the date
the structure was destroyed or condemned and shall be carried on without
interruption.
         (c)   An application to the Board of Zoning Appeals for permission to
undertake to reconstruct the structure must be filed prior to undertaking the
repairs after the use has been destroyed or damaged, otherwise any structure
shall conform to and be in accordance with all applicable rules, regulations,
and requirements of the particular district as provided in the zoning
ordinance.
      (3)   The extension of a lawful use to any portion of a nonconforming
structure shall not be deemed the extension of a nonconforming use.
   (E)   Nonconforming lot.
      (1)   Except as provided in this section, a nonconforming vacant lot
existing and of official record as of the effective date of this zoning
ordinance may be developed for any of the uses permitted by these regulations
in the zoning district in which it is located, provided that the use meets all
applicable yard, setback, and minimum square footage requirements for the
zoning district in which the lot is located.
      (2)   A nonconforming vacant lot shall not be developed if it could be
combined with an adjoining lot owned by the same person on or after the
effective date of these regulations in order to create a single lot. Where an
owner owns adjoining property, construction may occur across the lot lines if
that is the only way the yard requirements may be met without a variance. If
said combination, however, results in the creation of a single lot that is more
than one and one-half times the minimum lot width or area required in the
zoning district, then the single lot may be divided into two lots of equal
width and area without being further classified as nonconforming. For the
purposes of this section, ADJOINING shall be deemed to mean the sharing of one
or more common lot lines and access to both lots can be provided by the same
street without crossing that street.
   (F)   Nonconforming accessory uses and structures. Nonconforming accessory
uses or structures shall not become or replace any terminated principal
nonconforming use or structure.
   (G)   Enlargement or extension of a nonconforming use.
      (1)   Nonconforming structures used for a permitted use may be enlarged,
provided that the enlargement shall not create any additional nonconformity or
increase the degree of the existing nonconformity of such structure.
      (2)   Nonconforming structures and uses may enlarge principal structures
by adding decks or porches provided structural nonconformities are not
increased and that all requirements of this code are met, including, but not
limited to, setback and yard requirements.
      (3)   Nonconforming uses existing at the time this chapter was passed, or
at the time a subsequent amendment creates the nonconforming use, may extend
within the building which housed the nonconforming use at the time this chapter
was passed, or at the time a subsequent amendment creates the nonconforming
use, provided that the area to which the nonconforming use extends was
manifestly designed or arranged to accommodate such use, and that no structural
alterations are made within the building in order to allow the use to extend,
except those that may be required by the Building Code.
      (4)   Where the nonconforming setback of a building or structure exists,
the nonconforming setback may be extended along the same building line as the
existing nonconforming setback, provided that in so doing, the setback itself
is not further reduced.
      (5)   Nonconforming uses existing at the time this chapter was passed, or
at the time a subsequent amendment creates the nonconforming use, may enlarge
the building which housed the nonconforming use at the time this chapter was
passed, or at the time a subsequent amendment creates the nonconforming use,
and extend within such enlargement, provided that:
         (a)   The enlargement becomes an attached part of the main structure
and does not utilize additional or adjoining land area other than the original
parcel;
         (b)   The enlargement meets all requirements of this code, including,
but not limited to, setback and yard requirements;
         (c)   The enlargement is for the purpose of expanding the area housing
the use which existed at the time this chapter was passed, or at the time a
subsequent amendment creates the nonconforming use;
         (d)   The enlargement and extension does not:
            1.   Adversely affect the health, safety, and welfare of persons
residing or working in the district;
            2.   Cause a depreciation of the value of other property and uses
permitted in the district;
            3.   Significantly increase traffic congestion;
            4.   Adversely affect the privacy of persons residing in the
immediate vicinity;
            5.   Increase the hazard in the area of fire, offensive noise,
smoke, dust, debris, or other objectionable influences;
            6.   Adversely affect any recreational, institutional, or other
authorized use;
            7.   Inhibit the desirability, feasibility, or likelihood of future
residential or commercial development or expansion in the immediate vicinity;
or
            8.   Occur in a residential zoned district.
         (e)   The enlargement or expansion brings all off-street parking
requirements into conformity.
      (6)   Time frame to start construction. Enlargement or extension approval
shall be void if construction work does not begin within one year from the date
of approval, or if work is suspended or abandoned for a period of 90 days at
any time after the work is commenced.
      (7)   Floodplain management requirements. All enlargement or extension of
a nonconforming use must comply with the applicable floodplain management
requirements.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.042 APPEALS TO THE BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   (A)   An appeal from any order, requirement, decision, or determination made
by an administrative official or board charged with the enforcement of a zoning
ordinance, or rule and regulation adopted pursuant to a zoning ordinance, shall
be filed with the Board of Zoning Appeals.
   (B)   The appeal shall:
      (1)   Specify the grounds of the appeal;
      (2)   Be filed within 30 days of the original order, requirement,
decision, or determination made by an administrative official or board charged
with the enforcement of a zoning ordinance;
      (3)   Be on a form prescribed by the Board; and
      (4)   Upon request of the Board of Zoning Appeals, the administrative
official or Board shall transmit all documents, plans, and papers constituting
the record of the action from which the appeal was taken.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.043 NOTICE AND HEARING OF APPEAL.
   (A)   Within ten days of receipt of the appeal by the Board of Zoning
Appeals, the Board shall set a time for the hearing of the appeal and give
notice. The hearing on the appeal must be held within 45 days of receipt of the
appeal by the Board.
   (B)   At least 15 days prior to the date set for the hearing on the appeal,
the Board of Zoning Appeals shall publish a notice of the date, time, and place
of the hearing on the appeal as a Class I legal advertisement in compliance
with the provisions of the state code and written notice shall be given to the
interested parties. The publication area shall be the area covered in the
appeal.
   (C)   The Board of Zoning Appeals may require the party taking the appeal to
pay for the cost of public notice and written notice to interested parties.
   (D)   At the hearing, any party may appear in person, by agent, or by an
attorney licensed to practice in this state.
   (E)   Every decision by the Board must be in writing and state findings of
fact and conclusions of law on which the Board based its decision. If the Board
fails to provide findings of fact and conclusions of law adequate for decision
by the Circuit Court and as a result of the failure, the Circuit Court returns
an appealed matter to the Board and dismisses jurisdiction over an applicant’s
appeal without deciding the matter, whether the court returns the matter with
or without restrictions, the Board shall pay any additional costs for court
filing fees, service of process, and reasonable attorney’s fees required to
permit the person appealing the Board’s decision to return the matter to the
Circuit Court for completion of the appeal.
   (F)   The written decision by the Board shall be rendered within 30 days
after the hearing. If the Board fails to render a written decision within 30
days after the hearing, then any party may pursue additional legal remedies to
obtain a decision, including, but not limited to, seeking a writ of mandamus.
   (G)   When an appeal has been filed with the Board of Zoning Appeals, all
proceedings and work on the premises in question shall be stayed, except as
provided below:
      (1)   If the official or Board from where the appeal was taken certifies
in writing to the Board of Zoning Appeals that a stay would cause imminent
peril to life or property;
      (2)   Upon further administrative proceedings, including, but not limited
to, submissions to and reviews by the staff or any administrative body; or
      (3)   Upon engineering or architectural work that does not disturb the
real estate beyond what is necessary to complete engineering, survey work, or
other tests.
   (H)   Nothing in this section prevents a party from obtaining a restraining
order.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.044 INJUNCTION.
   (A)   The Planning Commission, Board of Zoning Appeals, or any designated
enforcement official may seek an injunction in the County Circuit Court, to
restrain the owner, tenant, occupant, other persons or persons responsible, or
unit of government from violating the provision of this code or any rule,
regulation, or requirement adopted or established hereunder.
   (B)   The Planning Commission, Board of Zoning Appeals, or any designated
enforcement official may also seek a mandatory injunction in the County Circuit
Court, directing the owner, tenant, occupant, other persons or persons
responsible, or unit of government to remove a structure erected in violation
of the provisions of this code or rule, regulation, or requirement adopted or
established hereunder. If the Planning Commission, Board of Zoning Appeals, or
any designated enforcement official is successful in any suit brought under
this section, the respondent shall bear the costs of the action.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.045 INTERPRETATION OF CODE.
   For the purpose of this code, certain terms and words used herein shall be
interpreted as follows.
   (A)   Words used in the present tense include the future tense.
   (B)   Words used in the singular number shall include the plural, and words
used in the plural number shall include the singular.
   (C)   The word PERSON shall include a firm, association, organization,
limited liability company, limited partnership, corporation, trust, company, as
well as a natural individual.
   (D)   The word CITY shall mean the City of Weston.
   (E)   The word SHALL and MUST are used to indicate mandatory directives.
   (F)   The word STRUCTURE shall include the word BUILDING.
   (G)   The word MAP or ZONING MAP or ZONING MAP, CITY OF WESTON, WEST
VIRGINIA or OFFICIAL ZONING MAP shall mean the map that geographically
illustrates all zoning district boundaries within the City of Weston, West
Virginia, pursuant to the requirements of W. Va. Code Ch. 8A.
   (H)   The term GOVERNING BODY and CITY COUNCIL shall both mean the City
Council for the City of Weston, Lewis County, West Virginia pursuant to the
Charter of the City of Weston.
   (I)   The term PLANNING COMMISSION shall mean the Planning Commission for
the City of Weston, Lewis County, West Virginia, pursuant to W. Va. Code Ch.
8A.
   (J)   DISTRICTS or ZONING DISTRICTS shall mean administrative tracts
designating the uses to which land can legally be utilized. Boundaries of the
districts are shown on the official zoning map, which is a part of this code.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.046 USE DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT BUSINESS. An adult bookstore, movie theater, or movie house or other
adult entertainment, as defined herein.
      (1)   ADULT BOOKSTORE. Any commercial establishment in which is offered
for sale as a substantial or significant portion of its stock-in-trade video
cassettes, movies, books, magazines or other periodicals, or other media which
are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on nudity or sexual
conduct or on activities which, if presented in live presentation, would
constitute adult entertainment.
      (2)   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT. An establishment providing, either as a sole
use or in conjunction with or in addition to other uses, entertainment
consisting of the use of nudity or of live dancing, posing, displaying, acting,
or other live presentation or use of persons whose actions are distinguished or
characterized by emphasis on use of the human body in a manner intended to or
resulting in arousal of sexual excitation or sexual titillation or a prurient
interest or intended to or resulting in producing lustful emotions.
      (3)   ADULT MOVIE THEATER, MOVIE HOUSE, or ADULT MINI-THEATERS. Any movie
theater which on a regular, continuing basis shows films rated X by the Motion
Picture Coding Association of America or any movie theater which presents for
public viewing on a regular, continuing basis so-called adult films
constituting adult entertainment, as defined by this code.
   AMPHITHEATER. An outdoor gathering space typically for entertainment which
is often constructed with tiers of seats or sloping surfaces that gradually
rise outward from a central open space or stage. An AMPHITHEATER may include a
bandshell-type structure to provide weather protection to a stage.
   AMUSEMENT AND RECREATION CENTER. A business establishment, generally
intended for use by all ages, that provides recreation or entertainment,
including, but not limited to, swimming pools, dance halls, bowling alleys,
skating rinks, billiard and pool halls, video and other coin-operated
electronic games, miniature golf courses, indoor archery ranges, table games,
trampolines, ball pits, and similar recreational diversions.
   ANIMAL HOSPITAL or VETERINARY OFFICE. An establishment for temporary
occupation by sick or injured animals for the purpose of medical diagnosis and
treatment, but excluding the treatment or other care of humans.
   AUTOMOBILE CAR WASH. The use of a site for washing and cleaning of
automobiles, recreational vehicles, or other light duty equipment.
   BAKERY. An establishment primarily engaged in the retail sale of baked goods
for consumption off-site.
   BANK/FINANCIAL INSTITUTION. A bank, savings and loan, credit union, or other
institution that provides retail banking services to individuals and
businesses.
   BED AND BREAKFAST INN. A private residence in which overnight accommodations
are provided for not more than 12 transient paying guests, along with ancillary
services such as providing breakfast, private parties, and evening and lunch
meals to guests; holding outdoor events such as weddings, fundraising or civic
events for local clubs, and special dinners or meals; and operating gift shops.
   BOAT AND MARINE SALES/SERVICE. The sales, service, and repair of new and
used boats, boat trailers, marine hardware, and related products.
   BOAT STORAGE. An enclosed, partially enclosed, or open facility utilized for
the wet or dry storage of boats.
   BREWERY PUB. A place of manufacture of nonintoxicating beer or
nonintoxicating craft beer owned by a resident brewer as defined by the state
code, subject to federal and state regulations and guidelines, a portion of
which premises may be designated for retail sales for consumption on the
premises of nonintoxicating beer or nonintoxicating craft beer by the resident
brewer owning the brewpub.
   BUILDING MATERIAL FACILITY. An establishment that sells home, lawn, and
garden supplies and tools and construction materials, such as brick, lumber,
hardware, and other similar materials. Construction goods may be located in
outdoor storage.
   BUS AND TRANSIT FACILITIES. A facility operated as a bus or rail passenger
station or transfer center that may have a covered structure. Typical
facilities may include station platforms, bus bays, off-street parking, private
access roads, and other passenger amenities.
   BUS AND TRANSIT SHELTER. A covered structure, located near a street and
designed primarily for protection against the weather for bus or other transit
passengers.
   CATERING BUSINESS. The preparation and delivery of food and beverages for
off-site consumption for a fee.
   CEMETERY/MAUSOLEUM. Land used or intended to be used for the disposition of
human remains and dedicated for cemetery purposes, including columbariums,
crematories, mausoleums, and mortuaries and funeral homes when operated with
and within the boundary of such cemetery.
   CHILD DAY CARE FACILITY. Is divided into four classes.
      (1)   CHILD DAY CARE FACILITY, CLASS 1. A facility maintained by the
state or any county or municipality thereof, or any agency or facility
maintained by an individual, firm, corporation, association, or organization,
public or private, for the care of 13 or more children for child care services
in any setting, if the facility is open for more than 30 days per year per
child.
      (2)   CHILD DAY CARE FACILITY, CLASS 2. A facility which is used to
provide child care services for compensation for seven to 12 children,
including children who are living in the household who are under six years of
age. No more than four of the total number of children may be under 24 months
of age. A facility may be in a provider’s residence or a separate building.
      (3)   CHILD DAY CARE FACILITY, CLASS 3. A facility which is used to
provide child care services for compensation in a provider’s residence. The
provider may care for no more than six children at one time, including children
who are living in the household who are under six years of age. No more than
two of the total number of children may be under 24 months of age.
      (4)   CHILD DAY CARE FACILITY, CLASS 4. Residential child care services
for compensation for three or fewer children, including children who are living
in the household who are under six years of age. Care is given in the
provider’s own home to at least one child who is not related to the caregiver.
   CLINIC. An establishment providing medical, dental, chiropractic,
psychiatric, substance abuse treatment, or surgical services exclusively on an
outpatient basis, including emergency treatment and diagnostic services.
   COMMUNITY FACILITY. A nonprofit facility, whether publicly or privately
owned, with the primary goal of providing a community service.
   CONTINUING CARE FACILITY. One or more of the following types of facilities.
      (1)   ADULT ASSISTED LIVING. Any facility, residence, or place of
accommodation available for four or more residents for the purpose of having
personal assistance or supervision, or both, provided to any residents therein
who are dependent upon the services of others by reason of physical or mental
impairment and who may also require nursing care at a level that is not greater
than limited and intermittent nursing care.
      (2)   NURSING HOME. Any institution, residence, or place, or any part or
unit thereof, however named, which is advertised, offered, maintained, or
operated by the ownership or management, whether for consideration or not, for
the express or implied purpose of providing accommodations and care, for a
period of more than 24 hours, for four or more persons who are ill or otherwise
incapacitated and in need of extensive, ongoing nursing care due to physical or
mental impairment or which provides services for the rehabilitation of persons
who are convalescing from illness or incapacitation.
      (3)   SKILLED NURSING FACILITY. An institution, or a distinct part of an
institution, that primarily provides inpatient skilled nursing care and related
services, or rehabilitation services, to injured, disabled, or sick persons.
   CONVENIENCE STORE. A business establishment that offers convenience goods
for sale, such as pre-packaged or limited prepared food items, tobacco, and
periodicals, but not displaying merchandise or products outdoors, except where
such display is required to sell the merchandise. The use does not include the
sale of gasoline unless combined with the gas station use.
   CONVERSION OF OLD SCHOOLS/CHURCHES. The adaptive reuse of a former school or
church for residential or commercial purposes not affiliated with the prior
use.
   CULTURAL SERVICE. A site used for the collection, display, or preservation
of objects of community or cultural interests, such as a library, museum, or
similar facility.
   DISTILLERY. As defined by state statutes, an establishment where alcoholic
liquor other than wine or beer is manufactured or in any way prepared.
   DISTRIBUTION FACILITY. Any premises, or part thereof, which provides
logistical support for business, such as freight management, inventory control,
storage, packaging, and consolidation of goods for distribution.
   DOG DAY CARE. An organized, controlled, and monitored environment for a
group of dogs to interact and play throughout the day. The purpose is to
provide stimulation, exercise, and socialization for dogs, and ancillary
services. Overnight stays are not permitted in DOG DAY CARE facilities unless
the use is combined with a kennel.
   DRIVE-THROUGH FACILITY.
      (1)   The use of land, buildings, or structures, or parts thereof, to
provide or dispense products or services, either wholly or in part, through an
attendant, window, or automated machine, to persons remaining in motorized
vehicles that are in a designated lane or parking spot.
      (2)   A DRIVE-THROUGH FACILITY may be combined with other uses such as a
laundry shop, dry cleaning shop, dry cleaner’s distributing station, branch of
a bank or financial institution, restaurant, retail store, or automotive
service station.
      (3)   Despite the above, a DRIVE-THROUGH FACILITY does not include a car
washing establishment, automobile service station, or a gas station.
   DWELLING, APARTMENT. A building containing several and separate dwelling
units, having common corridors and stairways and having shared exit and
entrance facilities.
   DWELLING, CONDOMINIUM. Real estate, portions of which are designated for
separate ownership and the remainder of which is designated for common
ownership solely by the owners of those portions. Real estate is not a
CONDOMINIUM unless the undivided interests in the common elements are vested in
the unit owners. Yard requirements apply to structures only and not individual
ownership units.
   DWELLING, CONVERSION APARTMENT. The remodeling of a single-family dwelling
unit into two or more separate living units, each having a minimum of 500
square feet of gross floor area and having separate and private sanitary,
cooking, and dining facilities.
   DWELLING, GARAGE CONVERSION. Conversion of an existing garage to habitable
space for domestic use no smaller than 500 square feet of gross living space.
   DWELLING, GARDEN HOME APARTMENTS. A freestanding building containing two or
three dwelling units, each of which has direct access to the outside.
   DWELLING, MIXED-USE. A building containing a residence with commercial or
office uses on the ground floor in the front of the building facing the primary
street frontage. Residential units may be on the ground floor, provided they
are behind commercial uses and cannot be accessed from any portion of the
building that faces the primary street.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A detached, permanent structure designed for or
occupied exclusively as a residence for only one family.
   DWELLING, TOWNHOUSE or ROWHOUSE. A one family dwelling unit, with private
entrance, which is part of a structure whose dwelling units are attached
horizontally in a linear arrangement, and having a totally exposed front and
rear wall to be used for access, light, and ventilation.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A freestanding building containing two dwelling units,
each of which has direct access to the outside.
   EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION. A college or university giving general academic
instruction. Included within this term are areas or structures used for
administration, housing of students and faculty, dining halls, and social or
athletic activities when located on the institution’s land that is not detached
from where classroom facilities are maintained.
   EQUIPMENT RENTAL/REPAIR. An establishment involved in renting or repairing
small tools and equipment, including janitorial equipment.
   ESSENTIAL UTILITIES AND EQUIPMENT. Underground or overhead electrical, gas,
communications not regulated by the federal communications commission, water
and sewage systems, including pole structures, towers, wires, lines, mains,
drains, sewers, conduits, cables, fire alarm boxes, public telephone
structures, police call boxes, traffic signals, hydrants, regulating and
measuring devices and the structures in which they are housed, and other
similar equipment accessories in connection therewith.
   EXTRACTIVE INDUSTRY. A heavy industry use that involves the extraction of
minerals for sale or other commercial purpose, including solids, such as coal
and ores; liquids, such as crude petroleum; and gases, such as natural gases.
The term also includes quarrying; well operation; milling, such as crushing,
screening, washing, and flotation; and other preparation customarily done at
the extraction site or as a part of the extractive activity.
   FACTORY-BUILT HOME. Manufactured and mobile.
      (1)   MANUFACTURED HOME. A home that meets the National Manufactured
Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et
seq.), effective on June 15, 1976, and the federal manufactured home
construction and safety standards and regulations promulgated by the Secretary
of the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development.
      (2)   MOBILE HOME. A transportable structure that is wholly, or in
substantial part, made, fabricated, formed, or assembled in manufacturing
facilities for installation or assembly and installation on a building site and
designed for long-term residential use and built prior to enactment of the
Federal Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974 (42
U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq.), effective on June 15, 1976, and usually built to the
voluntary industry standard of the American National Standards Institute (ANSI)
A119.1 Standards for Mobile Homes.
   FACTORY-BUILT HOME RENTAL COMMUNITY. A parcel of land under single or common
ownership upon which two or more factory-built homes are located on a
continual, nonrecreational basis together with any structure, equipment, road,
or facility intended for use incidental to the occupancy of the factory-built
homes, but does not include premises used solely for storage or display of
uninhabited factory-built homes or premises occupied solely by a landowner and
members of their family.
   FARM/CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT AND SUPPLY SALES. An establishment engaged in
the on-premises lease, rental, or retail sale of new or used construction or
farm equipment, with or without incidental service for minor repairs and
maintenance.
   FARMER’S MARKET. The offering for sale of agricultural products directly to
the consumer at an open-air market designated as a community activity.
   FLEA MARKET. An outdoor or enclosed commercial activity, open to the general
public that offers goods for sale, trade, or barter, regardless of whether they
are new, used, antique, or homemade.
   FUNERAL HOME/MORTUARY. A building or part thereof used for human funeral
services. Such building may contain space and facilities for embalming and the
performance of other services used in the preparation of human remains for
burial or disposition of human remains, including cremation; the performance of
autopsies and other surgical procedures related to the processing of human
remains; the storage of caskets, funeral urns, and other related funeral
supplies; the storage of funeral vehicles; and facilities for cremation.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory structure either attached to or detached from
a residential dwelling which is situated on the same property or adjoining
property and used for storing personal property by the resident of the dwelling
and not to be used as a business.
   GARDEN CENTER. An establishment primarily engaged in selling containerized
trees, shrubs, other plants, seeds, bulbs, mulches, soil conditioners,
fertilizers, pesticides, garden tools, and other garden supplies to the general
public and where no trees, shrubs, or plants are grown on the premises.
   GAS STATION. A building, place of business, land area, or other premises, or
portion thereof, used or intended to be used for the retail dispensing of
gasoline, oil and grease, and other vehicle fuels, and including, as an
accessory use, the sale and installation of batteries, tires, lubricants, and
other automobile accessories and retail items. Minor repair service may also be
rendered. May also offer convenience goods for sale, such as prepackaged or
limited prepared food items, tobacco, and periodicals, except that the term
does not include display of merchandise or products outdoors except where such
display is required to sell the merchandise.
   GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS. Include emergency services; federal, state, or
municipal buildings; and post offices. Emergency services include areas
utilized for the maintenance, fueling, storage, receiving and dispatching calls
or transmissions, or parking of vehicles or equipment providing rescue or
ambulatory services.
   GREENHOUSE, COMMERCIAL. A building used for the growing of plants, all or
part of which are sold at retail or wholesale.
   GREENHOUSE, NON-COMMERCIAL. A building or structure under 150 square feet
constructed chiefly of glass, glasslike or translucent material, cloth, or
lath, which is devoted to the protection or cultivation of flowers or other
weather-sensitive plants.
   GROUP RESIDENTIAL FACILITY. A facility which is owned, leased, or operated
by a behavioral health service provider and which provides residential services
and supervision for individuals who are developmentally disabled or
behaviorally disabled; is occupied as a residence by not more than eight
individuals who are developmentally disabled and not more than three
supervisors or is occupied as a residence by not more than 12 individuals who
are behaviorally disabled and not more than three supervisors; is licensed by
the Department of Health and Human Resources; and complies with the State Fire
Commission for residential facilities.
   GROUP RESIDENTIAL HOME. A building owned or leased by developmentally
disabled or behaviorally disabled persons for purposes of establishing a
personal residence.
      (1)   This includes a place for transitional group living arrangements
for persons discharged from hospitals, correctional facilities, or in lieu of
hospitalization, characterized by the presence of such live-in staff,
emphasizing the development of skills necessary for more independent living.
      (2)   The facility shall be licensed and operated in accordance with all
applicable laws.
   HEALTH CARE MEDICAL CANNABIS ORGANIZATION. A vertically integrated health
system approved by the West Virginia Bureau for Public Health to dispense
medical cannabis or grow and process medical cannabis, or both, in accordance
with a research study under W. Va. Code Ch. 16A, as amended.
   HEALTH CLUB. A building or portion of a building designed and equipped for
sports, exercise, or other customary and usual recreational activities,
operated for profit. The sale of sports nutrition products, non-alcoholic
beverages, packaged health foods, exercise clothing, and sports videos and
magazines is permitted as an accessory use to such facilities.
   HOME-BASED BUSINESS (LOW IMPACT). An accessory use intended to allow
commercial enterprises that generate limited numbers of customer visits or
merchandise deliveries to a residential dwelling. Use involves limited
customer, client, or patient traffic, whether vehicular or pedestrian, pickup,
delivery, or removal functions to or from the premises, in excess of those
normally associated with the use of a dwelling.
   HOME-BASED BUSINESS (NO IMPACT). An accessory use intended to allow
businesses that rely solely on electronic or off-premise transactions to
perform such operations from a residence. The use involves no customer, client,
or patient traffic, whether vehicular or pedestrian, pickup, delivery, or
removal functions, to or from the premises, in excess of those normally
associated with residential use.
   HOSPITAL. An institution designed for the diagnosis, treatment, and care of
human illness or infirmity and providing health services, primarily for
inpatients, and including related facilities, laboratories, outpatient
departments, training facilities, and staff offices.
   HOTEL/MOTEL. A building or group of buildings in which lodging is provided
and offered for compensation. The building may also include dining rooms,
kitchens, serving rooms, ballrooms, and other facilities and services intended
primarily for the accommodation of its patrons.
   INDUSTRIAL PARK. An area of land arranged or constructed in accordance with
a plan for a group of business purposes, having separate building sites
designed and arranged on streets and having utility services, setbacks, side
yards, and covenants or other such regulations controlling or restricting uses.
   KENNEL. Any establishment wherein cats and dogs are kept or boarded,
registered under W. Va. Code 19-20-3. Business may be conducted in conjunction
with a dog day care or veterinary clinic, where both combined uses are both
permitted within a district.
   LIQUOR STORE. An establishment operated under the authority of the W. Va.
Code Ch. 60, Art. 3A, and primarily engaged in the retail sale of packaged
alcoholic beverages such as ale, beer, wine, or whiskey, for off-premises
consumption.
   LUMBERYARD. An establishment where processed wood timbers and products are
stored for bulk and retail sale.
   MANUFACTURING (LIGHT). The manufacturing, compounding, processing,
assembling, packaging, printing, or testing of goods or equipment, including,
but not limited to, newspaper printing and distribution and research activities
conducted entirely within an enclosed structure, with no outside storage,
serviced by a modest volume of trucks or vans, and imposing a negligible impact
on the surrounding environment by noise, vibration, smoke, dust, or pollutants.
   MEDICAL ADULT DAY CARE CENTER. An ambulatory health care facility which
provides an organized day program of therapeutic, social, and health
maintenance and restorative services and whose general goal is to provide an
alternative to 24-hour long-term institutional care to elderly or disabled
adults who are in need of such services by virtue of physical and mental
impairment.
   MEDICAL CANNABIS DISPENSARY. A place where processed medical cannabis
products are permitted to be sold to qualifying consumers, as provided for in
the W. Va. Code Ch. 16A, as amended. This term does not include a health care
medical cannabis organization as defined in W. Va. Code Ch. 16A, as amended.
   MEDICAL CANNABIS GROWING FACILITY. A place where medical cannabis is
permitted to be grown, as provided for in the W. Va. Code Ch. 16A, as amended.
This term does not include a health care medical cannabis organization as
defined in the W. Va. Code Ch. 16A, as amended.
   MEDICAL CANNABIS ORGANIZATION. A dispensary, grower, or processor. The term
does not include a health care medical cannabis organization as defined in the
W. Va. Code Ch. 16A, as amended.
   MEDICAL CANNABIS PROCESSING FACILITY. A place where medical cannabis is
permitted to be processed, refined, or otherwise converted into a legally
permitted state, as provided for in the W. Va. Code Chapter 16A, as amended.
This term does not include a health care medical cannabis organization as
defined in the W. Va. Code Ch. 16A, as amended.
   NIGHT CLUB. An establishment for evening entertainment, generally open until
the early morning, that serves liquor and usually food and offers patrons
music, comedy acts, a floor show, or dancing but is not characterized as a
forum for sexually oriented material.
   OFFICE SUPPLY ESTABLISHMENT. A place of business where stationery,
furniture, and other supplies typically used in offices are the main items
offered for sale.
   PARCEL DELIVERY FACILITY. An establishment engaged in the delivery, receipt,
and transmittal of documents, packages, and parcels.
   PARK. Land set aside for open space and recreational purposes.
   PARKING LOT. An off-street surfaced area used for parking two or more
vehicles which is served by an entrance and possibly an access way connecting
the parking lot and a public or private road, but does not include parking for
a single-family or two-family dwelling.
   PARKING STRUCTURE. A building with multiple stories of off-street parking
spaces where vehicles are temporarily stored with or without a nominal fee, in
association with occupational, retail, entertainment, recreational, municipal,
educational, or residential uses.
   PERSONAL SERVICE. A business providing services to a person, their apparel,
or personal effects commonly carried on or about their person, including, but
not limited to, shoe repair, tailoring, watch repair, beauty shops,
barbershops, tanning and nail salons, laundromats, and dry cleaning.
   PET SHOP. An establishment where animals are bought, sold, exchanged, or
offered for sale or exchange to the general public.
   PHARMACY. An establishment in which prescription or nonprescription drugs or
devices are compounded, dispensed, or distributed. Ancillary retail items also
may be sold.
   PHOTOGRAPHIC STUDIO. A retail establishment for the purpose of photographing
subjects and processing photographs for commercial purposes, but not including
photography requiring professional models.
   PLACES OF WORSHIP/RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION. A building wherein persons
regularly assemble for acts of religious devotion and which is maintained and
controlled by a religious body organized to sustain public worship, together
with all accessory buildings and uses customarily associated with such primary
purpose. Includes a church, synagogue, temple, mosque, or other such place for
worship and religious activities. Customary accessory uses include a wide range
of religious activities, including a caretaker’s residence; fellowship halls,
parish halls, and similar buildings; rooms used for meetings, religious
education, and similar functions; a gymnasium; a playground; the sale of items
associated with the practice of religion; and faith-based social services such
as homeless shelters, group homes, and soup kitchens.
   PRIVATE CLUB. Any corporation or unincorporated association meeting the
definition of private club in W. Va. Code 60-7-2(a), and licensed and in
compliance with W. Va. Code Ch. 60, Art. 7 to sell liquor, beer, and wine.
   PROFESSIONAL SERVICES. Any office of recognized professions, other than
medical, such as lawyers, architects, engineers, real estate brokers, insurance
agents, and others who are qualified to perform services of a professional
nature and other offices used primarily for accounting, corresponding,
research, editing, or other administrative functions, but not including banks
or other financial institutions and personal services.
   RADIO OR TELEVISION BROADCASTING STUDIO. A structure housing the operation
of the over-the-air distribution of audio or video signals to a large number of
recipients (“listeners” or “viewers”) within the technical reach of the
signals.
   RECREATION, PRIVATE. An enterprise operated by an individual or non-profit
association or corporation, other than a public entity, for the pursuit of
sports and recreational activities, including, but not limited to, such
establishments as country clubs, golf courses, sports clubs, golf practice
facilities, playing fields, tennis or racquet clubs, swimming pools, canoe
liveries, and similar facilities.
   RECREATION, PUBLIC. An enterprise owned and operated by a public entity,
available to the general public, whether or not an admission fee is charged,
including either indoor or outdoor facilities for the pursuit of sports,
recreation, or leisure activities, including, but not limited to, parks,
playgrounds, playing fields, fishing access, golf courses, golf or batting
practice facilities, tennis courts, swimming pools, and similar facilities.
   RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT. Investigative activities a business conducts to
improve existing products or services or to lead to the creation of new
products and procedures that do not involve the mass manufacture, fabrication,
processing, sale of products; or a structure or complex of structures designed
or used primarily for research development functions related to industry and
similar fields of endeavor.
   RESTAURANT. A commercial establishment with an equipped kitchen where food
and beverages are prepared and served, and where food sales constitute more
than 60% of the gross sales receipts.
   RETAIL STORE.
      (1)   A business having as its primary function the supply of merchandise
or wares to the end consumer. Such sales constitute the “primary function” of
the business when such sales equal at least 80% of the gross sales of the
business.
      (2)   Divided into two classes of retail stores based on gross floor
area:
         (a)   Retail store/small < 7,000 feet of gross floor area; and
         (b)   Retail store/large > 7,000 feet of gross floor area.
   ROADSIDE STAND. A stand offering for sale agricultural products grown on the
premises.
   ROADSIDE VENDOR STAND. Location, trailers, truck beds, or similar facilities
offering products for sale that are not produced on the immediate premises.
   SCHOOL, COMMERCIAL. An educational establishment to provide for the teaching
of industrial, clerical, managerial, or artistic skills. This definition
applies to educational establishments that are owned and operated privately for
profit.
   SCHOOL, PRE-SCHOOL TO 12. An educational establishment offering educational
instruction between pre-school through twelfth grade. Schools can be public or
private, licensed in accordance with the state code.
   SELF-STORAGE FACILITY. A building or group of buildings containing separate,
individual, and private storage spaces of varying sizes available for lease or
rent for varying periods of time.
   SENIOR INDEPENDENT HOUSING. A single-family or multi-family development
intended for, operated for, and designed to accommodate residents 55 years of
age or older. SENIOR INDEPENDENT HOUSING communities are designed for seniors
who are able to live independently or need assistance with daily care.
   SHOPPING CENTER. A group of retail and other commercial establishments that
is planned, owned, and managed as a single property.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM.
      (1)   An energy conversion system, including appurtenances, which
converts solar energy to a usable form of energy to meet all or part of the
energy or heating requirements of the on-site user, or which is to be sold to a
utility company to be used by others, or sold directly to other users.
      (2)   A SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM may be ground mounted (i.e., placed on top of
the ground surface) or roof mounted (i.e., placed on or as an integral part of
a building).
         (a)   SMALL SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. Solar energy systems installed for
personal use in residences, commercial properties, and institutions.
         (b)   LARGE SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. Solar energy systems installed on
large parcels of land for the purpose of generating revenue or utility-scale
systems installed to benefit the community.
   SPORTS ARENA. A central stage, ring, area, or the like, used for sports and
surrounded by seats for spectators.
   STUDIO, DANCING, MUSIC, OR ART. A facility used for the rehearsal or
performance of performing arts, such as music, dance, or theatre; teaching
classes in creative arts, such as painting, drawing, sculpting, potting,
beading, or otherwise creating art; or for the display or sale of art in
general or during special events. Food and alcoholic beverages may be served
and fees charged as accessory uses during special events.
   TATTOO PARLOR/BODY PIERCING STUDIO. An establishment whose principal
business activity, either in terms of operation or as held out to the public,
is the practice of one or both of the following: placing of designs, letters,
figures, symbols, or other marks upon or under the skin of any person, using
ink or other substances that result in the permanent coloration of the skin by
means of the use of needles or other instruments designed to contact or
puncture the skin; creation of an opening in the body of a person for the
purpose of inserting jewelry or other decoration.
   TAVERN/DRINKING ESTABLISHMENT/BAR. An establishment engaged in the
preparation and retail sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the
premises and which may offer food for consumption on premises as an ancillary
use.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS, CLASS I. Facilities that include, but are not limited
to, such facilities as television antennas, ham radio antennas, am/fm
reception. No Class I facility may be utilized for cellular phone reception.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS, CLASS II. Facilities that include, but are not limited
to, such facilities as antennas and associated electronic equipment designed
expressly for use by cellular phone companies, as regulated under the Federal
Telecommunication Act of 1996, being Pub. L. 104-104, Sec. 1(a), 110 Stat. 56,
that are not intended to be supported by or attached to a new
telecommunications tower, as defined. They may be attached to existing,
permitted tower structures, or to existing structures not originally intended
to support telecommunications facilities, as provided for in this code.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS, CLASS III. Facilities that include, but are not limited
to, such facilities as antennas and associated electronic equipment that is
supported by or attached to a new telecommunications tower, as defined herein,
and is designed expressly for use by cell phone companies, as regulated under
the Federal Telecommunications Act of 1996.
   TEMPORARY STRUCTURE. A structure or part thereof, operated on a non-profit
basis to temporarily house families or individuals who are victims of disaster,
who are affected through action on the part of or on behalf of the municipality
other than routine, redevelopment-related relocation activities, or who have
bona fide state or federal emergency housing needs.
   THEATER. A building or part of a building devoted to presenting motion
pictures or live performances.
   THEATER, DRIVE-IN. An open space with an outdoor movie screen, or comparable
flat surface, where people may view motion pictures primarily from parked
personal automobiles. The use may include outdoor picnic tables, playgrounds,
and concessions.
   TOURIST HOME, BOARDING HOUSE, or ROOMING HOUSE. A dwelling, other than
hotel, motel, or restaurant, advertised as supplying overnight lodging wherein
one or more persons are sheltered and/or fed for profit. No cooking or dining
facilities are provided in individual rooms. The accommodations are rented on a
daily or weekly basis and are not occupied by the owner or manager at the time
of rental.
   TRUCK TERMINAL. A facility where freight is unloaded from interstate trucks
or intermodal trailers and containers carried on the railroad and loaded onto
local delivery trucks.
   VEHICLE REPAIR/SERVICE/SALES/RENTAL. Any building, structure, improvements,
or land used for the repair or maintenance of automobiles, motorcycles, trucks,
trailers, or similar vehicles including, but not limited to, body, fender,
muffler or upholstery work, oil change and lubrication, painting, tire service
and sales, or installation of citizens band (CB) radios, car alarms, stereo
equipment, or cellular telephones.
   VIDEO GAMING OR LOTTERY ESTABLISHMENT. An establishment at which any form of
gambling of chance is permitted or played, including “video lottery” machines
licensed by the West Virginia Lottery Commission pursuant to the state code,
but excluding establishments that only sell lottery tickets.
   WAREHOUSE. A facility characterized by extensive warehousing, frequent heavy
trucking activity, open storage of material, or nuisances such as dust, noise,
and odors, but not involved in manufacturing or production.
   WATER TREATMENT PLANT. Facilities that treat water and produce potable water
for public consumption.
   WHOLESALE ESTABLISHMENT. The sale of commodities to retailers or jobbers,
including the sale of commodities for the purpose of carrying on any trade or
business even if the said trade or business is the consumer or end user of the
commodity.
   WIND ENERGY SYSTEM. Any electric generation facility whose main purpose is
to convert and store wind energy into usable forms of energy which includes the
wind turbine(s), structural supports, electrical infrastructure, and other
appurtenant structures and facilities. Consisting of a maximum of one wind
turbine per lot.
   WINERY. An establishment where wine is manufactured or in any way prepared
in accordance with the West Virginia Code.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.047 GENERAL DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle, or major part thereof, which is
inoperative and which has been abandoned on public property for any period over
five days, other than in an enclosed building or in a licensed salvage yard or
at the business establishment of a demolisher or any motor vehicle, or major
part thereof, which has remained on private property without consent of the
owner or person in control of the property for any period over five days; or
any motor vehicle, or, major part thereof, which is unattended, discarded,
deserted, and unlicensed and is not in an enclosed building, a licensed salvage
yard, or the actual possession of a demolisher; provided, that a motor vehicle,
or major part thereof, is not an abandoned motor vehicle if: the owner of the
motor vehicle is storing the motor vehicle on the owner’s property; the motor
vehicle is being stored for the purpose of using its parts on other motor
vehicles owned by the owner; the owner owns other motor vehicles similar to the
motor vehicle being stored; and the owner is a business licensed to do business
in the State of West Virginia and not in the primary business of offering motor
vehicles or parts thereof for sale.
   ABANDONMENT. The relinquishment of property or a cessation of the use of the
property by the owner or lessee without any intention of transferring rights to
the property to another owner or without any intention to resume a
nonconforming use of the property for a period of one year.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE or ACCESSORY BUILDING. A structure or building on the
same lot with, and of a nature customarily incidental and subordinate to, the
principal use or structure, including, but not limited to, swimming pools,
piers and other water-related structures, parking, fences, gazebos, satellite
dishes, doghouses and dog-related structures, noncommercial greenhouses, sheds,
and private garages.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use on the same lot with, and of a nature customarily
incidental and subordinate to, the principal use, including, but not limited
to, urban agriculture and home-based businesses.
   ACCESSWAY. A private vehicular facility for townhomes, multi-family
dwellings, and condominiums, serving more than four dwelling units, and
commercial developments that extends from the curb-line of a public or private
road to the parking lot.
   ADVERTISING. Any words, symbol, color, or design used for commercial speech.
   AGGRIEVED or AGGRIEVED PERSON. A person who is denied by the Planning
Commission, Board of Subdivision and Land Development Appeals, or the Board of
Zoning Appeals, in whole or in part, the relief sought in any application or
appeal; or has demonstrated that he or she will suffer a peculiar injury,
prejudice, or inconvenience beyond that which other residents of the
municipality may suffer.
   ALLEY. A service roadway less than 20 feet long providing a secondary means
of access to abutting property and not intended for general traffic
circulation.
   ALTERATION. Any change or expansion in the size, configuration, exterior
features, or location of a structure; or any change or expansion in the use of
a structure or lot from a previously approved or legally existing size,
configuration, location, or use.
   ANTENNA SUPPORT STRUCTURE. Any building or structure other than a tower
which can be used for location of telecommunications facilities.
   AUTOMOBILE. A road vehicle, typically with four wheels, able to carry a
small number of people.
   BASEMENT. A story having one half or more of its clear height below grade.
   BOARD or BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS. The officially constituted body appointed
to carry out duties and responsibilities in accordance with the W. Va. Code Ch.
8A, Art. 8 et seq., as amended.
   BOLLARD. A short, vertical, and permanent post, usually ornamental in
nature, used to inhibit trespass by persons or vehicles, or to prevent
encroachment onto private property or other defined space.
   BUILDING. Any structure having enclosing walls and roofs and requiring a
permanent location on the land.
      (1)   PRINCIPAL BUILDING. A building in which is conducted the principal
use of the site or lot on which it is situated. In all residential districts, a
dwelling is the PRINCIPAL BUILDING on the lot on which it is located.
      (2)   BUILDING FRONTAGE. The length of the main wall of a building which
physically encloses usable interior space and which is the architecturally
designed wall that contains the main entrance for use by the general public.
Said FRONTAGE is measured at a height of ten feet above grade.
      (3)   BUILDING, HEIGHT OF. The vertical distance measured from the level
of approved street grade opposite the middle of the front of the building to
the highest point of the coping of a flat roof; to the deck line of a mansard
roof; and to the mean height level between eaves and ridge of gable, hip, or
gambrel roof.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE. A line establishing the minimum allowable distance
between the nearest part of any principal building, including decks, patios,
covered porches, steps, and landings exceeding 24 square feet, but excluding
eaves, overhangs, bay windows, sills, belt courses, cornices, and ornamental
features not exceeding two feet in width, to the nearest edge of a street
right-of-way, property line, or easement line, when measured perpendicular
thereto.
   CENTERLINE. An imaginary line running parallel to street or easement right-
of-way lines and equidistant from the lines on each side of the street or
easement, or a line following the center of a physical feature such as a
stream.
   CLEAR SIGHT TRIANGLE. The triangular area formed by intersecting street,
alley, or other public right-of-way centerlines and a line interconnecting
points established on each centerline, 75 feet from the point of intersection
and the plane established three and one-half feet in elevation to a height of
ten feet from grade level at the intersection of the street, alley, or other
public right-of-way centerline.
   COMPACT PARKING STALL. An off-street space available for parking of one
automobile and having an area not less than seven feet in width by 16 feet in
depth and an area exclusive of passageways, accessways, and driveways
appurtenant thereto, and having a means to direct access to a street or road.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The comprehensive plan for the City of Weston.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A use which because of special requirements or
characteristics may be permitted in a particular zoning district only after
review by the Board of Zoning Appeals and upon issuance of a conditional use
permit, and subject to the limitations and conditions specified in this code.
   COUNCIL. The Council of the City of Weston.
   COUNTY. Lewis County, West Virginia.
   DRIVEWAY. Privately owned vehicular access from a street to properties
abutting the street and serving no more than four dwelling units.
   DWELLING. A house, apartment building, or other building designed or used
primarily for human habitation, but not including boarding houses, rooming
houses, tourist homes, motels, hotels, or other structures designed for
transient residence.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any dwelling or portion thereof used or intended to be used
by one family and providing complete housekeeping facilities.
   EXISTING USE. Use of land, buildings, or activity permitted or in existence
prior to the adoption of a zoning map or ordinances by the county or
municipality. If the use is nonconforming to local ordinance and lawfully
existed prior to the adoption of the ordinance, the use may continue to exist
as a nonconforming use until abandoned for a period of one year, provided that
in the case of natural resources, the absence of natural resources extraction
or harvesting is not abandonment of the use.
   FAMILY. An individual or two or more persons related by blood, marriage,
adoption, or foster relationship, or no more than three unrelated individuals
and individuals related by blood, marriage, adoption, or foster relationship to
any of those three unrelated individuals, living together as a single
housekeeping unit and sharing common living, dining, and kitchen areas, subject
to the requirements of the Building Code.
   FENCE. An artificially constructed barrier of wood, masonry, stone, wire,
metal, or other manufactured material or combination of materials erected to
enclose, screen, or separate an area.
   FLOOR AREA, GROSS. The total area of a building measured by taking the
outside dimensions of the building at each floor level.
   FRONT BUILDING LINE. A line parallel to the front lot line, at a distance
measured perpendicular therefrom as prescribed in this code for a required
yard. Where there is no required yard, the lot line is the FRONT BUILDING LINE.
   GARAGE SALE. The sale of personal property owned or maintained by occupants
of the premises in, at, or upon any residentially zoned or residentially
occupied property. GARAGE SALES include, but are not limited to, any yard sale,
multi-family sale, home sale, patio sale, or any other sale similarly conducted
on any residentially zoned or residentially occupied property.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT. A geographically definable area, designated as historic
on a national state, or local register, possessing a significant concentration,
linkage, or continuity of sites, buildings, structures, or objects united
historically or aesthetically by plan or physical development.
   HISTORIC LANDMARK. A site, building, structure, or object designated as
historic on a national, state, or local register.
   HISTORIC SITE. The location of a significant event, a prehistoric or
historic occupation or activity, or a building or structure whether standing,
ruined, or vanished, where the location itself possesses historic, cultural, or
archaeological value regardless of the value of any existing structure and
designated as historic on a national, state, or local register.
   LANDSCAPING. The bringing of the soil surface to a smooth finished grade,
installing trees, shrubs, ground cover, grass, and similar vegetation to soften
building lines, provide shade, and generally produce a pleasing visual effect
of the premises.
   LOADING SPACE. An area or berth available for the loading or unloading of
goods from commercial vehicles.
   LOT. A parcel of land with boundaries established by some legal instrument,
such as a recorded deed or a recorded map, and which is recognized as a
separate legal entity for purposes of transfer of title, together with the
customary accessories and open spaces belonging to the same.
      (1)   LOT, CORNER. A lot at the junction of and abutting two or more
intersecting streets.
      (2)   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot with only one frontage
on a street.
      (3)   LOT, FLAG. A lot not meeting minimum frontage requirements and
where access to the public road is by a narrow, private right-of-way or
driveway, or “handle”.
      (4)   LOT, IRREGULAR. A lot of such shape or configuration that
technically meets the area, frontage, and width-to-depth requirements of the
ordinance but has unusual elongations, angles, and curvilinear lines.
   LOT LINE. Property boundary line of any lot held in single or joint
ownership that divides one lot from another or from a street or any other
public or private space.
      (1)   FRONT LOT LINE. In the case of an interior lot, a line separating
the lot from the street or public right-of-way; and in the case of a corner
lot, a line separating the narrowest street frontage of the lot from the
street.
      (2)   REAR LOT LINE. A lot line that is opposite and more distant from
the front lot line, except corner lots have no rear lot line. In the case of an
irregular lot, a line ten feet in length within the lot and parallel to and at
the maximum distance from the front lot line.
      (3)   SIDE LOT LINE. Any lot line other than a front or rear lot line.
   LOT, THROUGH, DOUBLE FRONTAGE, or REVERSE FRONTAGE. A lot other than a
corner lot facing on more than one street. THROUGH LOTS abutting two streets
may be referred to as DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOTS.
   LOT WIDTH. The distance measured between side lot lines, at the required
building setback line. In a case where there is only one side lot line, LOT
WIDTH is measured between such side lot line and the opposite rear lot lines or
street line.
   NONCONFORMING BUILDING OR STRUCTURE. A building or structure lawfully
constructed and not otherwise abandoned, existing on the effective date of this
code, on the effective date of any amendment thereto, or prior to annexation,
which renders such building or structure illegal within a district, or not
complying in any fashion with any of the rules, requirements, and regulations
of this code or any amendments thereto.
   NONCONFORMING LOT. A lot or parcel of land that was of record and lawfully
established and maintained but which, because of the enactment of this code or
any amendment thereto, or prior to annexation, no longer conforms to the land
use standards or use regulations of the district in which it is located.
   NONCONFORMING SIGN. Any sign which was lawfully erected, maintained, and
existing on the effective date of this code, on the effective date of any
amendment thereto, or prior to annexation, which renders such existing sign
illegal within a district or not complying in any fashion with any of the
rules, requirements, and regulations of this code or any amendments thereto, or
any sign which is accessory to a nonconforming use.
   NONCONFORMING USE. Any actual and active use lawfully being made of any
land, building, or structure not otherwise abandoned, existing on the effective
date of this code, on the effective date of any amendment thereto, or prior to
annexation, which renders such existing use illegal within a district, or not
complying in any fashion with any of the rules, requirements, and regulations
of this code or any amendments thereto.
   NONINTOXICATING BEER. All natural cereal malt beverages or products of the
brewing industry commonly referred to as beer, lager beer, ale, and all other
mixtures and preparations produced by the brewing industry, including malt
coolers and nonintoxicating craft beers with no caffeine infusion or any
additives masking or altering the alcohol effect, containing at least 0.5%
alcohol by volume, but not more than nine and six-tenths of alcohol by weight,
or 12% by volume, whichever is greater.
   OPEN SPACE. Any parcel or area of land or water essentially unimproved and
set aside, dedicated, designated, or reserved for public or private use or
enjoyment, or for the use and enjoyment of owners and occupants of land
adjoining or neighboring such open space.
   OWNER. Any individual, firm, association, syndicate, estate, corporation,
trust, or any other legal entity having proprietary interest in the land.
   PARALLEL PARKING STALL. An off-street space available for parking of one
automobile and having an area not less than eight feet by 20 feet and an area
exclusive of passageways, accessways, and driveways appurtenant thereto, and
having a means to direct access to a street or road.
   PARKING STALL. An off-street space available for parking one automobile and
having an area not less than nine feet by 18 feet and an area exclusive of
passageways, accessways, and driveways appurtenant thereto, and having a means
to direct access to a street or road.
   PATIO. An area consisting of natural or human-made material constructed at
or near grade level, intended for use as an outdoor living area, and not
enclosed by a permanent roof or awning.
   PERMITTED USE (USE PERMITTED BY RIGHT). Any use requiring no special action
by any governmental body, agency, or staff member before the zoning permit is
granted by the Zoning Officer, subject to all other applicable provisions of
this code.
   PORCH. A covered but unenclosed projection from the main wall of a building
that may or may not use columns or other ground supports for structural
purposes.
   PUBLIC AREA. Any public place, public right-of-way, any parking area or
right-of-way open to use by the general public, or any navigable body of water.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY (ROW). A strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a
street, crosswalk, railroad, electric transmission line, oil or gas pipeline,
water main, sanitary or storm sewer main, shade trees, or for another similar
use.
   SATELLITE SIGNAL RECEIVING STATION. Devices commonly parabolic in shape,
mounted at a fixed point on a structure or on rooftops, for the purpose of
capturing electronic television or internet signals transmitted via satellite
communication facilities and serving the same or similar function as the common
television antenna. Such devices are accessory structures.
   SCREENING. The use of plant materials, fencing, or earthen berms to aid in
the concealment of such features as parking areas and vehicles within them, and
to provide privacy between two or more different adjoining land uses.
   SETBACK. The minimum distance by which any building or structure must be
separated from a street right-of-way or lot line.
      (1)   FRONT SETBACK. The shortest distance between the building setback
line and the front lot line.
      (2)   REAR SETBACK. The shortest distance between the building setback
line and the rear lot line.
      (3)   SIDE SETBACK. The shortest distance between the building setback
line and the side lot line.
   SIGN. Any device (writing, letter work or numeral, pictorial presentation,
illustration or decoration, emblem, device, symbol or trademark, flag, banner
or pennant, or any other device, figure or character, or delineation) with the
essential purpose to communicate, designed to communicate, or where context
results in communication, and such communication is aimed at persons in a
public right-of-way.
      (1)   A-FRAME SIGN. A two-faced sign with supports that are connected at
the top and separated at the base with an internal angle between the two faces
of no more than a 45 degree angle, forming an “A” shape not more than four feet
high. These are also referred to as SANDWICH BOARD SIGNS and are included in
the term PORTABLE SIGN.
      (2)   ANIMATED SIGN or MOVING SIGN. A sign or part of a sign that is
designed to rotate, move, or appear to rotate or move. Such a sign is sometimes
referred to as a MOVING SIGN. ANIMATED SIGNS include signs with moving graphic
features such as scrolling text or images that appear to move; MOVING SIGNS
change features such as fly-in, wipe-off, fading, dissolving, traveling, or
expanding displays or any other full message sign change taking longer than 0.3
seconds; and static electronic message displays displayed less than seven
seconds. ANIMATED SIGNS also include signs propelled by vehicle, watercraft, or
aircraft where the primary purpose of the vehicle, watercraft, or aircraft at
the time of sign display is to propel the sign.
      (3)   AWNING SIGN or CANOPY SIGN. A sign placed directly on the surface
of an awning or canopy, which is a roof-like structure either projecting from a
building facade and open on three sides, or standing alone and open on four
sides, and used for the purpose of protecting pedestrians and motorists from
weather related elements.
      (4)   BANNER. A sign of flexible material affixed to a framework or flat
surface. BANNERS are not flags for purposes of this code.
      (5)   BEACON. Any light with one or more beams directed into the
atmosphere or directed at one or more points not on the same zone lot as the
light source or any light with one or more beams that rotate or move.
      (6)   CHALKBOARD SIGN. A single-faced, framed slate, or chalkboard that
can be written on with chalk or similar markers.
      (7)   CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN. A sign or part of a sign that is designed so
that characters, letters, or illustrations can be manually or physically
changed or rearranged without altering the face or surface of the sign.
      (8)   ELECTRONIC MESSAGE DISPLAY.
         (a)   A sign that is either light emitting or light reflective and
that is capable of changing the displayed message through electronic
programming.
         (b)   ELECTRONIC MESSAGE DISPLAYS are divided into four categories.
            1.   STATIC ELECTRONIC MESSAGE DISPLAY. An electronic message
display that is not an animated sign.
            2.   STATIC ELECTRONIC MESSAGE DISPLAY WITH TRANSITION FEATURES. An
electronic message display that remains static except for no more than a two
second transition feature such as fading, dissolving, or a single instance of
fly-in, wipe-off, expansion, or traveling that occurs no more often than every
seven seconds.
            3.   ELECTRONIC MESSAGE DISPLAY, PARTIALLY ANIMATED. An electronic
message display with animated or moving text or graphics.
            4.   ELECTRONIC MESSAGE DISPLAY, FULLY ANIMATED. An electronic
message display with full animation features.
      (9)   FEATHER SIGN/FEATHER FLAG/TEARDROP FLAG/WIND FLAG. A lightweight,
portable flag made of cloth, plastic, or similar material mounted along one
edge on a single, vertical, flexible pole, the physical structure of which may
resemble a sail, bow, or teardrop.
      (10)   FLAG. A piece of cloth or similar material, typically oblong or
square, attachable by one edge to a pole or rope and used as a symbol or
decoration.
      (11)   FLASHING SIGN. A sign that includes lights that flash, blink, turn
on and off intermittently, or otherwise vary light intensity during the display
of a message.
      (12)   FREESTANDING SIGN, GROUND-MOUNTED SIGN, or POLE SIGN. Any
nonportable sign supported by a fence, retaining wall, or by pole, upright
structural members, or braces on or in the ground and not attached to a
building.
      (13)   GEOLOGICAL SIGNS. Signs made of or that appear to be made of
geological formations, including, but not limited to, standalone rocks or
mountain sides, and convey a message that is etched, carved, painted, or
similarly incorporated into the sign’s material.
      (14)   ILLEGAL SIGN. Any sign erected without obtaining a required permit
or which otherwise does not comply with any provision of this code.
      (15)   INFLATABLE/TETHERED SIGNS. Signs which are filled with a gaseous
substance to convey a message or to draw attention to a message or location.
      (16)   MARQUEE SIGN. A sign attached to and made a part of a marquee or
any similar projections from a building, with changeable, fixed, or both types
of lettering in use.
      (17)   MINOR SIGN. A sign not exceeding two square feet in area, not
exceeding four feet in height, and not illuminated.
      (18)   MONUMENT SIGN. A sign affixed to a structure built on grade in
which the sign and the structure are an integral part of one another; not a
pole sign.
      (19)   NEON SIGN. A sign containing exposed tubes filled with light-
emitting gas.
      (20)   OFF-PREMISES SIGN. A commercial sign not accessory to or
associated with the principal use on a lot, or that is the principal use of a
lot.
      (21)   PENNANT. A geometric shaped flag made of flexible materials,
suspended from one or two corners fastened to a string, which is secured or
tethered so as to allow movement and used as an attention-getting form of
media.
      (22)   PERSON-ASSISTED SIGN. A sign that includes an individual who
holds, moves, wears, or otherwise directs attention to a commercial sign.
      (23)   PROJECTING SIGN. A sign attached to and projecting more than 12
inches from the face of a wall or building, but does not project above the
parapet or eave line of the building and is a minimum of eight feet above any
walking surface or 20 feet above any driving surface.
      (24)   ROOF SIGN. A sign erected or constructed, in whole or in part,
upon or above the highest point of a building with a flat roof, or the lowest
portion of a roof for any building with a pitched roof.
      (25)   TEMPORARY SIGN. Any sign intended to be displayed for a limited
period of time not to exceed 60 days.
      (26)   VEHICLE OR TRAILER SIGN. Any sign attached to or displayed on a
vehicle, if the vehicle or trailer is used for the primary purpose of
commercial speech and fails to display current license plates, inspection
sticker, or municipal decal; if the vehicle is inoperable; if evidence of paid-
to-date local taxes cannot be made available; or if the sign alters the
standard design of such vehicle or trailer.
      (27)   WALL SIGN. Any sign, inscription, artwork, figure, marking, or
design that is attached, painted, drawn, marked, etched, or scratched onto a
wall or against a flat vertical exterior surface of a structure, including
portions of doors which do not contain windows.
      (28)   WICKET SIGN. A sign with an H- or U-shaped frame that is put into
the ground or placed above the ground.
      (29)   WINDOW SIGN. Any sign visible outside the window and attached to
or within 18 inches in front of or behind the surface of a window or door.
   SIGN FACE. The portion of a sign structure bearing the message.
   SIGN STRUCTURE. Any structure bearing a sign face.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. The area that will be inundated by the flood
event having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year. The 1%
annual chance flood is also referred to as the base flood or 100-year flood.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS or NUDITY. Less than completely and opaquely
covered human genitals, pubic region, buttock, or female breast below a point
immediately above the top of the areola, or human male genitals in a
discernible turgid state; even if completely and opaquely covered.
   STEALTH, TECHNOLOGY. Telecommunications facilities which are designed to be
compatible with the surroundings and which camouflage or partially conceal the
presence of telecommunications towers and facilities, including
telecommunication facilities erected on alternative structures such as ball
field light poles, electric utility poles, water towers, and similar existing
structures.
   STREET. A dedicated and accepted public right-of-way for vehicular and
pedestrian traffic, whether designated as a street, highway, thoroughfare,
parkway, throughway, road, avenue, boulevard, land, place, or however otherwise
designated.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWER. Any structure that is designated and constructed
primarily for the purpose of supporting one or more telecommunication antennas.
This includes guyed towers, lattice towers, monopoles, and towers taller than
15 feet constructed on the top of another building, along with any separate
building on the lot used to house any supporting electronic equipment.
   TRAILER, CAMPING AND RECREATIONAL EQUIPMENT. Travel trailers, pickup
coaches, motorized homes, recreational vehicles, and equipment as follows.
      (1)   TRAVEL TRAILER. A portable structure built on a chassis, designed
to be towed and used as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational, and
vacation purposes, and permanently identified as a TRAVEL TRAILER by the
manufacturer of the trailer.
      (2)   PICKUP COACH. A structure designed primarily to be mounted on a
pickup or other truck chassis with sufficient equipment to render it suitable
for use as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational, and vacation
purposes.
      (3)   MOTORIZED HOME. A portable dwelling designed and constructed as an
integral part of a self-propelled vehicle.
      (4)   BOAT. A vessel designed to travel on water.
      (5)   BOAT TRAILER. A trailer designed to haul a boat.
   URBAN AGRICULTURE. Land used for community gardens, keeping of rabbits, and
other small- scale agricultural activities.
   USE. Any purpose for which a building or other structure or a tract of land
may be designed, arranged, intended, maintained, or occupied, or any activity,
occupation, business, or operation performed in a building or other structure,
or on a tract of land.
   VARIANCE. A deviation from the minimum standards of this code, but not
permitting land uses that are otherwise prohibited in the zoning district or
changing the zoning classifications of a parcel of land.
   VEHICLE. Any device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a street, including automobiles, and excepting
tractors, agricultural machinery, devices moved by human power or used upon
stationary rails or tracks.
   VERTICALLY INTEGRATED HEALTH SYSTEM. A health delivery system in which the
complete spectrum of care, including primary and specialty care,
hospitalization and pharmaceutical care, is provided within a single
organization.
   YARD.
      (1)   Open space that lays between the principal building or structure
and the nearest lot line. Any lot, building, or structure with characteristics
that require an individual determination of yard location will be resolved at
the discretion of the Zoning Officer.
      (2)   YARDS are further classified as front, rear, and side.
         (a)   YARD, FRONT. A space extending the full width of the lot between
the architectural front of the principal building or structure and the front
lot line.
         (b)   YARD, REAR. A space extending the full width of the lot between
the architectural rear of the principal building or structure and the rear lot
line.
         (c)   YARD, SIDE. A space extending from the front yard to the rear
yard between the principal building facade and the side lot line.
   ZONING. The division of a municipality or county into districts or zones
which specify permitted and conditional uses and development standards for real
property within the districts or zones.
   ZONING OFFICER. The person designated by the City of Weston through the
Board of Zoning Appeals to administer and enforce the provisions of this code.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
ZONING DISTRICTS AND REQUIREMENTS
§ 157.060 DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED.
   For the purpose of this code, the city is hereby divided into the following
zoning districts.
C-1         General Commercial
HO1 and HO2 Historic Overlays
MH          Manufactured Home Neighborhood
MU          Mixed-Use
NC          Neighborhood Commercial
P           Parks
R-1         Single-Family Residential
R-2         Multi-Family Residential
 
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.061 USE TABLE.
   The use table provides a quick reference to uses permitted by right or
conditional in each district. The use table is part of this zoning ordinance
and is attached at the end of this code in Appendix B.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.062 CLASSIFICATION OF DISTRICTS AND DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   Except where references on the zoning map to a road or street line or
other designated line by dimensions are shown on the zoning map, the district
boundary lines are intended to follow lot lines or the centerlines of roads or
streets, as they existed at the time of the adoption of this code. To the
extent possible, district boundary lines should not be established or
interpreted to bisect property lots. Where district boundary lines are shown
following creeks, streams, or river channels, it is intended that the district
line follow the center of the creek, stream, or river. Where a district line
does not coincide clearly with such lines, or where a district line is not
designated by dimensions, a district line shall be determined by scaling.
   (B)   The boundaries of all zoning districts are shown on the zoning map,
which is the official zoning map for the city.
   (C)   Unless a use is allowed as a “use permitted by right”, “use permitted
with conditions”, “conditional use”, “nonconforming use”, “accessory use”, or
“temporary use”, then such use is prohibited.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.063 PROCEDURES RELATING TO ANNEXED OR VACATED AREAS.
   (A)   Zoning of annexed lands. Zoning classification for any land annexed
into the city shall be established by ordinance, pursuant to W. Va. Code Ch.
8A, Art. 7, simultaneously with the adoption of the annexation resolution
required by W. Va. Code Ch. 8, Art. 6, as amended. City Council shall hear
zoning recommendations from the Planning Commission for the subject area during
the required hearing for annexation. Prior to any hearings, the city’s Planning
Commission shall submit its written recommendations, to be consistent with the
comprehensive plan, to City Council at least 30 days prior to the hearing for
annexation.
      (1)   Prior to the annexation hearing and formal zoning designation of
any parcel(s) of land being annexed, the city shall, at least 30 days prior to
the enactment of the zoning map amendment:
         (a)   Give written notice, by certified mail, to the landowner(s)
whose property is directly involved in the proposed amendment; and
         (b)   Publish a notice of the proposed amendment to the zoning
ordinance map as a Class II-O legal advertisement, pursuant to W. Va. Code Ch.
59.
      (2)   (a)   After the required 30-day notice period ends and the property
owners have been notified by certified mail, the City Council shall hold a
public hearing regarding the zoning designation of the newly annexed land.
         (b)   After the hearing, City Council can, by ordinance, designate the
zoning districts for the annexed land.
   (B)   Vacated property. Whenever any street, place, alley, public right-of-
way, railroad right-of-way, waterway, or other similar area is vacated by
proper authority, the districts adjoining each side of such street, place,
alley, public way, railroad right-of-way, waterway, or similar area shall be
extended automatically to the center of such vacation and all areas included in
the vacation shall then and thenceforth be subject to all appropriate
provisions of the extended districts. In the event of a partial vacation, the
adjoining district, or district nearest the portion vacated, shall be extended
automatically to include all of the vacated area.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.064 USES NOT EXPRESSLY PERMITTED OR CONDITIONAL.
   It is recognized that new types or forms of land use will develop within the
city that are not anticipated by this code. In order to provide for such
changes and contingencies, the classification of any new or unlisted land use
shall be made by the Zoning Officer to determine if the use can reasonably be
interpreted to fit into a similar use category described in this code.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.065 SF, SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the Single-Family Residential District is to
preserve the desirable character of existing, lower-density, single-family
neighborhoods. This District provides adequate open space, recreational, and
cultural amenities conducive to single-family residential development.
   (B)   Uses permitted by right. The following shall be uses permitted by
right in the Single-Family Residential District (asterisked uses have
supplemental regulations in §§
157.085 to
157.104):
      (1)   Bus/other transit shelter;
      (2)   Child day care facility, Class 4*;
      (3)   Dwelling, single-family;
      (4)   Essential utilities and equipment;
      (5)   Garage, private;
      (6)   Governmental operations;
      (7)   Greenhouse, noncommercial*;
      (8)   Group residential facility;
      (9)   Group residential home;
      (10)   Home-based business (no impact)*;
      (11)   Public recreation;
      (12)   Solar energy, small;
      (13)   Telecommunications, Class I*; and
      (14)   Tourist home.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following shall be conditional uses in the
Single-Family Residential District (asterisked uses have supplemental
regulations in §§
157.085 to
157.104):
      (1)   Bed and breakfast inn*;
      (2)   Child day care facility, Class 3*;
      (3)   Conversion of old school/church;
      (4)   Dwelling, condominium;
      (5)   Dwelling, conversion apartment;
      (6)   Dwelling, garage conversion;
      (7)   Dwelling, two-family;
      (8)   Home-based business (low impact)*; and
      (9)   Wind energy system, small*.
   (D)   Lot, yard, and height requirements.
 
Max. Building Height       35 feet
Min. Lot Size (Sq. Ft.)    No minimum
Min. Lot Width.            40 feet
Max. Lot Coverage (as a %) No maximum
                           10 feet, or the average of the two adjoining
Min. Front Setback         properties which have pre-existing structures,
                           whichever is less
Min. Side Setback          5 feet
Min. Rear Setback          No minimum
 
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.066 R-2, MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the Multi-Family Residential District is to
provide for a variety of housing types at a higher density. This District will
preserve the desirable characteristics of a residential neighborhood while in
close proximity to community amenities.
   (B)   Uses permitted by right. The following shall be uses permitted by
right in the Multi-Family Residential District (asterisked uses have
supplemental regulations in §§
157.085 to
157.104):
      (1)   Child day care facility, Class 4*;
      (2)   Dwelling, conversion apartment;
      (3)   Dwelling, garage conversion;
      (4)   Dwelling, garden home;
      (5)   Dwelling, single-family;
      (6)   Dwelling, townhouse*;
      (7)   Dwelling, two-family;
      (8)   Essential utilities and equipment;
      (9)   Garage, private;
      (10)   Governmental operations;
      (11)   Greenhouse, noncommercial*;
      (12)   Group residential facility;
      (13)   Group residential home;
      (14)   Home-based business (no impact)*;
      (15)   Recreation, public;
      (16)   Solar energy, small;
      (17)   Telecommunications, Class I*; and
      (18)   Tourist home.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following shall be conditional uses in the
Multi-Family Residential District (asterisked uses have supplemental
regulations in §§
157.085 to
157.104):
      (1)   Child day care facility, Class 3*;
      (2)   Conversion of old school/church;
      (3)   Dwelling, apartment;
      (4)   Dwelling, condominium;
      (5)   Home-based business (low impact)*; and
      (6)   Wind energy system, small*.
   (D)   Lot, yard, and height requirements.
 
Max. Building Height       35 feet
Min. Lot Size (Sq. Ft.)    No minimum
Min. Lot Width             40 feet
Max. Lot Coverage (as a %) No maximum
                           10 feet, or the average of the two adjoining
Min. Front Setback         properties which have pre-existing structures,
                           whichever is less
Min. Side Setback          5 feet
Min. Rear; Setback         No minimum
 
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.067 MH, MANUFACTURED HOME NEIGHBORHOOD DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the Manufactured Home Neighborhood District is
to provide an area for the placement of manufactured homes that can accommodate
the density of manufactured housing, particularly in rental communities, with
the associated essential utilities and infrastructure and anticipated fire and
safety needs of denser developments and manufactured housing.
   (B)   Uses permitted by right. The following shall be uses permitted by
right in the Manufactured Home Neighborhood District (asterisked uses have
supplemental regulations in §§
157.085 to
157.104):
      (1)   Dwelling, conversion apartment;
      (2)   Dwelling, garage conversion;
      (3)   Essential utilities and equipment;
      (4)   Factory-built home;
      (5)   Factory-built home rental community;
      (6)   Group residential facility;
      (7)   Group residential home; and
      (8)   Tourist home.
   (C)   Lot, yard, and height requirements.
 
Max. Building Height       35 feet
Min. Lot Size (Sq. Ft.)    No minimum
Min. Lot Width             40 feet
Max. Lot Coverage (as a %) No maximum
                           10 feet, or the average of the two adjoining
Min. Front Setback         properties which have pre-existing structures,
                           whichever is less
Min. Side Setback          5 feet
Min. Rear Setback          No minimum
 
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.068 P, PARK DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the Parks District is to provide space for
indoor and outdoor recreation and to protect open space to preserve the natural
beauty and scenic value of the city.
   (B)   Uses permitted by right. The following shall be uses permitted by
right in the Parks District (asterisked uses have supplemental regulations in
§§
157.085 to
157.104):
      (1)   Amphitheater;
      (2)   Essential utilities and equipment;
      (3)   Farmer’s market;
      (4)   Funeral home/mortuary;
      (5)   Governmental operations;
      (6)   Group residential facility;
      (7)   Group residential home;
      (8)   Park;
      (9)   Recreation, public;
      (10)   Solar energy system, small;
      (11)   Telecommunications, Class I*;
      (12)   Temporary shelter; and
      (13)   Tourist home.
   (C)   Lot, yard, and height requirements.
 
Max. Building Height       35 feet
Min. Lot Size (Sq. Ft.)    No minimum
Min. Lot Width             40 feet
Max. Lot Coverage (as a %) No maximum
Min. Front Setback         No minimum
Min. Side Setback          No minimum
Min. Rear Setback          No minimum
 
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.069 MU, MIXED-USE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the Mixed-Use District is to provide a diverse
mix of residential, small- scale business, office, and educational uses in a
high-density, pedestrian-oriented community. The Mixed- Use District serves as
a buffer between residential uses and commercial and industrial uses.
   (B)   Uses permitted by right. The following shall be uses permitted by
right in the Mixed-Use District (asterisked uses have supplemental regulations
in §§
157.085 to
157.104):
      (1)   Bakery;
      (2)   Bed and breakfast*;
      (3)   Broadcasting studio;
      (4)   Bus/other transit;
      (5)   Child day care facility, Class I*;
      (6)   Child day care facility, Class II*;
      (7)   Child day care facility, Class III*;
      (8)   Clinic;
      (9)   Community facility;
      (10)   Cultural service;
      (11)   Drive-through facility;
      (12)   Dwelling, conversion apartment;
      (13)   Dwelling, garage conversion;
      (14)   Dwelling, mixed-use;
      (15)   Dwelling, single-family;
      (16)   Dwelling, two-family;
      (17)   Educational institution;
      (18)   Essential utilities and equipment;
      (19)   Farmer’s market;
      (20)   Funeral home/mortuary;
      (21)   Garage, private;
      (22)   Governmental operations;
      (23)   Greenhouse, noncommercial*;
      (24)   Group residential facility;
      (25)   Group residential home;
      (26)   Health club;
      (27)   Home-based business (low impact)*;
      (28)   Home-based business (no impact)*;
      (29)   Liquor store;
      (30)   Night club;
      (31)   Parking lot;
      (32)   Personal service;
      (33)   Pharmacy;
      (34)   Photographic studio;
      (35)   Places of worship/religious institution;
      (36)   Private club;
      (37)   Professional services;
      (38)   Recreation, public;
      (39)   Restaurant;
      (40)   Retail < 7,000 gross floor area;
      (41)   School, preschool to 12;
      (42)   Solar energy system, small;
      (43)   Studio, dancing, music, or art;
      (44)   Tattoo parlor/body piercing studio;
      (45)   Telecommunications, Class I*;
      (46)   Temporary shelter; and
      (47)   Tourist home.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following shall be conditional uses in the
Mixed-Use District (asterisked uses have supplemental regulations in §§
157.085 to
157.104):
      (1)   Bank/financial institution;
      (2)   Brewery pub;
      (3)   Catering business;
      (4)   Convenience store;
      (5)   Distillery;
      (6)   Dwelling, apartment;
      (7)   Dwelling, condominium;
      (8)   Dwelling, garden home;
      (9)   Dwelling, townhouse*;
      (10)   Emergency shelter;
      (11)   Gas station*;
      (12)   Recreation, private; and
      (13)   Tavern/drinking establishment.
   (D)   Lot, yard, and height requirements.
 
Max. Building Height       70 feet
Min. Lot Size (Sq. Ft.)    No minimum
Min. Lot Width             40 feet
Max. Lot Coverage (as a %) No maximum
Min. Front Setback         No minimum
Min. Side Setback          No minimum
Min. Rear Setback          No minimum
 
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.070 NC, NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the Neighborhood Commercial District is to
provide an area for low- impact, small-scale business uses that are compatible
with and provide convenience to nearby residential development.
   (B)   Uses permitted by right. The following shall be uses permitted by
right in the Neighborhood Commercial District (asterisked uses have
supplemental regulations in §§
157.085 to
157.104):
      (1)   Bakery;
      (2)   Bed and breakfast*;
      (3)   Bus/other transit shelter;
      (4)   Child day care facility, Class 4*;
      (5)   Clinic;
      (6)   Community facility;
      (7)   Cultural service;
      (8)   Dwelling, conversion apartment;
      (9)   Dwelling, garage conversion;
      (10)   Dwelling, single-family;
      (11)   Essential utilities and equipment;
      (12)   Farmer’s market;
      (13)   Garage, private;
      (14)   Governmental operations;
      (15)   Greenhouse, noncommercial*;
      (16)   Group residential facility;
      (17)   Group residential home;
      (18)   Home-based business (low-impact)*;
      (19)   Home-based business (no impact)*;
      (20)   Parking lot;
      (21)   Personal service;
      (22)   Pharmacy;
      (23)   Photographic studio;
      (24)   Places of worship/religious institution;
      (25)   Professional services;
      (26)   Recreation, public;
      (27)   Solar energy system, small;
      (28)   Studio, dancing, music, or art;
      (29)   Telecommunications, Class I*;
      (30)   Temporary shelter; and
      (31)   Tourist home.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following shall be conditional uses in the
Neighborhood Commercial District (asterisked uses have supplemental regulations
in §§
157.085 to
157.104):
      (1)   Liquor store;
      (2)   Retail < 7,000 gross floor area;
      (3)   School, preschool to 12; and
      (4)   Wind energy system, small*.
   (D)   Lot, yard, and height requirements.
 
Max. Building Height       45 feet
Min. Lot Size (Sq. Ft.)    No minimum
Min. Lot Width             40 feet
Max. Lot Coverage (as a %) No maximum
                           10 feet, or the average of the two adjoining
Min. Front Setback         properties which have pre-existing structures,
                           whichever is less
Min. Side Setback          5 feet
Min. Rear Setback          No minimum
 
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.071 C-1, GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   The purpose of the Commercial Corridor District is to provide space
for a commercial corridor to serve as an attractive gateway to the city.
      (2)   The District is intended to include higher-density development with
compact and highly visible businesses.
   (B)   Uses permitted by right. The following shall be uses permitted by
right in the General Commercial District (asterisked uses have supplemental
regulations in §§
157.085 to
157.104):
      (1)   Amphitheater;
      (2)   Amusement and recreation center;
      (3)   Animal hospital/veterinary office;
      (4)   Automobile car wash*;
      (5)   Automobile repair/service*;
      (6)   Bakery;
      (7)   Bank/financial institution;
      (8)   Bed and breakfast*;
      (9)   Boat and marine sales/service;
      (10)   Boat storage*;
      (11)   Brewery pub;
      (12)   Broadcasting studio;
      (13)   Building material facility;
      (14)   Bus and transit facilities;
      (15)   Catering business;
      (16)   Cemetery/mausoleum;
      (17)   Child day care facility, Class 1*;
      (18)   Child day care facility, Class 2*;
      (19)   Child day care facility, Class 3*;
      (20)   Child day care facility, Class 4*;
      (21)   Clinic;
      (22)   Community facility;
      (23)   Continuing care facility;
      (24)   Convenience store;
      (25)   Conversion of old school/church;
      (26)   Cultural service;
      (27)   Distillery;
      (28)   Distribution facility;
      (29)   Drive-through facility;
      (30)   Dwelling, apartment;
      (31)   Dwelling, condominium;
      (32)   Dwelling, conversion apartment;
      (33)   Dwelling, garage conversion;
      (34)   Dwelling, single-family;
      (35)   Educational institution;
      (36)   Equipment rental/repair;
      (37)   Essential utilities and equipment;
      (38)   Farm equipment/construction and supply sales;
      (39)   Farmer’s market;
      (40)   Funeral home/mortuary;
      (41)   Garage, private;
      (42)   Garden center;
      (43)   Gas station*;
      (44)   Governmental operations;
      (45)   Greenhouse, noncommercial*;
      (46)   Greenhouse, commercial;
      (47)   Group residential facility;
      (48)   Group residential home;
      (49)   Health care medical cannabis organization;
      (50)   Home-based business (low-impact)*;
      (51)   Home-based business (no impact)*;
      (52)   Hospital;
      (53)   Hotel/motel;
      (54)   Kennel;
      (55)   Liquor store;
      (56)   Lumberyard;
      (57)   Medical cannabis dispensary;
      (58)   Medical cannabis growing facility;
      (59)   Medical cannabis processing facility;
      (60)   Medical adult day care center;
      (61)   Night club;
      (62)   Office supply establishment;
      (63)   Parcel delivery facility;
      (64)   Parking lot;
      (65)   Parking structure;
      (66)   Personal service;
      (67)   Pet shop;
      (68)   Pharmacy;
      (69)   Photographic studio;
      (70)   Places of worship/religious institution;
      (71)   Professional services;
      (72)   Recreation, private;
      (73)   Recreation, public;
      (74)   Research and development;
      (75)   Restaurant;
      (76)   Retail < 7,000 gross floor area;
      (77)   Retail > 7,000 gross floor area;
      (78)   Roadside stand;
      (79)   School, commercial;
      (80)   School, preschool to 12;
      (81)   Self-storage facility;
      (82)   Senior independent housing;
      (83)   Shopping center;
      (84)   Solar energy system, small;
      (85)   Sports arena;
      (86)   Studio, dancing, music, or art;
      (87)   Tattoo parlor/body piercing studio;
      (88)   Tavern/drinking establishment;
      (89)   Telecommunications, Class I*;
      (90)   Telecommunications, Class II*;
      (91)   Telecommunications, Class III*;
      (92)   Temporary shelter;
      (93)   Theater;
      (94)   Theater, drive-in;
      (95)   Tourist home;
      (96)   Truck terminal;
      (97)   Vehicle sales/rental and service;
      (98)   Warehouse;
      (99)   Wholesale establishment;
      (100)   Wind energy system, small*; and
      (101)   Winery
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following shall be conditional uses in the
General Commercial District (asterisked uses have supplemental regulations in
§§
157.085 to
157.104):
      (1)   Adult business*;
      (2)   Dog day care*;
      (3)   Extractive industry;
      (4)   Flea market;
      (5)   Industrial park;
      (6)   Manufacturing (light);
      (7)   Roadside vendor stand;
      (8)   Solar energy system, large;
      (9)   Temporary shelter;
      (10)   Video gaming and lottery establishment*; and
      (11)   Wind energy system, large*.
   (D)   Lot, yard, and height requirements.
 
Max. Building Height       60 feet
Min. Lot Size (Sq. Ft.)    No minimum
Min. Lot Width             40 feet
Max. Lot Coverage (as a %) No maximum
                           10 feet, or the average of the two adjoining
Min. Front Setback         properties which have pre-existing structures,
                           whichever is less
Min. Side Setback          5 feet
Min. Rear Setback          10 feet
 
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.072 HISTORIC OVERLAYS, HO1 AND HO2.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   The city historic overlays HO1 and HO2 are hereby created in
accordance with W. Va. Code 8A-7-2(b).
      (2)   The purpose of the historic overlays is to promote the general
welfare and education of the public through maintaining those general areas or
individual structures that have been designated as having historic,
architectural, or cultural significance. HO1 and HO2 are intended to protect
such areas or structures from encroachment or destruction while at the same
time encouraging uses that will lead to their preservation, continuance, and
improvement.
   (B)   Application. The HO1 and HO2 overlays are created as special zoning
districts to be overlaid on to the underlying zoning districts. Where conflict
exists between the provisions of the HO1 or HO2 overlay and the underlying
zoning district, the most stringent requirements shall apply.
   (C)   Conditional use permits.
      (1)   Definitions. Unless otherwise expressly stated, the following uses
shall, for the purpose of this subchapter, be defined as follows.
         HISTORIC COMMERCIAL. A commercial use located within a structure
designated as historic on a local, state, or national register.
         HISTORIC RESIDENTIAL. A residential use located within a structure
designated as historic on a local, state, or national register.
      (2)   Conditional uses.
         (a)   HO1. All uses permitted in the zoning districts underlying HO1
and all Historic Residential and Historic Commercial uses within HO1 shall be
conditional uses within HO1 and subject to all the provisions of this
subchapter.
         (b)   HO2. All Historic Residential and Historic Commercial uses
within HO2 shall be conditional uses within HO2 and subject to all the
provisions of this subchapter.
      (3)   Conditional use permit required.
         (a)   HO1. Before any building or structure within HO1 is constructed,
erected, expanded, enlarged, or otherwise structurally altered, including
signage, the owner of such building or structure shall apply to the Board of
Zoning Appeals for a conditional use permit.
         (b)   HO2. Before any building or structure that constitutes a
Historic Residential or Historic Commercial use within HO2 is expanded,
enlarged, or otherwise structurally altered, including signage, the owner of
such building or structure shall apply to the Board of Zoning Appeals for a
conditional use permit.
      (4)   Submission of professional plans. In the case of the construction
of a new house, commercial building, or other significant structure, the
application shall include a professional set of plans, including site and
elevation plans drawn to scale, along with sufficient explanation or
justification for such change in accordance with this subchapter. The same may
be required by the Board for other applications under this subchapter when such
plans are needed to allow the Board to fully assess the physical, aesthetic,
and cultural impacts of the proposed change.
   (D)   Basis for decision.
      (1)   Professional standards. The maintenance and preservation of the
historic, architectural, or cultural significance of the Historic Residential
and Historic Commercial uses within the HO1 and HO2 overlays are to be given
the utmost consideration by the Board of Zoning Appeals in reviewing
applications submitted under this subchapter. The Board shall use, as one basis
for its decisions and considerations, the Secretary of the Interior’s Standards
for Historic Preservation Projects (as issued by the United States Department
of the Interior). The Board may also consult other treatises or authorities on
historic preservation; and may solicit expert advice to assess how best to
protect and improve the overall character of the HO1 and HO2 overlays.
      (2)   Historic preservation. Whenever the Board of Zoning Appeals
receives an application for a conditional use permit pursuant to division (C)
(3) above, the Board shall evaluate the proposal based upon the formal
application, its accompanying plans, and any other submissions. The Board shall
further assess the proposed architectural style design, method of construction,
and location as they relate to existing nearby structures, sites, or features
in order to judge whether the proposal will ensure that harmony and
compatibility will exist within the area. In HO1, the Board shall seek to
preserve the late nineteenth and early twentieth century architecture prevalent
in existing structures within HO1 and set requirements on new construction in
HO1 compatible with late nineteenth and early twentieth century architecture.
   (E)   Permitted uses and lot requirements. The HO1 and HO2 overlays impose a
set of requirements in addition to those of the underlying zoning district. All
applicable use and bulk and area regulations of the underlying zoning district
shall apply in addition to the regulations outlined in this section. Only land
identified on the zoning map within the HO1 and HO2 overlays is regulated by
this section.
   (F)   General design guidelines for HO1 and HO2.
      (1)   Windows and doors. Existing windows and doors, including the window
sash, glass, lintels, frames, molding, shutters, and steps, should be retained
and repaired whenever possible. If a new window or door must be used, it should
be of a material compatible with the front facade. Changing the size or
arrangement of windowpanes, muntins, and rails where they contribute to the
historic and architectural character of the building is discouraged.
Inappropriate window or door features on significant facades are discouraged.
Replacement windows in restored and rehabilitated structures should retain the
dimensions and pane divisions of the window being replaced. Paired casement
windows, although not historically common, are generally acceptable because of
their vertical orientation. The use of single-pane windows should not be
permitted unless equipped with snap-in muntins.
      (2)   Storm windows. Exterior storm windows and doors may be installed if
they are visually unobtrusive, do not cause damage to existing frames, and can
be removed in the future. Storm windows should match the trim color. Mill-
finished aluminum can be painted to match.
      (3)   Porches and steps. Porches and steps that are appropriate to the
building and the site should be retained. The original material and
architectural features of porches and steps should be retained whenever
possible.
      (4)   Roofs. The original roof shape should be preserved. All
architectural features that give the roof its essential character should be
preserved or replaced in a compatible manner.
      (5)   Architectural metals. Architectural metals should be cleaned when
necessary with an appropriate method that does not erode the surface.
      (6)   Masonry surface and re-pointing. Original masonry should be
retained whenever possible, without applying any surface treatment, including
paint. When re-pointing of mortar joints is absolutely necessary, old mortar
should be duplicated in composition, color, texture, method of application, and
joint profile. The surface cleaning of structures shall be undertaken with the
gentlest means possible.
      (7)   Wood frame buildings. Architectural features, such as cornices,
brackets, window and door molding and details, clapboard, weatherboard,
shingles, and other wood siding, are essential and parts of the character and
appearance of frame buildings. They should be retained and preserved whenever
possible. Frame buildings should not be resurfaced with new materials that are
inappropriate for the building or that will cause deterioration of the original
structure.
      (8)   Structural systems. Existing foundations should not be disturbed
with new excavations that could undermine the structural integrity of the
building.
      (9)   Mechanical systems. Exterior cables (e.g., electrical, telephone,
and cable TV) should be installed in places where they will be visually
unobtrusive. Audio/video antenna and mechanical equipment (e.g., air
conditioning and solar panels) should be placed in as inconspicuous a location
as possible.
      (10)   Garages. If an alley is adjacent to the dwelling, a new garage
should be located off the alley. Where alleys do not exist, garages facing the
street or driveway curb cuts may be acceptable. Garage doors should not face
the street. If this is found necessary, single garage doors should be used to
avoid the horizontal orientation of two-car garage doors. Parking spaces should
be screened from the street and sidewalk by landscaping.
      (11)   Walls, fences, and railings. Removal or replacement with
inappropriate material or design is discouraged where these are historically or
architecturally important elements of the design and character of the structure
and district.
      (12)   Storefronts. Proposed changes should be supported by historic
photos and blueprints of the structure.
         (a)   Opening. The storefront opening, where possible, shall be
recessed six to 12 inches into the facade’s storefront opening rather than
applied to the face of the facade.
         (b)   Frame. The storefront design shall generally be composed of a
hierarchical frame made up of vertical and horizontal elements.
         (c)   Recessed entry. The storefront should have a recessed entry off
the sidewalk to create a more intimate sense of entry at the door. The recessed
entry should be three feet to six feet deep.
         (d)   Windows. The storefront should be as transparent as possible.
Large window areas emphasize display, maximize natural light, and allow for
visibility into and out of the store.
         (e)   Cornice. The storefront should have a strong horizontal form at
its top to separate it from the upper facade and to help certain signage.
         (f)   Materials, color, and texture. These characteristics of the
storefront design should complement the upper facade and adjacent facades.
   (G)   Design standards for new construction in HO1.
      (1)   A new building in the HO1 should be visually compatible with its
neighbors in spacing, setback, massing, materials, roof shape, window
divisions, and siding emphasis. A new building does not necessarily have to be
identical with its neighbors in these respects, but attention shall be given to
the immediate architectural environment of the new building. Any new building
shall support and enhance a block’s design unity and sense of character through
consideration of silhouette, spacing, setbacks, proportions, volume, mass,
entryway, material, surface, shadow, texture, style, and image. In addition,
these guidelines apply only to the parts of the building visible from a public
way.
      (2)   Rhythms of building spacing should be maintained.
      (3)   The buildings in the city are characterized by their linear
appearance. The front of nearly every building faces the street. Although this
may not be achievable on every site due to other constraints, architectural
treatments can achieve the same effect. Parking should be located at the rear
and side of buildings.
      (4)   Entrances and porches are often the focus of buildings,
particularly when they occur on primary elevations. Together with their
functional and decorative features such as doors, steps, balustrades,
pilasters, and entablatures, they can be extremely important in defining the
overall character of a building. The porch treatment of new structures shall
relate to the porch treatment of existing adjacent structures. Open porches are
strongly encouraged, but screened in porches may be acceptable if well
detailed.
      (5)   The roof, with its shape; features such as cresting, dormers, and
chimneys; and the size, color, and patterning of the roofing material can be
extremely important in defining the building’s overall character. Roof profiles
contribute strongly to the character of a street, and new construction shall
relate to the predominant roof shape and pitch of existing adjacent buildings.
Where flat roofs appear historically, they almost always project beyond the
facade line and are frequently supported by brackets. New roofs should follow
the traditional types: gabled, gambrel, hipped, and mansard. Roofing material
shall be unobtrusive and not call attention to itself, except on buildings
where pattern is a part of the overall design. Asphalt shingle is acceptable,
provided it is a relatively dark shade. Random mingling of shingle shapes and
colors should not be permitted, and consideration should be given to whether
there is stylistic justification for the use of shaped shingles at all.
      (6)   The proportion, size, and detailing of windows in new construction
should relate to that of existing adjacent buildings. Most windows in the
city’s historic districts have a vertical orientation. Also, wooden, double-
hung windows are traditional in the city’s historic districts. The use of large
picture windows shall not be permitted in domestic structures, nor should any
window that is basically horizontal in orientation. Reflective glass is
prohibited. Projecting bay windows with a polygonal plan are appropriate. If a
bay window is added, a projecting bay window is preferable to a curving bow
window.
      (7)   Window type and materials shall be compatible with the front facade
and the historic and architectural character of the buildings. Exterior storm
windows and doors should be visually unobtrusive. Aluminum shall be painted in
an appropriate manner.
      (8)   Stylistic trim using cornices, scrollwork, and the like is
encouraged. Shutters are appropriate for new structures. Shutters should be
paneled or louvered. Plank or board and batten shutters shall not be permitted.
Shutters shall not be pierced with sawn initials or other motifs. Shutters
shall be dimensioned to cover the window opening. The height of shutters shall
be equal to the distance from the sill to the lintel, and the width of each
unit shall be half the width of the frame, all measured on the exterior.
Attachment of shutters to the building with hinges is preferable to an
immovable mounting.
      (9)   Exterior materials are to be natural in appearance. For siding of
new structures, diagonal and vertical siding are generally unacceptable. Siding
of new structures shall have the same directional emphasis as the siding on
original structures. Clapboard is the preferred siding material of new
buildings. Materials which imitate natural materials may be acceptable.
Imitative materials such as asphalt siding, wood-textured metal siding or
artificial siding stone or brick should not be used. Four-inch metal siding,
when installed and carefully detailed, may be acceptable.
      (10)   Paint color for a privately-owned building is essentially a
personal choice. Several books have been published regarding historic paint
colors at various periods in American architectural history (including Century
of Color, published by the American Life Foundation in 1981); these should be
consulted prior to choosing a color. Colors should be compatible with the
historic district’s atmosphere and typical of the period from which the
architectural style was developed.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS
§ 157.085 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish standards and policies for
specific uses in all districts that require particular considerations. These
regulations will supplement general development standards by establishing
uniform criteria for each use, whether a permitted use by right or a
conditional use, and are set forth to achieve compatibility with the principal
uses permitted in a zoning district. The provisions for this subchapter shall
apply in addition to any other applicable zoning regulations.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.086 ABANDONED VEHICLE.
   No abandoned motor vehicle shall be permitted on any residential property
for more than seven days, unless it is in an enclosed garage.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.087 ADULT BUSINESS.
   (A)   No such adult establishment shall be located less than 1,000 feet from
a school zone, place of worship or religious institution, library, day care
center, civic building, park, historic district, dwelling, lot with residential
districting, or other adult establishment as measured from front door to front
door along the curb line of public streets providing access.
   (B)   All doors, windows, and other apertures shall be located and covered
or screened with opaque glazing to discourage and prevent visibility or viewing
of the interior.
   (C)   No exterior signage, building element, advertisement, display, or
other promotional material shall be pornographic in nature or convey any such
idea or element to specified anatomical areas, as defined in this code, and
shall not be visible from a public right-of-way or pedestrian walk.
   (D)   In the event that an activity or business which might fall under a use
category other than adult business is combined with or includes activities
which constitute an adult bookstore, adult movie theater or movie house, or
adult entertainment, as defined herein, then such activity or business shall
constitute an adult business and shall be governed by those provisions in this
code applicable to adult business uses.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.088 AUTOMOBILE REPAIR/SERVICE.
   Automobile repair or service shall be subject to the following regulations.
   (A)   The only vehicles which may be stored outside in connection with the
business include:
      (1)   Customer vehicles awaiting service may be stored outside for a
period not to exceed two weeks, and a work order or some other written proof
must be provided to show that the vehicle is actually awaiting service;
      (2)   Employees’ personal vehicles used for travel to and from work; and
      (3)   A vehicle used in connection with the auto repair operation, such
as a wrecker.
   (B)   Vehicles that may not be stored outside are:
      (1)   Inoperable vehicles not awaiting service;
      (2)   Inoperable vehicles being scrapped or used for replacement parts
for another vehicle being repaired; and
      (3)   Operable vehicles not awaiting service and not used in connection
with the business.
   (C)   No portion of an automotive repair or service station or any part of
their appurtenances or accessory uses shall be placed within five feet of any
residential dwelling.
   (D)   Automobile repair or service shall be screened from neighboring
properties with fencing or with a landscaped buffer area.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.089 BED AND BREAKFAST INN.
   (A)   The bed and breakfast inn shall be owner occupied.
   (B)   No more than six guest rooms suitable to accommodate 12 guests shall
be provided. No guest shall be accommodated for more than seven consecutive
nights.
   (C)   Amenities provided by the bed and breakfast, such as swimming pools,
porches, or decks, shall be limited for the use of the residents and guests of
the facility.
   (D)   The bed and breakfast shall not change the residential character of
the dwelling and shall not detract from the residential character of the
neighborhood.
   (E)   Meals shall only be provided to overnight guests, except for special
events. There shall be no separate cooking facilities in any guest room.
   (F)   Employment shall not exceed two full-time employees, not including the
owner.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.090 BOAT STORAGE.
   (A)   Boats may be no more than 35 feet in length.
   (B)   Enclosed buildings that contain boat storage shall not exceed 36 feet
in height.
   (C)   Any on-site boat maintenance is prohibited.
   (D)   Driveway access to individual storage garages or facilities shall be
of adequate size such that no vehicle is forced to directly back onto a public
street.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.091 CAR WASH, AUTOMOBILE.
   (A)   The minimum distance between any buildings, including accessory uses,
and any residential zoning district shall be 20 feet.
   (B)   Exterior lighting shall be shielded so that it is deflected away from
adjacent properties and from passing motorists.
   (C)   A fence with a minimum height of six feet shall be provided along the
interior side and rear property line, when adjacent to a dwelling, to protect
the dwelling from light and noise and eliminate blowing debris, and to protect
adjacent property values. The fence shall be constructed of masonry, concrete,
wood, or other similar materials.
   (D)   All of the area to be utilized by the washing and drying operations,
including all ingress and egress areas, shall be paved with concrete, asphalt,
or asphaltic concrete.
   (E)   Where such use is located adjacent to residentially zoned property or
property used for residential purposes, hours of operation shall be limited to
between 6:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m.
   (F)   Five off-street waiting spaces for each car washing device or stall
are required, or five off-street waiting spaces for an assembly line type
washing establishment, and two parking spaces at the end of each washing bay
for drying and hand-finishing vehicles.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.092 CHILD DAY CARE FACILITY.
   (A)   All child care providers, whether state or privately operated, shall
obtain a license from the state’s Secretary of State and the Department of
Health and Human Resources. Each facility shall also be inspected by the
Building Inspector and Fire Marshal to ensure the safety of children and
employees.
   (B)   A facility shall provide a minimum of 35 square feet of usable space
per child. Any rooms or areas that have not been approved for the use of
children shall be inaccessible. No activity space may be created in the
basement of a structure unless expressly approved by the Fire Marshal.
   (C)   A secured outdoor activity area must be provided by the facility
allowing a minimum of 75 square feet of space per child. Should the minimum
space not be available, a rotating outdoor activity schedule shall be
established to meet the minimum requirements and ensure that each child be
afforded outdoor playtime every day, weather permitting.
   (D)   The outdoor activity area noted above shall be fenced with a minimum
six-foot high fence. All play equipment shall be located in the fenced area.
   (E)   Parks may be used to meet outdoor activity requirements if located
immediately adjacent to the facility.
   (F)   In no instance shall vehicles picking up or dropping off children idle
in the street right-of-way or otherwise block public traffic patterns.
   (G)   Child day care businesses operated from a residence shall be operated
by a permanent resident. No changes to the exterior of residences may be made
for a child day care business operated from a residence except changes
necessary for safety improvements.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.093 DOG DAY CARE.
   (A)   The hours of operation shall be limited daily between 7:00 a.m. and 9:
00 p.m.
   (B)   Dogs may be groomed, trained, exercised, and socialized, but not kept
or boarded overnight, bred, sold, or let for hire unless the use is combined
with a kennel as defined herein.
   (C)   There shall be no more than 15 dogs on the premises at one time.
   (D)   Indoor recreational area shall be at least 100 square feet per dog,
and outdoor recreational area shall be at least 150 square feet per dog.
   (E)   The fence shall provide full containment for the dogs and be secured
at all times. The fence structure shall be deep enough and secured to the
ground to prevent escape and high enough to prevent dogs from jumping or
climbing over. The fence shall comply with all fence provisions in this code.
   (F)   If there is a grooming facility on site, it must be physically
separated from primary enclosure areas and food storage.
   (G)   Dogs shall display all required licensing, vaccination, and
identification tags. Current records of required licensing and vaccination
shall be kept by the dog day care.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.094 DWELLING, TOWNHOUSE.
   (A)   No more than six townhouse units are permitted within each row of
buildings.
   (B)   To break up the mass of attached units, the front facade of each
attached unit shall be treated differently, with different building materials
and/or different architectural designs or treatments. These treatments shall
blend in with the character of the surrounding neighborhood.
   (C)   Fifteen percent of the property must be dedicated to open space. This
does not include required yard setbacks and other site requirements.
Maintenance of open space will be the responsibility of either a homeowner’s
association or the owner of the complex.
   (D)   Trash receptacles and equipment must be screened. Separation between
rows of buildings shall be required using a driveway or yard space of no less
than 20 feet in depth.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.095 GARAGE SALES.
   (A)   No more than four garage sales, yard sales, or rummage sales are
permitted within any 12-month period for each residence or household.
   (B)   For the purpose of this division, garage sale, yard sale, and rummage
sale shall be deemed to mean the same thing.
   (C)   Sales must be contained within the individual’s property and may not
encroach into a public right-of-way.
   (D)   Each garage sale shall not be permitted to last more than 72 hours.
   (E)   A garage sale shall not include the sale of new merchandise.
   (F)   Tents may be used during the event subject to division (C) above and
must be removed immediately following the conclusion of each event.
   (G)   All items must be removed from the exterior of the premises at the end
of the sales event.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.096 GAS STATION.
   Gasoline service stations shall be subject to the following regulations.
   (A)   No street entrance or exit of such service station for vehicles shall
be within 200 feet of a street entrance or exit of any school, park, or
playground conducted for and attended by children.
   (B)   No building or dispensing equipment or such service station shall be
within 100 feet of any hospital, church, or public library.
   (C)   Equipment above surface or ground for the service of motor vehicles
shall be no closer than 15 feet to any property line.
   (D)   Automobile supplies may be displayed for sale at gasoline pumps at a
distance not to exceed five feet from said pumps.
   (E)   The width of any entrance driveway leading from the public street to
such service station shall not exceed 30 feet at its intersection with curb
line or edge of pavement.
   (F)   No two driveways leading from a public street to such service station
shall be within 15 feet of each other at their intersection with the curb or
street line.
   (G)   Parking and vehicle access shall be so arranged that there will be no
need for the motorist to back over sidewalks or onto streets.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.097 GREENHOUSE, NON-COMMERCIAL.
   Noncommercial greenhouses shall only be located in the rear yard and shall
not create offensive odors or dust or exceed 15 feet in height.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.098 HOME-BASED BUSINESS (LOW IMPACT).
   The business or commercial activity conducted as a home-based business must
satisfy the following criteria.
   (A)   Customer, client, patient, or other traffic shall be restricted to 8:
00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.
   (B)   No more than 12 visits to the home-based business shall be allowed per
day, except as necessary to operate child care facilities in accordance with
the state code and bed and breakfasts; such visits may be addressed in a
conditional use permit. A VISIT is defined as a stop at the business premises
by one automobile transporting one or more customers, clients, patients,
packages, parcels, or other business associates. A VISIT does not include the
operator of the business, members of his or her family, or the business
employee of a bed and breakfast.
   (C)   The business or commercial activity shall not change the residential
character of the dwelling and shall not detract from the residential character
of the neighborhood.
   (D)   The home-based business shall not employ individuals living outside
the dwelling to physically work at the dwelling, except bed and breakfast may
employ two nonresident employees to physically work at the bed and breakfast.
   (E)   The business or commercial activity may not use any equipment or
processes that create noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odors, or electrical or
electronic interference, including interference with radio or television
reception detectable in the surrounding neighborhood.
   (F)   The business or commercial activity may not generate any solid waste
or sewage discharge, in volume or type, which is not normally associated with
the use of a dwelling in the neighborhood.
   (G)   The business activity may not occupy more than 25% of the gross floor
area of the residence.
   (H)   The business may not involve any illegal activity.
   (I)   Any outdoor display or storage of materials, goods, supplies, or
equipment shall be prohibited, except for signs as permitted in this code.
   (J)   No traffic shall be generated by such home occupation in greater
volumes than would normally be expected in a residential neighborhood, and any
need for parking generated by the conduct of such home occupation shall be met
by off-street parking.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.099 HOME-BASED BUSINESS (NO IMPACT).
   The business activity must satisfy the following requirements.
   (A)   No employees other than persons residing in the dwelling shall be
employed by the home-based business.
   (B)   A home-based business shall not change the residential character of
the dwelling and shall not detract from the residential character of the
neighborhood.
   (C)   The business activity shall be compatible with the residential use of
the property and surrounding residential uses.
   (D)   A home-based business shall not display or sell retail goods or
stockpile inventory of a substantial nature.
   (E)   There shall be no outside appearance of a business use, including, but
not limited to, parking, signs, or lights.
   (F)   The business activity may not use any equipment or process that
creates noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odors, or electronic interference,
including interference with radio or television reception detectable in the
neighborhood.
   (G)   The business activity shall not generate any solid waste or sewage
discharge, in volume or type, not normally associated with residential use in
the neighborhood.
   (H)   The business activity shall be conducted only within the dwelling and
may not occupy more than 25% of the gross floor area.
   (I)   No traffic shall be generated by such home-based business in excess of
that normally associated with residential use.
   (J)   The business may not involve any illegal activity.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.100 MEDICAL CANNABIS ORGANIZATIONS.
   The following supplemental provisions apply to all medical cannabis
organizations or as otherwise specified herein.
   (A)   No medical cannabis organization shall be located within 1,000 feet of
a school, day care, park, place of worship or religious institution,
educational institution, or community facility.
   (B)   No medical cannabis organization shall be located within 500 feet of
another medical cannabis organization.
   (C)   No medical cannabis organization shall be located within 50 feet of
property being used for a residential use or property within a residential
zoning district.
   (D)   No more than one medical cannabis dispensary is permitted within the
city. No more than one medical cannabis processing facility and no more than
one medical cannabis growing facility are permitted within the city.
   (E)   There shall be no emission of dust, fumes, vapors, or odors into the
environment from the premises of a medical cannabis organization.
   (F)   The only medical cannabis uses permitted under this chapter are those
expressly defined and permitted herein. Medical cannabis organizations may not
be combined with other uses.
   (G)   Medical cannabis organizations shall possess all applicable state
licenses.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.101 TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES.
   (A)   All wireless telecommunications facilities and freestanding
telecommunications towers shall comply with any and all Federal Aviation
Administration, Federal Communication Commission, and any other applicable
federal and state regulations.
   (B)   Telecommunication towers shall not be artificially lighted except as
required by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA).
   (C)   Telecommunication towers not requiring FAA painting or marking shall
have an exterior finish which enhances compatibility with adjacent land uses as
approved by the city.
   (D)   The city may require landscaping on properties with telecommunication
facilities or towers in excess of other requirements in this code in order to
enhance compatibility with adjacent land uses. Landscaping shall be installed
on the outside of any fencing required in this code, yet still within the
property boundary where the telecommunication facility or tower is located.
   (E)   Nothing in this section is construed to regulate satellite signal
receiving stations, known as home satellite dishes, whether such dish is used
for television reception or other purposes.
   (F)   Any owner of property used as the location for telecommunication
facilities shall maintain such site and all structures in good condition and
free from trash, outdoor storage, weeds, and other debris.
   (G)   If applicable, a copy of the applicant’s Federal Communications
Commission (FCC) license, or, if the applicant is not an FCC license holder, a
copy of at least one letter of commitment from an FCC license holder to locate
at least one antenna on the applicant’s tower shall be submitted with the
permit application, including a pictorial representation, such as a silhouette
drawing or photograph, of the proposed telecommunications facility.
   (H)   Unless co-locating as a Class II facility, certification, supported by
evidence, that co-locations of the proposed telecommunications facility with an
existing approved tower or facility cannot be accommodated is required. Reasons
for not co-locating on a site would include, but not be limited to, the
following:
      (1)   No existing towers or facilities are located within a 2,000-foot
radius;
      (2)   Existing towers or facilities are not of sufficient height to meet
the applicant’s engineering requirements;
      (3)   Existing towers or facilities do not have sufficient structural
strength to support applicant’s proposed antenna and related equipment;
      (4)   Applicant’s planned equipment would cause radio frequency
interference with other existing or planned equipment of the tower, or facility
would cause interference with the applicant’s planned equipment which cannot be
reasonably prevented;
      (5)   Unwillingness of the owner of the existing tower or facility to
entertain a co-location proposal; and
      (6)   Existing towers or facilities do not provide an acceptable location
for requisite coverage for the applicant’s communications network.
   (I)   The following shall apply to all Class I telecommunications
facilities.
      (1)   Class I telecommunications facilities shall not exceed a height of
60 feet above grade.
      (2)   A building permit is required prior to contracting a Class I
facility over six feet in height.
      (3)   A West Virginia licensed engineer shall certify that the design of
a Class I facility is such that in the event of structural failure or collapse,
no part of the structure will encroach upon any adjoining property or public
right-of-way.
   (J)   The following shall apply to all Class II telecommunications
facilities.
      (1)   (a)   Antennas or associated electronic equipment shall be designed
for co-location on an existing, permitted telecommunications tower, or attached
to an existing building, water tank, or other existing support structure whose
main function is not the support of telecommunication facilities, provided
stealth technology is utilized to the fullest extent possible.
         (b)   Unless specifically being attached to an existing, permitted
telecommunications tower, these facilities must be designed utilizing the
latest stealth technologies as defined in this code.
      (2)   All Class II facilities, not to be co-located on an existing
telecommunication tower, are required to be screened by natural vegetation or
otherwise camouflaged by stealth technology to conform with existing site
color, architecture, and landscaping characteristics so as to minimize visual
impact, provided the efficacy of the telecommunication facility is not
compromised.
      (3)   A zoning permit is required that shows the siting, placement,
screening, co-location or stealth design, camouflage, height, and setback of
the Class II facility.
      (4)   Class II telecommunications facilities which are not co-located on
an existing telecommunications tower may be permitted on existing structures if
such facilities meet all other requirements of this code. The owner of such
structure shall, by written certification to the Zoning Officer, establish the
following when plans are submitted for a zoning permit:
         (a)   Sign an affidavit acknowledging that they understand that the
structure will be used to support telecommunication facilities and any
ancillary equipment; and
         (b)   The height from grade of the telecommunications facilities shall
not exceed the height from grade of the support structure by more than 20 feet.
      (5)   Any telecommunications facilities and their appurtenances, located
above the primary roof of a support structure, are set back one foot from the
edge of the primary roof for each one foot in height above the primary roof of
the telecommunications facilities. This setback requirement shall not apply to
telecommunications facilities and their appurtenances located above the primary
roof of a structure if such facilities are appropriately screened from view
through the use of panels, walls, fences, or other screening techniques
consistent with the code. Setback requirements shall not apply to stealth
antennas mounted to the exterior of structures below the primary roof but which
do not protrude more than 18 inches from the side of such a structure.
   (K)   The following shall apply to all Class III telecommunications
facilities.
      (1)   Class III is reserved for applicants seeking to erect a new
telecommunications tower or facility, with associated antennas and electronic
equipment. All Class III telecommunication facilities must adhere to the city’s
Building Code standards.
      (2)   Towers are exempt from the maximum height restrictions of the
zoning districts where located. Towers shall be permitted to a height of 100
feet, unless the applicant can show good cause to construct a tower exceeding
100 feet. Under no circumstance shall a tower be greater than 200 feet above
grade.
      (3)   Towers shall be designed in such a manner so as to permit future
co-location of other carrier’s antennas, rather than construction of additional
single-use towers.
      (4)   A Class III telecommunications facility application is required, in
which the applicant must show that the new tower is built to minimize visual
impact of the tower through careful design, siting, landscaping, and innovative
camouflaging and stealth techniques.
      (5)   Security fencing, no less than six feet in height, shall be
provided around the equipment shed. The fencing shall conform to the
requirements found under §
157.121.
      (6)   Towers shall be set back from all residential property lines a
minimum of 100 feet or 100% of the height of the proposed tower, whichever is
greater.
      (7)   Avoid potential damage to property caused by towers and
telecommunications facilities by ensuring that such structures are soundly and
carefully designed, constructed, modified, maintained, and removed when no
longer used or when determined to be structurally unsound.
   (L)   An application to develop a Class III telecommunications facility
shall include:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the owner and lessee of
the parcel of land upon which the tower is situated. If the applicant is not
the owner of the parcel of land upon which the tower is situated, the written
consent of the owner shall be evidenced in the application;
      (2)   The legal description, book, and page number from the record of
such land kept in the office of the County Clerk, and address of the parcel of
land upon which the tower is situated;
      (3)   The names, addresses, and telephone numbers of all owners of other
towers or usable antenna support structures within a one-half mile radius of
the proposed new tower site, including city-owned property. The applicant must
notify such property owners by certified mail in writing and supply the city
with copies of such notices;
      (4)   The names, addresses, and telephone numbers of adjacent property
owners and those property owners within 200 linear feet of the property line of
the proposed new tower site, including city- owned property. The applicant must
notify such property owners, by certified mail in writing and supply the city
with copies of such notices. Tower separation distances from residentially
zoned lands shall be measured from the base of a tower to the closest point of
residentially zoned property;
      (5)   A description of the design plan proposed by the applicant in the
city. Applicant must identify its utilization of the most recent technological
design, including microcell or small cell design, as part of the design plan.
The applicant must demonstrate the need for towers and why design alternatives,
such as the use of microcell or small cell, cannot be utilized to accomplish
the provision of the applicant’s telecommunications services;
      (6)   An affidavit attesting to the fact that the applicant made
diligent, but unsuccessful, efforts to obtain permission to install or co-
locate the applicant’s telecommunications facilities on another usable tower
located within a one-half mile radius of the proposed tower site;
      (7)   An affidavit attesting to the fact that the applicant made
diligent, but unsuccessful, efforts to install the applicant’s
telecommunications facilities on a support structure, as a Class II
telecommunication facility, owned by other persons located within a one-half
mile radius of the proposed tower site;
      (8)   Written technical evidence from a West Virginia licensed engineer
that the proposed tower or telecommunications facilities cannot be installed or
co-located on another person’s tower or usable antenna support structure (as a
Class II telecommunication facility) owned by other persons located within one-
half mile radius of the proposed tower site;
      (9)   A written statement from the telecommunications provider that the
construction and placement of the tower will not interfere with public safety
communications and the usual and customary transmission or reception of radio,
television, or other communications services enjoyed by adjacent residential
and nonresidential properties;
      (10)   Written, technical evidence from a licensed engineer(s) acceptable
to the Fire Marshal and the Building Official that the proposed site of the
tower or telecommunications facilities does not pose a risk of explosion, fire,
or other danger to life or property due to its proximity to volatile,
flammable, explosive, or hazardous materials such as LP gas, propane, gasoline,
natural gas, or corrosive or other dangerous chemicals;
      (11)   In order to assist the city in evaluating visual impact, the
applicant shall submit color photo simulations showing the proposed site of the
tower with a photo-realistic representation of the proposed tower as it would
appear viewed from the closest residential property and from adjacent roadways;
      (12)   The Zoning Officer may require an applicant to supplement any
information that the Zoning Officer considers inadequate or that the applicant
has failed to supply. The city or any of its duly authorized designees may deny
an application on the basis that the applicant has not satisfactorily supplied
the information required in this division (L). The city shall review
applications in a prompt manner and set forth the reasons for approval or
denial; and
      (13)   A fee for management of the application in the amount of $200 must
be included with the application. Such fee includes administrative costs for
processing this application, including but not limited to, expenses incurred
for inspections, document review, and mapping. This fee is non-refundable.
   (M)   In January of each year, the owner or operator of a communications
tower within the city shall submit written report to the city that there have
been no changes in the operating characteristics of the communications tower as
approved at the time of approval, including, at a minimum:
      (1)   Copy of the current FCC license, if applicable;
      (2)   Name, address, and emergency telephone number for the operator of
the communications tower;
      (3)   Copy of certificate of insurance evidencing general liability
coverage in the minimum amount of $1,000,000 per occurrence covering the
communications tower and communications antennas; and
      (4)   At any time during the calendar year, if an amendment to the FCC
license is issued, a copy of the amended license shall be submitted to the
city.
   (N)   Bond for removal costs include the following.
      (1)   At the time of issuance of the permit or application approval for
construction of the telecommunication facility, a bond or escrow account shall
be posted with the city in an amount certified by the applicant’s engineer to
be sufficient, but in no case shall be less than $20,000, to cover the costs of
removing such wireless communications facility and disposing of all of its
components, together with a financial security agreement authorizing the city
to use the funds to remove the facility if the facility is abandoned, and
further authorizing the city to place a lien on the premises in the event the
escrow or bond is insufficient to cover the costs of removal and disposal.
      (2)   The financial security agreement shall be executed by both the
applicant and the landowner.
      (3)   At the time of filing of the annual report required in division (M)
above, any new owner of the land or of the facility, as well as an organization
utilizing the facility, shall reaffirm the validity of the financial security
agreement and/or execute a new financial security agreement as may be required
by the City Solicitor.
      (4)   If the Zoning Officer finds that an abandoned telecommunications
facility has not been removed within 90 days of the cessation of use, said
officer shall give written notice to the owner of the building or premises on
which such facility is located.
      (5)   Removal of the facility shall be effected within 15 days after
receipt of the notice. If such facility is not removed after the conclusion of
the 15-day period, the Zoning Officer is hereby authorized to cause the antenna
to be removed at the expense of the owner of the building or premises on which
such antenna is located.
      (6)   If the escrow or bond is insufficient to cover the entire cost of
removal and disposal, the city may place a lien upon the premises that may be
collected in accordance with the rules for collection of municipal liens.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.102 URBAN AGRICULTURE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BEEKEEPING. The keeping or propagation of honeybee hives for collection
of honey or other bee products.
      COMMUNITY GARDEN. A neighborhood-based development with the primary
purpose of providing space for members of the community to grow plants for
beautification, education, recreation, community distribution, or personal use.
      COMPOSTING. Accumulating a mixture of various decaying organic
substances, such as dead leaves or manure, intended to be used for fertilizing
soil.
      HOME AGRICULTURE. The gardening or production, principally for use or
consumption of the property owner or resident, of plants or their products
including, but is not limited to, fruits of all kinds including grapes, nuts,
and berries; vegetables; floral, ornamental, and other non-commercial
greenhouse products; and bees and apiary products.
      HYDROPONICS. The cultivation of plants in nutrient solution rather than
soil.
      LIVESTOCK. Any hog, pig, goat, cow, horse, pony, emu, alpaca, or other
hoofed animal.
   (B)   The responsibility of managing, maintenance, and operations of
community garden sites shall be that of the land owner or designated public or
civic entity, nonprofit organization, or other community- based organization.
Processing and storage of plants or plant products are prohibited on site.
Garden tools and supplies may be stored within an accessory structure.
   (C)   Composting shall take place at least 20 feet from any dwelling, except
a dwelling associated with the use.
   (D)   The keeping of rabbits is permitted as an accessory use to a dwelling,
provided that the number of rabbits on property less than one acre shall not
exceed six and the number of rabbits kept on property greater than one acre
shall not exceed 12, subject to the following provisions.
      (1)   A dwelling shall be located on the same lot as the rabbits.
      (2)   Rabbits shall be kept within a building, coop, or enclosure, and
within a fully enclosed and fenced rear or side yard such that rabbits may not
be at large within the city. The building, coop, or enclosure in which the
rabbits are kept must be at least ten feet from any dwelling, except the
primary dwelling situated on the property. The building, coop, or enclosure
shall be durably constructed and maintained in conformance with the state’s
Building Code.
      (3)   A permit is required for keeping rabbits within the city. A permit
may be obtained from the City Clerk after application to the Zoning Officer and
an inspection performed by the Zoning Officer.
   (E)   Any sale resulting from composting, home agriculture, or keeping of
rabbits shall constitute a home-based business and is subject to all applicable
provisions of this code.
   (F)   (1)   Composting, home agriculture, and keeping of rabbits shall not
take place in the front yard of any lot, except plants that are integrated with
the principal structure’s landscaping and primarily serve an ornamental
purpose.
      (2)   Any of these practices occurring in the front yard at the time of
enactment of this chapter shall be deemed a nonconforming use which may not be
expanded, including by adding new plantings intended for home agriculture.
   (G)   Prohibitions include the following:
      (1)   Beekeeping;
      (2)   Livestock shall not be kept within the city, except up to two
livestock animals under 100 pounds that are primarily kept indoors as pets; and
      (3)   Slaughtering and processing more than 12 rabbits per year is
prohibited within the city.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.103 WIND ENERGY SYSTEMS.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to regulate the placement,
construction, and modification of small wind energy systems while promoting the
safe, effective, and efficient use of such systems.
   (B)   The requirements set forth in this section shall govern the siting of
wind energy systems used to generate electricity or perform work which may be
connected to the utility grid pursuant to the state’s net metering laws, serve
as an independent source of energy, or serve in a hybrid system.
   (C)   The requirements for siting and construction of all small wind energy
systems regulated by this section shall include the following.
      (1)   Small wind energy towers shall maintain a galvanized steel finish,
unless FAA standards require otherwise, or if the owner is attempting to
conform the tower to the surrounding environment and architecture, in which
case it may be painted to reduce visual obtrusiveness. A wind energy tower may
be erected, maintained, or operated on or as an attachment to a building on a
lot. A photo simulation may be required by the city.
      (2)   Wind energy systems shall not be artificially lighted unless
required by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) or appropriate authority.
      (3)   No tower shall have any sign, writing, or image that may be
construed as advertising by the Zoning Officer or designee.
      (4)   The applicant shall provide evidence that the proposed height of
the wind energy system tower does not exceed the height recommended by the
manufacturer or distributor of the system. The tower height shall not exceed a
maximum height of 70 feet on a parcel. When situated on or attached to a
building, the total height shall not exceed 70 feet. The building itself shall
otherwise conform with the applicable height requirement under this chapter.
      (5)   The applicant shall provide evidence that the provider of electric
utility service to the site has been informed of the applicant’s intent to
install an interconnected, customer-owned electricity generator, unless the
applicant intends, and so states on the application, that the system will not
be connected to the electricity grid. Notification will take place by having
the electric utility provider sign the conditional use permit application, but
such signature does not construe approval for net metering by the electric
utility.
      (6)   Wind energy systems shall adhere to noise limits as delineated in
Article 527 of the city code. These levels, however, may be exceeded during
short-term events such as utility outages or severe windstorms.
      (7)   The applicant will provide information demonstrating that the
system will be used primarily to reduce on-site consumption of electricity.
      (8)   The minimum distance between the ground and any protruding blade
utilized on a small wind energy system shall be 15 feet, as measured at the
lowest point of the arc of the blades. The lowest point of the arc of the
blades shall also be ten feet above the height of any structure within 75 feet
of the base. The supporting tower shall also be enclosed with a six-foot tall
fence or the base of the tower shall not be climbable for a distance of ten
feet.
      (9)   The applicant will provide proof of adequate liability insurance
for a small wind energy system. Whether or not the applicant is participating
in the net metering program, the applicant will be required to meet the
insurance coverage requirements as set forth in C.S.R. 150-33-4.
      (10)   The small wind energy system generators and alternators should be
constructed so as to prevent the emission of radio and television signals and
shall comply with the provisions of 47 C.F.R. Part 15 and subsequent revisions
governing said emissions.
   (D)   Federal and state requirements are as follows.
      (1)   Compliance with the Building Code. Building permit applications for
wind energy systems shall be accompanied by standard drawings of the wind
turbine structure, including tower, base, and footings. An engineering analysis
of the tower showing compliance with the Building Code and certified by a
licensed professional engineer shall also be submitted.
      (2)   Compliance with FAA regulations. Wind energy systems must comply
with applicable FAA regulations.
      (3)   Compliance with National Electric Code. Building permit
applications for wind energy systems shall be accompanied by a line drawing of
the electrical components in sufficient detail to allow for a determination
that the manner of installation conforms to the National Electrical Code.
      (4)   Compliance with regulations governing energy net metering. Wind
energy systems connected to the utility grid must comply with W. Va. Code 24-
2F-8 and Code Of State Rules (“C.S.R.”) Title 150, Series 33.
   (E)   (1)   The wind energy system shall be set back a distance at least
equal to 110% of the height of the tower plus the blade length from all
adjacent property lines and a distance equal at least to 150% of the tower
height plus blade length from any dwelling inhabited by humans on neighboring
property.
      (2)   Additionally, no portion of the wind energy system, including guy
wire anchors, may be extended closer than ten feet to the property line.
   (F)   (1)   Any wind energy system found to be unsafe by the Building
Official shall be repaired by the owner to meet federal, state, and local
safety standards or removed within six months.
      (2)   Any wind energy system that is not operated for a continuous period
of 12 months shall be considered abandoned and the owner of the system shall
remove the turbine within 90 days of receipt of notice from the city
instructing the owner to remove the abandoned wind energy system.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.104 VIDEO GAMING OR LOTTERY ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   No public entrance to a video gaming or lottery establishment within
the city shall be located within 1,000 feet of the closest public entrance of
any gambling establishment, church, place of worship, library, public park,
public playground, school, children daycare center, nursing or personal care
home, continuous care facility, or rehabilitation facility that is located
within the city.
   (B)   The distance prescribed in division (A) above shall be measured along
a straight line beginning at a point or points from any public entrance or
entrances of a gambling establishment existing or proposed to exist.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS
§ 157.115 PURPOSE.
   Provide for special situations that must be regulated in such a manner as to
promote orderly development and to protect the public health, safety, and
general welfare of the community. The following supplemental regulations have
been deemed necessary to clarify and carry out the overall intent of this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.116 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS, USES, AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   All accessory buildings, uses, and structures shall require a zoning
permit. Accessory buildings, accessory uses, and accessory structures shall be
permitted in all districts, provided each is customarily incidental and
subordinate to a principal use. There must be a principal structure on the lot
prior to the issuance of a zoning permit for an accessory building or
structure, except adjacent lots under the same ownership may have an accessory
structure located on a lot adjacent to the principal structure.
   (B)   No use that is to be carried on in an accessory building or structure
shall be in violation of the permitted uses in that district.
   (C)   All accessory buildings, uses, and structures shall comply with the
side and rear yard setback requirements for that district. Accessory structures
shall only be located in the side or rear yard, except garages, carports,
fencing, mailboxes, and structures customarily associated with being the front
yard may be located in the front yard.
   (D)   Except as provided elsewhere in this code, no accessory structure
shall be constructed and used as a dwelling; provided, however, that one
residential unit for a caretaker may be permitted in conjunction with any
active industrial establishment.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.117 YARD/SETBACK REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All yards required to be provided under this code shall be open to the
sky and unobstructed by any building or structure, except for accessory
buildings or structures in the side or rear yard and within the building
setback line, fences, and the following which may project into the required
yards as established in this code:
      (1)   Steps and stoops not exceeding 24 square feet;
      (2)   Open or lattice-enclosed fire escapes, fireproof outside stairways
and balconies opening upon fire towers, and the ordinary projection of chimneys
and flues into the rear or side yard not exceeding three and one-half feet in
width and placed so as not to obstruct light or ventilation; and
      (3)   Sills, eaves, belt courses, cornices, and ornamental features not
exceeding two feet in width.
   (B)   For purposes of determining the required yard for townhouse
developments, setbacks shall only apply from the perimeter of the main building
to the perimeter of the parent parcel upon which the building is situated.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.118 SWIMMING POOLS.
   Private swimming pools are permitted accessory uses only when located in
rear yards. Swimming pools and protective barriers must adhere to setback
requirements within the zoning district where the pool is to be located.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.119 ADDITIONAL PRINCIPAL BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Dwellings. Individual lots or subdivided parcels ten acres or less in
size shall have no building or buildings used for living purposes in addition
to the principal building on the same lot, except garage apartments where
permitted in a zoning district. Undivided land parcels of ten acres or greater
in size shall be limited to one residential structure per ten acre unit of
undivided land area. This provision does not apply to factory-built home rental
communities.
   (B)   Non-dwellings. Where a lot is not used as a dwelling, more than one
principal building may be located upon the lot or tract, but only when such
buildings conform to all open space and yard requirements around the lot for
the district in which the lot or tract is located. A lot is not used as a
dwelling for purposes of this section when the lot contains a caretaker’s
residence used in conjunction with an active industrial establishment or a
place of worship or religious institution as provided in this code.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.120 ORIENTATION OF PRINCIPAL STRUCTURES.
   All principal structures shall be required to have a front door facing the
street unless the Zoning Officer determines that the prevailing condition of
the developed lots fronting the same street would warrant a different
orientation, or another orientation is necessary for emergency services access.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.121 FENCES, LANDSCAPING, AND SCREENING.
   Subject to the following conditions, fences and walls may be erected and
hedges and other plantings may be grown along the boundaries of a lot.
   (A)   Clear sight triangle. Fences, hedges, other plantings, or walls at
street corners shall not interfere with any clear sight triangle. The height of
such objects is restricted to three and one-half feet within the clear sight
triangle. No fence, hedge, other plantings, or walls shall otherwise impose a
threat to the public safety, including by obstructing the view of motorists to
oncoming traffic or pedestrians.
   (B)   Height restrictions. Fences, walls, hedges, and other plantings used
for the purpose of screening shall not exceed 42 inches in height from the
front building line extending to the front lot line, and shall not exceed six
feet in height extending behind the front building line of the main structure,
excluding porches and stairs.
   (C)   Fences and walls.
      (1)   Fences and walls shall be durably constructed and well maintained.
      (2)   Fences and walls that have deteriorated shall be replaced or
removed immediately.
      (3)   Fence and walls shall not be constructed out of fabric, junk, junk
vehicles, appliances, tanks, barrels, razor wire, or barbed wire. Electric
fencing shall only be used to protect a garden, provided that electric fencing
shall not exceed 48 inches in height, shall not be located in the front yard,
and shall post a warning sign on each side of the fence that reads “Warning -
Electric Fence” at intervals of not more than 50 feet.
      (4)   The finished side of the fence shall be oriented toward the front
of the lot or the direction of the adjacent property owner, unless the fence is
not visible from adjoining property.
   (D)   Landscaped buffer areas.
      (1)   Five foot landscaped buffer areas are the preferred method of
buffering. However, where a buffer strip is considered to be impracticable or
inappropriate, an opaque fence at least six feet in height, in the rear or side
yard, or four feet in height in the front yard so as to restrict a clear view
beyond said buffer may be substituted in whole or in part for a natural buffer,
subject to approval by the Zoning Officer.
      (2)   Landscaped buffer areas shall be continually maintained by the
landowner. Any plant material that does not survive shall be replaced within
six months. All landscaping shall be kept free of refuse and debris.
      (3)   Landscaped buffer areas may be required by the Board of Zoning
Appeals as a condition of a conditional use permit.
      (4)   Landscaped buffer areas shall not be required where the lot abuts
an area of existing natural vegetation that effectively screens the lot from
casual observation to a height of at least eight feet
      (5)   All species within the screen planting shall be indigenous or
otherwise well-suited to the city, except that trees with large leaves which
could clog storm drains; trees that are brittle, disease- prone, have low,
spreading branches or shallow root systems; trees that drop large fruit or much
sap; or any plantings that are otherwise messy shall also be avoided.
      (6)   Hedges shall be kept trimmed so that their branches shall not
extend into the public road, or upon the lands of an adjoining owner, more than
18 inches over the dividing line.
   (E)   Location of buffer areas. Landscaped buffer areas shall be provided
between any new multi- family, commercial, or industrial development that is
adjacent to single-family residential property (existing or zoned) or adjacent
to any dwelling, which landscaping shall be at least five feet wide and at
least five feet high, subject to height limitations contained within this
section.
   (F)   Tree placement. At least one tree for each 50 linear feet shall be
planted in a landscaping strip in addition to other planting materials.
   (G)   Barriers. Landscaped areas shall be protected from the encroachment of
vehicles by use of curbing, wheel stops, bollards, fencing, or other approved
barriers.
   (H)   Sight lines. The landscaped areas shall not obstruct sight distances
for motorists or pedestrians, nor shall such landscaping create any potential
hazard to public safety.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.122 CLEAR SIGHT TRIANGLE.
   In a clear sight triangle, the entire area shall remain clear of
obstructions to sight, including, but not limited to, fences, hedges, other
landscaping, and signs, above a plane established three and one-half feet in
elevation to a height of ten feet from grade level at the intersection of any
street, alley, or other public right-of-way centerline.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.123 LOT LINES AND IRREGULAR LOTS.
   (A)   Corner lots. Corner lots shall have no rear lot line.
   (B)   Flag lots. When the handle of a flag lot is less than the minimum
width for a lot in the zoning district in which it is located, the handle is
not to be used in delineating the minimum required lot width. The minimum lot
width shall be taken from the front building setback line; however, the handle
shall be used in computing the required minimum lot size, except that in no
case shall the area of the handle constitute more than 50% of the entire lot.
Additionally, no structures, whether primary or accessory, shall be placed in
the handle.
   (C)   Lot width. In a case where there is only one side lot line, lot width
shall be measured between such side lot line and the opposite rear lot lines or
street line.
   (D)   Irregular lots. Front setbacks for irregular lots shall be measured
from the front lot line adjacent to the street right-of-way with the greatest
frontage in linear feet.
   (E)   Pie-shaped lots. Setbacks on pie-shaped lots shall be measured at the
closest point between the building and the angled lot line.
   (F)   Rear lot line (irregular). In the case of a lot having no street
frontage or a lot of an odd shape, only the one lot line farthest from any
street shall be considered a rear lot line. Where there is only one lot line
other than street lot lines, it shall be considered the rear lot line.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.124 TEMPORARY USES.
   Only the following uses are permitted temporarily, for up to four
consecutive weeks, unless otherwise stated, in one calendar year:
   (A)   Seasonal sales of such items as pumpkins, Christmas trees, fireworks
stands, and the like in the Mixed-Use, Neighborhood Commercial, and General
Commercial Districts;
   (B)   Carnival, circus, and street fairs in the Mixed-Use, Neighborhood
Commercial, and General Commercial Districts;
   (C)   Mobile amusements and lighting equipment as a temporary attraction or
sign in the Mixed-Use, Neighborhood Commercial, and General Commercial
Districts;
   (D)   A permit is required to be completed, returned to the Zoning Officer,
and approved before any temporary use may commence, in addition to any other
requirements of the code of the city, including, but not limited to, obtaining
a business license;
   (E)   Contractor’s offices and real estate offices or trailers and equipment
sheds may be permitted for the period of active construction or selling of
units. No sleeping or cooking accommodations are allowed;
   (F)   Only a well-established non-profit organization or lawful place of
worship proposing a temporary use to clearly primarily serve a charitable,
public service, or religious purpose shall be eligible to receive approval of a
commercial use in a district where that use is otherwise not permitted; and
   (G)   (1)   Indoor or outdoor temporary amusement events, including the
erection of tents for such event, may be allowed as a temporary use, provided
such use shall not exceed a duration of 15 days in one calendar year.
      (2)   In residential districts, such temporary amusement events shall be
located on institutional and public uses property only.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.125 HEIGHT EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Special industrial structures such as cooling towers, elevator
bulkheads, fire towers, tanks, and water towers, which require a greater height
than provided in the district, may be erected to a greater height than
permitted providing:
      (1)   The structure shall not occupy more than 25% of the lot area;
      (2)   The setback requirements of the district in which the structure is
erected shall be increased by one foot for each foot of height over the maximum
height permitted; and
      (3)   The increase is necessary to comply with state or federal statutes
or regulations.
   (B)   The height limitations of this code shall not apply to flagpoles,
church spires, belfries, chimneys, antennas, or water tanks.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.126 STORAGE, GENERAL.
   (A)   (1)   No lot or premises shall be used as a storage area for
inoperable automobiles, appliances, or the storage or collection of any other
miscellaneous items unless permitted in this code or by state statute.
      (2)   No lot or premises shall be used as a garbage dump or a dead animal
rendering plant, nor may manure, rubbish, or unauthorized miscellaneous refuse
be stored in the open.
   (B)   All outdoor storage areas shall be located in the rear yard only. Only
outdoor areas for sales may be permitted within the front yard.
   (C)   Any storage of hazardous material that is ancillary to a permitted use
or a conditional use shall meet the following conditions:
      (1)   All storage shall comply with all state, federal, and local
regulations; and
      (2)   Such material shall be listed and made known to the Fire Cheif.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.127 STORAGE OF TRAILERS, CAMPING, AND RECREATIONAL EQUIPMENT.
   At no time shall trailers or camping and recreational equipment be occupied
or used for living, sleeping, or housekeeping purposes while being temporarily
or permanently parked or stored on a residential property. Trailers or camping
and recreational equipment must be parked in rear or side yards, set back at
least three feet from a property line. At no time may trailers or camping and
recreational equipment be parked on or so as to obstruct a pedestrian sidewalk.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.128 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   No use of land or structure in any district shall involve any element,
or cause any condition that may be dangerous, injurious, or noxious to any
other property or person.
   (B)   Furthermore, every use of land or structure in any district must
observe the following performance requirements:
      (1)   No activities shall be permitted that carry objectionable
substances onto neighboring properties due to erosion by wind or water;
      (2)   No activity shall cause electrical disturbances adversely affecting
radio, television, or other communication equipment in the surrounding area;
      (3)   Noise, which is determined to be objectionable because of volume or
frequency, shall be muffled or otherwise controlled, except for fire sirens and
related apparatus used solely for public safety purposes;
      (4)   No gases or fumes toxic to persons or injurious to property shall
be permitted to escape beyond the building in which they occur;
      (5)   No glare shall be seen from any street or any residential area; and
      (6)   No intense earth-shaking vibration shall be created or maintained
by any industry beyond the property on which it is located.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.129 LIGHTING.
   (A)   All lighting shall be erected and maintained so that light is confined
to the property and will not cast direct light or glare upon adjacent
properties or public rights-of-way.
   (B)   All lighting shall be low-intensity and shielded so there is no
illumination of adjoining residential properties.
   (C)   (1)   Feature lighting, such as up lighting of trees or other plant
material, seasonal lighting, and the like, shall be so arranged to reflect away
from any residential structure.
      (2)   Such lighting shall not create a glare on adjacent streets or
properties.
   (D)   Building, parking, and all other exterior lighting shall be shielded
and directed in a manner that does not reflect or cause glare onto adjacent
properties or interfere with street traffic. Bare, unshaded bulbs are
prohibited.
   (E)   For all nonresidential uses, exterior wall-mounted floodlights shall
be prohibited, except for security lighting.
   (F)   Lighting is required for all off-street parking areas, off-street
loading areas, and driveways providing ingress and egress for all
nonresidential and multi-family developments.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.130 PARKING.
   (A)   Ingress and egress for commercial development. Adequate ingress and
egress to the parking facility shall be provided by clearly defined driveways.
In no event shall vehicles be permitted to back directly into the public street
from the off-street parking area.
   (B)   Driveways for commercial development.
      (1)   Driveways should be located to minimize traffic conflicts with
traffic entering the street from either the same or the opposite side of the
street.
      (2)   Properties with frontages of 600 feet or less on any individual
street are only permitted one driveway intersection per street.
      (3)   Properties with frontages greater than 600 feet may be permitted a
maximum of two driveways per street frontage, provided that such driveways are
at least 300 feet apart and that one driveway is clearly marked for egress only
and one driveway is clearly marked for ingress only.
      (4)   Regardless of frontage, a development may be restricted to a single
driveway depending on usage and interior and exterior traffic patterns.
      (5)   All access driveways shall be designed to conform to the state’s
Department of Transportation specifications with regard to roads.
   (C)   View obstruction. On any lot no walk fence, hedge, tree, shrub, or
other obstruction shall be allowed which dangerously obscures the view of
approaching traffic along the street, or at any intersection, including
driveways.
   (D)   Driveway access. For residential uses, only one driveway access per
unit is permitted, unless two are needed for a U-shaped driveway. A lot with at
least 100 feet of frontage along a street may be permitted one additional
driveway access.
   (E)   Off-street parking. Off-street parking spaces, with proper and safe
access from a street, shall be provided on all nonresidential lots, either
within a structure or in the open, to serve the uses upon that lot.
   (F)   Parking requirements. The following minimum number of off-street
parking spaces per use shall be provided for the uses indicated below as shown
in Table 5.1: Minimum Parking Spaces Required, in addition to the special
queuing requirement in division (G) below and Table 5.2: Special Queuing
Requirements, except that there are no parking requirements for commercial uses
in the Mixed-Use Commercial District. For uses not specified in this table, the
number of parking spaces shall be determined by the Zoning Officer on the basis
of similar requirements, number of persons employed, and number of visitors.
Appeals to the determination of parking spaces may be made to the Board of
Zoning Appeals.
      (1)   (a)   Where there is a combination of uses on a lot, the required
number of parking spaces shall be the sum of that found for each use, dividing
the gross floor area proportionately between the different uses.
         (b)   The required parking space for any number of separate uses may
be combined in one lot, but the required space assigned to one use may not be
assigned to another use at the same time, except that one half of the parking
space required for churches, theaters, or assembly halls with peak attendance
at night or on Sunday may be assigned to a use which will be closed at night or
on Sunday.
      (2)   All square footage is in gross floor area (GFA).
      (3)   For any nonconforming use which is hereafter damaged or partially
destroyed, and which is lawfully reconstructed, re-established, or repaired,
off-street parking and loading facilities equivalent to those maintained at the
time of such damage or partial destruction shall be restored and continued in
operation; provided, however, in no case shall it be necessary to restore or
maintain parking or loading facilities in excess of those required by this code
for equivalent new uses.
Table 5.1: Minimum Parking Spaces Required
Use Minimum Number of Parking Spaces
Table 5.1: Minimum Parking Spaces Required
Use                                    Minimum Number of Parking Spaces
Residential Uses
Single-Family Residential              2 spaces per dwelling unit
Multi-Family Residential               1 per bedroom
Continuing Care Facility               1 space per 3 beds and 1 space for each
                                       employee
                                       1.5 space for 1 bedroom unit
Senior Independent Housing             2 spaces for 2 bedroom unit
                                       2.5 spaces for 3 or more bedroom unit
Educational, Institutional, Social, and Fraternal Uses
Assembly (Places of Worship, Theaters, 1 space per 4 fixed seats, 1 space per
Auditoriums, and the like)             60 square feet of the main assembly
                                       where no fixed seats are used
Community Facility                     1 space per 1,000 sq. ft. of GFA and 1
                                       space per employee
Cultural Service                       1 space per 300 feet of GFA
Educational Institution                2 spaces per 1,000 GFA
Park                                   5 spaces per acre of outdoor area
School, K-12                           2 spaces per classroom, 5 per classroom
                                       in high schools
School, Commercial                     6 spaces per classroom
Business and Industrial
                                       1 space per employee and 1 additional
Child Day Care Facilities              space for every 10 children enrolled; 1
                                       designated drop-off/pick-up space is
                                       permitted
                                       5 spaces for each doctor engaged at the
Clinics                                clinic plus 1 parking space for each
                                       employee
Commercial (Retail, Office, Personal   1 space for each 200 square feet of
Service, and the like)                 gross floor area
Hospital                               1 space per 4 patients and 1 space per
                                       employee on largest shift
                                       1 space per guest room and 1 space for
Hotels, Motels, and the like           each 3 employees; 1 space per 3 persons
                                       to the maximum capacity of the largest
                                       banquet or meeting room
Industrial                             1 space per employee on largest shift
                                       plus 5 customer parking spaces
Restaurant/Tavern or Drinking          1 space per 100 square feet of GFA plus
Establishment/Night Club               1 space per employee
Restaurant, Carry Out                  1 space per 2 employees
 
   (G)   Special queuing requirements. All public and private schools, day care
centers, institutional uses, places of worship, and other places of assembly
shall provide off-street passenger drop-off facilities.
 
Table 5.2: Special Queuing Requirements
Use                               Minimum Number of Spaces
                                  5 automobile spaces and 5 bus spaces for
School                            every 50 students, when buses are used for
                                  student transportation
Places of Worship and Religious   10 automobile spaces and 2 bus spaces or 1
Institutions, Places of Assembly, automobile spaces and 0.25 bus spaces for
Institutions                      every 50 seats in largest assembly room,
                                  whichever is greater
Nonresidential Day Care           6 automobile spaces
All Other Uses                    Where utilized, 3 automobile spaces, unless
                                  otherwise determined by Zoning Officer
 
   (H)   Parking space dimensions.
      (1)   For angle parking, stalls shall be a minimum of nine feet in width
and 18 feet in length.
      (2)   For parallel parking, stalls shall be a minimum of eight feet in
width and 20 feet in length.
      (3)   For compact space parking, stalls shall be not less than seven feet
wide and 16 feet long, and reserved for the parking of only one compact
automobile.
      (4)   The minimum width of aisles providing access to stalls, varying
with the angle of the parking, shall be as follows in Table 5.3: Parking
Standards.
 
Table 5.3: Parking Standards
Angle of Parking Minimum Aisle Width    Minimum Aisle Width
                 (Double-Sided Parking) (Single-Sided Parking)
Parallel         12’                  12’
45°             12’ – 8”         12’ – 8”
60°             16’                  16’
75°             20’                  18’
90°             24’                  18’
 
   (I)   Measuring parking area. The required parking area shall be measured
exclusive of interior drives or maneuvering areas.
   (J)   Handicapped parking. Parking spaces for use by persons with
disabilities shall meet Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA)
standards.
   (K)   Parking near lots. If the land between parking areas and the side or
rear lot lines or street right- of-way line is landscaped to the satisfaction
of the city, parking may be allowed in front, side, and rear yards, but no
closer than five feet from a side or rear lot line or street right-of-way line.
   (L)   Parking access. All parking areas shall be designed to be accessible
year-round.
   (M)   Marking parking spaces. Parking spaces shall be clearly delineated by
suitable markings. Short- term visitor parking spaces shall be differentiated
from long-term employee spaces by suitable markings or signage.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.131 OFF-STREET LOADING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   In connection with any building or structure which is to be erected or
substantially altered and which requires the receipt or distribution of
materials or merchandise by trucks or similar vehicles, there shall be provided
off-street loading berths not less than the minimum requirements specified in
this section.
   (B)   Areas provided for the loading and unloading of delivery trucks and
other vehicles and for the servicing of shops by refuse collection, fuels, and
other service vehicles shall be arranged so that they may be used without:
      (1)   Blocking or interfering with the use of accessways, automobile
parking facilities, or pedestrian ways; or
      (2)   Backing out into a street.
   (C)   All required loading berths shall be located on the same lot as the
use to be served, and no portion of the vehicle shall project into any traffic
lane. No loading berth for vehicles of more than two ton capacity shall be
located less than 100 feet from any residential district. No permitted or
required loading berth shall be located within 50 feet of any property line. No
loading facilities shall be constructed between the building setback line and a
street right-of-way line.
   (D)   All off-street loading areas shall be adequately buffered from
adjacent streets and properties and landscaped in accordance with the
provisions of this code.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
SIGN REGULATIONS
§ 157.145 FINDINGS, PURPOSE, AND INTENT; INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Signs obstruct views, distract motorists, displace alternative uses
for land, and pose other problems that legitimately call for regulation. The
purpose of this subchapter is to regulate the size, color, illumination,
movement, materials, location, height, and condition of all signs placed on
property for exterior observation, thus ensuring the protection of property
values; preservation of the character of the various neighborhoods; creation of
a convenient, attractive, and harmonious community; protection against
destruction of or encroachment upon historic areas; and the safety and welfare
of pedestrians and wheeled traffic, while providing convenience to citizens and
encouraging economic development. This subchapter allows adequate communication
through signage while encouraging aesthetic quality in the design, location,
and size of all signs. These regulations do not entirely eliminate all of the
harms that may be created by the installation and display of signs. Rather,
they strike an appropriate balance that preserves ample channels of
communication by means of signs while still reducing and mitigating the extent
of the harms caused by signs.
   (B)   This subchapter shall be interpreted in a manner consistent with the
First Amendment to the Constitution of the United States guarantee of free
speech. If any provision of this subchapter is found by a court of competent
jurisdiction to be invalid, such finding shall not affect the validity of other
provisions of this subchapter which can be given effect without the invalid
provision.
   (C)   Signs not expressly permitted under this code are prohibited.
   (D)   The city is not subject to the requirements of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.146 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Application for permit. Except as provided in this code, a sign permit
is required prior to the display and erection of any sign.
      (1)   An application for a sign permit shall be filed with the Zoning
Officer on forms furnished by the city. The applicant shall provide sufficient
information to determine if the proposed sign is permitted under this code and
other applicable laws, regulations, and ordinances. An application for a
temporary sign shall state the dates intended for the erection and removal of
the sign. An application for an electronic message display shall include the
manufacturer’s statement that the sign has been preprogrammed, to the extent
possible, to conform to the requirements of this code. Such manufacturer’s
statement shall include, where applicable, the pre-stacked sign settings
related to text and graphic features, message change features, message change
time intervals, day and night lighting requirements, and any other settings
capable of limiting the electronic message display such that it conforms to
this code.
      (2)   The Zoning Officer shall promptly process the sign permit
application and approve the application, reject the application, or notify the
applicant of deficiencies in the application within 20 business days after
receipt. Any application that complies with all provisions of this code, the
Building Code, and other applicable laws shall be approved.
      (3)   If the application is rejected, the Zoning Officer shall provide a
list of the reasons for the rejection in writing. An application shall be
rejected for noncompliance with the terms of this code, Building Code, or other
applicable law.
   (B)   Permit fee. A nonrefundable fee shall accompany all sign permit
applications.
      (1)   The permit fee schedule shall be set by the city.
      (2)   If the sign is part of a new construction or renovation project,
the cost of the sign permit fee shall be included in the total project permit
fee.
   (C)   Duration and revocation of permit. If a sign is not installed within
six months following the issuance of a sign permit or the time period stated
within the permit, or within 30 days for a temporary sign permit, the permit
shall be void. The permit for a temporary sign shall state its duration, not to
exceed 60 days unless otherwise provided in this code. The Zoning Officer may
revoke a sign permit under any of the following circumstances:
      (1)   The information in the application was materially false or
misleading;
      (2)   The sign as installed does not conform to the sign permit
application; or
      (3)   The sign violates this code, Building Code, or other applicable
law, regulation, or ordinance.
   (D)   Appeals. Appeals from the denial or granting of a sign permit shall be
made to the Board of Zoning Appeals pursuant to the process set forth in this
code.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.147 PERMIT NOT REQUIRED.
   (A)   The purpose of not requiring a permit for some signage is to exempt
certain signs that are frequently used, often by private citizens, and which
typically have less of an impact on the public safety and aesthetic concerns.
   (B)   Signs permitted under this section count toward the maximum sign area
and maximum number of signs allowed per use. A sign permit is not required for:
      (1)   Signs required by law;
      (2)   Flags up to 16 square feet;
      (3)   The changing of messages on marquees and the repair of an existing
permitted sign, except that repair of a nonconforming sign must comply with
this code;
      (4)   Temporary signs as follows, subject to sign area and height
limitations of the district in which the sign is located:
         (a)   One sign, no illumination, no more than 12 square feet in area,
located on property where a building permit is active;
         (b)   On any property for sale or rent, one sign with a total area of
up to 12 square feet and a maximum height of six feet;
         (c)   On dwellings, no more than four temporary signs with a total
area of no more than 12 square feet;
         (d)   Window signs, provided that the total area of window signs does
not exceed 25% of the total area of all windows on each building facade; or
         (e)   On any property where a new use began activity within the last
six months, banners for not more than 15 days.
      (5)   Two minor signs per use;
      (6)   Pavement markings. Any sign applied directly and entirely to and
flush with an asphalt, concrete, or similar paved surface; and
      (7)   A permanent window sign, provided that the aggregate area of all
window signs on each window or door does not exceed 25% of the total area of
the window or door.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.148 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   (A)   The purpose of prohibiting the following signage is to address the
community’s substantial public safety and welfare concerns, including aesthetic
concerns and protecting property values, associated with certain types of
signage.
   (B)   In addition to signs prohibited elsewhere in this code or by
applicable state or federal law, the following signs are prohibited.
      (1)   General prohibitions. The following are prohibited:
         (a)   Signs that violate any state or federal law relating to outdoor
advertising or in violation of this code;
         (b)   Signs attached to natural vegetation;
         (c)   Signs simulating, or which are likely to be confused with, a
traffic control sign or any other sign displayed by a public authority;
         (d)   VEHICLE OR TRAILER SIGNS, defined as any sign attached to or
displayed on a vehicle, if the vehicle or trailer is used for the primary
purpose of advertising a business establishment, product, service, or activity
and it fails to display current license plates, inspection sticker, or
municipal decal; if the vehicle is inoperable; if evidence of paid-to-date
local taxes cannot be made available; or if the sign alters the standard design
of such vehicle or trailer;
         (e)   Animated signs, except where animated sign features as part of
an electronic message display are expressly permitted;
         (f)   Flashing signs or other signs displaying flashing, scrolling, or
intermittent lights or lights of changing degrees of intensity, except where
flashing features as part of an electronic message display are expressly
permitted; and
         (g)   Beacons.
      (2)   Prohibitions based on materials. The following are prohibited:
         (a)   Signs consisting of illuminated tubing or strings of lights
outlining property lines or open sales areas, rooflines, doors, windows, or
wall edges of any building, except for temporary decorations not to exceed
three months per year;
         (b)   Signs that emit smoke, flame, scent, mist, aerosol, liquid, or
gas;
         (c)   Signs that emit sound; and
         (d)   Neon signs, except in windows where permitted in a district.
      (3)   Prohibitions based on location. The following are prohibited:
         (a)   Off-premises signs, unless specifically permitted by this
chapter;
         (b)   Signs erected on public land other than those approved by the
Zoning Officer in writing, required by law without such approval, or permitted
under state law. Any sign not so authorized is subject to immediate removal by
the city, with the costs charged to the owner or person having control of such
sign, with payment due within 30 days of notice of charges. Removal of the sign
under this provision does not preclude prosecution of the person responsible
for the sign;
         (c)   Signs on the roof surface or extending above the roof line of a
building or its parapet wall;
         (d)   Any sign located in the vision triangle formed by any two or
more intersecting streets or any street and alley; and
         (e)   Window signs with an aggregate area on a window or door in
excess of 25% of the total area of the window or door or located above the
first floor unless the related use is only on the floor where the window sign
is displayed.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.149 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Setback and placement. All signs shall be set back from any public
right-of-way at least the height of the sign. Electronic message displays shall
be placed perpendicular to residential structures where possible and shall
comply with FCC regulations, including the avoidance of harmful interference
with radio frequencies.
   (B)   Illumination. The purpose of the following provisions regulating
signage lighting is to ensure that signs are lighted in such a manner as to
maintain aesthetic consistency with signs already existing in the community and
to ensure the safety of drivers and pedestrians, while also ensuring that signs
are adequately able to convey sign messages.
      (1)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         CANDELA. The basic unit of measurement of light in SI (metric) units.
         CANDELA PER SQUARE METER (cd/m2). The SI (metric) unit used to
describe the luminance of a light source or of an illuminated surface that
reflects light. Also referred to as NITS.
         NIT. A photometric unit of measurement referring to luminance. One NIT
is equal to one cd/m2.
         SI (INTERNATIONAL SYSTEM OF UNITS). The modem metric system of
measurement, abbreviated SI for the French term “Le Systeme International
d’Unites”.
      (2)   (a)   A sign in any district may be illuminated at night. Signs
that are illuminated at night may not exceed a maximum luminance level of 750
cd/m2 or Nits, regardless of the method of illumination, at least one-half hour
before apparent sunset, as determined by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration (NOAA), United States Department of Commerce, for the specific
geographic location and date.
         (b)   All illuminated signs must comply with this maximum luminance
level throughout the night, if the sign is energized, until apparent sunrise,
as determined by the NOAA, at which time the sign may resume luminance levels
appropriate for daylight conditions.
      (3)   The maximum luminance during daylight conditions, between apparent
sunrise and one-half hour before apparent sunset, shall be 10,000 cd/m2 or
Nits.
      (4)   All permitted and conditional use signs may be backlit, internally
lighted, or indirectly lighted, subject to lighting limitations in this code.
All external sign lighting shall have lighting fixtures or luminaires that are
fully shielded.
      (5)   Temporary signs shall not be lighted.
   (C)   Maximum height measurements. Wall signs and other signs with sign
structures not affixed to the ground are measured from the lowest attached
component of the sign to the highest attached component of the sign. The height
of signs with sign structures affixed to the ground is measured as the distance
from the base of the sign at normal grade to the top of the highest attached
component of the sign, subject to limitations in this subchapter. Normal grade
is the lower of:
      (1)   Existing grade prior to construction; or
      (2)   The newly established grade after construction, exclusive of any
filling, berming, mounding, or excavating primarily for the purpose of mounting
or elevating the sign.
   (D)   Measurement of sign area. Sign area is calculated under the following
principles.
      (1)   With signs that are regular polygons or circles, the area can be
calculated by the mathematical formula for that polygon or circle. With signs
that are not regular polygons or circles, the sign area is calculated using all
that area within a maximum of three abutting or overlapping rectangles that
enclose the sign face.
      (2)   The permitted area of a double-faced a-frame sign shall be
considered to be the area on one side only. If one face contains a larger sign
area than the other, the larger face shall be used in calculating the sign
area.
      (3)   For projecting signs, the sign area also includes the area of the
visible sides of the sign, calculated as a rectangle enclosing each entire side
view.
      (4)   Supports, uprights, or structures on which any sign is supported
shall not be included in determining the sign area unless such supports,
uprights, or structure are designed in such a way as to form an integral
background of the display; except, however, when a sign is placed on a fence,
wall, planter, or other similar structure that is designed to serve a separate
purpose other than to support the sign, the entire area of such structure shall
not be computed.
      (5)   In instances where there are multiple tenants or users on a
property or in a building, allowable sign area for all parties shall not exceed
the maximum sign area computed based upon the number of tenants multiplied by
40 square feet per tenant. In no case shall any tenant sign exceed 40 square
feet.
      (6)   All signs displayed, whether permanent or temporary, and regardless
of the type of sign are counted toward the maximum sign area allowed per use,
except window signs on non-dwellings where permitted.
   (E)   Wall signs.
      (1)   Wall signs shall provide as part of zoning permit application:
         (a)   Express permission from the operator and/or owner of the
building;
         (b)   The name and address of the person applying the wall sign; and
         (c)   A clear drawing of the proposed wall sign including dimensions
and location.
      (2)   Wall signs larger than 100 square feet are subject to the design
review standard in division (F) below.
   (F)   Compatibility with location. Design review standards for wall signs in
excess of 100 square feet and all signs within HO1 and HO2. The Board of Zoning
Appeals shall issue zoning permits for signs subject to design review in
accordance with Section 323.03, except that the Board of Zoning Appeals shall
issue a determination within 40 business days. In determining whether a sign is
compatible with the theme and overall character to be achieved in each zoning
district or overlay, the Board of Zoning Appeals shall base its compatibility
extermination on the following criteria:
      (1)   The relationship of the scale and placement of the sign to the
building or premises on which it is to be displayed;
      (2)   The relationship of the colors of the sign to the colors of
adjacent buildings and nearby signs;
      (3)   The similarity or dissimilarity of the sign’s size and shape to the
size and shape of other signs in the area;
      (4)   The similarity or dissimilarity of the style of lettering or number
of words on the sign to the style of lettering or number of words of nearby
signs;
      (5)   The compatibility of the type of illumination, if any, with the
type of illumination in the area; and
      (6)   The compatibility of the materials used in the construction of the
sign with the materials used in the construction of other sign in the area.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.150 NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   (A)   Signs lawfully existing on the effective date of this code that do not
conform to the provisions of this code, and signs that are accessory to a
nonconforming use shall be deemed nonconforming signs and may remain except as
qualified below.
      (1)   Nonconforming signs shall not be enlarged nor shall any feature of
a nonconforming sign, such as illumination or technology, be increased.
      (2)   Nonconforming signs shall not be extended, structurally
reconstructed, altered in any manner, or replaced with another nonconforming
sign nor increased in technological advancement, except as permitted by this
code.
      (3)   Nonconforming signs shall not be moved for any distance on the same
lot or to any other lot unless such change in location will make the sign
conform in all respects to the provisions of this subchapter.
      (4)   A nonconforming sign that is destroyed or damaged by any casualty
to an extent not exceeding 50% of its area may be restored within six months
after such destruction or damage, but shall not be enlarged. If such sign is so
destroyed or damaged to an extent exceeding 50% of its area, the sign shall not
be reconstructed but may be replaced with a sign that is in full accordance
with this code.
      (5)   Nonconforming sign structures shall be removed if the use to which
they are accessory has not been in operation for a period of one year or more,
except as provided in Section 323.13(h). Such sign structure shall be removed
or made conforming by the owner or lessee of the property. If the owner or
lessee fails to remove or make conforming the sign structure within 30 days of
notice by the Zoning Officer, the Zoning Officer may cause the sign to be made
conforming or removed and the cost of such removal or modification shall be
charged to the owner, person having control or person receiving benefit from
such sign, with payment due within 30 days of notice of charges.
      (6)   If a nonconforming sign is altered such that the sign is conforming
or is replaced by a conforming sign, such sign shall thereafter be kept in
accordance with the provisions of this code.
   (B)   The burden of establishing nonconforming status of signs and the
physical characteristics and location of such signs shall be with the owner of
the property. Upon notice from the Zoning Officer, a property owner shall
submit verification that sign(s) were lawfully erected. Failure to provide such
verification shall cause the sign to be deemed an illegal sign.
   (C)   Nothing in this section prevents keeping a nonconforming sign in good
repair.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.151 MAINTENANCE AND REMOVAL.
   (A)   State regulations. All signs shall be constructed and mounted in
compliance with the West Virginia Uniform Statewide Building Code. All signs
and components thereof shall be maintained in good repair and in a safe, neat,
and clean condition.
   (B)   Safety hazard. The Zoning Officer may cause to have removed or
repaired immediately without written notice any sign which, in his or her
opinion, has become insecure, in danger of falling, or otherwise unsafe, and,
as such, presents an immediate threat to the safety of the public. If such
action is necessary to render a sign safe, the cost of such emergency removal
or repair shall be charged to the owner, person having control, or person
receiving benefit from such sign, with payment due within 30 days of notice of
charges.
   (C)   Nuisance. Any sign which constitutes a nuisance shall be abated by the
owner within 30 days of notice by the Zoning Officer. At any time the Zoning
Officer may cause the nuisance to be abated with the costs charged to the
owner, person having control, or person receiving benefit from such sign, with
payment due within 30 days of notice of charges.
   (D)   Illegal sign and disrepair. Any sign which is illegal or in disrepair
shall be made conforming or repaired within 30 days of notice from the Zoning
Officer. Signs of disrepair include chipped paint, missing or significantly
faded letters or other aspects of the sign, cracked portions of the sign face,
broken lighting, graffiti, and unleveled portions of the sign structure or
face. If an illegal sign or a sign in disrepair is not made conforming or
repaired, the Zoning Officer may cause the sign to be removed or repaired and
the cost of such removal or repair shall be charged to the owner, person having
control, or person receiving benefit from such sign, with payment due within 30
days of notice of charges.
   (E)   Expired permit. Any sign for which a sign permit has expired shall be
removed within five days of the permit expiration. If the sign is not removed,
the Zoning Officer may cause the sign to be removed and the cost of such
removal shall be charged to the owner, person having control, or person
receiving benefit from such sign, with payment due within 30 days of notice of
charges.
   (F)   Impounding signs. Signs located within ten feet of any public right-
of-way and in violation of this code may be impounded at any time.
   (G)   Removal of old business signs. The owner of any commercial sign,
whether conforming or nonconforming, other than a permitted off-premise sign,
located on commercial property where the use or business has ceased operating
shall, within 60 days of the cessation of the use or business operation, remove
temporary signs and all aspects of any permanent sign that refer to the use or
business. Property owner may request, in writing, a waiver of such requirement
if the businesses is temporarily or seasonally operational, is remodeling, or
otherwise has the good will intention of opening that business back up within
one year of time of cessation.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.152 TEMPORARY SIGNS.
   (A)   Temporary signs pose distinct concerns with visual clutter, safety in
erection and display, and removal when the time for display has concluded.
Temporary signs also pose distinct concerns with materials quality.
   (B)   The following provisions and individual zoning of temporary signs per
district serve to address these concerns:
      (1)   Temporary signs require a permit, except as provided in this
subchapter, and may be permitted up to 60 days each calendar year;
      (2)   Temporary signs shall be securely affixed to the ground or a
building, or a pole designated only to a single temporary sign; and
      (3)   Person assisted signs shall not be located more than ten feet from
the entrance to a building or within ten feet of a right-of-way.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.153 SIGNS FOR SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL, MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL,
MANUFACTURED HOME NEIGHBORHOOD, AND PARKS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. Signage in residential districts poses a heightened risk of
visual blight and unsightly clutter, as residential neighborhoods typically
contain markedly less signage than other districts in order to maintain the
residential character of the neighborhood. At the same time, communicating from
one’s residence is a distinct and impactful form of speech that should be
protected, and nonresidential uses should be afforded adequate signage
incidental to the primary use in the form of on-premises signs. Signs permitted
in these districts are smaller, fewer in number, and limited in sign type in
order to limit visual clutter and distraction, while affording ample speech.
   (B)   Signs permitted as accessory to dwellings.
      (1)   Permitted permanent sign use as accessory to dwellings include
freestanding, minor, projecting, wall, wicket, and window. No more than four
permanent signs are permitted by right per dwelling.
      (2)   Permitted temporary signs as accessory to dwellings include a-
frame, banner, beacon, chalkboard, geological, inflatable/tethered, minor,
wall, wicket, window. No more than ten temporary signs are permitted by right
per dwelling.
      (3)   No more than three flags as accessory to dwellings.
   (C)   Signs permitted as accessory to non-dwellings.
      (1)   Permitted permanent sign use as accessory to non-dwellings include
freestanding, geological, minor, projecting, wall, wicket, and window.
      (2)   No more than five permanent signs are permitted by right per use.
      (3)   Permitted temporary signs include a-frame, banner, beacon,
chalkboard, changeable copy, inflatable/tethered, minor, wall, wicket, and
window. No more than three temporary signs are permitted by right per use.
      (4)   No more than three flags.
   (D)   Dimension specifications chart. All maximum sign area requirements
include the sum total sign area of all signs per use.
 
               Permitted as Permitted as
               Accessory to Accessory to Non- Temporary Signs Flags
               Dwellings    Dwellings
Max. Sign Area 9 sq. ft.    9 sq. ft.         16 sq. ft.      16 sq. ft. each
Max. Height    3 ft.        3 ft.             4 ft.           25 ft.
 
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.154 SIGNS FOR MIXED-USE DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   On-premises signage in mixed-use areas is essential for the
operation of a variety of uses.
      (2) In mixed-use areas, particularly those near residential development
and neighboring residential districts, signage that is less intrusive by being
smaller, shorter in height, and more uniform in sign type improves the
aesthetic qualities of these and neighboring districts and limits the visual
distraction of signage.
   (B)   Signs permitted as accessory to dwellings. Permitted sign use as
accessory to dwellings shall be the same as for §
157.153.
   (C)   Sign permitted as accessory to non-dwellings.
      (1)   Permitted permanent sign use as accessory to non-dwellings include
a-frame, awning/canopy, chalkboard, changeable copy, EMD static, EMD static
with transition, EMD static partially animated, freestanding, geological,
inflatable/tethered, marquee, minor, monument, neon, pennant, projecting, wall,
wicket, and window. No more than seven permanent signs are permitted by right
per use.
      (2)   Permitted temporary signs include a-frame, banner, beacon,
chalkboard, changeable copy, inflatable/tethered, minor, person-assisted, wall,
wicket, and window. No more than five temporary signs are permitted by right
per use.
      (3)   No more than three flags.
   (D)   Dimension specifications chart. All maximum sign area requirements
include the sum total sign area per use.
 
               Freestanding All Other Signs    Temporary Signs Flags
               Signs
                            2 sq. ft. per 1
                            sq. ft. lineal
Max. Sign Area 20 sq. ft.   building frontage  60 sq. ft.      16 sq. ft. each
                            (max is half size
                            of building)
Max. Height    10 ft.       4 ft.              5 ft.           25 ft.
 
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.155 SIGNS FOR NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Purpose. On-premises signage in neighborhood commercial areas is
essential for the operation of a variety of uses. However, in lighter
commercial developments, particularly those near residential development and
neighboring residential districts, signage that is less intrusive by being
smaller, shorter in height, and more uniform in sign type improves the
aesthetic qualities of these and neighboring districts and limits the visual
distraction of signage.
   (B)   Signs permitted as accessory to dwellings. Permitted sign use as
accessory to dwellings shall be the same as for §
157.153.
   (C)   Sign permitted as accessory to non-dwellings.
      (1)   Permitted permanent sign use as accessory to non-dwellings include
a-frame, awning/canopy, chalkboard, changeable copy, EMD static, EMD static
with transition, EMD static partially animated, freestanding, geological,
marquee, minor, monument, neon, pennant, projecting, wall, wicket, and window.
No more than seven permanent signs are permitted by right per use.
      (2)   Permitted temporary signs include a-frame, banner, beacon,
chalkboard, changeable copy, inflatable/tethered, minor, person-assisted, wall,
wicket, and window. No more than five temporary signs are permitted by right
per use.
      (3)   No more than three flags.
   (D)   Dimension specifications chart. All maximum sign area requirements
include the sum total sign area per use.
 
               Freestanding All Other Signs Temporary Signs Flags
               Sign
Max. Sign Area 20 sq. ft.   25 sq. ft.      2 sq. ft.       16 sq. ft. each
Max. Height    10 ft.       5 ft.           6 ft.           25 ft.
 
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.156 SIGNS FOR GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. Signage in commercial areas is allowed to a greater extent,
in size, number, and sign type, in order to maintain proportion to the size and
scope of uses typically present within these areas. However, even the most
intensive use districts in smaller communities are still limited in signage to
some degree in order to maintain the small-town character of smaller
communities and to limit visual distraction by signage.
   (B)   Signs permitted as accessory to dwellings. Permitted sign use as
accessory to dwellings shall be the same as for §
157.153.
   (C)   Sign permitted as accessory to non-dwellings.
      (1)   Permitted permanent sign use as accessory to non-dwellings include
a-frame, awning/canopy, chalkboard, changeable copy, EMD static, EMD static
with transition, EMD static partially animated, freestanding, geological,
inflatable/tethered, marquee, minor, monument, neon, off- premises, pennant,
projecting, wall, wicket, and window. No more than ten permanent signs are
permitted by right per use;
      (2)   Permitted temporary signs include a-frame, banner, beacon,
chalkboard, changeable copy, inflatable/tethered, minor, off-premises, pennant,
person-assisted, wall, wicket, and window. No more than seven temporary signs
are permitted by right per use; and
      (3)   No more than three flags.
   (D)   Dimension specifications chart. All maximum sign area requirements
include the sum total sign area per use.
 
               Freestanding All Other Signs Temporary Signs Flags
               Sign
Max. Sign Area 90 sq. ft.   50 sq. ft.      24 sq. ft.      16 sq. ft. each
Max. Height    20 ft.       10 ft.          6 ft.           25 ft.
 
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
§ 157.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished for each offense by a fine
not less than $50 nor more than $500. Each day the violation continues shall be
considered a separate offense. Work carried on in violation of the cancellation
of any permit issued under this chapter shall also be deemed a violation
punishable in the same manner.
   (B)   Any buildings erected, raised, or converted, or land or premises used
in violation of any provision of this code is declared a common nuisance and
the owner of the building, land, or premises shall be liable for maintaining a
common nuisance.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
APPENDIX A: OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/66857518d91d50a2c1a9ecac59851874462ad456/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2509.png]
 
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
APPENDIX B: USE TABLE.
Zoning Ordinance Use Table
     Zoning Districts
Uses Single-     Multi-      Manufactured       Mixed Neighborhood General
     Family      Family      Home         Parks Use   Commercial   Commercial
     Residential Residential Neighborhood
Zoning Ordinance Use Table
                    Zoning Districts
Uses                Single-     Multi-      Manufactured       Mixed Neighborhood General
                    Family      Family      Home         Parks Use   Commercial   Commercial
                    Residential Residential Neighborhood
Adult businesses*                                                                 C
Amphitheater                                             P                        P
Amusement and                                                                     P
recreation center
Animals hospital/                                                                 P
veterinary office
Automobile car                                                                    P
wash*
Automobile repair                                                                 P
service*
Bakery                                                         P     P            P
Bank/financial                                                 C                  P
institution
Bed and breakfast   C                                          P     P            P
inn*
Boat and marine                                                                   P
sales/service
Boat storage*                                                                     P
Brewery pub                                                    C                  P
Broadcasting studio                                            P                  P
(radio/television)
Building material                                                                 P
facility
Bus and transit                                                                   P
facilities
Bus/other transit   P                                          P     P
shelter
Catering business                                              C                  P
Cemetery/mausoleum                                             P                  P
Child day care                                                 P                  P
facility, Class 1*
Child day care                                                 P                  P
facility, Class 2*
Child day care      C           C                              P                  P
facility, Class 3*
Child day care      P           P                              P     P            P
facility, Class 4*
Clinic                                                         P     P            P
Community facility                                             P     P            P
Continuing care                                                                   P
facility
Convenience store                                              C                  P
Conversion old      C           C                                                 P
school/church
Cultural science                                               P     P            P
Distillery                                                     C                  P
Distribution                                                                      P
facility
Dog day care*                                                                     C
Drive-through                                                  P                  P
facility
Dwelling, apartment             C                              C                  P
Dwelling,           C           C                              C                  P
condominium
Dwelling,
conversion          C           P           P                  P     P            P
apartment
Dwelling, garage                P           P                  P     P            P
conversion
Dwelling, garden                P                              C
home
Dwelling, mixed use                                            P
Dwelling, single-   P           P                              P     P            P
family
Dwelling,                       P                              C
townhouse*
Dwelling, two-      C           P                              P
family
Educational                                                    P                  P
institution
Equipment rental/                                                                 P
repair
Essential utilities P           P           P            P     P     P            P
and equipment
Extractive industry                                                               C
Factory-built home                          P
Factory-built home                          P
rental community
Equipment/
construction and                                                                  P
supply sales
Farmer’s market                                        P     P     P            P
Flea market                                                                       C
Funeral home/                                                  P                  P
mortuary
Garage, private     P           P                        P     P     P            P
Garden center                                                                     P
Gas station*                                                   C                  P
Governmental        P           P                        P     P     P            P
operations
Greenhouse,         P           P                              P     P            P
noncommercial*
Greenhouse,                                                                       P
commercial
Group residential   P           P           P            P     P     P            P
facility
Group residential   P           P           P            P     P     P            P
home
Health care medical
cannabis                                                                          P
organization
Health club                                                    P                  P
Home-based business C           C                              P     P            P
(low impact)*
Home-based business P           P                              P     P            P
(no impact)*
Hospital                                                                          P
Hotel/motel                                                                       P
Industrial park                                                                   C
Kennel                                                                            P
Liquor store                                                   P     C            P
Lumberyard                                                                        P
Manufacturing                                                                     C
(light)
Medical cannabis                                                                  P
dispensary
Medical cannabis                                                                  P
growing facility
Medical cannabis                                                                  P
processing facility
Medical adult day                                                                 P
care center
Night club                                                     P                  P
Office supply                                                                     P
establishment
Parcel delivery                                                                   P
facility
Park                                                     P
Parking lot                                                    P     P            P
Parking structure                                                                 P
Personal service                                               P     P            P
Pet shop                                                                          P
Pharmacy                                                       P     P            P
Photographic studio                                            P     P            P
Places of worship/
religious                                                      P     P            P
institution
Private club                                                   P
Professional                                                   P     P            P
services
Recreation, private                                            C
Recreation, public  P           P                        P     P     P            P
Research and                                                                      P
development
Restaurant                                                     P                  P
Retail store/shop
less than 7,000                                                P     C            P
gross floor area
Retail sop greater
than 7,000 gross                                                                  P
floor area
Roadside stand                                                                    P
Roadside vendor                                                                   C
stand
School, commercial                                                                P
School, pre-school-                                            P     C            P
12
Self-storage                                                                      P
facility
Senior independent                                                                P
housing
Shopping center                                                                   P
Solar energy        P           P                        P     P     P            P
system, small
Solar energy                                                                      C
system, large
Sports arena                                                                      P
Studio, dancing,                                               P     P            P
music, or art
Tattoo parlor/body                                             P                  P
piercing studio
Tavern/drinking                                                C
establishment
Telecommunications, P           P                        P     P     P            P
Class I*
Telecommuni-                                                                      P
cations, Class II*
Telecommuni-                                                                      P
cations, Class III*
Temporary shelter                                        P     P                  P
Theater                                                                           P
Theater, drive-in                                                                 P
Tourist home        P           P           P            P     P     P            P
Truck terminal                                                                    P
Vehicular sales/                                                                  P
rental and service
Video gaming and
lottery                                                                           C
establishment*
Warehouse                                                                         P
Wholesale                                                                         P
establishment
Wind energy system, C           C                                    C            P
small*
Wind energy system,                                                               C
large*
Winery                                                                            P
P = Permitted (“By - Right”)
C = Conditional (Board of Zoning Appeals);
Astisked uses have supplemental regulations
 
(Ord. passed 6-3-2019)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   AGREEMENTS
      
II.   FRANCHISES
      
III.   PROPERTY TRANSFERS
TABLE I: AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
-    - -    Contract for water supply storage space in the Stonewall Jackson Lake Project
-    4- -   Water pollution control receiving fund loan agreement
     1993
-    10-15- Loan agreement
     1996
-    2-3-   Agreement with Lewis County for dispatch services
     1997
-    6-7-   Agreement with the state’s Department of Transportation for a traffic control
     1997   system
-    8-4-   Agreement with the state’s Department of Transportation for a traffic control
     1997   system
-    - -    Loan agreement with the state’s Water Development Authority
     1998
-    1-12-  Loan agreement
     1998
-    6-9-   Agreement for E-911 and dispatch services
     1998
-    8-7-   Authorization to employ legal counsel
     2000
-    7-24-  Agreement for the exchange of information with the West Virginia Municipal
     2006   League, Inc.
-    - -    Agreement for wastewater collection
     2010
-    11-7-  Contract with Jane Lew Water Commission-Public Service District for sewer
     2011   treatment services
           
 
TABLE II: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        5-7-1979    Granting a franchise to Weston Television Cable
                     Corporation
-        6-8-1981    Transfer of television franchise
-        10-5-1987   Assignment of a franchise to TCI of West Virginia Inc.
-        4-6-1992    Granting a franchise to Weston Television Cable
                     Corporation
                    
 
TABLE III: PROPERTY TRANSFERS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        11-12-1910  Purchase of property
-        5-1-1972    Dedication of property to establish a road
-        10-21-1978  Transfer of a portion of an alley between Lots 1 and 5 in
                     Block C
-        11-5-1984   Sale of a parcel of land to a church
-        6-27-1986   Transfer of property to a church
-        10-20-1986  Purchase of the southern half of Lot 15 on the east side
                     of Center Street
-        2-24-1989   Purchase of parcel 208, fronting 44.5 feet on Center
                     Avenue
-        4-13-1993   Purchase of a parcel of land adjacent to Municipal
                     Building
-        9-26-1996   Vacating a portion of an alley between Lots 10 and 11
-        1-21-1997   Closure of an alley between Lots 8 – 10 from Lots 13 and
                     14
-        12-18-1997  Abandonment of alley that abuts Lots 30 – 33 in Block 1
-        12-19-1997  Abandonment of part of Holland Street
-        1-5-1998    Abandonment of an alley on the eastern right-of-way line
                     of the old B and O Railroad
-        1-12-1998   Closure and vacation of a part of Holland Street
-        5-4-1998    Purchase of a parcel of land in Hackers Creek District
-        2-26-1999   Abandonment of part of an alley between Lots 15 and 16 on
                     the east side of Center Street
-        3-1-1999    Abandonment of alley near Lots 30 – 33
-        3-24-1999   Vacation of an alley in the East Weston Addition
-        5-4-1999    Sale of parcel No. 30 in Freemans Creek District
-        1-3-2006    Purchase of a parcel of land adjacent to the Municipal
                     Building
-        3-18-2006   Abandonment of an alley between Lots 23 and 24 on the east
                     side of Jackson Street
-        6-19-2006   Abandonment of an alley between Lots 23 and 24
-        7-21-2011   Abandonment of an alley located between 11th Street and
                     12th Street
2022-01  2-7-2022    Sale of property related to a Division of Highways Bridge
                     Project
2022-02  1-20-2022   Acquisition of property known as the “Columbia Club”
2022-03  2-7-2022    Acquisition of property believed to have the address of
                     241 South Main Street
2022-04  2-7-2022    Acquisition of property with the address of 251 S. Main
                     Avenue Weston, WV 26452, District 07, Map 11, PID 100
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCE
References to West Virginia Code
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO WEST VIRGINIA CODE
W. Va. Code Cite Code Section
W. Va. Code Cite                 Code Section
2-2-3                            10.02
2-2-4                            10.02
2-2-10                           10.02
2-2-10(a)                        10.02
2-2-10(c)                        10.02
Ch. 3                            33.01
3-1-3                            33.03
3-1-6                            33.05
3-1-27                           33.04
Ch. 3, Art. 2                    33.03
5-7-1 through 5-7-10             30.18
5-7-5                            30.18
5-10-1 through 5-10-51           30.17
5-10-16                          30.17
Ch. 6, Art. 9                    30.11
6-9-6                            30.11
7-1-3U                           156.003
7-9-16                           34.01
7-9-19                           34.01
Ch. 7, Art. 15                   32.130,
                                 32.133
7-15-5                           32.131
7-22-1                           38.39
8-1-2                            38.37
8-1-5a                           38.35,
                                 38.36
8-2-4                            111.04
8-3-2                            10.02
8-3-9                            32.085,
                                 32.086
8-4-1 et seq.                    32.086
8-4-7                            32.087
8-5-8                            30.40
8-5-11                           33.06
                                 30.02,
8-5-12                           30.40,
                                 35.05
8-5-13                           33.03
8-5-14                           33.01
Ch. 8, Art. 6                    157.063
8-9-3                            30.45,
                                 30.46
8-10-1                           34.01,
                                 34.15
8-10-2                           34.01,
                                 34.17
8-10-2(b)                        34.17
8-10-4                           31.21
                                 10.99,
8-11-1                           34.01,
                                 71.999,
                                 92.99
8-11-1 et seq.                   30.50
8-11-1(a)(1)                     Ch. 74, Schd. I
8-11-4                           111.02
8-11-4(a)(2)                     52.14
                                 10.01,
                                 50.01,
                                 50.07,
                                 95.030,
8-11-4(b)                        95.041,
                                 113.20,
                                 113.28,
                                 150.035,
                                 150.040
8-12-1 to 8-12-20                30.40
8-12-2(a)(5)                     Ch. 74, Schd. I
8-12-5(2)                        154.060
8-12-5(3)                        91.006,
                                 130.058
8-12-5(7)                        51.01
8-12-5(8)                        51.01
8-12-5(13)                       130.003
8-12-5(13) to (15)               95.001
                                 150.001,
8-12-5(15)                       150.006,
                                 150.020
8-12-5(18)                       130.009
                                 130.009,
8-12-5(19)                       130.040,
                                 130.052
8-12-5(20)                       111.01
8-12-5(22)                       130.035
                                 50.01,
                                 92.15,
                                 95.001,
                                 95.030,
8-12-5(23)                       113.01,
                                 130.051,
                                 150.001,
                                 150.020,
                                 150.035
8-12-5(26)                       90.01,
                                 90.64
8-12-5(27)                       90.07
                                 50.01,
                                 95.030,
8-12-5(28)                       113.01,
                                 150.001,
                                 150.020
8-12-5(29)                       130.060,
                                 154.008
8-12-5(30)                       151.01
8-12-5(31)                       130.007
8-12-5(32)                       51.01
8-12-5(33)                       51.01
8-12-5(35)                       130.021
8-12-5(42)                       130.012
                                 37.06,
8-12-5(43)                       91.035,
                                 92.15,
                                 130.012
                                 95.001,
                                 112.01,
8-12-5(44)                       130.009,
                                 130.038,
                                 130.061,
                                 151.01
8-12-5(55)                       10.99
8-12-5(57)                       92.99
                                 50.01,
8-12-13                          95.030,
                                 150.020
                                 50.01,
8-12-14                          95.030,
                                 113.01,
                                 150.020
                                 30.15,
                                 95.030,
8-12-15                          112.01,
                                 113.24,
                                 150.006,
                                 150.020
                                 150.020,
                                 150.035,
8-12-16                          150.056,
                                 150.057,
                                 150.064,
                                 150.066,
8-12-16C                         153.01,
                                 153.12
                                 37.06,
8-12-19                          91.035,
                                 92.15,
                                 130.022
8-13-1 et seq.                   30.40
8-13-4                           110.03,
                                 111.16
8-13-5                           39.036
8-13-6                           38.20,
                                 38.39
8-13-7                           111.02
8-13-10                          90.20
                                 38.51,
                                 52.14,
8-13-13                          95.090,
                                 95.091,
                                 95.092
                                 39.021,
8-13-15                          39.050,
                                 90.08
8-13-17                          30.10
8-13-18                          30.11
8-13-22                          31.24
8-13-23(a)                       30.12
8-14-6 to 8-14-20                35.08
8-14-17 et seq.                  35.05
8-14-22                          35.08
8-14-23                          35.08
Ch. 8, Art. 15                   95.061
8-15                             95.062
8-15-1                           95.055,
                                 95.056
8-15-2                           95.056
8-15-3                           95.055
8-15-4                           95.060
8-15-4 to 8-15-8                 95.055
8-15-9 et seq.                   95.055
8-15-11 to 8-l5-27               95.042,
                                 95.061
Ch. 8, Art. 16                   32.117,
                                 94.05
8-16-1 et seq.                   32.020
8-16-4                           32.020
8-18-1                           154.029
Ch. 8, Art. 22                   95.079
8-22-1                           30.17
8-22-16(e)                       35.24
8-22-16 to 8-22-28               35.20,
                                 95.075
8-22-17                          35.21,
                                 95.076
                                 35.20,
8-22-19                          95.075,
                                 95.078
8-22-19 to 8-22-27               35.23
8-22-20(e)                       35.24
8-22-21 to 8-22-27               95.078
Ch. 8, Art. 24                   70.080
8-34-1                           34.16,
                                 92.99
8-38-12                          38.39
Ch. 8A                           157.045
Ch. 8A, Art. 2                   32.041
8A-2-3                           32.044
8A-2-3(I)                        32.044
8A-2-3-(k)                       32.044
8A-2-10                          32.041
Ch. 8, Art. 6                    157.063
8A-2-11                          32.041,
                                 32.046
Ch. 8A, Art. 7                   157.063
8A-7-2(b)                        32.045,
                                 157.072
Ch. 8A, Art. 8 et seq.           157.047
11-3-3A                          156.062
11-3-3a                          156.020
11-3-6                           31.22
11-8-10a                         38.02
11-8-14                          38.01,
                                 38.02
11-8-14a                         38.03
11-8-14b                         38.04
11-8-15                          38.05
11-8-26a                         38.04
11-9-2a(e)                       39.057
11-10-1 et seq.                  39.067
11-10-5b                         39.040
11-10-5d                         39.074
11-10-5d(c)                      39.074
11-10-5d(i)                      39.074
11-10-5d(j)                      39.074
11-10-5e                         39.042
11-10-5s                         39.039
11-10-6                          39.073
11-10-7                          39.041
11-10-7a                         39.043
11-10-9                          39.044
11-10-10                         39.044
11-10-11(h)                      39.050
11-10-16                         39.047
11-10-17                         39.049
11-10-17a                        39.049
11-10-18                         39.047,
                                 39.048
11-12-3                          110.05,
                                 110.25
11-12-5                          110.06
11-12-6                          110.08
Ch. 11, Art. 15                  38.35,
                                 38.39
11-15-3c                         38.35,
                                 38.36
11-15-9f                         38.35,
                                 38.36
                                 38.35,
Ch. 11, Art. 15A                 38.36,
                                 38.39
Ch. 11, Art. 15B                 38.35,
                                 38.36
Ch. 11, Art. 16                  111.15
11-16-1 et seq.                  111.01,
                                 111.15
11-16-9                          111.16
11-16-13                         111.17
                                 111.01,
11-16-26                         111.15,
                                 111.16
11-23-5a                         39.067
11-24-6(f)(1)(A) to (f)(1)(D)    39.067
Ch. 11A, Art. 2, 11A-2-1 et seq. 110.10
Art. 13                          156.003
Art. 13 et seq.                  156.003
Ch. 15, Art. 5                   36.03,
                                 36.04
15-5-8                           36.02,
                                 36.03
15A-10-2 to 15A-10-25            150.001
15A-10-12                        150.021
16-5B-2                          110.34
16-5C-8                          110.36
16-6-1 et seq.                   112.01
16-7-1 et seq.                   112.01
16-7-5                           112.01
16-9-2                           90.08
16-9-3                           90.08
16-13-16                         52.14
Ch. 16A                          157.046
Ch. 17                           70.081,
                                 70.083
Ch. 17A                          70.075,
                                 70.078
Ch. 17A, Art. 3                  91.079
17A-3-1 et seq.                  91.079
17A-6                            70.086
17A-8-4                          71.152
                                 70.001,
17A-10-1                         70.077,
                                 71.097
17B-2-1a                         70.081
17B-2-2                          70.081
17B-4-3                          70.084
Ch. 17C                          71.097,
                                 71.227
17C-1                            70.001
17C-1-2                          70.001
17C-1-3                          70.001
17C-1-4                          70.001
17C-1-5                          70.001
17C-1-5a                         70.001
17C-1-6                          70.001
17C-1-7                          70.001
17C-1-8                          70.001
17C-1-12                         70.001
17C-1-13                         70.001
17C-1-15                         70.001
17C-1-16                         70.001
17C-1-17                         70.001
17C-1-21                         70.001
17C-1-22                         70.001
17C-1-24                         70.001
17C-1-25                         70.001
17C-1-26                         70.001
17C-1-29                         70.001
17C-1-30                         70.001
17C-1-31                         70.001
17C-1-32                         70.001
17C-1-33                         70.001
17C-1-35                         70.001,
                                 70.003
17C-1-36                         70.001
17C-1-37                         70.001
17C-1-38                         70.001
17C-1-40                         70.001
17C-1-41                         70.001
17C-1-42                         70.001
17C-1-43                         70.001
17C-1-44                         70.001
17C-1-46                         70.001
17C-1-47                         70.001
17C-1-48                         70.001
17C-1-49                         70.001
17C-1-50                         70.001
17C-1-51                         70.001
17C-1-52                         70.001
17C-1-53                         70.001
17C-1-54                         70.001
17C-1-55                         70.001
17C-1-60                         70.001
17C-1-62                         70.001
17C-1-64                         70.001
17C-1-65                         70.001
17C-1-66                         70.001
17C-2-3(c)                       70.004
17C-2-4                          70.005
17C-2-5                          70.005
17C-2-6                          70.006
17C-3-5                          70.022
17C-3-6                          70.023
17C-3-7                          70.024
17C-3-8                          70.025
17C-3-9                          70.026
17C-3-4B                         70.027
17C-4-1                          70.040
17C-4-1(e)                       70.040
17C-4-12                         70.042
17C-5-3                          70.999
17C-5-3(b)                       70.051
17C-6                            71.001
17C-6-1                          71.001
17C-6-1(a)(1)                    71.999
17C-6-3a(a)                      71.002
17C-6-4                          71.003
17C-6-5                          71.003
17C-6-8                          71.999
17C-6-8(a)                       71.004
17C-7-2                          71.016
17C-8-10                         71.048
17C-9                            71.062
17C-10                           71.175
17C-10A-2                        71.999
17C-11-2                         71.196
17C-11-7                         71.201
17C-11A-7                        71.999
17C-12-8                         72.03,
                                 72.04
17C-13-3                         Ch. 74, Schd. I
17C-14-9                         71.145
17C-14-9A                        71.146
17C-14-11                        130.058
17C-14-12                        71.097
17C-15-3                         71.082
17C-15-26                        70.001
17C-15-26(e)                     72.04
17C-15-27                        71.097
17C-15-36a                       71.112
17C-15-42(b)                     71.107
17C-15-48                        71.111
Ch. 17C, Art. 16                 91.071
17C-16-1 et seq.                 91.071
17C-16-4(a)                      70.086
17C-17                           71.125,
                                 71.127
17C-17-5                         71.127
17C-17-11                        71.125
17C-17-11b                       71.127
17C-17-13                        71.999
17D-2A                           71.159
17D-2A-4                         71.999
17F-1-2                          71.222
19-2B-1 et seq.                  112.01
Ch. 19, Art. 4                   39.068
19-9-1 et seq.                   90.01
19-18-1 et seq.                  90.01
19-20-2                          90.20
19-20-3                          157.046
19-20-20                         90.64
19-20-21                         90.64
21-11-3                          156.062
21-9-4                           156.037
21-11-3(c)                       156.003
21-11-10                         156.062
24-2-4(b)                        52.08,
                                 52.14
24-4-4b(b)                       52.14
24-2F-8                          157.103
28-2-3.9(b)                      156.021
Title 28, Series 4               156.021
29-3-4a                          95.030
29-3-4b                          95.030
29-3-5                           95.030
29-3-5(b)                        150.020
29-3E-1 to 29-3E-13              95.017,
                                 95.031
33-12-4                          110.37
33-12-6                          110.37
38-11-14                         72.24
42-19-10.1                       156.037
42-19-10.2                       156.037
42-19-10b                        156.037
Ch. 47, Art. 1                   130.021
47-1-22                          130.021
Ch. 49                           130.044
55-11-2                          150.063
Ch. 59                           157.063
59-2-1(c)                        71.999
                                 30.12,
Ch. 59, Art. 3                   30.50,
                                 52.14,
                                 91.076
59-3-1                           91.076
Ch. 60                           111.17
60-1-1 et seq.                   111.01
60-1-5                           111.01
60-1-7                           111.15
Ch. 60, Art. 3 et seq.           111.02
Ch. 60, Art. 3A                  157.046
60-6-8                           111.99
                                 111.02,
Ch. 60, Art. 7                   111.30,
                                 111.34,
                                 157.046
60-7-1 et seq.                   111.30
60-7-2(a)                        157.046
60-7-12                          111.37
Ch. 60, Art. 8                   111.02,
                                 111.04
61-3-1 et seq.                   130.018,
                                 130.047
61-3-13                          130.041
61-3-14 to 61-3-19               130.041
61-3-27                          90.07
61-3-30                          130.043
61-3-33                          130.049
61-3-48                          130.060
61-5-2                           34.08
61-5-3                           34.08
61-5-8                           130.053
61-5-14                          130.014
61-5-26                          34.10
61-6-1 to 61-6-6                 130.061
61-6-1B                          130.050
61-6-7                           130.024
61-6-14                          130.029
61-8-5                           130.009
61-8-5 to 61-8-8                 130.052
61-8-6                           130.009
61-8-9                           130.040
61-8-19                          90.07
61-8-25 to 61-8-27               130.044
61-10-1 et seq.                  130.035
                                 
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section Code Section
Prior Code Section Code Section
1-1                10.01
1-2                10.02
1-3                10.03
1-4                10.04
1-5                10.05
1-6                10.06
1-7                10.99
1-8                10.07
2-1                30.01
2-2                30.02
2-3                30.03
2-4                30.04
2-5                30.05
2-6                30.06
2-7                30.07
2-8                30.08
2-9                30.09
2-10               30.10
2-11               30.11
2-12               30.12
2-13               30.13
2-14               30.14
2-15               30.15
2-16               30.16,
                   30.99
2-17               30.17
2-18               30.18
2-18.1             30.19
2-18.2             30.20
2-18.3             30.21
2-18.4             30.22
2-19               30.40
2-20               30.41
2-21               30.42
2-22               30.43
2-23               30.44
2-24               30.45
2-25               30.46
2-26               30.47
2-27               30.48
2-28               30.49
2-29               30.50
2-30               30.51
2-31               30.52
2-32               30.53
2-33               30.54
2-34               30.55
2-35               31.01
2-36               31.02
2-37               31.03
2-38               31.04
2-39               31.05
2-40               31.20
2-41               31.21
2-42               31.22
2-43               31.23
2-44               31.24
2-45               31.25
2-46               31.26
2-47               31.27
2-48               32.001
2-49               32.002
2-50               32.003
2-51               32.004
2-52               32.005
2-53               32.006
2-54               32.007
2-55               32.020
2-56               32.021
2-57               32.022
2-58               32.023
2-59               32.024
2-60               32.025
2-61               32.026
2-62               32.027
2-63               32.028
2-64               32.040
2-65               32.041
2-66               32.042
2-67               32.043
3-1                111.01
3-2                111.02
3-3                111.03
3-4                111.15
3-5                111.16
3-6                111.17,
                   111.99
3-7                111.30
3-8                111.31
3-9                111.32
3-10               111.33
3-11               111.34
3-12               111.35
3-13               111.36
3-14               111.37
4-1                90.01
4-2                90.02
4-3                90.03
4-4                90.04
4-5                90.05
4-6                90.06
4-7                90.07
4-8                90.08
4-9                90.09
4-10               90.20
4-11               90.21
4-12               90.22
4-13               90.23
4-14               90.24
4-15               90.25
5-1                150.001
5-2                150.002
5-3                150.003
5-4                150.004
5-5                150.005
5-6                150.006
5-7                150.007
5-8                150.008
5-16               150.035
5-17               150.036
5-18               150.037
5-19               150.038
5-20               150.999
5-21               150.039
5-22               150.040
5-24               150.055
5-25               150.056
5-26               150.057
5-27               150.058
5-28               150.059
5-29               150.060
5-30               150.061
5-31               150.062
5-32               150.063
5-33               150.064
5-34               150.065
5-35               150.066
5-36               150.067
5-37               150.068
5-38               150.069
5-39               150.070
5-40               150.071
6-1                36.01
6-2                36.02
6-3                36.03
6-4                36.04
6-5                36.05
6-6                36.06
6-7                36.07
6-8                36.08
6-9                36.09
6-10               36.10
6-11               36.11
6-12               36.12
7-1                37.01
7-2                37.02
7-3                37.03
7-4                37.04
7-5                37.05
7-6                37.06
7-7                37.07
8-1                93.01
8-3                93.02
8-4                93.03
8-6                93.04
8-7                93.05
8-8                93.08
8-10               93.07
8-11               93.08
8-12               93.09
8-13               93.10
9-1                33.01
9-2                33.02
9-3                33.03
9-4                33.04
9-5                33.05
9-6                33.06
9-7                33.07
9-8                33.08
10-1               50.01
10-2               50.02
10-3               50.03
10-4               50.04
10-5               50.05
10-6               50.99
10-7               50.06
10-8               50.07
11-1               95.001
11-2               95.002
11-3               95.003
11-4               95.004
11-5               95.005
11-6               95.006
11-7               95.007
11-8               95.008
11-9               95.009
11-10              95.010
11-11              95.011
11-12              95.012
11-13              95.013
11-14              95.014
11-15              95.015
11-16              95.016
11-17              95.017
11-18              95.018
11-19              95.030
11-20              95.031
11-21              95.032
11-22              95.033
11-23              95.034
11-24              95.035
11-25              95.036
11-26              95.037
11-27              95.038
11-28              95.039
11-29              95.999
11-30              95.040
11-31              95.041
11-32              95.055
11-33              95.056
11-34              95.057
11-35              95.058
11-36              95.059
11-37              95.060
11-38              95.061
11-38.1            95.062
11-38.2            95.063
11-39              95.075
11-40              95.076
11-41              95.077
11-42              95.078
11-43              95.079
11-49              95.999
12-1               112.01
12-2               112.02
12-3               112.03
12-4               112.04
12-5               112.05
13-1               91.001
13-2               91.002
13-3               91.003
13-4               91.004
13-5               91.005
13-6               91.006
13-7               91.007
13-8               91.008
13-9               91.009
13-10              91.020
13-11              91.021
13-12              91.022
13-13              91.023
13-14              91.024
13-17              91.035
14-1               110.01
14-2               110.02
14-3               110.03
14-4               110.04
14-5               110.05
14-6               110.06
14-7               110.07
14-8               110.08
14-9               110.09
14-10              110.99
14-11              110.10
14-12              110.11
14-13              110.99
14-14              110.12
14-15              110.25
14-16              110.26
14-16.1            110.27
14-17              110.28
14-18              110.29
14-19              110.30
14-19.1            110.31
14-20              110.32
14-21              110.33
14-22              110.34
14-23              110.35
14-24              110.36
14-25              110.37
14-26              110.38
14-27              110.39
14-28              110.40
14-29              110.41
14-30              110.42
14-31              110.55
14-32              110.56
14-33              110.57
14-34              110.58
14-35              110.59
14-36              110.60
14-37              110.61
14-38              110.62
14-39              110.63
14-40              110.64
15-1               151.01
15-2               151.02
15-3               151.03
15-4               151.04
15-5               151.05
15-6               151.06
15-7               151.07
15-8               151.08
15-9               151.09
15-10              151.10
16-1               92.01
16-2               92.02
16-3               92.03
16-4               92.04
16-5               92.15
16-6               92.16
16-7               92.17
16-8               92.18
16-9               92.19
16-10              92.20
17-1               130.001
17-2               130.002
17-3               130.003
17-4               130.004
17-5               130.005
17-6               130.006
17-7               130.007
17-8               130.008
17-9               130.009
17-10              130.010
17-11              130.011
17-12              130.012
17-13              130.013
17-14              130.014
17-15              130.015
17-16              130.016
17-17              130.017
17-18              130.018
17-19              130.019
17-20              130.020
17-21              130.021
17-22              130.022
17-23              130.023
17-24              130.024
17-25              130.025
17-26              130.026
17-27              130.027
17-28              130.028
17-29              130.029
17-30              130.030
17-31              130.031
17-32              130.032
17-33              130.033
17-34              130.034
17-35              130.035
17-36              130.036
17-37              130.037
17-38              130.038
17-39              130.039
17-40              130.040
17-41              130.041
17-42              130.042
17-43              130.043
17-44              130.044
17-45              130.045
17-46              130.046
17-47              130.047
17-48              130.048
17-49              130.049
17-50              130.050
17-51              130.051
17-52              130.052
17-53              130.053
17-54              130.054
17-55              130.055
17-56              130.056
17-57              130.057
17-60              130.058
17-61              130.059
17-62              130.060
17-63              130.061
17-65              130.062
17-67              130.063
17-68              130.064
18-1               155.01
18-2               155.02
18-3               155.03
18-4               155.04
18-5               155.05
18-6               155.06
18-7               155.07
18-8               155.08
18-9               155.09
18-10              155.10
18-11              155.11
18-12              155.12
18-13              155.13
18-14              155.14
18-15              155.15
18-16              155.16
18-17              155.17
18-18              155.18
18-19              155.19
18-20              155.20
18-21              155.21
18-22              155.22
18-23              155.23
18-24              155.24
18-25              155.25
18-26              155.26
18-27              155.27
18-28              155.28
18-29              155.99
19-1               94.01
19-2               94.02
19-3               94.03
19-4               94.04
19-5               94.05
19-6               94.06
19-7               94.07
19-8               94.08
20-1               113.01
20-2               113.02
20-3               113.03
20-4               113.04
20-5               113.05
20-6               113.20
20-7               113.21
20-8               113.22
20-9               113.23
20-10              113.24
20-11              113.25
20-12              113.26
20-13              113.99
20-14              113.27
20-15              113.28
20-16              113.29
21-1               34.01
21-2               34.02
21-3               34.03
21-4               34.04
21-5               34.05
21-6               34.06
21-7               34.07
21-8               34.08
21-9               34.09
21-10              34.10,
                   34.99
21-11              34.11
21-12              34.12
21-13              34.13
21-14              34.14
21-15              34.15
21-16              34.16
21-17              34.30
21-18              34.31
21-19              34.32
21-20              34.33
21-21              34.34
22-1               35.01
22-2               35.02
22-3               35.03
22-4               35.04
22-5               35.05
22-6               35.06
22-7               35.07
22-8               35.08
22-9               35.20
22-10              35.21
22-11              35.22
22-12              35.23
24-1               114.01
24-2               114.02
24-3               114.03
24-4               114.04
24-5               114.05
24-6               114.06
24-7               114.07
24-8               114.08
24-9               114.09
24-10              114.10
24-11              114.11
25-1               154.001
25-2               154.002
25-3               154.003
25-4               154.004
25-5               154.005
25-6               154.006
25-7               154.007
25-8               154.008
25-9               154.009
25-10              154.010
25-11              154.011
25-12              154.012
25-13              154.013
25-14              154.014
25-15              154.025
25-16              154.026
25-17              154.027
25-18              154.028
25-19              154.029
25-20              154.030
25-21              154.031
25-22              154.045
25-23              154.046
25-24              154.047
25-25              154.048
25-26              154.060
25-27              154.061
25-28              154.062
25-29              154.063
25-30              154.064
25-31              154.065,
                   154.999
25-32              154.066
25-33              154.067
25-34              154.068
25-35              154.069
25-36              154.070
25-37              154.071
25-38              154.072
27-1               38.01
27-2               38.02
27-3               38.03
27-4               38.04
27-5               38.05
27-6               38.20
27-7               38.21
27-8               38.22
27-9               39.001
27-9.1             39.015
27-9.2             39.016
27-9.3             39.017
27-9.4             39.018
27-9.5             39.019
27-9.6             39.020
27-9.7             39.021,
                   39.999
27-9.8             39.022
29-1               51.01
29-2               51.02
29-3               51.03
                   
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
                     40.01 –
                     40.03,
                     40.15 –
                     40.17,
-        - -         40.30 –
                     40.33,
                     40.45,
                     40.46,
                     40.60 –
                     40.62
-        - -         154.085 –
                     154.089
-        - -         TSO Table I
-        11-12-1910  TSO Table III
-        2-7-1972    32.040 –
                     32.043
-        3-6-1972    151.11
-        4-3-1972    151.12,
                     151.99
-        5-1-1972    TSO Table III
-        7-3-1972    111.30,
                     111.31
-        7-17-1972   110.27
-        7-17-1972   110.31
-        6-4-1973    30.19
-        1-7-1974    30.20
-        4-10-1974   95.061
-        7-18-1974   34.11
-        7-18-1974   34.12
-        8-5-1974    34.14
-        1-7-1975    95.042
-        12-9-1975   32.130 –
                     32.134
                     39.015 –
-        4-20-1976   39.022,
                     39.999
-        3-7-1977    32.115 –
                     32.118
-        10-17-1978  TSO Table III
-        5-7-1979    TSO Table II
-        2-4-1980    130.044,
                     130.999
-        12-11-1980  33.01
                     92.35 –
-        3-2-1981    92.42,
                     92.99
-        4-6-1981    91.050 –
                     91.057
-        6-8-1981    90.20
-        6-8-1981    TSO Table II
-        8-3-1981    111.04
-        10-4-1982   150.004
-        2-7-1983    150.035
-        2-7-1983    150.020
-        5-24-1983   30.08
-        8-18-1983   111.02
-        10-17-1983  30.23 –
                     30.25
-        11-5-1984   TSO Table III
-        2-4-1985    35.05
-        6-27-1986   TSO Table III
-        10-20-1986  TSO Table III
-        10-5-1987   TSO Table II
-        12-23-1987  30.56
-        2-2-1988    35.35
-        7-5-1988    95.030
-        2-24-1989   TSO Table III
-        4-6-1992    TSO Table II
                     156.001 –
                     156.006,
                     156.020 –
                     156.023,
                     156.035 –
-        5-4-1992    156.044,
                     156.060 –
                     156.068,
                     156.080, 
                     156.081,
                     156.999
-        4- -1993    TSO Table I
-        4-13-1993   35.09
-        4-13-1993   TSO Table III
-        4-13-1993   90.26,
                     90.99
-        10-4-1993   150.020 –
                     150.022
-        5-2-1994    38.50 –
                     38.53
                     52.01 –
                     52.13,
-        1-29-1996   52.15,
                     52.16,
                     52.99
-        9-26-1996   TSO Table III
-        10-15-1996  TSO Table I
-        1-21-1997   TSO Table III
-        2-3-1997    TSO Table I
-        6-7-1997    TSO Table I
-        8-4-1997    TSO Table I
-        10-23-1997  130.046,
                     130.999
-        12-18-1997  TSO Table III
-        12-19-1997  TSO Table III
-        - -1998     TSO Table I
-        1-5-1998    TSO Table III
-        1-12-1998   TSO Table I
-        1-12-1998   TSO Table III
                     115.01 –
-        2-2-1998    115.07,
                     115.99
-        5-4-1998    TSO Table III
-        5-4-1998    32.100 –
                     32.104
-        6-9-1998    TSO Table I
-        9-9-1998    32.085 –
                     32.087
                     39.035 –
                     39.058,
                     39.060 –
-        12-18-1998  39.062,
                     39.064,
                     39.065,
                     39.067 –
                     39.086
-        2-26-1999   TSO Table III
-        3-1-1999    TSO Table III
-        3-24-1999   TSO Table III
-        5-4-1999    TSO Table III
-        6-21-2000   52.14
-        8-7-2000    TSO Table I
-        1-18-2002   Charter
-        11-12-2003  52.15
-        11-7-2005   52.08
-        1-3-2006    TSO Table III
-        3-18-2006   TSO Table III
-        4-3-2006    30.27
-        5-1-2006    52.08
-        6-19-2006   TSO Table III
-        7-24-2006   TSO Table I
-        8-7-2006    130.044,
                     130.999
                     90.40 –
-        9-5-2006    90.47,
                     90.99
-        1-31-2008   34.01
-        3-3-2008    32.060 –
                     32.072
-        3-2-2009    95.090 –
                     95.098
-        - -2010     TSO Table I
                     156.001 –
                     156.008,
                     156.020 –
                     156.023,
                     156.035 –
-        2-8-2010    156.047,
                     156.060 –
                     156.068,
                     156.080,
                     156.081,
                     156.999
-        7-21-2011   TSO Table III
-        11-7-2011   TSO Table I
-        11-3-2014   30.26
-        11-3-2014   94.02
-        12-1-2014   91.003,
                     91.021
-        1-5-2015    35.24
-        - -2017     38.35 –
                     38.39
                     39.059,
-        6-8-2017    39.063,
                     39.066
                     152.01 –
                     152.03,
-        - -2018     152.15 –
                     152.23,
                     152.99
-        3-5-2018    95.092
                     157.001 –
                     157.007,
                     157.020,
                     157.021,
                     157.035 –
                     157.047,
                     157.060 –
                     157.072,
-        6-3-2019    157.085 –
                     157.104,
                     157.115 –
                     157.131,
                     157.145 –
                     157.156,
                     157.999,
                     Ch. 157 Appendix A,
                     Ch. 157 Appendix B
                     91.070 –
-        10-20-2020  91.079,
                     91.999
                     90.01,
-        11-2-2020   90.60 –
                     90.66,
                     90.99
                     70.001 –
                     70.009,
                     70.020 –
                     70.027,
                     70.040 –
                     70.042,
                     70.055 –
                     70.053,
                     70.075 –
                     70.086,
                     70.999,
                     71.001 –
                     71.004,
                     71.015 –
                     71.026,
                     71.040 –
                     71.048,
                     71.060 –
                     71.065,
-        5-11-2021   71.080 –
                     71.114,
                     71.125 –
                     71.129,
                     71.140 –
                     71.161,
                     71.175 –
                     71.183,
                     71.195 –
                     71.205,
                     71.220 –
                     71.227,
                     71.999,
                     72.01 –
                     72.05,
                     72.20 –
                     72.26,
                     72.40 –
                     72.52,
                     72.99
-        5-11-2021   Ch. 74, Schd. I
20A      6-3-2021    52.14
                     34.01.
-        6-7-2021    34.02,
                     34.17,
                     34.18
-        6-14-2021   31.21
                     50.01,
                     95.030,
                     95.031,
                     95.041,
-        7-28-2021   113.20,
                     113.21,
                     113.28,
                     150.020,
                     150.022,
                     150.023
-        10-11-2021  Ch. 73, Schd. II
2022-02  1-20-2022   TSO Table III
2022-01  2-7-2022    TSO Table III
2022-03  2-7-2022    TSO Table III
2022-04  2-7-2022    TSO Table III
                     153.01 –
2022-06  3-7-2022    153.14,
                     153.99
2022-08  3-7-2022    30.28
                     92.55 –
2022-07  4-4-2022    92.65,
                     92.99
                     32.042,
2022-09  4-4-2022    32.044 –
                     32.046
                    
 
 
