CAVE SPRINGS, ARKANSAS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-2 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2024-02, passed 2-27-2024
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
 
ORDINANCE NO. 2022-04
   CITY OF CAVE SPRINGS, BENTON COUNTY, ARKANSAS AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING AND
ENACTING A NEW    MUNICIPAL CODE OF ORDINANCES OF THE CITY OF CAVE SPRINGS,
ARKANSAS, AND ESTABLISHING THE SAME; PROVIDING FOR THE REPEAL OF CERTAIN
ORDINANCES NOT INCLUDED THEREIN, EXCEPT AS HEREIN EXPRESSLY PROVIDED; PROVIDING
FOR THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF SUCH CODE AND A PENALTY FOR THE VIOLATION THEREOF;
PROVIDING FOR THE MANNER OF AMENDING SUCH CODE; AND PROVIDING FOR THE EFFECTIVE
DATE OF THIS ORDINANCE; AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY    AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES.
   WHEREAS, the City of Cave Springs, Arkansas, an Arkansas municipal
corporation, has the authority to make and publish, from time to time,
ordinances, not inconsistent with the laws of the State of Arkansas, deemed
necessary to provide for the safety, preserve the health, promote the
prosperity, and improve the morals, order, comfort, and convenience of the City
and its inhabitants; and
   WHEREAS, in connection with the foregoing the Cave Springs City Council has,
over the years, enacted ordinances for the City, not inconsistent with the laws
of Arkansas, for carrying into effect and discharging the powers and duties
conferred on it by law; and
   WHEREAS, the Cave Springs City Council has determined that it is in the best
interest of the City and its citizens to codify its ordinances into a municipal
code pursuant to Ark. Code. Ann. § 14-55-701 as a new and original
comprehensive ordinance which shall supersede all other municipal codes and
general and permanent ordinances passed by the City Council on or before and to
the extent provided herein.
   NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ENACTED AND ORDAINED, by the City Council of the City
of Cave Springs, as follows:
   Section 1.   The Code of the General Ordinances of the City of Cave Springs,
Arkansas is hereby adopted and enacted as the "Cave Springs Municipal Code”.
Such Code shall be treated and considered as a new and original comprehensive
ordinance which shall supersede all other general and permanent ordinances
passed by the City Council on or before and to the extent provided in Section 2
hereof.
   Section 2.   All provisions of such Code shall be in full force and effect
from and after the 25th day of January 2022. All ordinances of a general and
permanent nature not included in such Code are hereby repealed from and after
the 25th day of January 2022, except as herein provided. No resolution of the
City, not specifically mentioned herein, is hereby repealed.
   Section 3.   The repeal provided for in Section 2 hereof shall not affect
any of the following:
   (1)   Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture
incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective
date of such Code;
   (2)   Any ordinance promising or guaranteeing the payment ofmoney for the
City or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the City or any evidence of
the City's indebtedness;
   (3)   Any contract or obligation assumed by the City;
   (4)   Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating,
opening, widening, paving, etc., any street or public way in the City;
   (5)   Any appropriation ordinance or rate ordinance;
   (6)   Any ordinance which, by its own terms, is effective only for a stated
or limited time;
   (7)   Any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes
therefor; and
   (8)   Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any plat.
   Section 4.   Whenever in such Code an act is prohibited or is made or
declared to be unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, or whenever in such
Code the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared
to be unlawful, and no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of
any such provision of such Code shall be punishable as provided by § 10.99 of
such Code.
   Section 5.   Any and all additions and amendments to such Code, when passed
in such form as to indicate the intention of the City Council to make the same
a part thereof shall be deemed to be incorporated in such Code so that
reference to the Cave Springs Municipal Code shall be understood and intended
to include such additions and amendments.
   Section 6.   In case of the amendment of any section of such Code for which
a penalty is not provided, the general penalty as provided in § 10.99 of such
Code shall apply to the Section as amended; or in case such amendment contains
provisions for which a penalty, other than the aforementioned general penalty,
is provided in another section in the same chapter, the penalty so provided in
such other section shall be held to relate to the section so amended, unless
such penalty is specifically repealed therein.
   Section 7.   Three copies of such Code have been, kept on file prior to the
adoption of this Ordinance in the office of the City Recorder-Treasurer as
required by A.C. § 14-55-701. Three copies of such Code shall be kept on file
in the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer as required by A.C. § 14-55-702
following the adoption of this Ordinance. It shall be the express duty of the
City Clerk-Treasurer, or someone authorized by the City Clerk-Treasurer to
insert in their designated places all amendments or ordinances which indicate
the intention of the City Council to make the same a part of such Code when the
same have been printed or reprinted in page form, and to extract from such Code
all provisions which may be from time to time repealed by the City Council.
These copies of such Code shall be available for all persons desiring to
examine the same.
   Section 8.   It shall be unlawful for any person to change or, amend by
additions or deletions, any part or portion of such Code, or to insert or
delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any
manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the City of Cave Springs,
Arkansas, to be misinterpreted thereby. Any person violating this section shall
be punished as provided in Section 4 of this ordinance.
   Section 9.   All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are,
to the extent ofsuch conflict, hereby repealed.
   Section 10.   Nothing in this Ordinance or the Cave Springs Municipal Code
shall be construed to confer a property right or an employment contract unless
such property right or employment contract is expressly, and specifically,
authorized by the Cave Springs City Council.
   Section 11.   It is hereby found that many of the ordinances of the City of
Cave Springs, Arkansas, are not easily accessible to citizens and municipal
officials and thereby has rendered it difficult for many persons to determine
the actual laws in effect; and that the City has made unusual efforts to have
the laws of the City of Cave Springs adopted and published. Therefore, an
emergency is hereby declared to exist and this ordinance being necessary for
the immediate preservations of the public peace, health and safety shall be in
full force and effect from and after its passage and approval.
      PASSED AND APPROVED this 24th day of January, 2022.
                                       APP ROVED:
                                       /s/ Randall J. Noblett
                                       Randall J. Noblett, Mayor
(SEAL)
ATTEST:
/s/ Kimberly Hutcheson
Kimberly Hutcheson, City Recorder-Treasurer
 
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   CITY STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by, and for, the City of Cave Springs shall
be designated as the Code of Cave Springs, and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending, or supplementing, this code, unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings, and captions, used in this code, other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers, are employed for reference purposes only, and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary, and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar, and appropriate, meaning in law shall be understood according to
their technical import.
   (B)   Terms defined. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different
meaning.
      CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY. The City of Cave Springs,
Arkansas.
      CODE, THIS CODE, or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code, as
modified by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or
sections.
      COUNTY. Benton County, Arkansas.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases, the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this municipality, unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to, and includes, person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing, and imposing, a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as applied
to any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners, or members, thereof, and
as applied to corporations, the officers, or agents, thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before, or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Arkansas.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis, and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this municipality shall be by the
following rules, unless such construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of
the legislative body, or of the context of the same ordinance:
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other, as if written
“and/or”, if the sense requires it;
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute, or ordinance, requires an act to
be done which, by law, an agent, or deputy as well, may do as the principal,
such requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of such act by an
authorized agent, or deputy;
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable; and
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated, unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now, or later, amended, or its application
to any person, or circumstance, is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision, or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever, in one section, reference is made to another section hereof, such
reference shall extend, and apply, to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered, unless the subject matter is
changed, or materially altered, by the amendment, or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office, or officer, shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this municipality exercising the powers,
duties, or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any
transfer of functions, or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word, or words, necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected; the use of a word, or words, to which no meaning
can be attached; or the use of a word, or words, when another word, or words,
was clearly intended to express such intent, such spelling shall be corrected,
and such word, or words, supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with
the manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though
the correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No
alteration shall be made, or permitted, if any question exists regarding the
nature, or extent, of such error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state or federal laws, shall
be the official time within this municipality for the transaction of all
municipal business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time, or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of such act, or the giving of such notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from, and after, the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary, or special, nature, and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code, shall remain in full force,
and effect, unless herein repealed expressly, or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from, and after, the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance, or part of an ordinance, shall be repealed, or
modified, by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance, or part of an ordinance,
thus repealed, or modified, shall continue in force until the due publication
of the ordinance repealing, or modifying, it when publication is required to
give effect thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall, in any way, be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force,
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter, or
section, of this code, the chapter, or section, shall be specifically repealed,
and a new chapter, or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in
its place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter, or section, shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of such chapter, or section. In addition to such
indication thereof, as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption, or title, shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number, and passage
date, of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (A.C. § 14-55-504) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-
1985)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see A.C. §§ 25-19-101 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   General penalty established. If an ordinance, or code, does not
specifically provide for the penalty for violating that ordinance, or code,
then this section, along with the below-mentioned fines, will encompass those
violations. This section is not designated to supersede any ordinance, or code,
in which penalties have already been established. Any conflict between the
penalties stated below, and any other ordinance, or code, violations will be
resolved by deference to the more specific ordinance, or code, violation.
   (B)   Maximum penalties permitted.
      (1)   The city shall not inflict any fine, or penalty, by ordinance or
otherwise, to a greater sum than $1,000 for any one specified offense, or
violation, of a bylaw or ordinance, or double that sum for each repetition of
such offense, or violation.
      (2)   If a thing prohibited, or rendered unlawful, is, in its nature,
continuous in respect to time, the fine, or penalty, for allowing the
continuance thereof, in violation of the bylaw or ordinance, shall not exceed
$500 for each day that it may be unlawfully continued.
      (3)   If any bylaw, or ordinance, provides for any greater fine, penalty,
or forfeiture than is provided in this section, it shall, and may be, lawful,
in any suit or prosecution, for the recovery thereof, to reduce it to such
amount as shall be deemed reasonable and proper, and to permit a recovery, or
render a judgment, for such amount as authorized.
(A.C. § 14-55-504)
CHAPTER 11: CITY STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Designated places for posting of ordinances
   
11.02   Classification of city
§ 11.01 DESIGNATED PLACES FOR POSTING OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Designation of public places. The following places, which are hereby
found to be five of the most public places in the municipality, are hereby
designated for the posting of notice of the adoption of ordinances of the
municipality:
Facility Location
Facility                        Location
Cave Springs City Hall          134 N. Main, Cave Springs, Arkansas 72718
Cave Springs City Park*         Johnson Avenue, Cave Springs, Arkansas 72718
Cave Springs Coffee Co.         137 N. Main, Cave Springs, Arkansas 72718
Cave Springs Community Building 117 S. Main, Cave Springs, Arkansas 72718
Cave Springs Fire Department    128 E. Main, Cave Springs, Arkansas 72718
Nelson’s Hardware             115 S. Main, Cave Springs, Arkansas 72718
Notes to Table:
*   Alternate site
 
   (B)   Notice by posting. Notice of the adoption of ordinances of the
municipality shall be effected by the posting of ordinances at the locations
set forth in division (A) above, and any other site deemed necessary.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 1-9-2018)
§ 11.02 CLASSIFICATION OF CITY.
   The city shall operate as a city of the second class under the laws of the
state.
(Prior Code, § 2.04.01)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see A.C. § 14-37-103
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
      
31.   EMPLOYEES AND OFFICIALS
      
32.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   COURTS
      
34.   PUBLIC SAFETY AND LAW ENFORCEMENT
      
35.   FINANCES AND TAXATION
      
36.   GENERAL CITY POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
Section
City Council
   
30.01   Procedural rules
   
30.02   City Council administration
   
30.03   Regular meetings
   
30.04   Special meetings
   
30.05   Public hearings, meetings, work sessions
   
30.06   Public notification; meeting, committee meetings
   
30.07   Agenda
   
30.08   Public comment; question; response procedure
CITY COUNCIL
§ 30.01 PROCEDURAL RULES.
   (A)   In the absence of specific rules of procedure, as set out in this
procedural subchapter, the rules of procedure for transacting business at
regular and special sessions of the City Council shall be the "Procedural Rules
for Municipal Officials" published by the Arkansas Municipal League in 1987 and
as amended, except the Clerk shall commence a roll call vote with a different
member of the City Council on a rotating basis or by motion of a City Council
member, seconded and passed by a majority vote of the Council.
   (B)   The officers of the City of Cave Springs, Arkansas, shall consist of
one Mayor with a term of four years, one Clerk-Treasurer with a term of four
years, and six City Council members representing the entire city, but elected
from three wards of the city, two City Council Members per ward who are elected
at large. Each City Council member must reside in the ward for the position
they seek, and each shall have a term of two years. All officers shall be
qualified electors residing with the limits of the municipal corporation.
(Ord. 2020-09, passed 3-23-2020; Ord. 2022-03, passed 1-24-2022; Ord. 2024-02,
passed 2-27-2024)
§ 30.02 CITY COUNCIL ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Council. The presiding
officer may vote only as allowed by state law. The Clerk-Treasurer shall serve
as secretariat of the City Council. The Clerk-Treasurer shall perform all
administrative and record-keeping duties of the Council in accordance with
Arkansas law. An electronic recording device will be used to record the meeting
as required by Arkansas law. The Clerk-Treasurer shall make a true and correct
record of all proceedings and shall post and file all ordinances and
resolutions as required by law.
   (B)   In the absence of the Mayor and Clerk-Treasurer from any meeting of
the Council, the Council shall have the power to appoint any one of their
number to perform the duties of Mayor or any appropriate person to perform the
duties of the Clerk-Treasurer for the purposes of conducting the meeting.
(Ord. 2020-09, passed 3-23-2020; Ord. 2022-03, passed 1-24-2022; Ord. 2024-02,
passed 2-27-2024)
§ 30.03 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   (A)   The regular meeting of the Cave Springs City Council will be held on
the fourth Tuesday of each month at 6:30 p.m. in the American Legion Building
located at 168 Glenwood Ave., Cave Springs, Arkansas, unless otherwise
announced. In the case that the American Legion Building is not available for a
particular meeting or period of meetings, or in the case of a change of date or
time of the regular meeting, the date, time and location of the particular
meeting(s) shall be announced at a regular City Council meeting, announced on
city social media sites or the city website or otherwise distributed and
advertised in order to reasonably inform the public of the change of location.
When a regular meeting of the Council falls on a recognized city holiday, the
meeting shall be held at the same time and place on the next day for which city
government offices are open for business, or at such time and place as agreed
to by the City Council with such notice to the public being provided as set
forth herein.
   (B)   The place of meeting may be changed for a particular meeting during
the course thereof by a majority vote of the Council as required by law. The
Council may, by a two-thirds vote of the membership, suspend or reschedule to
other times any future regularly scheduled meeting or meetings. Council
members, the Mayor and the Clerk-Treasurer shall attend all meetings of the
City Council.
(Ord. 2020-09, passed 3-23-2020; Ord. 2022-03, passed 1-24-2022; Ord. 2024-02,
passed 2-27-2024)
§ 30.04 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Mayor or three or more City Council members may call special
meetings upon at least two hours notice in the event of an emergency or exigent
circumstance, but in such cases where there is no emergency or exigent
circumstances, at least 24 hours notice of the special meeting shall be
provided. The notice of a special meeting shall specify the specific agenda for
the special meeting as required by law as well as the date, time, and
designated location of the special meeting. Only such business as was included
in the special meeting notice may be considered at the special meeting.
   (B)   Notice of a special meeting given at any regular or special meeting of
the City Council shall constitute due notice to the City Council members. The
Clerk-Treasurer, or designee, shall be responsible for giving a timely notice
to absent members, as well as giving public notice, containing the information
specified in division (A) of this section.
   (C)   Notice of a special meeting of the City Council called by the Mayor at
other than a meeting of the City Council shall be accomplished by the Mayor
notifying the Clerk-Treasurer, in writing, who shall then be responsible for
notifying each City Council member individually, in writing or verbally, and
give due public notice, containing information specified in division (A) of
this section. In the absence of the Clerk-Treasurer, the Mayor or designee
shall prepare written notice, containing information specified in division (A)
of this section and the Mayor, or designee, shall be responsible for notifying
the Clerk- Treasurer and each City Council member individually, either in
writing or verbally, and give due public notice containing the information
specified in division (A) of this section.
   (D)   Notice of a special meeting of the City Council called by three or
more City Council members shall be accomplished by one City Council member of
the group notifying the Mayor verbally or in writing. In addition to the
information specified in division (A), the notice shall also include the name
of each City Council member making up the group calling the meeting. The Mayor
shall notify the Clerk- Treasurer verbally or in writing of the request for a
special meeting. The Clerk-Treasurer, or designee, shall be responsible for
notifying each Council member not in the majority calling the special meeting,
in writing or verbally, and giving due public notice.
   (E)   In order to provide city officials and the general public with the
best opportunity to make arrangements to be present, if desired, it is the
intent of this section that notice of a call for a special meeting shall be
given as far in advance as possible consistent with the nature and immediacy of
the purpose of the special meeting. The minimum of two hours notice shall be
used only under extreme and unusual circumstances. Whenever possible, notice of
any special meeting shall be provided on the city social media sites and the
city website.
   (F)   All special meetings of the City Council or any of its committees
shall be in conformance with the Arkansas Freedom of Information Act and all
other state laws.
(Ord. 2020-09, passed 3-23-2020; Ord. 2022-03, passed 1-24-2022; Ord. 2024-02,
passed 2-27-2024)
§ 30.05 PUBLIC HEARINGS, MEETINGS, WORK SESSIONS.
   (A)   The Mayor or three or more members of the City Council, may call a
public hearing, meeting and/or work session upon at least 24 hours notice. The
notice of a public hearing shall specify the subject(s), date, time, and
designated location of the public hearing or work session. Public hearings and/
or work sessions shall be used for a means of information gathering or the
hearing of evidence on a particular subject(s) or action(s) and no conclusions
or votes mandating the City Council to act or take action will be taken or
recognized by the City Council at such hearings, meetings or sessions. The
public is invited to attend work sessions of the City Council, but time for
public comment will not be provided. Whenever possible or necessary, an agenda
shall be provided for each work session, but no minutes of any work session
shall be taken.
   (B)   The Cave Springs City Council shall hold a regular work session once a
month for the purposes of initial review of prior month financials and
department reports, discussion of new business, discussion of tabled items from
previous meetings, discussion of any city business, and for the content and
arrangement of the agenda for the upcoming regular City Council meeting. The
regular work session shall be held on the second Tuesday of every month at 6:30
p.m. at the Cave Springs American Legion Building or at such location agreed to
by the City Council members. Other than the administrative task of the
formulation of the agenda, no conclusions or votes mandating the City Council
to act or take action will be taken or recognized by the City Council at the
regular work session.
   (C)   Notice of a public hearing and/or work session called by the Mayor at
other than the regular meeting of the City Council shall be accomplished by the
Mayor notifying the Clerk-Treasurer in writing or verbally. The Clerk-
Treasurer, or designee, shall be responsible for notifying each City Council
member individually, in writing or verbally, and give due public notice,
containing information specified in §
30.04 herein. In the absence of the Clerk-Treasurer, the Mayor or designee
shall prepare written notice, containing information specified in division (A)
of this section and the Mayor, or designee, shall be responsible for notifying
the Clerk-Treasurer and each City Council member individually, either in
writing or verbally, and give due public notice containing the information
specified in division (A) of this section.
   (D)   Notice of a public hearing and/or work session of the City Council
called by any two Council members shall be accomplished by one member of the
calling group to notify the Mayor in writing or verbally. In addition to the
information specified in division (A), the notice shall also include the name
of each City Council member making up the called hearing or meeting. The Mayor
shall be responsible for notifying the City Clerk-Treasurer and each City
Council member not in the calling group of the hearing, meeting or session, in
writing or verbally, and giving due public notice as specified in §
30.04 of this subchapter.
   (E)   lt is intent of this section that notice of a call for a public
hearing, city meeting and/or work session shall be given as far in advance as
possible consistent with the nature and immediacy of the purpose of the
hearing, meeting or session. The minimum of 24 hours notice shall be given only
under unusual circumstances.
   (F)   All public hearings, city meetings and/or work sessions called by the
Mayor, City Council or any of its committees shall be in conformance with the
Arkansas Freedom of Information Act and all other state laws.
(Ord. 2020-09, passed 3-23-2020; Ord. 2022-03, passed 1-24-2022; Ord. 2024-02,
passed 2-27-2024)
§ 30.06 PUBLIC NOTIFICATION; MEETING, COMMITTEE MEETINGS.
   In addition to all other duties required by law, the Clerk-Treasurer shall
be responsible for giving public notification required by Arkansas Freedom of
Information Act of regular and special meetings of the City Council and
committees thereof. Committee Chairpersons shall strive to give the Clerk-
Treasurer 48 hours notice, in writing, of meetings of their committees in order
to give the Clerk-Treasurer time to notify all City Council members, the Mayor
and the public. In the absence of the Clerk-Treasurer, the Mayor or designee,
shall be responsible for notifying the Clerk-Treasurer, all City Council
members and the public.
(Ord. 2020-09, passed 3-23-2020; Ord. 2022-03, passed 1-24-2022; Ord. 2024-02,
passed 2-27-2024)
§ 30.07 AGENDA.
   (A)   The agenda for all regular City Council meetings shall be determined
by the City Council members at the monthly regular work session, and by the
Mayor, City Attorney and City Engineer over the course of the subsequent time
prior to the City Council meeting. The Mayor or any City Council member who
wishes to have an item placed on the agenda for the regular City Council
meeting shall be prepared to offer the proposed agenda item for consideration
at the regular work session, or in cases of items that. The City Council
members shall decide the content and arrangement of the agenda for each regular
City Council meeting. The name of the sponsor of each agenda item may be
indicated on the final agenda. At the regular City Council meeting, the agenda
may be amended or rearranged by a majority vote of the City Council.
   (B)   The agenda for the regular City Council meeting shall contain the
following items:
      (1)   Call to order;
      (2)   Approval of the regular City Council agenda;
      (3)   City Attorney's reports;
      (4)   Presentation of the minutes of the prior regular City Council
meeting;
      (5)   Presentation of the city financial reports;
      (6)   Presentation of the water and sewer financial reports;
      (7)   Presentation of the Mayor's report;
      (8)   Presentation of the departmental reports - Planning Commission,
Water and Sewer Departments, Public Works, Police Department and the Fire
Department;
      (9)   Review of public comments from the previous regular City Council
meeting;
      (10)   Public comments;
      (11)   Presentation of veto(s) (if any);
      (12)   Old business; and
      (13)   New business.
   (C)   Following the regular work session, the City Attorney shall assist in
the preparation of the agenda and shall prepare or approve all resolutions and
ordinances contained in the agenda as requested and required. The City Attorney
shall submit all resolutions and ordinances, or indicate approval of any
resolutions or ordinances not prepared by the City Attorney, by the end of
business on the Friday prior to the regular City Council meeting. The Mayor and
Clerk-Treasurer, or their designees, shall submit all reports and information
required for the agenda to the Clerk-Treasurer, or designee, prior to noon (12:
00 p.m.) on the Friday before the regular City Council meeting. The Clerk-
Treasurer shall submit all financials required for the agenda to the Mayor by
the Monday prior to the regular City Council meeting. The Mayor or the Clerk-
Treasurer, or designee, will see that the agenda is distributed to the City
Council members and other interested citizens or parties. A packet containing
items that have been placed on the agenda shall be electronically delivered to
the City Council members no later than the Friday prior to the regular City
Council meeting. The agenda shall be prominently published to the city's
website and any other selected public places no later than the Friday prior to
the regularly scheduled meeting.
(Ord. 2020-09, passed 3-23-2020; Ord. 2022-03, passed 1-24-2022; Ord. 2023-02,
passed 2-14-2023; Ord. 2024-04, passed 2-27-2024)
§ 30.08 PUBLIC COMMENT; QUESTION; RESPONSE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Public questions that are posed or delivered at the regular City
Council meeting, and not answered at that meeting, shall be documented by the
Clerk-Treasurer and forwarded to the Mayor and City Council members for
inclusion on the agenda and review prior to the next City Council work session.
   (B)   At the regular work session, the following process should be followed:
      (1)   The City Attorney shall address any questions of law from City
Council members or the Mayor and explain or offer any other necessary
recommendations.
      (2)   Other questions will be discussed by the City Council at the work
session with one of two possible outcomes at the regular work session:
         (a)   No current response with reason for no response:
            1.   Response not appropriate due to litigation or prohibition by
law or policy; or
            2.   That further research needed, with the assigned of the
question to the appropriate person for further work.
         (b)   Discussion of the question, with the Clerk-Treasurer documenting
the response, which will be included in the next month's City Council meeting
packet.
   (C)   The following month's agenda should include public questions/comments
and responses thereto and placed prior to "Public Comments" section.
   (D)   Each question and the response shall be read by the Mayor, or the City
Attorney if a question of law has been presented, during the City Council
meeting with discussion by the City Council if desired.
   (E)   All unresolved items will continue to be included on each month's work
session agenda until resolved.
(Ord. 2020-09, passed 3-23-2020; Ord. 2022-03, passed 1-24-2022; Ord. 2024-02,
passed 2-27-2024)
CHAPTER 31: EMPLOYEES AND OFFICIALS
Section
   
31.01   City Attorney
   
31.02   City Clerk-Treasurer
   
31.03   Alderman, Alderwoman districting
   
31.04   Building Official
   
31.05   Code Enforcement Officer
§ 31.01 CITY ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The office of City Attorney is hereby established as a position which
is appointed by the City Council. The appointment shall be approved by a
resolution approved by a majority of the City Council.
   (B)   The duties, and responsibilities, of the City Attorney shall be to:
      (1)   Draft ordinances, resolutions, contracts, leases, conveyances, and
such other instruments of writing, as may be required by the business of the
city;
      (2)   Provide written opinions upon a subject requiring a legal opinion
when requested, and properly approved, by the city;
      (3)   Provide legal advice regarding matters involving the city to
elected officials, department heads, and authorized city employees;
      (4)   Attend meetings of the City Council, and other city meetings as
requested, and properly approved;
      (5)   Represent the city in civil litigation, and to recommend, and
coordinate, all outside legal counsel work on behalf of the city, unless the
City Attorney has a conflict;
      (6)   Prosecute all civil, or criminal, cases involving the violation of
city ordinances before the district court, and to prosecute all civil, or
misdemeanor, criminal cases involving violations of state laws within the
corporate limits of the city before the district, juvenile, or circuit courts,
and to prosecute, or defend, all appeals of any such cases; and
      (7)   Perform such duties as required by A.C. § 14-42-112, required by
state law, or as requested by the City Council.
   (C)   The City Attorney shall report to the City Council on a regular basis,
and shall endeavor to keep the City Council apprised of all matters of a legal
nature.
(Ord. 2017-22, passed 5-9-2017)
§ 31.02 CITY CLERK-TREASURER.
   (A)   Office. The office of City Clerk-Treasurer is hereby created. The City
Clerk-Treasurer shall be elected by the qualified voters of the city, and shall
serve a four-year term in accordance with the laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 2.12.01)
   (B)   Compensation. The salary of the Clerk-Treasurer shall be the current
salary of the City Recorder, as established by the City Council. The City
Council may amend the salary of the City Clerk-Treasurer in the annual budget
ordinance for the city, subject to the restrictions of governing law,
regulations, and the State Constitution.
(Prior Code, § 2.12.02)
   (C)   Supervision of information technology issues. The Clerk-Treasurer
shall manage, and supervise, all city-related IT issues, and is empowered to
take such action consistent with state law and city ordinances as is necessary
to carry out said responsibilities. The duties, and powers, conferred by this
section shall be in addition to any other duties, or responsibilities, of the
Clerk-Treasurer established by law or ordinance.
   (D)   Duties.
      (1)   General duties for “clerk” responsibilities. To perform duties
prescribed in Subtitle Three of Title 14 of the state code, or as assigned, and
prescribed, by city ordinance adopted by the City Council, A.C. § 14-44-109.
      (2)   General duties for “treasurer” responsibilities.
         (a)   Maintain the account records of the city, as prescribed in the
State Municipal Accounting Law (A.C. §§ 14-59-101 et seq.). During any vacancy
in the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer, the duties prescribed in the State
Municipal Accounting Law at A.C. §§ 14-59-101 et seq. shall be performed by the
Mayor, or his or her designee, until the City Council shall appoint a qualified
person, or persons, to the office of Clerk-Treasurer, and such duties shall be
prescribed to that person, or persons, by ordinance of the City Council.
         (b)   All other duties of the City Clerk-Treasurer, not specifically
set forth by state law, or by ordinance of the City Council, are removed from
the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer. Any such duties removed from the City
Clerk-Treasurer shall be performed by the Mayor’s designee.
         (c)   The City Clerk-Treasurer shall be the collector of all taxes and
fees due the city, including, without limitation, all occupation and privilege
taxes, and taxes for the city. During any vacancy in the office of Clerk-
Treasurer, the City Council assigns to the Mayor, or his or her designee, the
authority to keep records on all taxes, fees, and money collected until such
time as the City Council may appoint a person to the office of Clerk-Treasurer.
      (3)   Additional, specific “clerk” duties and responsibilities.
         (a)   Attend all meetings of the City Council and make a fair,
accurate, and correct record of proceedings, laws, rules, and ordinances made,
and passed, by the City Council.
         (b)   Maintain laws and ordinances of the city, and keep a correct
journal of all proceedings of the City Council (minutes).
         (c)   Produce, or provide, copies of the minutes, ordinances, and
policy manuals upon request.
         (d)   Attend City Council meetings, bid openings, public hearings, and
other meetings which require an official city record, unless otherwise directed
by the City Council.
         (e)   File all required documents, as designated by law.
         (f)   Arrange, and oversee, notice publications in newspapers, as
required by law.
         (g)   Execute contracts and conveyances for sale, purchase, or lease
of real, or personal, property, as required.
         (h)   Respond to the Freedom of Information Act requests for records
of which the City Clerk-Treasurer is the custodian, and help coordinate
responses to the Freedom of Information Act requests pursuant to A.C. § 25-19-
101 et seq.
         (i)   Maintain the records of the city, as required by law or city
ordinance.
         (j)   Sign all contracts, leases, bonds, and debentures of the city,
as required.
         (k)   Assist with preparation, and distribution, of City Council
agenda packets.
         (l)   Responsible for communication, and interface, with the city
telecommunications and IT providers.
      (4)   Additional, specific “treasurer” duties and responsibilities.
         (a)   Maintain banks statements for each month for the City General
Fund, Street Fund, Court Automated Fund, Administration of Justice Fund,
Undercover Operation Fund, Rescue Emergency Management Fund, Fire Insurance
Turnback Fund, and the Fire Association Fund accounts.
         (b)   Maintain cash receipt books and printers’ certificates.
         (c)   Maintain cash receipts and disbursement journals with monthly,
and year-to-date, totals, transactions records, and a detailed general ledger.
         (d)   Retain check stubs.
         (e)   Maintain details of certificates of deposits, including interest
rates and renewal dates.
         (f)   Maintain, and complete, bank reconciliations for each month, and
deposit slips that indicate the range of receipts on each deposit ticket.
         (g)   Maintain filing of paid invoices.
         (h)   Maintain IRS 1099 forms for interest earned.
         (i)   Maintains individual payroll records.
         (j)   Prepare quarterly payroll reports.
         (k)   Maintains W-2s, W-3s, W-4s, 1099s, and the personal records for
non-uniformed employees.
         (l)   Create six-month financial statements, and proofs of
publication.
         (m)   Maintain copies of all insurance policies.
         (n)   Maintain copies of all personnel policies.
         (o)   Assist in creating budgets and amended budgets.
         (p)   Maintain copies of all city (not the Water and Sewer
Departments) audit reports.
         (q)   Maintain general ledgers.
         (r)   Responsible for the receipt of revenues.
         (s)   Manages/approves disbursements for expenses incurred for the
city (not the Water and Sewer Departments).
         (t)   Responsible for investment activities, including cash management
banking and ensuring appropriate collateralization of funds.
         (u)   Establishes, maintains, and administers effective internal
control practices and procedures.
         (v)   Maintains detailed records related to the city’s fixed assets.
         (w)   Assists with developing/implementing annual operating budget,
financial statement audit, and other budgetary projects.
         (x)   Respond to request for financial information, and Freedom of
Information Act requests pursuant to A.C. § 25-19-101 et seq. for which the
City Clerk-Treasurer is the custodian.
         (y)   Attend all meetings of the City Council, special or called
meetings, and work sessions upon request.
         (z)   Prepare a monthly treasurer’s report to be presented at each
regular City Council meeting that shall include all electronic bank transfers,
reconciled financials, deposits, and revenue sources.
         (aa)   Reconcile all City General Fund, Street Fund, Court Automated
Fund, Administration of Justice Fund, Undercover Operation Fund, Rescue
Emergency Management Fund, Fire Insurance Turnback Fund, and the Fire
Association Fund accounts every month.
   (E)   Access to documentation maintained by the office of Clerk-Treasurer.
The Clerk-Treasurer shall provide access to documentation maintained by the
office of Clerk-Treasurer during normal business hours of the city, and shall
provide documents maintained by the Clerk-Treasurer to city officials,
department heads, or authorized employees upon request.
   (F)   Removal of other duties. All other duties of the City Clerk-Treasurer,
not specifically set forth by state law, are hereby removed from the office of
the City Clerk-Treasurer. Any such duties removed from the Office of the City
Clerk-Treasurer by this section shall be performed by the Mayor’s designee. The
City Clerk-Treasurer shall not be responsible for any duties, or requirements,
contained in the State Municipal Water and Sewer Department Accounting Law
(A.C. §§ 14-237-101 through 14-237-113).
(Ord. 2015-08, passed - -; Ord. 2017-15, passed 2-14-2017; Ord. 2018-3, passed
2-13-2018; Ord. 2022-10, passed 3-22-2022)
§ 31.03 ALDERMAN, ALDERWOMAN DISTRICTING.
   (A)   Adoption of plan. The ward redistricting plan, as shown on the map
under division (B) below, and made a part hereof, be, and is hereby adopted,
with said map to serve hereafter as the official ward map for the city.
(Prior Code, § 2.20.01)
   (B)   Filing of plan. A duly certified copy of said map shall be filed with
the County Election Commission, and filed in the office of the County Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 2.20.03)
(Ord. 2012-06, passed 5-14-2012)
§ 31.04 BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   (A)   Establishment. The office of Building Official is hereby established
as an appointive office within the city. The office of the Building Official
shall be appointed, as set forth herein, upon when the position is duly
provided for in the annual budget approved by the City Council. In the absence
of an employed Building Official, the Building Official shall be a person, or
persons, hired under contract to perform the duties set forth herein, according
to the terms, and conditions, of the contract which must be approved by the
City Council.
   (B)   Appointment and removal. As provided by A.C. §§ 14-56-202, when
applicable, and 14-42-110, the Building Official shall be appointed, and may be
removed, by the Mayor, unless the City Council shall, by a two-thirds majority
vote of the total membership of the Council, vote to override the Mayor’s
action. It shall not be necessary, however, for the Council to vote to approve
the Mayor’s decision. If the Building Official is not duly provided for in the
annual budget approved by the City Council, the Building Officials shall be a
person, or persons, hired under contract, as provided in division (A) above.
   (C)   Absence or disability. During temporary absence, or disability, of the
Building Official, the Mayor shall designate an acting Building Official. In
the absence of an employed Building Official, the persons hired under contract
to perform the duties set forth herein shall professionally communicate with
each other and the city regarding scheduling of services, scheduling conflicts,
information that will assist the other contractor in coverage, and completion
of covered inspections during an absence, and provide as much advanced
notification to ensure coverage by contracted inspectors, and to enable the
Mayor to designate an acting Building Official in the rare occasion that the
contractor, or contractors, are unavailable to provide coverage.
   (D)   Qualifications. The Building Official shall be physically capable of
making the necessary examinations and inspections. He or she shall not have any
interest whatever, directly or indirectly, in the sale or manufacture of any
material, process, or device entering into, or used in or connected with,
building construction, alterations, removal, and demolition. Further, the
Building Official shall have the following certifications:
      (1)   State HVAC Inspector certification by State Department of Health;
      (2)   State Plumbing Inspector certification by State Department of
Health; and
      (3)   State Board of Electrical Examiners certification as Electrical
Inspector.
   (E)   Duties. The Building Official shall:
      (1)   Receive applications required by applicable codes, issue permits,
and furnish the prescribed certificates;
      (2)   Examine the premises for which permits have been issued, and shall
make necessary inspections to see that the provisions of law are complied with
and that construction is prosecuted safely; and
      (3)   Enforce all provisions of the building codes. When requested by
proper authority, or when the public interest so requires, the Building
Official shall make investigations in connection with matters referred to in
the building codes and render written reports on the same. The Building
Official shall issue such notices, or orders, as may be necessary enforce
compliance with law, to remove illegal or unsafe conditions, to secure the
necessary safeguards during construction, or to require adequate exit
facilities in buildings and structures.
   (F)   Inspections. Inspections required under the provisions of the building
codes shall be made by the Building Official, or his or her duly appointed
assistant. The Building Official may accept reports of inspectors of recognized
inspection services, after investigation of their qualifications and
reliability. No certificate called for by any provision of the building code
shall be issued on such reports, unless the same are in writing and certified
to by a responsible officer of such service.
   (G)   Records. The Building Official shall keep comprehensive records of
applications, of permits issued, of certificates issued, of inspections made or
reports rendered, and of notices or orders issued. All such records shall be
open to public inspection and copying at the stated office hours in compliance
with the State Freedom of Information Act, but shall not be removed from the
office of the Building Official without his or her written consent.
   (H)   Reports. The Building Official shall make written reports to his or
her immediate superior once each month, or more often, if requested, including
statements of permits and certificates issued and orders promulgated.
   (I)   Liability. It is the intent of the City Council that the Building
Official, and any employees or agents assisting in the functions of the
Building Official, shall enjoy the protections of statutory immunity from suit,
qualified immunity, good faith immunity, and all other legal protections and
immunities allowed by law in the performance of his or her official duties.
Therefore, nothing contained within this section shall be deemed to waive any
immunity or defense to suit to which the Building Official, agents, or
employees engaged in such functions may be entitled by law.
      (1)   In addition, nothing contained in this section shall be deemed to
create any cause of action whatsoever against the Building Official or the
aforementioned agents or employees. Any suit brought against any such person
shall be defended by the City Attorney or legal representative of the city.
      (2)   The provisions of this section shall apply with equal force to the
members of any construction board of adjustment or appeals, or similar body,
which may now exist or may be hereafter created within the city.
   (J)   Right of entry. The Building Official, in the discharge of his or her
official duties, and upon proper identification, shall have authority to enter
any building, structure, or premises after obtaining a proper warrant, or may
enter without a warrant in such cases in which warrantless entry is authorized
by law. The Building Official is charged with the responsibility to learn the
requirements of the law with respect to entry into buildings and onto private
property and shall, when feasible, seek the advice of the City Attorney in
connection with any such entry or administrative search.
   (K)   Emergency clause. It is of the utmost urgency that the city has the
ability to enforce applicable building codes to protect the property and lives
of the citizens of the city; therefore, an emergency is hereby declared to
exist, and this section, being necessary for the immediate protection of the
public peace, health, and safety, took effect immediately on its passage and
approval on August 9, 2017.
(Ord. 2017-32, passed 8-9-2017)
§ 31.05 CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (A)   Citations. The Code Enforcement Officer, and his or her deputies, as
duly appointed by the Mayor, be, and are, hereby authorized, and charged, to
issue citations for violations of municipal codes, ordinances, and regulations
of the city, under the provisions of A.C. § 12-9-108(b)(3).
(Prior Code, § 2.36.01)
   (B)   Restrictions. The authorization does not pertain to enforcement of the
criminal statutes of the state, enforcement of which are vested in certified
law enforcement officers. The authority to issue citations does not include
arrests, or apprehension, authority.
(Prior Code, § 2.36.02)
(Ord. 98-5, passed - -)
CHAPTER 32: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Water Committee
   
32.02   Sewer Committee
   
32.03   Northwest State Conservation Authority
Planning Commission
   
32.15   Commission created
   
32.16   Terms of office
   
32.17   Compensation
   
32.18   Vacancies in office
   
32.19   Election of officers
   
32.20   General goals and purposes
   
32.21   Powers and duties
   
32.22   Quorum
   
32.23   General meeting procedures
   
32.24   Public hearing procedures
   
32.25   Work session
   
32.26   Appropriation by Council required; expending, encumbering funds
   
32.27   Cooperation with other planning bodies
   
32.28   Territorial jurisdiction
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 WATER COMMITTEE.
   (A)   Creation. There is hereby created a committee of the city to be known
as the City Water Committee, which shall be comprised of five members.
(Prior Code, § 10.16.01)
   (B)   Powers and duties. The Committee shall have all of the powers, and
duties, delegated to it by the City Council. The Water Committee will have the
power to take all steps and proceedings, and to enter into all contracts, and
agreements, necessary, or incidental, to the performance of its duties, except
that any contract relating to financing, or any trust indenture, shall be
approved by the City Council before it is effective.
      (1)   The Committee may employ engineers, architects, inspectors,
managers, and the like, as may be necessary in the execution of its powers and
duties, and may fix their compensation. All compensation, expenses, and
liabilities shall be paid solely from funds provided to the Water Committee,
and the Committee may not bind the municipality beyond this amount.
      (2)   No contract, or agreement, shall be made with a contractor for
materials, or labor, for over $10,000 without advertising for bids. Bids must
be publicly opened, and award made to the best bidder, with power in the
Committee to reject any, or all, bids.
      (3)   After construction, or acquisition, of the works, the Committee
shall:
         (a)   Operate, manage, and control the water system, and may order,
and complete, any extensions, betterments, and improvements if funds are
available, or are made available;
         (b)   Establish rules, and regulations, for the use, and operation, of
the water system; and
         (c)   Do all things necessary, and expedient, for the successful
operating of the water system.
(Prior Code, § 10.16.02)
   (C)   Members.
      (1)   The members of the Water Committee shall be appointed by the Mayor,
and shall become valid following confirmation of such appointments by the City
Council. The members shall consist of the following:
         (a)   Two City Council members;
         (b)   One citizen of the city;
         (c)   The Director of Public Works for the city; and
         (d)   The Water and Sewer Clerk for the city.
      (2)   The Mayor of the city shall serve as an ex-officio member of the
Water Committee.
      (3)   The terms of service for the citizen of the city and the City
Council member shall be for a period of two years, and the terms service for
the other members of the Committee shall be for the term they maintain the
position of Director of Public Works, Water and Sewer Clerk, and Mayor.
   (D)   Authority of the City Council. The Committee shall function under the
control of the City Council. The City Council may remove any member of the
Committee with, or without, cause, and may appoint any substitute members in
case of death, removal, or resignation.
(Prior Code, § 10.16.04)
(Ord. 2007-3, passed - -; Ord. 2019-02, passed 1-8-2019)
§ 32.02 SEWER COMMITTEE.
   (A)   Creation. There is hereby created a committee of the city to be known
as the City Sewer Committee, which shall be comprised of five members.
(Prior Code, § 10.08.01)
   (B)   Powers and duties. The Committee shall have all of the powers, and
duties, provided by A.C. § 14-235-207, as the same may be amended from time to
time. As set forth therein, the Sewer Committee will have the power to take all
steps, and proceedings, and to enter into all contracts, and agreements,
necessary, or incidental, to the performance of its duties, except any contract
relating to financing, or any trust indenture, shall be approved by the City
Council before it is effective. The Committee may employ engineers, architects,
inspectors, managers, and the like, as may be necessary in the execution of its
powers and duties, and may fix their compensation. All compensation, expenses,
and liabilities shall be paid solely from funds provided to the City Sewer
Committee, and the Committee may not bind the municipality beyond this amount.
      (1)   No contract, or agreement, shall be made with a contractor for
materials, or labor, for over $10,000 without advertising for bids. Bids must
be publicly opened, and award made to the best bidder, with power in the
Committee to reject any, or all, bids.
      (2)   After construction, or acquisition, of the works, the Committee
shall:
         (a)   Operate, manage, and control the works, and may order, and
complete, any extensions, betterments, and improvements if funds are available,
or are made available;
         (b)   Establish rules, and regulations, for the use, and operation, of
the works, and other sewers, and drains, connected to them; and
         (c)   Do all things necessary, and expedient, for the successful
operating of the works.
(Prior Code, § 10.08.02)
   (C)   Members.
      (1)   The members of the Sewer Committee shall be appointed by the Mayor,
and shall become valid following confirmation of such appointments by the City
Council. The members shall consist of the following:
         (a)   Two City Council members;
         (b)   One citizen of the city;
         (c)   The Director of Public Works for the city; and
         (d)   The Water and Sewer Clerk for the city.
      (2)   The Mayor of the city shall serve as an ex-officio member of the
Sewer Committee. The terms of service for the citizen of the city and the City
Council member shall be for a period of two years, and the terms of service for
the other members of the Committee shall be for the term they maintain the
position of Director Public Works, Water and Sewer Clerk, and Mayor.
   (D)   Authority of the City Council. The Committee shall function under the
control of the City Council. The City Council may remove any member of the
Committee with, or without, cause, and may appoint any substitute members in
case of death, removal, or resignation.
(Prior Code, § 10.08.04)
(Ord. 2005-21, passed - -; Ord. 2019-01, passed 1-8-2019)
§ 32.03 NORTHWEST STATE CONSERVATION AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Membership.
      (1)   The city has determined that it is in its best interest to continue
to be a member of the Northwest State Conservation Authority. The cities of
Bentonville, Bethel Heights, Cave Springs, Centerton, Elm Springs, Highfill,
Lowell, Rogers, Springdale, and Tontitown are proposed to be members of the
Authority under the fourth amended agreement.
      (2)   The powers granted to the Authority are those contained in the Act,
and the fourth amended agreement. There are no limitations on the exercise of
the powers granted, except those limitations contained in the constitutions of
the United States and the state, and the statutes of the state.
      (3)   The Board of Directors of the Authority shall be constituted, as
provided in the fourth amended agreement. Each participating city shall appoint
the person(s) to the Board of Directors, as enumerated in the fourth amended
agreement, which appointment shall become effective upon approval by the City
Council. The city has already appointed its members to that Board, and no
further action need be taken.
(Prior Code, § 10.24.01)
   (B)   Details of Authority.
      (1)   The fourth amended agreement, and the terms and conditions thereof,
are hereby approved.
      (2)    The Mayor and Clerk-Treasurer are authorized to approve, and sign,
an amended application to be filed with the Secretary of State, to reflect the
current membership of the Authority.
      (3)    The Mayor and Clerk-Treasurer are hereby authorized to execute,
and deliver, the fourth amended agreement.
(Prior Code, § 10.24.02)
(Ord. 2006-28, passed - -)
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 32.15 COMMISSION CREATED.
   There is hereby created a Planning Commission for the city to consist of six
members. At least two-thirds of said Commission shall not hold any other
elective, or appointive, municipal office. All members shall reside within the
planning jurisdiction of the city. The members of the Planning Commission shall
be nominated by the Mayor, and confirmed by a majority vote of the City
Council.
(Ord. 2016-12, passed 6-14-2016)
§ 32.16 TERMS OF OFFICE.
   (A)   The terms of service of each position on the Planning Commission shall
be for a period of three years, except that the initial terms for each position
shall be as set forth below, and the initial membership of the Planning
Commission, as nominated, and approved, hereunder shall be as follows:
Position Term
Position             Term
Position 1           One year
Position 2           One year
Position 3           Two years
Position 4           Two years
Position 5           Three years
Position 6           Three years
Alternate Position 1 Three years
Alternate Position 2 Three years
 
   (B)   All terms shall begin on January 1 of the year following appointment,
and shall expire on December 31 three years therefrom, except for the initial
terms specified hereinabove, which shall begin on July 9, 2007, and expire on
December 31 of the years designated herein. By December 1 of each year when the
term of office of any member of the Planning Commission expires, the Mayor
shall make, and submit, a nomination to fill the position for the next term to
the City Council for confirmation by a majority vote. All members shall serve
until their successors have been appointed, and qualified.
   (C)   The Mayor may designate two alternate members, who are allowed to vote
and make motions in the absence of a Planning Commission member. The Mayor
shall make, and submit, a nomination to fill the two alternate positions to the
City Council for confirmation by a majority vote. All alternate members terms
shall begin on January 1 of the year following appointment, and shall expire on
December 31 three years therefrom. Alternate members attendance will be
requested not less than 24 hours prior to the scheduled Planning Commission
meeting.
   (D)   Any Planning Commission member may be removed by City Council for any
of the following reasons, but not limited to these reasons, if demonstrated to
the appointing entitys satisfaction:
      (1)   Failure to attend three consecutive regular, or work session,
meetings without a 24-hour notice of absence prior to the scheduled meeting;
      (2)   Actions, and conduct, unbecoming to a public official of the city;
or
      (3)   Acts, and conduct, detrimental to the peace, health, safety, and
welfare of the city.
(Ord. 2016-12, passed 6-14-2016)
§ 32.17 COMPENSATION.
   Members of the Planning Commission, to include alternates, shall be paid
$100 for each regular, or work session, meeting attended; payment to be made
monthly.
(Ord. 2016-12, passed 6-14-2016)
§ 32.18 VACANCIES IN OFFICE.
   When a vacancy shall occur, otherwise than by the expiration of the term of
office, the Mayor shall immediately nominate a person to serve the remainder of
that term, which nomination shall be submitted to the City Council for
confirmation by a majority vote.
(Ord. 2016-12, passed 6-14-2016)
§ 32.19 ELECTION OF OFFICERS.
   The Planning Commission shall, from its membership, elect a Chair, and a
Vice Chair. The Chair shall not hold any other municipal office, or
appointment.
(Ord. 2016-12, passed 6-14-2016)
§ 32.20 GENERAL GOALS AND PURPOSES.
   The general goals, and purposes, of the citys Planning Commission shall be
to prepare, or have prepared, a comprehensive plan of the municipality;
receive, and make, recommendations on public, and private, proposals for
development; prepare, and administer, planning regulations; prepare, and
transmit, to the legislative body recommended ordinances implementing plans;
and advise, and counsel, the citys government, and other public bodies in
relation hereto.
(Ord. 2016-12, passed 6-14-2016)
§ 32.21 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall make, and adopt, such rules, and
regulations, to govern its proceedings, and for the discharge of its duties,
and the transaction of business, which rules, and regulations, may provide,
without limitation, the following:
      (1)   Establishment of a regular meeting date of the Commission at least
once monthly, or more often, as prescribed by the Commission;
      (2)   Cancellation, or postponement, by the Chair of a regular monthly
meeting, if there is no pressing business at hand; provided, that a meeting is
held at least once each quarter of each calendar year;
      (3)   Holding of special meetings, and the manner of calling the same;
      (4)   Rules regarding the establishment of a quorum for conducting the
business of the Commission;
      (5)   Establishment of such committees as may be found necessary, and
advisable, and establish the duties of such committees; and
      (6)   Such other rules, and regulations, as shall be deemed necessary,
and appropriate, for the government of its proceedings, and the discharge of
its duties, and the transaction of its business.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall keep a public record of all business,
resolutions, transactions, findings, and determinations made by it.
   (C)   The Planning Commission shall have the duty, and function, of
promoting public interest in, and understanding of, the long-term coordinated
municipal planning of the city.
   (D)   The Planning Commission shall prepare a planning area map, work
programs, and make such other comprehensive studies, as are required herein and
by state law.
   (E)   After the preparation of the planning area map, the Planning
Commission may prepare such other plans, as deemed appropriate, for all, or any
portion of, the area encompassed by the map, which may consist of maps, plats,
charts, diagrams, and other necessary documents and descriptive matter; which
plans may include, without limitation:
      (1)   Master street plan;
      (2)   Land use plan; and
      (3)   Community facilities plan.
   (F)   Upon adoption of appropriate plans, as needed and provided, the
Planning Commission may prepare, and transmit, to the City Council such
proposed, or recommended, ordinances and regulations, as are deemed necessary,
and appropriate, to carry out the purpose, and intent, of the plans, or any
parts thereof, and to carry out, and protect, the various elements of the
plans.
   (G)   The Planning Commission may prepare, for submission to the City
Council, a recommended zoning ordinance for the entire area of the city, as
well as its planning jurisdiction, upon the adoption, and filing, of an
appropriate land use plan.
   (H)   The Planning Commission may make recommendations, and reports, to the
public, and to public and private agencies.
   (I)   The Planning Commission may enter upon land to make examinations and
surveys, and to maintain necessary monuments, and markers thereon.
   (J)   The Planning Commission may receive, and spend, funds from federal,
state, county, municipal, and other public, and private, sources, and may
contract with respect thereto.
   (K)   The Planning Commission is hereby authorized to employ such staff,
consultants, and other persons, as it deems necessary, in carrying out its
duties and responsibilities, subject to the provisions hereof concerning the
appropriation, and expenditure, of funds.
   (L)   The Planning Commission shall have such other powers as are necessary,
and appropriate, to carry out the purposes of the Planning Commission specified
herein, as well as any other powers, and duties, provided by the City Council,
and the laws of the state.
(Ord. 2016-12, passed 6-14-2016)
§ 32.22 QUORUM.
   To establish a quorum, the presence of a majority of the Commissions members
is required. A quorum shall require the attendance of four Planning Commission
members.
(Ord. 2016-12, passed 6-14-2016)
§ 32.23 GENERAL MEETING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall meet regularly on the first Tuesday of
each month, at 6:30 p.m., or in accordance with the approved City Planning
Commission calendar.
   (B)   Unless otherwise provided herein, organization of, and the conduct of,
business of the Planning Commission shall be governed by the latest edition of
the Handbook for Municipal Officials, published by the State Municipal League.
Insofar as the said Handbook for Municipal Officials, and the by-laws set out
above, do not apply, the organization, and conduct, of business of the Planning
Commission shall be governed by Roberts Rules of Order, to which they are
applicable, and where they do not conflict with other rules adopted herein.
   (C)   The order of business at regular meetings shall be:
      (1)   Call to order;
      (2)   Pledge of Allegiance;
      (3)   Roll call;
      (4)   Approval of minutes of previous meeting;
      (5)   Public hearing;
      (6)   Old business;
      (7)   New business; and
      (8)   Adjournment.
   (D)   All meetings shall be open to the public, pursuant to the State
Freedom of Information Act, being A.C. § 25-19-101 et seq.
   (E)   It is the policy of the Planning Commission that sufficient supporting
information, such as a site plan, plat of survey, and the like, accompany the
application so staff, and the Planning Commission members, have adequate time
to review the material. Staff will determine if sufficient supporting
information has been provided. An application without the required supporting
information will not be placed on the agenda.
   (F)   Each member of the Planning Commission shall be notified of the place,
and date, of each meeting with an accompanying agenda by staff, by written
notice, not less than five days prior to the date set for the meeting. Said
notice may be waived by a majority vote of the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 2016-12, passed 6-14-2016)
§ 32.24 PUBLIC HEARING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Chair, Vice Chair, or a designated presiding member of the
Planning Commission, shall preside at all hearings.
   (B)   The presiding member shall reserve the right to assure an orderly
hearing, and shall take the following necessary steps to maintain the order,
and decorum, of the hearing at all times:
      (1)   The presiding member introduces the agenda item by document number;
      (2)   The presiding member requests staff report and staff
recommendation, if appropriate;
      (3)   The staff presents the application to the Planning Commission,
including the request, pertinent information, and staff recommendation;
      (4)   The presiding member directs the Planning Commissioners to address
any questions to the staff;
      (5)   The presiding member requests the applicant, or authorized
representative, to approach, and speak to, the Planning Commission;
      (6)   The presiding member directs the Planning Commissioners to address
any questions to the applicant, or representative;
      (7)   Prior to opening any public hearing portion, the presiding member
explains the procedures, and time limitations, for people who wish to comment.
It shall be made clear at the hearing that all questions, and comments, must be
directed through the presiding member after having been duly recognized. Public
comments shall be heard as follows:
         (a)   Approach the podium;
         (b)   Clearly state your name, and address, for the record, and sign
the sign-in sheet;
         (c)   If the comments have been previously presented, refrain from
repeating, and state that
you are in agreement with, or disagreement with, an issue;
         (d)   Comments should be as clear and succinct as possible; and
         (e)   Comments should be three minutes or less.
      (8)   The presiding member opens for public comment so that attendees may
speak on the application;
      (9)   After public comment, if any, the presiding member gives the
applicant, or representative, an opportunity to rebut;
      (10)   The presiding member closes the public comments portion, and opens
the review session for the Planning Commissioners;
      (11)   No additional information shall be admitted during the review
session, unless specifically requested by a member of the Planning Commission;
      (12)   The Planning Commission shall vote on any motions made and
seconded. A failed motion does not constitute a recommendation of the opposite.
A motion passes when it receives the majority vote of the members present and
voting; and
      (13)   The presiding member announces the vote and provides the date,
time, and location for the appropriate City Council meeting, if applicable.
(Ord. 2016-12, passed 6-14-2016)
§ 32.25 WORK SESSION.
   (A)   The Planning Commission may hold a work session on the third Tuesday
of any month, at 6:30 p.m., or in accordance with the approved City Planning
Commission calendar.
   (B)   The Chair, Vice Chair, or a designated presiding member of the
Planning Commission directs the work session, and shall require orderly
behavior and discussion.
   (C)   No formal actions shall be taken, or motions made, at a work session.
   (D)   Work sessions shall be open to the public. Public comment is not
required at a work session.
   (E)   Work sessions may be joint sessions including participation by other
city employees, departments, and City Council members.
(Ord. 2016-12, passed 6-14-2016)
§ 32.26 APPROPRIATION BY COUNCIL REQUIRED; EXPENDING, ENCUMBERING FUNDS.
   The Planning Commission shall not expend, or encumber, funds without prior
appropriation by the City Council.
(Ord. 2016-12, passed 6-14-2016)
§ 32.27 COOPERATION WITH OTHER PLANNING BODIES.
   The Planning Commission shall have the authority to cooperate with official,
and unofficial, planning bodies for the purpose of coordinating the preparation
of plans for the city, and its adjacent territory.
(Ord. 2016-12, passed 6-14-2016)
§ 32.28 TERRITORIAL JURISDICTION.
   The city intends to exercise its territorial jurisdiction, as provided for
by Act 186 of the 1957 State General Assembly (A.C. § 14-56-413), as amended
from time to time. Said territorial jurisdiction of the City Council, for the
purpose hereof, shall be exclusive, and shall include all land lying within one
mile of the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. 2016-12, passed 6-14-2016)
CHAPTER 33: COURTS
Section
District Court
   
33.01   Court Clerk
   
33.02   Fines; with restitution
   
33.03   Fines; without restitution
DISTRICT COURT
§ 33.01 COURT CLERK.
   The District Court Clerk is hereby designated as the person primarily
responsible for the collection of fines assessed in the District Court for the
city.
(Prior Code, § 2.40.01) (Ord. 2013-13, passed - -)
§ 33.02 FINES; WITH RESTITUTION.
   (A)   Payments on defendants fines, costs, and restitution involving city
citations or violations, when received by the District Court Clerk and/or
deputies, shall henceforth be allocated first as restitution to victims,
pursuant to A.C. § 16-10-209(5)(F).
   (B)   All installment payments shall initially be deemed to be collections
of court costs until the court costs have been collected in full, with any
remaining installment payments representing collections of restitution, and
then fines.
      (1)   If court costs, restitutions, and fines are fully paid, all
remaining installment payments shall be allocated to remaining amounts due.
      (2)   A municipal or county governing body that adopted municipal or
county legislation before July 1, 2012, to provide an alternative method of
installment payment allocation as then authorized by state law shall remain in
effect until repealed.
(Prior Code, § 2.40.02) (Ord. 2012-11, passed 12-17-2012)
§ 33.03 FINES; WITHOUT RESTITUTION.
   If there is no restitution, or after restitution has been fully paid, all
additional payments shall be applied as paid one-half to court costs, and one-
half to fines.
(Prior Code, § 2.40.03) (Ord. 2012-11, passed 12-17-2012)
CHAPTER 34: PUBLIC SAFETY AND LAW ENFORCEMENT
Section
Fire Department
   
34.01   Personnel
   
34.02   Appointment, removal of Fire Chief
   
34.03   Duties of Fire Chief; Secretary/Treasurer
   
34.04   Compensation
   
34.05   Meetings
   
34.06   Registration of volunteer firefighters
   
34.07   Certification
   
34.08   Duty to, and compensation from, non-members
   
34.09   Fire protection outside city limits
Police Department
   
34.20   Establishment
   
34.21   Appointment, removal of Police Chief
   
34.22   Duties of Police Chief
   
34.23   Rules, procedures
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 34.01 PERSONNEL.
   (A)   The City Fire Department shall consist of the following officers: Fire
Chief; Division Chief of Operations; Division Chief of Training; Division Chief
of Support; three Captains; two Lieutenants; and a Secretary/Treasurer, and any
number of firefighters deemed necessary, as prescribed by the Chief and his or
her other staff.
   (B)   The Fire Department shall reserve the right to make any additions, or
subtractions, as prescribed by departmental standard operating guidelines, in
order to maintain a manageable span of control.
   (C)   All personnel of the City Fire Department shall maintain a volunteer
status.
(Prior Code, § 2.24.01) (Ord. 2012-5, passed 4-9-2012)
§ 34.02 APPOINTMENT, REMOVAL OF FIRE CHIEF.
   The Fire Chief shall be nominated by Volunteer Fire Department members by a
popular vote, and said nominee shall be presented to the Mayor for appointment.
The Mayor shall make the final determination as to the appointment to the
position of Fire Chief, taking into account the recommendation of Volunteer
Fire Department members. A Fire Chief shall then be appointed by the Mayor,
unless that appointment is disapproved by a two-thirds vote of the Council
membership. The Mayor may remove the Fire Chief, unless such removal is
overruled by a two-thirds vote of the Council membership.
(Prior Code, § 2.24.02) (Ord. 2012-5, passed 4-9-2012)
§ 34.03 DUTIES OF FIRE CHIEF; SECRETARY/TREASURER.
   (A)   The Fire Chief shall be the head of the Fire Department, and shall be
fully responsible, and accountable, to the city for the budget for funds, and
responsibilities, as set forth in the State Fire Protection Services Program,
Act 833 of 1991, being A.C. §§ 14-284-401 through 14-284-411 and A.C. § 26-57-
614, and for the operation, and the equipment, of the Department. It shall be
his or her duty to determine all matters in connection with the management, and
operation, of the Department, except the expenditure of city funds therein. He
or she shall make periodic reports to the City Council showing the names of
each firefighter, and the number of hours, or calls, each firefighter has
performed, showing the condition of the equipment of the Department, and
showing other matters as shall be determined as necessary by the City Council.
   (B)   The Secretary/Treasurer shall keep minutes of each meeting, and a
record of the names of the firefighters of the Fire Department who attend the
monthly meetings, and who perform services at each fire, or medical, call.
(Prior Code, § 2.24.03) (Ord. 2012-5, passed 4-9-2012)
§ 34.04 COMPENSATION.
   The Fire Chief shall receive such pay, or salary, if any, as the City
Council shall adopt, and pass, as it deems proper. If the City Council does not
adopt, and pass, any pay, or salary, for the Fire Chief, the Fire Chief, all
other officers, and volunteer firefighters shall be paid for such services as
they are rendered based upon the number of calls answered. The City Council
shall adopt the following pay schedule, which may be modified from time to time
as deemed necessary. Each firefighter shall receive $5 for each fire call where
water is used, $3 for each fire call where water is not used, $3 for each
medical call, and $2 per month for attending all Fire Department meetings.
(Prior Code, § 2.24.04) (Ord. 2000-11, passed - -)
§ 34.05 MEETINGS.
   The City Fire Department shall hold two meetings each month for the purpose
of instructing, and training, the firefighters, and for the purpose of adopting
rules, subject to the approval of the City Council, for the proper functioning
of the Department. Members attendance shall be regulated by departmental
standard operating guidelines. Said meetings shall be held in the evenings of
the first, and third, Monday of each month; however, the Fire Chief, and his or
her staff, reserve the right to increase, or decrease, the number of meetings,
or training sessions, in order to meet certification standards, or needs, of
the Department.
(Prior Code, § 2.24.05) (Ord. 2012-5, passed 4-9-2012)
§ 34.06 REGISTRATION OF VOLUNTEER FIREFIGHTERS.
    All volunteer firefighters shall be registered with the Fire Chief, and
their names, addresses, and phone numbers shall be posted in the Fire
Department, and kept on file with the City Clerk-Treasurer. Such list shall be
kept up to date by the Fire Chief.
(Prior Code, § 2.24.06) (Ord. 2012-5, passed 4-9-2012)
§ 34.07 CERTIFICATION.
   The City Fire Department shall apply for annual certification, and
classification, by the Director of the office of Fire Protection Services.
Further, all firefighters shall maintain the minimum training required under
state law, including EMS training and AED certification.
(Prior Code, § 2.24.07) (Ord. 2012-5, passed 4-9-2012)
§ 34.08 DUTY TO, AND COMPENSATION FROM, NON-MEMBERS.
   Upon receipt of a report of an uncontrolled fire, or a 911 or other
emergency call reporting a fire or medical emergency, it shall be the duty of
the Fire Department to respond to any fire, or medical emergency, attempt to
control, and put out, all fires occurring within its district involving any
real, or personal, property, whether the property is owned by members, or by
non-members, of the fire district. The Fire Department shall be entitled to
recover from the non-member the reasonable value of its services, as allowed
under state law.
(Prior Code, § 2.24.08) (Ord. 2012-5, passed 4-9-2012)
§ 34.09 FIRE PROTECTION OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS.
   Firefighting machinery, and equipment, along with the necessary firefighters
to operate it, may be used to combat fires beyond the corporate limits of the
city, upon the terms, conditions, and restrictions as are set forth herein, and
are subject to change by the City Council from time to time. In addition, the
city may build, construct, and operate any necessary facilities outside the
corporate limits of the city as the City Council deems necessary, or
appropriate, to house firefighting machinery, equipment, and the firefighters
necessary to properly combat fires beyond the citys corporate limits; provided,
that such decision is made by the proper vote of the City Council, and is done
in a manner consistent with the laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 2.24.09) (Ord. 2012-5, passed 4-9-2012)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 34.20 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The city establishes a police department, which shall be known as the City
Police Department, and the duties thereof shall be to maintain police
protection, and police services, within the city to preserve the peace of the
city, secure the citizens thereof from personal violence, and safeguard their
property from unlawful deprivations.
(Prior Code, § 2.28.01) (Ord. 2013-9, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provision, see A.C. §§ 14-52-101 et seq.
§ 34.21 APPOINTMENT, REMOVAL OF POLICE CHIEF.
   The Mayor shall be responsible for the hiring, and/or appointment, of a
Police Chief. Such Police Chief shall be subject to removal by the Mayor,
unless removal is overruled by the City Council by a two-thirds vote of the
Council membership.
(Prior Code, § 2.28.02) (Ord. 2013-9, passed - -)
§ 34.22 DUTIES OF POLICE CHIEF.
   The Police Chief shall be the head of the Department, and shall be fully
responsible for the operation, and the management, of the Department, and shall
direct the work of the Department. All officers of the Department shall be
under the direct supervision of, and shall report to, the Police Chief. The
Police Chief is directly charged with the responsibility, and accountability,
to the city for all of the equipment utilized by the Department. It shall be
his or her duty to determine all matters in connection with the operation of
his or her Department, except the expenditure of city funds. The Police Chief
shall report directly to the Mayor and the Police Chief, or his or her
designee, shall attend each Council meeting, and make his or her monthly report
to the City Council concerning the operation, and equipment, of the Department,
and furnishing any information required by the City Council, and such other
matters as shall be determined necessary by ordinance of the City Council.
Other duties shall be such as are fixed by the laws of the state, and
resolutions and ordinances of the city.
(Prior Code, § 2.28.03) (Ord. 2013-9, passed - -)
§ 34.23 RULES, PROCEDURES.
   The City Police Department, in consultation with the City Attorney, shall
adopt, and establish, such rules, and procedures, as may be deemed necessary
for the proper functioning of the Department, but all such rules, and
procedures, are subject to approval of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 2.28.04) (Ord. 2013-9, passed - -)
CHAPTER 35: FINANCES AND TAXATION
Section
Finances
   
35.01   Fixed asset; definition
   
35.02   Purchases of supplies
Taxation
   
35.15   Property tax
   
35.16   Sales and use tax
   
35.17   Alcoholic beverages; supplemental tax
Funds
   
35.30   Undercover Operation Fund
FINANCES
§ 35.01 FIXED ASSET; DEFINITION.
   A FIXED ASSET shall be any asset of land, building, personal property, or
equipment which has the useful life, and a value, of $2,500 or more. An asset
with a lesser value shall not be considered a FIXED ASSET for the purpose of
including the asset in the listing of fixed assets owned by the municipality. A
FIXED ASSET list shall be maintained by the city, as set forth in A.C. § 14-59-
107 as the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 2019-09, passed 5-28-2019)
§ 35.02 PURCHASE OF SUPPLIES.
   (A)   Purchases of $15,000 or under.
      (1)   The Mayor of the City of Cave Springs, Arkansas or his or her duly
authorized representative, shall have exclusive power and responsibility to
make purchases of all supplies, apparatus, equipment, materials and other
things requisite for public purposes for the City of Cave Springs and to make
all necessary contracts for work or labor to be done, or material or other
necessary things to be furnished for the benefit of the city, or in carrying
out any work or undertaking of a public nature therein, where the amount of the
expenditure for any purpose or contract does not exceed the sum of $15,000.
      (2)   The spending limit requiring City Council approval shall be
followed for all expenditures and projects, except it shall not apply to
purchases set forth in A.C. § 14-58-104 or budgeted expenses which reoccur on a
regular basis. Such budgeted expenses which reoccur on a regular basis include
budgeted utility payments, City Council approved contracts requiring regular
payments, budgeted payroll tax or insurance/benefits payments or budgeted and
approved professional service expenses that have been approved and budgeted by
the City Council. In the event of an emergency that affects the health or
safety of individuals or property, the Mayor or the Mayor's authorized
representative shall be allowed in accordance to law to make such expenditures
as required to protect the health and safety of persons or protect property to
the extent permissible by law, but at the earliest possible convenience shall
have such expenditures ratified and approved by the City Council.
   (B)   Purchases over $15,000. Where the amount of expenditure for any
purchase or contract exceeds the sum of $15,000, and where such expenditures do
not qualify as purchases set under A.C. § 14-58-104, the City of Cave Springs,
Arkansas Accounting and Budgeting Policy or as budgeted expenses which reoccur
on a regular basis, the Mayor of the City of Cave Springs, Arkansas, or his or
her duly authorized representative, shall obtain approval of the City Council
prior to making such purchases.
   (C)   Approval of payment. The Mayor of the City of Cave Springs, Arkansas,
or his or her duly authorized representative, may approve for payment out of
any funds previously appropriated for that purpose, or disapprove any bills,
debts or liabilities asserted as claims against the city, when funds on hand
are adequate to pay such bills, debts or liabilities. The payment or
disapproval of any bills, debts or liabilities not covered by a previous
appropriation shall require confirmation of the City Council.
   (D)   Sale or exchange of supplies. The Mayor of the City of Cave Springs,
Arkansas, or his or her duly authorized representative, may sell or exchange
any municipal supplies, materials or equipment having a value in excess of
$15,000 only with the prior approval of the City Council of the City of Cave
Springs. Supplies, materials or equipment not exceeding the value of $15,000
may be sold by the Mayor, or his or her duly authorized representative, without
the approval of the Cave Springs City Council.
   (E)   Competitive bidding. Except as provided in A.C. § 14-58-104, all
expenditures which exceed $35,000, or the amount for competitive bidding as
amended or provided for by law as set forth in A.C. § 14-58-303, shall
performed by the Mayor or the Mayor's authorized representative through the
invitation of competitive bidding as required by law.
(Prior Code, § 3.20.01) (Ord. 68, passed - -; Ord. 2019-07, passed 5-28-2019;
Ord. 2022-12, passed 4-26-2022)
TAXATION
§ 35.15 PROPERTY TAX.
   (A)   Property tax. A voluntary property tax in the amount of two mills for
the exclusive benefit of the City Municipal Park Fund is hereby established on
all property within the city limits.
(Prior Code, § 3.12.01)
   (B)   Application. This voluntary property tax shall apply to the 1985
property tax assessment, and all succeeding property tax assessments.
(Prior Code, § 3.12.02)
(Ord. 63, passed - -)
§ 35.16 SALES AND USE TAX.
   (A)   (1)   Under the authority of the authorizing legislation, there is
hereby levied a new 1.25% tax on the gross receipts from the sale at retail
within the city of all items which are subject to the State Gross Receipts Act
of 1941, as amended (A.C. §§ 26-52-101 et seq.), and the imposition of a new
excise (or use) tax on the storage, use, distribution, or other consumption
within the city of tangible personal property subject to the State Compensating
Tax Act of 1949, as amended (A.C. §§ 26-53-101 et seq.), at a rate of 1.25% of
the sale price of the property or, in the case of leases or rentals, of the
lease or rental price (collectively, the “sales and use tax”).
      (2)   The sales and use tax shall be levied, and collected, on the gross
receipts, gross proceeds, or sales price in the maximum amount allowed, from
time to time, under state law, subject to rebates and limitations as required
for certain single transactions, as from time to time required by state
statutes.
   (B)   The sales and use tax shall be levied, and the net collections
received after deduction of the administrative charges of the state, and
required rebates shall be used by the city to pay, and secure, the repayment of
bonds approved by the voters, and issued by the city to finance capital
improvements; provided, however, that any amounts not necessary to fully retire
any bonds may be used for any lawful municipal purpose.
   (C)   The sales and use tax shall expire on the first date on which the
sales and use tax can be administratively removed when:
      (1)   There are sufficient funds to pay, in full, any outstanding bonds
secured by a pledge of collections of the sales and use tax; and
      (2)   The City Council determines that the purposes of the sales and use
tax cannot be, or cannot continue to be, fulfilled because no additional bonds
secured by a pledge of collections of the sales and use tax will be issued in
the future.
(Ord. 2019-18, passed 9-9-2019)
§ 35.17 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; SUPPLEMENTAL TAX.
   (A)    Pursuant to A.C. § 3-9-214, a supplemental 4% tax is hereby levied on
the gross receipts for the sale of spirituous beverages for on-premises
consumption by establishments in the city.
   (B)   The calculation, and payment, of said supplemental tax shall be
identical to the calculation, and payment, of the supplemental tax levied by
the state pursuant to A.C. § 3-9-213, with the exception being the proceeds
from said tax shall be paid to the City Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 4-12-2016)
FUNDS
§ 35.30 UNDERCOVER OPERATION FUND.
   (A)   Establishment. There is hereby established a special fund to be known
as the Undercover Operation Fund.
(Prior Code, § 2.32.01)
   (B)   Funding. There is hereby appropriated from the citys General Fund the
sum of $500 for the initial funding of the Undercover Operation Fund.
(Prior Code, § 2.32.02)
   (C)   Fund ceiling. The Undercover Operation Fund shall have a maximum
ceiling of $2,000. All sums in excess of said amount out in division (D) below
shall immediately be paid over to the citys General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 2.32.03)
   (D)   Contributions to the fund. Contributions to the Undercover Operation
Fund may come from any source not prohibited by city ordinance, or state, or
federal, law, including, but not limited to, organizations, court-ordered
restitution in criminal cases, court contributions to the fund in criminal
cases, and any federal, or state, funds available for such operations not
inconsistent with the purposes of the Undercover Operation Fund.
(Prior Code, § 2.32.04)
   (E)   Purpose of fund. The Undercover Operation Fund will be used for the
purpose of conducting undercover law enforcement investigation of illegal drug
trafficking, and the investigation of theft schemes, and other such crimes.
(Prior Code, § 2.32.05)
   (F)   Use of funds. The money in the Undercover Operation Fund, when used
for the purposes set out in division (E) above, may be spent on the following
types of items, to-wit:
      (1)   Purchases of food, lodging, and travel expenses of law enforcement
personnel, informants, and any other person necessary for implementation of the
undercover operation;
      (2)   Flash money;
      (3)   Purchases of controlled substances, stolen property, contraband, or
information related to any criminal activity; and
      (4)   Other similar, and necessary, items.
(Prior Code, § 2.32.06)
   (G)   Operating guidelines. The following shall constitute the general
operating guidelines of the Undercover Operation Fund:
      (1)   Responsibility for the funds integrity shall rest with the Police
Chief of the City Police Department;
      (2)   The Police Department will implement, and follow, accounting
guidelines promulgated by the Legislative Audit Committee for the state;
      (3)   At the conclusion of a criminal case in which monies from the
Undercover Operation Fund are used, a line item expenditure report shall be
made available for inspection by the City Council. The decision as to when a
criminal case is concluded will be made by the City Prosecutor or, in
appropriate instances, the prosecuting County Attorney, after consulting with
the Police Chief; and
      (4)   The Undercover Operation Fund will be administered by the Police
Department on a cash-only basis.
(Prior Code, § 2.32.07)
(Ord. 2002-12, passed - -)
CHAPTER 36: GENERAL CITY POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
36.01   Surveillance practices; posting of notices
   
36.02   Declaration of eminent domain; standards, requirements
   
30.03   Referendum petitions
City Record Retention
   
36.15   Establishment of policy
   
36.16   Compliance provision
   
36.17   Maintaining records
   
36.18   Police Department records
   
36.19   Employee records
   
36.20   Certification of records; Mayors role
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 36.01 SURVEILLANCE PRACTICES; POSTING OF NOTICES.
   (A)   Recognition. The City Council recognizes surveillance practices as
sometimes necessary for the safety, and security, of businesses or municipal
facilities. The City Council further recognizes a potential for misuse, or
misconduct in the use, of surveillance practices that creates an absolute
necessity for establishment of minimum requirements, and standards, for
implementation, and operation, of all said surveillance practices.
   (B)   Requirements. All businesses and municipal facilities utilizing
surveillance practices shall post notification of surveillance on each exterior
door, ground floor exterior window, interior points of public contact, and
interior security points. Further notification shall include phone message and
email footnote when monitored, or recorded, by someone other than the
recipient.
   (C)   Standards. The minimum required standards for posting notification of
surveillance shall be as follows:
      (1)   Exterior doors and windows shall have a notification posted in
clear view that states the nature, type, and location of surveillance; for
example, “The indoor areas of these premises are monitored by Audio and Video
surveillance equipment and the outdoor properties and parking areas are
monitored by Video surveillance equipment only”;
      (2)   Email shall have a footnoted notification/disclaimer; for example,
“All email sent or received through this companys/municipalitys email service
is monitored and recorded internally by a third party, for surveillance
purposes”; and
      (3)   The phone system shall have a similar message before extension
options are given; for example, “All calls are monitored and recorded for
surveillance purposes”.
   (D)   Approval. The City Council does approve the requirement that each
business, or municipal building, which utilizes surveillance practices, shall
post, for the general public, notice of said surveillance in accordance with
divisions (B) and (C) above.
(Ord. 2018-07, passed 4-10-2018)
§ 36.02 DECLARATION OF EMINENT DOMAIN; STANDARDS, REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Recognition of conflict. In recognition that the sanctity of private
property ownership rights, and public needs, are on rare occasions in conflict,
the city shall establish requirements, and standards, to govern the declaration
of eminent domain.
   (B)   Requirement to pursue a negotiated agreement. Prior to a declaration
of eminent domain, the city shall pursue a mutual agreement with the property
owner(s). As an affront to the sanctity of private property rights, eminent
domain shall only be declared with forethought, and earnest pursuit, of all
reasonable alternatives.
   (C)   Standard to qualify for eminent domain. The only standard that rises
to a magnitude of importance to merit the declaration of eminent domain is that
which meets the burden of actual public needs, such as easements required for
the construction, or improvement, of necessary public infrastructures like
streets, roads, and utilities.
   (D)   Prohibitions of declaration. The city shall not declare eminent domain
for the purposes of recreational use or private enterprise. Recreational use,
such as parks, trails, and recreational facilities, are wants that fail to meet
the burden of the actual public needs criteria required to merit a denial of
the sanctity of private property rights. Private entities shall always have the
responsibility to independently procure adequate, and appropriate, property
through the free market system.
   (E)   Eminent domain declaration. The city, in respect for the sanctity of
private property rights, shall only declare eminent domain in cases that meet,
or exceed, the burden of the public need criteria, in accordance with the
original intent, and only after all negotiations, and alternatives, have been
exhausted.
(Ord. 2017-16, passed 2-14-2017)
§ 36.03 REFERENDUM PETITIONS.
   (A)   Filing date. All referendum petitions under Amendment No. 7 to the
Constitution of the State must be filed with the Clerk-Treasurer within 30 days
after passage, and publication, of any such ordinance, or resolution.
(Prior Code, § 1.36.01)
   (B)   Notice. Upon the filing of said referendum petition, the Mayor is
hereby directed to give notice by publication for one insertion in a newspaper
having a general circulation in the city (the “city”), and by posting in five
public places in the city of a time not less than five days after the
publication of such notice, at which the Council will hear all persons who wish
to be heard on the question whether such petition is signed by the requisite
number of petitioners. At the time named, the Council shall meet, and hear, all
who wish to be heard on the question, and its decision shall be final, unless
suit is brought in the County Circuit Court within 30 days to review its
action.
(Prior Code, § 1.36.02)
   (C)   Special election. If the Council finds that such petition is signed by
the requisite number of qualified petitioners, it shall order a special
election to determine by a vote of the qualified electors whether the
ordinance, or resolution, shall stand, or be revoked, and fix a date which
shall be not less than ten days after the date of the action of the Council
calling the election.
      (1)   The Mayor shall give notice of the call of such election by
publication in not less than one issue of a newspaper having a general
circulation in the city, and by posting in five public places in the city not
less than five days prior to the date of the election. Such notice shall
designate by its number, caption, and date of passage, the ordinance which has
been referred to the people for approval, or rejection, by their vote at such
election.
      (2)   Otherwise, subject to the provisions of Amendment No. 7 to the
Constitution of the State, and other applicable laws, said election shall be
conducted in the manner provided by law for the conduct of a regular municipal
election.
(Prior Code, § 1.36.03)
   (D)   Defeated. If any ordinance, or resolution, referred to the people is
defeated at the polls, the Council shall make note of such fact, and shall
expunge the ordinance, or resolution, from its files by erasing the same with
red ink.
(Prior Code, § 1.36.04)
(Ord. 2010-5, passed - -)
CITY RECORD RETENTION
§ 36.15 ESTABLISHMENT OF POLICY.
   The city hereby declares, pursuant to Act 1252 of 2005, codified at A.C. §
14-2-203, that it seeks to establish a policy of record retention and disposal.
(Prior Code, § 2.44.01) (Ord. 2013-6, passed - -)
§ 36.16 COMPLIANCE PROVISION.
   The city shall seek to comply with any specific state statutes regarding
municipal records, including A.C. §§ 14-2-201 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 2.44.02) (Ord. 2013-6, passed - -)
§ 36.17 MAINTAINING RECORDS.
   The following records shall be maintained permanently in either the
original, or electronic, format as required by law:
   (A)   Ordinances;
   (B)   City Council minutes;
   (C)   Resolutions;
   (D)   Annual financial audits; and
   (E)   Year-end financial statements.
(Prior Code, § 2.44.03) (Ord. 2013-6, passed - -)
§ 36.18 POLICE DEPARTMENT RECORDS.
   Police Department records shall be maintained in accordance with A.C. § 14-
2-204, and other applicable statutes.
(Prior Code, § 2.44.04) (Ord. 2013-6, passed - -)
§ 36.19 EMPLOYEE RECORDS.
   All employee records (personnel records and otherwise) shall be kept for as
long as a person is employed by the city, plus five years.
(Prior Code, § 2.44.05) (Ord. 2013-6, passed - -)
§ 36.20 CERTIFICATION OF RECORDS; MAYORS ROLE.
   Whenever reproductions of public records have been made in accordance with
A.C. § 14-2-201, and have been placed in conveniently accessible files, or
other suitable formats, and provisions have been made for preserving,
examining, and using them, the head of the city office, or department, shall
certify those facts to the Mayor, who shall have the power to authorize the
disposal, archival storage, or destruction of the records.
(Prior Code, § 2.44.06) (Ord. 2013-6, passed - -)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WATER
      
51.   SEWER
      
52.   GARBAGE, COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
CHAPTER 50: WATER
Section
Water Rates
   
50.01   Metered system
   
50.02   Meter tamping prohibited
   
50.03   Monthly water rates
   
50.04   Improvement districts
   
50.05   Billing; disconnection for late payment
   
50.06   Metering fees
   
50.07   Federal Safe Water Drinking Act
   
50.08   Meter installation
   
50.09   Meter failure
   
50.10   Reimbursement of water deposit monies
   
50.11   Commercial meters
   
50.12   Damage to waterline
Water Impact Fees
   
50.25   Impact fee
   
50.26   Authority and applicability
   
50.27   Definitions
   
50.28   Legislative findings
   
50.29   Intent
   
50.30   Local impact fee imposed
   
50.31   Impact fee exceptions
   
50.32   Use of Impact Fee Trust Fund
   
50.33   Refunds
   
50.34   Appeals
   
50.35   Capital plan; level of service standards
   
50.36   Administration
Cross-Connection Control Program
   
50.50   Intent
   
50.51   Purpose
   
50.52   Definitions
   
50.53   Operating criteria
   
50.54   Facilities requiring backflow protection
   
50.55   Approval of backflow prevention devices
   
50.56   Non-compliance
   
50.57   Ownership
   
50.58   Installation and costs
   
50.59   Testing and maintenance
 
   
50.99   Penalty
WATER RATES
§ 50.01 METERED SYSTEM.
   (A)   The operation of the municipal water distribution system of the city
(the “water system”) shall be on a fully metered basis, with a meter installed
at each water connection, both public and private. There shall be but one user
on a single meter, and there shall be a service charge for water service
connection, and charges imposed for all water usage and consumption.
(Prior Code, § 10.20.01)
   (B)   All water meters in the city system are hereby required to be sealed.
(Prior Code, § 10.20.02)
(Ord. 2010-10, passed 8-9-2010)
§ 50.02 METER TAMPERING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to tamper with any water meter
furnished by the city, by breaking the seal of the same with the intention of
changing, or altering, the mechanism of such meter, or by changing, or
altering, in any manner the mechanism of such meter, including, but not limited
to, the unauthorized turning on of a water meter. Nothing in this section shall
be so construed as to prevent any employee, or duly authorized representative
of the city, when acting under the authority of the Mayor or the Water and
Sewer Department Administrator, from changing, altering, or otherwise working
with any meter furnished by the city. Any violation of this section is
punishable in accordance with the maximum penalties set forth in the city
municipal code and may, at the discretion of the city, subject the customer to
disconnection of water service.
   (B)   In the event a water customer damages the meter set, meter, or locking
device, the Water and Sewer Department Administrator, or employee or
representative designated by said Administrator, shall determine the cost of
repairing said damage, or, of replacing said equipment, if necessary, and said
cost shall be billed to the customer, and shall be due, and payable, in
accordance with the provisions of the city municipal code.
(Ord. 2019-17, passed 8-26-2019) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.03 MONTHLY WATER RATES.
   (A)   Commencing upon passage of this subchapter, and upon the commencement
of the next billing cycle, the following monthly rates are hereby fixed as
rates to be charged for water furnished by the water system. The City Council
hereby finds, and declares, that the following rates for each year are fair,
just, reasonable, and necessary minimum rates, be, and they are hereby, fixed
as rates to be charged for water to be furnished, and services to be rendered,
by the water system. The City Council also hereby finds, and declares, that it
shall be the policy of the city to review these rates and charges each year, or
sooner if necessary, to determine if they are sufficient to ensure the
necessary operation, maintenance, financing, and growth of the water system.
   (B)   The water usage of each customer shall be determined each month by
meter measurement, and the amount to be paid by each customer shall be computed
on the basis of the following schedule of rates for each year, and for the
years beyond until amended, or revised, by the city:
Type of Charge Amount to Be Charged
Type of Charge                                        Amount to Be Charged
Commercial Use
Base amount                                           $21.58
Flat rate per 1,000 gallons (or any portion thereof)* $8.10
Outside City Limits Use
Base amount                                           $23.36
Flat rate per 1,000 gallons (or any portion thereof)  $12.36
Residential Use
Base amount                                           $19.80
Flat rate per 1,000 gallons (or any portion thereof)* $7.48
Notes to Table:
*   The flat rate for the first 1,000 gallons of water use indicated above
shall be included in the base amount charge for both residential and
commercial uses.
 
(Prior Code, § 10.20.04) (Ord. 2015-09, passed - -; Ord. 2022-16, passed 6-28-
2022)
§ 50.04 IMPROVEMENT DISTRICTS.
   Any improvement district, or other legal entity, desiring to purchase water
from the city for the resale by individual metering shall be required to enter
into a written contract for the purchase of said water. Said contract shall
establish the rates for the purchase of water, and the conditions under which
said purchases will be made.
(Prior Code, § 10.20.05) (Ord. 2010-10, passed 8-9-2010)
§ 50.05 BILLING; DISCONNECTION FOR LATE PAYMENT.
   (A)   The water charges for the previous month’s water service shall be
billed monthly, and if not paid by the fifteenth day of the month, a 10%
penalty shall be added.
   (B)   It is the policy of the city to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The city’s form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly visible and
easily readable provisions to the effect:
      (1)   All bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth on
the bill;
      (2)   If any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill will
be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid within ten
days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued for
nonpayment; and
      (3)   Any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill shall
have a right to a hearing, at which time he or she may be represented in person
and by counsel, or any other person of his or her choosing, and may present,
orally or in writing, his or her complaint and contentions to the city official
in charge of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to order that
the customer’s service not be discontinued, and shall have the authority to
make a final determination of the customer’s complaint.
   (C)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered or resorting to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but, in no event,
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
   (D)   When it becomes necessary for the city to discontinue utility service
to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only after
all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a penalty as
specified in §
50.99.
   (E)   (1)   If any water rate so charged, and so established, shall not be
paid by the last Thursday of the month in which the bill is rendered, the
premises shall be disconnected from the system following any notice, as
required by law, and shall not be reconnected until the full amount of
delinquent charges, penalty, and a $25 reconnection charge has been paid in
full, which shall be $50 for reconnections requested after normal business
hours, on holidays, or on weekends.
      (2)   In the event the bill due date falls on a weekend or legal holiday,
the bill shall be due the next business day. Any penalties shall be due the
following day of the due date, unless payment in full for the billed amount is
received by the city before the last Thursday of the month following the month
in which the billed services were rendered. In such case, the penalties owed
may be applied to the customer’s next month’s water bill, or to a customer’s
water deposit, whichever is relevant. The city can also require delinquent, or
disconnected, users to pay, or repay, the deposit referred to in this code of
ordinances.
(Ord. 2019-17, passed 8-26-2019) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.06 METERING FEES.
   The following metering fees are hereby fixed as rates to be charged for
installing water meters by the water works system of the city:
   (A)   (1)   The city shall require a residential applicant for new water
service to pay a meter fee of $350 for a five-eighths inch water meter, along
with a refundable security deposit of $100; and
      (2)   A commercial applicant for a new water service shall be required to
pay $35 for a one-inch meter, and $700 for a one and one-half inch water meter,
along with a refundable security deposit of $100.
   (B)   There shall also be a connection fee of $1,000, payable to the city at
the time of installation, and prior to the issuance of a building permit, plus
other costs incurred to the city in the installation of the waterline and
meter. The security deposit shall be retained, without liability for interest,
to assure prompt payment of monthly water bills. To the extent necessary, the
security deposit may be applied to any unpaid charges owed by the user, and any
other damage, injury, expense, or liability caused by the user. Following any
such application of the security deposit, the user may, at the discretion of
the city, be required to restore the security deposit to its original amount.
The security deposit shall be refunded to the user upon the closing of the
customer’s account, and all unpaid charged still owing by the customer are
paid;
   (C)   The connection fee of $1,000 is for future growth, maintenance, and
loan payments of the water system; and
   (D)   There shall also be a monthly meter replacement fee of $1.78 for each
user of the water system, which shall be applied to the replacement of old, or
defective, water meters.
(Ord. 2019-05, passed 2-25-2019)
§ 50.07 FEDERAL SAFE WATER DRINKING ACT.
   In addition to the above monthly charges, there shall be a monthly fee for
the Federal Safe Drinking Water Act compliance, as promulgated and being 42
U.S.C. §§ 300(f) et seq., and required, under the Public Water System Service
Act, Act 1053 of 1991, A.C. §§ 20-28-101 et seq., and all amendments thereto,
for the State Department of Health Drinking Water Program. This fee shall be
charged each month per service connection.
(Prior Code, § 10.20.08) (Ord. 2010-10, passed 8-9-2010)
§ 50.08 METER INSTALLATION.
   Meters shall be installed at each water connection, except fire hydrants,
and there shall be a charge for all water consumption with the exception of
fire hydrants. Meters shall be installed at each water connection to all
buildings, both public and private, and there shall be a service charge for
water service connection, and charges imposed for all water consumption. In
case of apartment buildings or houses, or other multi-family dwelling houses, a
separate meter shall be installed for each apartment, or family unit, or one
meter may be installed for the entire apartment house, or multi-family
building, in which case, the building shall be billed as though it were metered
to a single customer unit.
(Prior Code, § 10.20.09) (Ord. 2010-10, passed 8-9-2010)
§ 50.09 METER FAILURE.
   Should a customer’s meter be determined by the water system manager to be
inoperative or faulty, the customer’s usage for the purpose of billing shall be
the average usage of the three previous months that the meter was determined to
be functioning properly. Should the meter failure be determined to have been a
long-term failure of three, or more, months, the customer will be liable for
water charges during the months of meter failure. The user charges for each
month of meter failure shall be based on the average of water usage for the 12
months prior to the meter failure.
(Prior Code, § 10.20.10) (Ord. 2010-10, passed 8-9-2010)
§ 50.10 REIMBURSEMENT OF WATER DEPOSIT MONIES.
   The city shall follow the following procedure for reimbursement of waster
deposit monies:
   (A)   Interest will not be paid on refunds of water deposit monies;
   (B)   Deposits shall be applied to the customer’s account after the account
is closed for non-payment, or due to the customer moving from the city, as a
credit against any outstanding water bill, unless otherwise arranged for in
advance. The remainder of the deposit, if any, will be refunded to the customer
as set out herein;
   (C)   Deposits will be refunded to any customer after settling his or her
account, in full, with the City Water Department; and
   (D)   When a refund is due a customer and the city cannot, after diligent
effort, locate the customer, the city shall make the refund available to the
customer for a period of one year, and deposit those funds not claimed after
one year into the City Water Department’s General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 10.20.11) (Ord. 2010-10, passed 8-9-2010)
§ 50.11 COMMERCIAL METERS.
   Commercial metering costs (one inch and above) shall be borne in full by the
customer, and shall be quoted at the time of the request due to the variation
in costs.
(Prior Code, § 10.20.12) (Ord. 2010-10, passed 8-9-2010)
§ 50.12 DAMAGE TO WATERLINE.
   Water loss due to a leak, or damage, to a waterline lying on the property of
a water system user is the responsibility of the water system user, and shall
be billed to the water system user at the normal, and applicable, rates. In the
case of a leak, or damage, to a waterline lying on the property of a water
system user which results in significant water loss, the city may allow the
water system user to pay for the approximate loss at a cost value for the water
if it can be properly demonstrated to the city that such damage was not caused
by reckless, or willful, action or inaction, and if proper documentation of the
proof of the repair(s) to waterline are presented to the city. The city may, at
its discretion, offer a payment plan for water users who have experienced
significant water loss due to a leak, or damage, to a waterline on their
property.
(Ord. 2016-24, passed 8-9-2016)
WATER IMPACT FEES
§ 50.25 IMPACT FEE.
   A local water impact fee is hereby established for the city’s water system
for in-city facilities, or improvements, that meet in-city demand, hereinafter
referred to as the “system”.
(Ord. 2019-13, passed 7-22-2019;)
§ 50.26 AUTHORITY AND APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Authority. This subchapter is enacted pursuant to the authority
granted to the city by the A.C. § 14-56-103, and other relevant laws, and
judicial interpretations, of the state.
   (B)   Applicability. The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to all of
the territory within the city’s water service area, including the corporate
limits of the city, any unincorporated area of the county served by the system,
and all future additions to said areas.
   (C)   Development fees. The following types of developments shall be
required to pay a local water impact fee:
      (1)   New, and existing, developments seeking a new connection to the
city’s water system, resulting in increased demand from water facilities. This
shall not apply to an existing development that is connecting to the water
system in order to eliminate an individual water source; and
      (2)    Non-residential, or residential, redevelopments seeking a larger
capacity, or an additional water meter.
(Ord. 2019-13, passed 7-22-2019)
§ 50.27 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   CAPITAL WATER FACILITIES. The city’s water distribution system, pumps, any
treatment facilities, lift lines, lift stations, interceptors, buildings,
tanks, improvements to land, land, and related equipment used to provide city
water services, as defined in the study. The costs of CAPITAL WATER FACILITIES
also include the costs of related planning, and design, for these facilities.
   CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY. A certificate issued by the city permitting the
occupancy of a structure connected to the city’s water system. Said certificate
may be limited to the structure’s water system for those structures located
outside the corporate limits of the city.
   CITY. The City of Cave Springs, Arkansas, including, but not limited to, its
Water Department.
   CITY COUNCIL. The duly elected/appointed City Council.
   DEVELOPER. Any person, firm, or corporation commencing a development who is
obligated to pay an impact fee in accordance with the terms of this subchapter,
or who would be obligated to pay such a fee, except for an exemption, refund,
or credit provided for in this subchapter.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any residential, multi-family, commercial, or industrial
improvement to lands within the system service area.
   IMPACT FEE STUDY (THE STUDY). A study that sets forth reasonable
methodologies and analysis for determining the impact of various types of
development on the city’s capital water facilities, and that determines the
cost of the facilities necessary to meet the demands created by new
development.
   IMPACT FEE TRUST FUND. The Trust Fund established by this subchapter. There
shall be a Water Impact Fee Trust Fund with fees collected into the respective
IMPACT FEE TRUST FUND.
   IMPACT FEES. The local water impact fees established by this subchapter,
pursuant to A.C. § 14-56-103, for service area utilities/improvements that meet
increased service area demand.
   IMPROVEMENTS. The results of planning, engineering, design, construction
inspection, on-site construction, off-site construction, land, the purchase of
related equipment, and financing associated with new, or expanded, capital
water facilities, buildings, and equipment that expand the capacity of capital
water facilities, but not including maintenance, operations, or improvements
that do not expand capacity.
   INDEPENDENT FEE CALCULATION STUDY. A study prepared by McClelland
Engineering (including, but not limited to, all plans and studies referenced
therein), calculating the cost of expansions, or improvements, to the capital
water facilities required to serve the developer’s proposed development that
performed in compliance with this subchapter.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, governmental agency, business trust,
estate trust, partnership, association, two, or more, persons having a joint or
common interest, or any other entity.
   STATE. The State of Arkansas.
   SUCCESSOR IN INTEREST. A person, as defined by this subchapter, who gains a
fee simple interest in land for which an impact fee is paid, or a credit is
approved, pursuant to the terms of this subchapter.
   SYSTEM. The city’s municipal water system, including capital water
facilities.
(Ord. 2019-13, passed 7-22-2019)
§ 50.28 LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS.
   The City Council finds, determines, and declares that:
   (A)   System expansion required. The protection of the health, safety, and
general welfare of the citizens of the city requires that the city’s capital
water facilities be expanded, and improved, to accommodate growth, and
development, with the city;
   (B)   System demand. New residential, and non-residential, development
imposes increased, and excessive, demands upon the existing system facilities,
and often overburdens the existing system facilities; provided, new development
is expected to continue, and will place ever-increasing demands on the system
to provide these facilities to serve new development;
   (C)   System revenues. System revenues generated from new development often
does not generate sufficient funds to provide the necessary capital water
facilities to accommodate new development; therefore, the creation of an
equitable local water impact fee system would enable the city to impose a
proportionate share of the costs of the needed improvements to system capital
facilities to accommodate new development;
   (D)   Study conducted. In order to implement an equitable local impact fee
system, the city caused to be prepared a Water and Wastewater Capital Plan and
Impact Fee Analysis, hereinafter termed “study”. Said study is incorporated
herein by reference, and sets forth reasonable methodologies, and analysis, for
determining the impacts of various types of development on the city’s system
capital facilities, and for determining the costs of acquiring the improvements
necessary to meet the demands for such services created by new development;
   (E)   Standards established. The city hereby establishes as city standards
the assumptions, and level of service standards, in the study as part of its
current plans for future expansions to the city’s system capital facilities;
   (F)   Impact fee use limited. The impact fees described in this subchapter
are based on the study, and do not exceed the costs of improvements to serve
new development that will pay the impact fees, nor shall fees be used to
correct existing deficiencies for these capital facilities, or to replace, or
rehabilitate, existing improvements. This is intended to be a local improvement
impact fee (for in-city facilities/improvements that meet in-city demands) as
to water;
   (G)   Benefit. Those in-city capital water facilities/improvements listed in
the study will benefit all new development that depends on city services, and
it is therefore appropriate to treat the entire system as a single service area
for purposes of calculating, collecting, and spending the local government
impact fees as to water;
   (H)   Impact fee relationship. There is both a rational nexus and rough
proportionality between the development impacts created by each type of
development covered by this subchapter, and the impact fees that such
development will be required to pay for water; and
   (I)   Impact fee purpose. This subchapter creates a system by which water
impact fees paid by new development will be used to finance, defray, or
reimburse all, or a portion, of the costs incurred by the city to construct
improvements for the system’s capital water facilities in ways that benefit the
development that paid each fee within a reasonable period of time after the fee
is paid.
(Ord. 2019-13, passed 7-22-2019)
§ 50.29 INTENT.
   (A)   Capital improvement plan. This subchapter is adopted to assist in the
implementation of the city’s capital improvement plan for system projects, as
set forth in the study from McClelland Consulting Engineers, which the plan was
reviewed, and approved, by the City Water and Sewer Committees and City
Council, and used in the independent fee calculation study. To that end, the
intent of this subchapter is to ensure that new development bears a
proportionate share of the costs of improvements to capital water facilities;
to ensure that such proportionate share does not exceed the costs of
improvements for capital water facilities required to accommodate new
development; and to ensure that funds collected from new development are
actually used for improvements for capital water facilities that benefit such
new development.
   (B)   Impact fee purpose. It is further the intent of this subchapter that
new development pays for its fair share of the costs of local improvements for
capital water facilities required to accommodate new development though
imposition of impact fees that will be used to finance, defray, or reimburse
all, or a portion, of the costs incurred by the city to construct improvements
to the city’s capital water facilities that serve, or benefit, such new
development. It is not the intent of this subchapter to collect any money from
any new development in excess of the actual amount necessary to offset new
demands for capital water facilities.
   (C)   Funds restricted. It is not the intent of this subchapter that any
monies collected from any local impact fee deposited in the Water Impact Fee
Trust Fund ever be commingled with monies from any other city trust funds or
account, or ever be used for a type of facility, or equipment, different from
that for which the fees are paid, or are ever used to replace, or rehabilitate,
existing improvements.
(Ord. 2019-13, passed 7-22-2019)
§ 50.30 LOCAL IMPACT FEE IMPOSED.
   (A)   Local impact fee obligation. After the effective date of this
subchapter, any person, firm, or corporation who commences any development,
except those exempted hereinafter, shall be obligated to pay local impact fees
upon commencement of such activity. The amount of the fees shall be determined
in accordance with this subchapter, and shall be paid to the city as provided
hereinafter. All monies paid by a developer pursuant to this subchapter shall
be identified as local water impact fees, and shall be promptly deposited into
the Water Impact Fee Trust Fund described herein.
   (B)   Local impact fee collection. Effective July 23, 2019, the local impact
fees imposed by this subchapter shall be collected in connection with, and as a
condition to, the installation of a water meter serving the development, or of
the connection to the water system, whichever comes first.
   (C)   Local impact fee calculation. Local impact fees shall be based on
water meter size. The impact fees established hereinafter may be revised, from
time to time, by the City Council; provided, such revisions are based upon the
independent fee calculation study, or a subsequent independent fee calculation
study.
   (D)   Fee determination.
      (1)   Schedule of fees. The Impact Fee Administrator shall determine the
amount of the local water impact fees for residential uses based on the type,
or size, of the water meter, and for non-residential uses, based on the size of
the water meter using the following schedule:
 
Water Meter Size     Impact Fee
One inch             $2,500
Three-fourths inches $1,300
Two inches           $5,000
 
      (2)   Redevelopment, reconstruction, change of use. In the event of a
redevelopment, reconstruction, or change of use from an existing development,
or use, the fee shall be the difference between what the fee would be for the
entire redevelopment, or reconstruction, project, and what the fee would have
been for the existing development, or use. Existing development must be
connected to the water system at the time of redevelopment in order to apply
this credit.
      (3)   Mixed use. If the proposed development includes a mix of the
residential land uses, and/or non-residential meter sizes that are listed in
the local impact fee schedule, the fee shall be determined by adding up the
local water impact fees that would be applicable for each residential land use
type, and/or non-residential meter size, as if it was freestanding land use
type.
      (4)   Fire suppression/low pressure. It is the intent of this subchapter
to base the local water impact fees on the typical usage in a new building, or
other facility. Extinguishing of fires is not a typical usage; to allow
adequate fire flow to sprinklers and internal hydrants at some large, and at-
risk properties, it may be necessary, for fire protection purposes, to install
a larger water meter than would be necessary to meet day-to-day needs to that
facility. In addition, a larger meter may be required in areas of low water
pressure than in areas of normal water pressure for the same type of use. In
those cases, it is the policy of the city that the impact fees for water should
be based on the meter size needed by the facility for its typical usage,
without regard to fire-flow, or unusual pressure conditions.
      (5)   Irrigation. Any separate wastewater meter installed for irrigation
purposes only shall not be included in the calculation of the local water
impact fee.
      (6)   Master meters. In the event that a water master meter is utilized
for any development, including multi-family or mixed use, the local water
impact fees shall be based on the master meter size.
      (7)   Impact fee correction. If a local impact fee has been calculated,
and paid, based on a mistake or misrepresentation, it shall be recalculated.
Any amounts overpaid by a developer shall be refunded by the city within 30
days after the city’s acceptance of the recalculated amount, with accrued
interest since the date of such overpayment. Any amounts underpaid by the
developer shall be paid to the city within 30 days after the city’s acceptance
of the recalculated amount, with accrued interest since the date of such
underpayment. In the case of an underpayment to the city, the city shall not
issue any additional permits, or approvals, for the development for which the
local impact fee was previously paid until such underpayment is corrected, and
if amounts owed to the city are not paid within such 30-day period, the city
may also rescind any permits issued in reliance on the previous payment of such
local impact fee, and refund such fee to the then current owner of the land.
(Ord. 2019-13, passed - -; Ord. 2019-13, passed 7-22-2019)
§ 50.31 IMPACT FEE EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The following types of developments, listed in division (B) below,
shall be exempted from payment of the local water impact fees. Any claim for
exemption shall be made not later than the time when the applicant applies for
the first water connection permit for the proposed development that creates the
obligation to pay the local impact fees. Any claim for exemption not made at,
or before, that time shall have been waived.
   (B)   The City Council, or designee, shall determine the validity of any
claim for exemption pursuant to the standards set forth below:
      (1)   Reconstruction, expansion, or replacement of a previously-existing
residential unit that does not create any additional residential units, or
installation of a larger water meter;
      (2)   The replacement of a destroyed, or partially destroyed, non-
residential building, or structure, with a new non-residential, or structure,
of the same use as the original structure, and with no more than a 5% increase
in floor area from the original structure, and no increase in the size, or
number, of water meters;
      (3)   Construction of unoccupied accessory structures related to a
residential unit;
      (4)   Developments for which local impact fees for each type of facility
covered by this subchapter has previously been paid in an amount that equals,
or exceeds, the local impact fees that would be required by this subchapter;
      (5)   Developments built by the federal government and the state;
      (6)   Public schools;
      (7)   Construction within a duly established redevelopment district, or
improvement district, for which the local impact fees have specifically been
waived by resolution of the City Council prior to commencement of the
improvements; and
      (8)   Such other economic, or community, development projects for which
the local impact fees have specifically been waived by resolution of the City
Council prior to commencement of the development.
(Ord. 2019-13, passed 7-22-2019)
§ 50.32 USE OF IMPACT FEE TRUST FUND.
   (A)   Trust Fund. A local Water Impact Fee Trust Fund is hereby established
for the purpose of ensuring that the impact fees collected, pursuant to this
subchapter, are designated for the accommodation of impacts reasonably
attributable to new development that paid the local impact fees.
   (B)   Trust Fund management. All local impact fees collected by the city
pursuant to this subchapter shall be promptly deposited into the local Water
Impact Fee Trust Fund as appropriate. The Impact Fee Trust Fund shall be
maintained in interest bearing accounts. Monies in the Trust Fund shall be
considered to be spent in the order collected, on a first-in/first-out basis.
These funds shall contain only local water fees collected pursuant to this
subchapter, plus any interest which may accrue from time to time on each such
fund.
   (C)   Trust Fund limitations. The following limitations shall apply to the
use, and expenditure, of local impact fees collected, and deposited, in the
trust funds:
      (1)   Each local impact fee imposed pursuant to this subchapter may be
assessed, collected, and expended only for the planning, design, and
construction of new water facilities, or of capital improvements to existing
water facilities that expand the system’s capacity, or for the recoupment of
prior capital improvements to water facilities that created capacity available
to serve new development;
      (2)   The local water impact fees may be pledged to the payment of bonds
issued by the city to finance water capital improvements, or water facilities
for which the local impact fees may be imposed;
      (3)   No local impact fee shall be assessed for, or expended for, the
operation, or maintenance, of any water facility, or for the construction, or
improvement, of water facilities that do not create additional capacity;
      (4)   No monies from the Trust Fund shall be spent for periodic, or
routine, maintenance, rehabilitation, or replacement of any facility of any
type, or to cure deficiencies in capital water facilities existing on the
effective date of this subchapter; and
      (5)   Monies, as described in §
50.33.
(Ord. 2019-13, passed 7-22-2019)
§ 50.33 REFUNDS.
   (A)   When refunds are due. The city shall refund the portion of collected
development local water impact fees, including the accrued interest, that has
not been expended seven years from the date the fees were paid. The refund
shall be made on a pro rata basis, and shall be paid in full not later than 90
days after the date certain upon which the refund becomes due. Interest paid
shall be based on a 4% annual rate.
   (B)   Refund notice. When due, a refund shall be paid to the present owner
of the property that was subject of new development, and against which the fee
was assessed and collected. Notice of the right to a refund, including the
amount of the refund and the procedure for applying for, and receiving, the
refund, shall be sent, or served, in writing to the present owners of the
property no later than 30 days after the date on which the refund becomes due.
The sending by regular mail of the notices to all present owners of record
shall be sufficient to satisfy the requirement of notice.
   (C)   Refund payment. The refund shall be made on a pro rata basis, and
shall be paid in full no later than 90 days after the date certain upon which
the refund becomes due.
   (D)   Notice of refund rights. At the time of payment of the local water
impact fee under this subchapter, the Impact Fee Administrator shall provide
the applicant paying such fees with written notice of those circumstances under
which refunds of such fees will be made. Failure to deliver such written notice
shall not invalidate any collection of any impact fee under this subchapter.
(Ord. 2019-13, passed 7-22-2019)
§ 50.34 APPEALS.
   (A)    Any determination made by an official of the city charged with the
administration of any part of this subchapter may be appealed to the City
Council by filing with the City Clerk-Treasurer within ten days of the date of
the determination being appealed:
      (1)   A written notice of appeal on a form provided by the city;
      (2)   A written explanation of why the appellant feels that a
determination was in error; and
      (3)   An appeal fee established by the city, if any.
   (B)   (1)    The City Council shall promptly fix a time, and place, for
hearing the appeal, and the City Clerk-Treasurer shall mail notice of the
hearing to the appellant at the address given in the notice of appeal by first-
class mail, postage prepaid.
      (2)   The hearing shall be conducted at the time, and place, stated in
such notice given by the City Council. The determination of the City Council
shall be final.
(Ord. 2019-13, passed 7-22-2019)
§ 50.35 CAPITAL PLAN; LEVEL OF SERVICE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Plan adoption.
      (1)   The water and wastewater impact fee report prepared by McClelland
Consulting Engineers, and any and all amendments, is hereby approved, adopted
by reference, and incorporated herein as if set out in full as a capital
improvement plan pursuant to A.C. § 14-56-103 for water and sewer development
impact fees.
      (2)   The capital water facilities to be financed by the water impact
fees shall be those facilities identified in the capital plan and level of
service standards, as presented in the study prepared by McClelland
Engineering, as adopted in division (A)(1) above, by the City Council, and used
in the independent fee calculation study. In this regard, the applicable
sections of such study, and letter, are hereby adopted as the official capital
plan and level of services of the city water system.
   (B)   Plan revisions. Said plan in division (A) above, and standards, may be
revised from time to time by resolution of the City Council. To this end,
periodically the Mayor, or engineers hired by the city, may present to the City
Council a proposed capital improvements program for the city capital water
facilities, and such capital improvements program shall assign monies from the
Trust Fund, as appropriate, to specific projects, and related expenses, for
capital water facilities. Any monies, including any accrued interest not
assigned to specific projects within such capital improvements program and not
expended, shall be retained in the Trust Fund subject to the refund provisions
above.
(Ord. 2019-13, passed 7-22-2019; Res. 2019-35, passed 7-22-2019)
§ 50.36 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Impact Fee Administrator. The City Council shall assign to a city
employee the responsibilities of the Impact Fee Administrator hereinabove set
forth. Failure of the Council to make such assignment, or in case of a lapse in
such responsibility after assignment by the Council, the responsibility shall
be on the Clerk-Treasurer to fulfill such responsibilities.
   (B)   Monies collected. All monies collected as local wastewater impact
fees, all funds held as local water impact fees in the above-mentioned Trust
Fund, all accounts created to hold the local water impact fees, and all refunds
of unexpended local wastewater impact fees (including interest thereon) shall
be by the duly elected/appointed City Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 2019-13, passed 7-22-2019)
CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL PLAN
§ 50.50 INTENT.
   In compliance with the state’s Rules and Regulations Pertaining to Public
Water Systems, § VII.E, the City Council finds it necessary for the health,
safety, and welfare of the people served by the Water Division of the City
Utilities Department to adopt cross-connection control standards which
establish the requirements for the design, construction, and maintenance of
connections to the public water supply. These standards are supplemental to,
and do not supersede or modify, the State Plumbing Code, and its latest
revisions under which the city operates. This subchapter pertains to
commercial, and industrial, establishment only. Single-family, residential
dwelling units, unless involved in commercial operations, are exempt from the
requirements of this subchapter, except where they fall under the preview of
the State Plumbing Code.
(Prior Code, § 10.28.01) (Ord. 97-10, passed 10-6-1997)
§ 50.51 PURPOSE.
   The purposes of this subchapter are:
   (A)   To provide for the protection of the public potable water supply;
   (B)   To isolate at the service connection any actual, or potential,
pollution or contamination within the consumer’s premises; and
   (C)   To provide a continuous, systematic, and effective program of cross-
connection control.
(Prior Code, § 10.28.02) (Ord. 97-10, passed 10-6-1997)
§ 50.52 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   BACKFLOW. A hydraulic condition, caused by a difference in pressures, in
which non-potable water, or other fluids, flow into a potable water system.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTER. A device, or means, to prevent backflow.
   DOUBLE-CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY (DC). A complete assembly meeting applicable
AWWA standards, and the requirements of the State Plumbing Code consisting of
two internally loaded, independently operating check valves between two tightly
closing, resilient-seated shutoff valves, with four properly placed resilient-
seated test cocks.
   REDUCED-PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY (RP). A complete
assembly meeting applicable AWWA standards, and the requirements of the State
Plumbing Code consisting of a hydraulically operating, mechanically independent
differential relief valve located between two independently operating,
internally loaded check valves that are located between two tightly closing,
resilient-seated shutoff valves with four properly placed resilient-seated test
cocks.
(Prior Code, § 10.28.03) (Ord. 97-10, passed 10-6-1997)
§ 50.53 OPERATING CRITERIA.
   (A)   The City Water Department’s Cross-Connection Control Program Handbook
of Policies and Procedures is hereby incorporated into this subchapter by
reference. It is the primary responsibility of the water purveyor, and/or the
City Water Superintendent, to evaluate the hazards inherent in supplying a
consumer’s water system (for example, determine whether solid, liquid, or
gaseous pollutants, or contaminants, are, or may be, handled on the consumer’s
premises in such a manner as to possibly permit contamination of the public
water system). When a hazard, or potential hazard, to the public water system
is found on the consumer’s premises, the consumer shall be required to install
an approved backflow prevention assembly at each public water service
connection to the premises in accordance with this subchapter requirement. The
type of device shall depend on the degree of hazard involved. The degree of
hazard shall be as described in AWWA Manual M-14, or as described below. Where
more than one type of protection is possible, the actual method utilized shall
be at the discretion of the water purveyor, and/or the City Water
Superintendent, after physical inspection of the hazard.
   (B)   In the case of any premises where there is an auxiliary water supply,
the public water system shall be protected from the possibility of backflow by
a reduced-pressure principle backflow prevention assembly (RP) at the service
connection.
   (C)   In the case of any premises where there is water, or a substance that
would be objectionable but not hazardous to health if introduced into the
public water system, the public water system shall be protected by an approved
double-check valve assembly.
   (D)   In the case of any premises where there is any material dangerous to
health which is handled in such a fashion as to create an actual, or potential,
hazard to the public water system, the public water system shall be protected
by an approved reduced-pressure principal backflow prevention assembly (RB).
   (E)   In case of any premises where there are “uncontrolled” cross-
connections, either actual or potential, the public water system shall be
protected by an approved reduced-pressure principle backflow prevention
assembly (RP) at the service connection.
   (F)   In the case of any premises where, because of security requirements,
or other prohibitions or restrictions, it is impossible, or impractical, to
make a complete cross-connection survey, the public water system shall be
protected by the installation of an approved reduced-pressure principal
backflow prevention assembly (RB) at the service connection.
(Prior Code, § 10.28.04) (Ord. 97-10, passed 10-6-1997)
§ 50.54 FACILITIES REQUIRING BACKFLOW PROTECTION.
   (A)   The following is a partial list of facilities which may require
reduced-pressure principal backflow prevention assemblies (RB) at the service
connection (requirements are based upon the degree of hazard afforded the
public potable water system):
      (1)   Automatic car washes;
      (2)   Auxiliary water systems;
      (3)   Exterminators;
      (4)   Facilities with boilers, or chilled water systems;
      (5)   Fire systems containing chemicals;
      (6)   Hospitals, medical clinics, dental clinics, health clinics,
sanitariums, morgues, mortuaries, autopsy facilities, and nursing and
convalescent homes;
      (7)   Irrigations systems and lawn sprinkler systems;
      (8)   Laboratories (industrial, commercial, photography, medical, and
school);
      (9)   Commercial laundries;
      (10)   Radiator and battery shops;
      (11)   Restricted, classified, or other facilities closed to inspection;
      (12)   Sand, gravel, and concrete plants;
      (13)   Wastewater treatment plants, pump stations, and stormwater pumping
facilities;
      (14)   Marinas and dockside facilities;
      (15)   Commercial swimming pools;
      (16)   Commercial poultry farms, and commercial farms using pesticides
and herbicides;
      (17)   Establishments holdings livestock for sale or slaughter; and
      (18)   Others (with suspected high hazards).
   (B)   The following is a partial list of facilities which may require
double-check valve assemblies:
      (1)   Apartment buildings;
      (2)   Beauty parlors and barber shops;
      (3)   Hotels and motels;
      (4)   Restaurants, cafeterias, fast-food marts, and other food handling
facilities;
      (5)   Tall buildings;
      (6)   Fire sprinkler systems (without chemicals); and
      (7)   Others (with suspected medium hazards).
(Prior Code, § 10.28.05) (Ord. 97-10, passed 10-6-1997)
§ 50.55 APPROVAL OF BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES.
   Any backflow prevention assembly required herein shall be a type in
compliance with applicable AWWA standards, and the State Plumbing Code.
(Prior Code, § 10.28.06) (Ord. 97-10, passed 10-6-1997)
§ 50.56 NON-COMPLIANCE.
   The procedure for service to be discontinued (notice of consent to enter)
shall be:
   (A)   In emergency situations when the public potable water supply is being
contaminated, or is in immediate danger of contamination, the water service
will be discontinued by the water purveyor, and/or the City Water
Superintendent;
   (B)   No water service connection shall be installed on the premises of any
consumer unless the public potable water system is protected, as required by
this subchapter;
   (C)   Delivery of water to premises of any consumer may be discontinued by
the water purveyor, and/or the City Water Superintendent, if any protective
device required by this subchapter has not been installed, or is defective, or
has been removed or bypassed. Discontinued water service shall not be resumed
until conditions at the consumer’s premises have been abated, or corrected, to
the satisfaction of the water purveyor, and/or Superintendent;
   (D)   Upon discovery of a violation of this subchapter, written notice shall
be given to the consumer. If violations are not corrected by the date and time
given to the consumer, the water supply will be discontinued, and the violation
may be referred to the City Council, or administrative authority, for action;
and
   (E)   For the purpose of making any inspections, or discharging the duties
imposed by this subchapter, the water purveyor, and/or the City Water
Superintendent, the State Health Department, and/or Plumbing Inspector shall
have the right to enter upon the premises of any consumer. Each consumer, as a
condition of the continued delivery to his or her premises, of water from the
public water supply, shall be considered as having stated his or her consent to
the entry upon his or her premises of the water purveyor, and/or Water
Superintendent, the State Health Department, and/or plumbing inspection for the
purpose stated herein.
(Prior Code, § 10.28.07) (Ord. 97-10, passed 10-6-1997)
§ 50.57 OWNERSHIP.
   The consumer shall purchase, own, and maintain all backflow prevention
assemblies installed at the point of delivery to the consumer’s water systems.
(Prior Code, § 10.28.08) (Ord. 97-10, passed 10-6-1997)
§ 50.58 INSTALLATION AND COSTS.
   Customers of the City Water Division requiring backflow prevention devices
shall pay all costs associated with installation of the appropriate size, and
type, of device under private contract. New installations shall be completed
prior to the “final” plumbing inspection so that the device can be included as
part of the inspection. Assemblies shall be installed above ground in a
location that is readily accessible for maintenance and testing, and should be
located not less than 12 inches, nor more than 30 inches, above ground.
(Prior Code, § 10.28.09) (Ord. 97-10, passed 10-6-1997)
§ 50.59 TESTING AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The consumer will be responsible for the annual testing of the
backflow prevention assembly by contract with a certified backflow assembly
tester. The consumer will annually furnish to the water purveyor, and/or the
city, with a certificate of such satisfactory testing by the anniversary date
of the installation of the assembly. In instances where the water purveyor,
and/or Plumbing Inspector, deems the hazard to be great enough, testing may be
required at more frequent intervals, costs of which would be borne by the
consumer. Any maintenance fees required as a result of inspections, or testing,
shall be paid by the consumer through private contract. Records of inspections,
testing, or repairs shall be kept by the water purveyor, and/or the City Water
Superintendent, and made available to the State Health Department.
   (B)   All new construction within the city shall be effective upon passage
of this subchapter. All existing consumer premises shall be in compliance with
this subchapter by October 6, 1997.
(Prior Code, § 10.28.10) (Ord. 97-10, passed 10-6-1997)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   When it becomes necessary for the city to discontinue utility service
to a customer for nonpayment of bills, as described in §
50.05, service will be reinstated only after all bills for service then due
have been paid, along with a penalty in the sum of $25.
(Ord. 2019-17, passed 8-26-2019)
CHAPTER 51: SEWER
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Purpose
   
51.02   Abbreviations
   
51.03   Definitions
   
51.04   Application; permit required
   
51.05   Repair of public ways
   
51.06   Materials and manner of construction
   
51.07   Building sewers
   
51.08   Public sewer use
   
51.09   Surcharge
   
51.10   Pretreatment
   
51.11   Interceptors; traps
   
51.12   Sewer service charge
   
51.13   Summary of responsibilities
   
51.14   Compliance monitoring
   
51.15   Enforcement remedies
   
51.16   Judicial enforcement remedies
   
51.17   Protection from damage
   
51.18   Pressure sewer system specifications
   
51.19   Monthly rates and charges
   
51.20   New connections to sewer system
   
51.21   Treatment plants
Wastewater Impact Fee
   
51.35   Impact fee
   
51.36   Authority and applicability
   
51.37   Definitions
   
51.38   Legislative findings
   
51.39   Intent
   
51.40   Local impact fee imposed
   
51.41   Impact fee exceptions
   
51.42   Use of Impact Fee Trust Fund
   
51.43   Refunds
   
51.44   Appeals
   
51.45   Capital plan; level of service standards
   
51.46   Administration
 
   
51.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 PURPOSE.
   Pursuant to the general laws of the state, and the powers granted in the
charter of the city, the city does hereby declare its intention to acquire,
own, construct, equip, operate, and maintain within the city limits a sewerage
disposal plant, or plants, sewers, equipment, and appurtenances necessary,
useful, or convenient for a sewer system and disposal area, including the
reconstruction of such sewers as may necessarily, or conveniently, be deemed
proper by the city.
(Prior Code, § 10.04.01) (Ord. 2007-17, passed - -)
§ 51.02 ABBREVIATIONS.
Abbreviation Meaning
Abbreviation Meaning
ADEQ         State Department of Environmental Quality
ADHHS        State Department of Health and Human Services
ANRC         State Natural Resources Commission
CBOD5        Carbonaceous biochemical oxygen demand (for five days)
C.F.R.       Code of Federal Regulations
EPA          U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
FEMA         Federal Emergency Management Agency
gpd          Gallons per day
mg/l         Milligrams per liter
NPDES        National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
POTW         Publicy-owned treatment works
RCRA         Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
STEG         Septic tank effluent gravity
STEP         Septic tank effluent pumping
TSS          Total suspended solids
U.S.C.       United States Code
 
(Prior Code, § 10.04.02) (Ord. 2007-17, passed - -)
§ 51.03 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
      ACT OR THE ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as
the Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
      APPLICANT. Property owner, or designated representative.
      APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The State Department of Environmental Quality, and
the State Department of Health and Human Services, or the successors thereof.
      BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge sanitary waste, and other drainage pipes
inside, and five feet beyond the walls of the building, and conveys it to the
interceptor tank.
      BUILDING SEWER. A sewer privately owned, and constructed, in conformance
with the provision hereof, which connects the building drain with the
interceptor tank.
      CARBONACEOUS BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND FIVE (CBOD5). The quantity of
oxygen utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard
laboratory procedures for five days at 20°C, usually expressed as a
concentration of milligrams per liter (mg/l).
      CITY. The City of Cave Springs, Arkansas, its City Council, or its
authorized representative.
      COMMERCIAL. Includes all sewer users, except residential.
      COMMERCIAL or INDUSTRIAL USER. A discharger into the POTW of non-domestic
wastewater.
      CONNECTION FEE. The fee charged by the city for inspection, and
connection, to the sewerage system.
      CONTROL AUTHORITY. The Mayor, or his or her authorized representative.
      DRIP FIELD. An area of land used for the discharge of effluent through
polyethylene drip line and pressure emitters, after it has received secondary
treatment.
      ENGINEER. Engineer or Superintendent of the City Sewer System, or his or
her authorized assistants and inspectors.
      ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY. The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency, or its authorized representative.
      GARBAGE.
         (a)   All putrescible waste, except sewage and body wastes, including
wastes accumulated of animals, food, or vegetable matter, and including wastes
that attend the preparation, use, cooking, dealing in, or storing of, meat,
fish, fowl, fruit, and vegetables, and shall include all such wastes, or
accumulations, of vegetable matter of residences, restaurants, hotels, and
places where food is prepared for human consumption.
         (b)   The term GARBAGE shall not include recognized industrial by-
products, nor shall it include cans, boxes, cartons, paper, or other objects
which may, or may not, have food, or other organic material of any nature in,
or adhering to.
      GREASE TRAP. A device designed to retain grease from one to a maximum of
four fixtures.
      INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial processes, as
distinct from sanitary sewage.
      INSPECTOR. Superintendent, or designated representative of the city.
      INTERCEPTOR (CLARIFIER). A device designed, and installed, so as to
separate, and retain, deleterious, hazardous, or undesirable matter from normal
waste, and permit normal sewage, or liquid waste, to discharge into the STEP or
STEG interceptor tank.
      INTERCEPTOR TANK. See STEP INTERCEPTOR TANK and STEG INTERCEPTOR TANK.
      LIVING UNIT EQUIVALENCY (LUE). Represents the basis for establishing fees
and calculating facility capacity, and is set as two and one-half people per
household, or 208 gallons per day of effluent flow.
      MAY. Permissive.
      NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) PERMIT. A permit
issued to a POTW, or other discharger, pursuant to § 402 of the Act, being 33
U.S.C. § 1342.
      NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or
other body of surface water or groundwater.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity, or any other legal entity, or their legal representatives, agents, or
assigns. This definition includes all federal, state, or local governmental
entities.
      pH. The acidity, or alkalinity, of sanitary or industrial waste. This is
equal to the hydrogen ion concentration, as measured by the logarithm of the
reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions grams per liter of solution.
      PLUMBING REGULATIONS. The State Plumbing Regulations (current edition),
as adopted by the State Board of Health, and the Standard Plumbing Code of the
Southern Building Code Congress International, Incorporated (including all
appendices thereto, including the International Private Sewerage Disposal
Code).
      POLLUTANT. Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage,
garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, medical wastes, chemical wastes, biological
materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discharged equipment, rock,
sand, cellar dirt, agricultural and industrial wastes, and the characteristics
of the wastewater (for example, pH, TSS, turbidity, color, CBOD5, chemical
oxygen demand (COD), toxicity, or odor).
      PRETREATMENT.
         (a)   The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater prior to (or in lieu of) introducing such pollutants into the
sewerage system.
         (b)   This reduction, or alteration, can be obtained by physical,
chemical, or biological processes; by process changes; or by other means
(except by diluting the concentration of the pollutants, unless allowed by an
applicable pretreatment standard).
      PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive, or procedural, requirement,
other than a pretreatment standard, related to pretreatment, and imposed on a
user.
      PRETREATMENT STANDARDS or STANDARDS. Prohibited discharge standards,
categorical pretreatment standards, and local limits.
      PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS or PROHIBITED DISCHARGE. Prohibitions
against the discharge of certain substances, as defined in this subchapter.
      PUBLIC SEWER. A pipe, or conduit, for carrying sewage placed, or
accepted, by the city, consisting of all conduits, interceptor tanks, pumping
facilities service lines, system piping, and control panels, but not including
the building sewer which connects the building with the interceptor tank.
      PUBLICLY-OWNED TREATMENT WORKS.
         (a)   A treatment works, as defined by § 212 of the Act (33 U.S.C. §
1292) which is owned by the city.
         (b)   This definition includes any devices, or systems, used in the
collection, storage, treatment, recycling, and reclamation of sewage, or
industrial, wastes of a liquid nature, and any conveyances which convey
wastewater to a treatment plant.
      QUALIFIED PROFESSIONAL. A person holding a recognized written
certification from the appropriate state licensing board that governs the
discipline in which the service is being rendered.
      RESIDENTIAL. One, or more, rooms designed for occupancy by one family,
and with not more than one cooking facility.
      SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage, and from which storm,
surface, and ground waters are reasonably prohibited.
      SEWAGE. A combination of the water carried human wastes, including
kitchen, bath, and laundry wastes, from residences, buildings, institutions,
establishments, or other places, together with such groundwater infiltration,
surface waters, or industrial waste, as may be present.
      SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used
for treating sewage.
      SEWAGE SYSTEM. The system of sanitary sewers, including components for
conveyance, treatment, and disposal of sewage within the city.
      SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating, and
disposing of sewage.
      SEWER SERVICE CHARGE. A monthly fee, established by the city, charged to
all users of the sewerage system.
      SHALL. Mandatory.
      SHREDDED GARBAGE. Waste from the preparation, cooking, and dispensing of
food.
      SIGNIFICANT USER.
         (a)   A user subject to categorical pretreatment standards;
         (b)   A user that:
            1.   Discharges an average of 25,000 gpd, or more, of process
wastewater to the POTW (excluding sanitary, non-contract cooling, and boiler
blowdown wastewater);
            2.   Contributes a process wastestream, which makes up 5%, or more,
of the average dry weather hydraulic, or organic capacity of the POTW treatment
plant; or
            3.   Is designated as such by the Control Authority on the basis
that it has a reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW’s
operation, or for violating any pretreatment standard or requirement.
         (c)   Upon a finding that a user meeting the criteria in divison (b)2.
has no reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW’s operation, or
for violating any pretreatment standard or requirement, the Control Authority
may, at any time on its own initiative, or in response to a petition received
from a user (and in accordance with procedures in 40 C.F.R. § 403.8(f)(6))
determine that such user should not be considered a SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL
USER.
      STANDARD CITY SPECIFICATIONS. The specifications, which are on file in
City Hall, to which all municipality-regulated construction shall conform.
      STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC) CODE. A classification pursuant
to the Standard Industrial Classification Manual, issued by the United States
Office of Management and Budget.
      STATE. State of Arkansas.
      STEG INTERCEPTOR TANK. A septic tank (holding) structure which gravity
flows and contains effluent filters. The STEG TANK will be of a design, and
size (minimum 1,500 gallons) approved by the State Department of Health and the
city.
      STEP INTERCEPTOR TANK.
         (a)   A septic tank (holding) structure which contains facilities for
pumping effluent.
         (b)   The STEP TANK will be of a design, and size (minimum 1,500
gallons) approved by the State Department of Health and the city.
      STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A sewer which carries storm, and surface,
wastes and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes.
      SUPERINTENDENT. The designated representative of the city responsible for
the sewer system.
      SURCHARGE FOR STEP. An additional service charge above, and beyond, the
normal monthly charge that shall be assessed to the significant users who
discharge into the city system wastewater having an average CBOD5 concentration
in excess of 150 milligrams per liter, or an average TSS concentration in
excess of 150 milligrams per liter.
      SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface, or are in
suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
      TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The total suspended matter that floats on the
surface of, or is suspended in, water, wastewater, or other liquid, and which
is removable by laboratory filtering.
      TOXIC POLLUTANT. Any pollutant, or combination of pollutants, listed as
toxic in regulations promulgated by EPA under § 307 (33 U.S.C. § 1317) of the
Act.
      USER. Any person, user, operator, owner, or customer who contributes, or
permits the contribution, of wastewater into the POTW.
      WASTEWATER. Liquid and water-carried industrial wastes and sewage from
residential dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial and manufacturing
facilities, and institutions.
      WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT. The portion of the POTW which is designed to
provide treatment of municipal sewage and industrial waste.
      WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either
continuously or intermittently.
   (B)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future, the singular
number includes the plural, and the plural includes the singular.
(Prior Code, § 10.04.03) (Ord. 2007-17, passed - -)
§ 51.04 APPLICATION; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation shall make a connection to any part of
the sanitary sewer system of the city without first making an application, and
securing a permit therefor, and then only by using an approved connection in
accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   (1)   Application for sewer connection permits shall be made, in
writing, to City Hall on a form provided, and prescribed, by the city, and
shall give the location of the property, septic tank, and service line; street
number of the building(s) to be connected; name of the person; and statement as
to whether or not the property to be connected was, in the past, assessed for
the construction of a sanitary sewer onto which the applicant desires to
connect, and such other information, or plans, as may be required by the city.
      (2)   Application for a permit to connect to the system shall also
include an easement from the applicant, or user, as is required for maintenance
purposes, and payment of a fee, and/or deposit, as described hereinafter.
   (C)   All permit applications must be signed by an authorized signatory of
the user, and contain the following certification statement:
 
“I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments were
prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed
to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the information
submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system,
or those persons directly responsible for gathering the information, the
information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true,
accurate, and complete. I am aware there are significant penalties for
submitted false information, including the possibility of fine and imprisonment
for knowing violations”.
 
(Prior Code, § 10.04.04) (Ord. 2007-17, passed - -)
§ 51.05 REPAIR OF PUBLIC WAYS.
   Applicants shall agree to pay the cost of repairing streets, or alleys,
excavated for the purpose of making the sewer connections covered by the
permit, if not otherwise required as a part of a larger city project. The city
shall approve all street and alley cuts, and hold the applicant responsible for
maintenance for one year after the line use has begun.
(Prior Code, § 10.04.06) (Ord. 2007-17, passed - -)
§ 51.06 MATERIALS AND MANNER OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   All building sewer installations shall be constructed to conform to
the provisions of the State Plumbing Regulations, latest edition, and the
city’s sewer specifications. Connections within the public right-of-way shall
be made only by a licensed plumber of the state, and be witnessed by the City
Inspector. Proof of a valid permit will be required prior to construction.
   (B)   A separate, and independent, electrical circuit shall be provided for
every STEP interceptor tank.
   (C)   Existing building sewers and building plumbing may be used in
connection with new buildings only when they meet all requirements of the
applicable Plumbing Code.
   (D)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing, and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the building and plumbing codes, or other applicable rules and regulations of
the state and city. In the absence of code provisions, or in amplification
thereof, the materials and procedures set forth in the current addition of the
Plumbing Code and Building Code, adopted by the city, shall apply.
   (E)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the interceptor tank,
sanitary sewerage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved
means, and discharged to the building sewer, and the property owner shall
provide a backwater valve to prevent backflow of sewage.
   (F)   No person(s) shall make connection of roof downspouts, foundation
drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff, or groundwater, to
a building sewer or building drain, which, in turn, is connected directly, or
indirectly, to a public sanitary sewer.
   (G)   The connection of the building sewer into the interceptor tank shall
conform to the requirements of the applicable Plumbing Code and city
specifications. All such connections shall be made essentially gastight and
watertight, and verified by visual inspection.
   (H)   The applicant for the sewer permit shall notify the City Inspector
when the building sewer is ready for inspection, and connection to the
interceptor tank. The connection, and testing, of the interceptor tank shall be
made in the presence of the City Inspector, or his or her representative. After
installation, the STEP tank shall be tested for water-tightness to include all
connections to the tank. Any leakage shall be eliminated, or the tank replaced.
   (I)   All excavations for sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored to a condition equal to that previously existing.
   (J)   Plumbing within newly constructed houses, buildings, or structures
shall be so oriented (unless otherwise approved by the city in writing) as to
allow the building sewer to stem from the side closest to the system piping.
   (K)   An interceptor tank, control panel, and proper pump, and piping, shall
be installed so that each parcel has independent sewerage facilities.
(Prior Code, § 10.04.07) (Ord. 2007-17, passed - -)
§ 51.07 BUILDING SEWERS.
   (A)   Materials and workmanship for building sewer construction shall meet
the standards established by the city, as modified from time to time, or the
applicable provisions of the current edition of the State Plumbing Regulations,
and in conformance to the city sewer system regulations. Where in conflict, the
more stringent standard shall apply. No backfill shall be placed until the City
Inspector has inspected the work.
   (B)   There shall be a minimum horizontal separation of ten feet between
water and sewer pipeline. In the event that this limitation cannot be met, the
applicant will proceed only under special permit from the city, and under the
direction of the City Inspector. When circumstances force the installer to
cross potable waterlines and gas lines with sewer lines, the sewer lines shall
be installed under the water or gas lines, and as nearly possible to a 90-
degree angle. The bottom of the water piping at all points shall be at least 18
inches above the top of the sewer piping. Whenever the vertical separation
between water and sewer lines is less than 18 inches, or if the water line is
below the sewer line, either the water or the sewer line must be surrounded by
encasement pipe.
(Prior Code, § 10.04.08) (Ord. 2007-17, passed - -)
§ 51.08 PUBLIC SEWER USE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited, in any unsanitary manner on public, or private, property within the
city limits, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any sewerage,
human or animal excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
city limits, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any sanitary
sewerage, industrial waste, or other polluted waters, except where suitable
treatment has been provided in accordance with this subchapter, and all
applicable state, and federal, laws and regulations.
   (C)   No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, any stormwater,
surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, cooling water, or
unpolluted industrial process water to any sanitary sewer. Any existing
discharge of such waters into sanitary sewers shall be immediately
discontinued.
    (D)   Stormwater, and all other unpolluted drainage, shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as storm sewers, or to a natural
outlet approved by the city. Industrial cooling water, or unpolluted process
waters, may be discharged, on approval of the city, to a storm sewer or natural
outlet; provided, that all state, and federal, laws and regulations are met.
   (E)   No wastewater generated by a development located in the 100-year
floodplain shall be transported, or treated, by city-owned facilities, except
that service may be provided to:
      (1)   Areas of existing development in a floodplain;
      (2)   Commercial, or public, facilities which, by nature, must be located
in a floodplain;
      (3)   Areas of projected growth if an environmental information document
demonstrates that the proposed development will be consistent with the
floodplain management criteria for flood-prone areas (44 C.F.R. § 60.3) of the
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), and will have no significant
impacts on natural functions, and values, of the floodplain; or
      (4)   An area of projected growth if an environmental impact statement
demonstrates that there is no practicable alternative to such growth, that such
growth will be consistent with the floodplain management criteria for
floodprone areas (44 C.F.R. § 60.3) of FEMA, and that the benefits of such
growth outweigh its environmental costs.
   (F)   No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, any of the
following described water, or wastes, to any public sanitary sewer:
      (1)   Raw sewage not first treated through an interceptor tank;
      (2)   Explosive, or inflammable, liquids and gases, or any liquid or
vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F;
      (3)   Any water, or waste, which contains more than 100 parts per million
by eight, of fat, oil or grease, oil and sludge from service stations, garages,
repair shops, machine shops, cleaning establishments or other industries, or
establishments;
      (4)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable, or
explosive, liquid, solid, gas, petroleum, coal tar, vegetable and mineral oils
and products, and their derivatives and wastes, except sewage, as defined in §
51.03;
      (5)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastic, wood, paunch, stable or barn manure, offal from
slaughterhouses, dead animals or other solid, or viscous substance capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works;
      (6)   Any waters, or wastes, having a pH lower than 5.5, higher than 9.0,
or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage, or hazard, to
structures, equipment, and personnel of the sewerage works;
      (7)   Any waters, or waste, containing a toxic, or poisonous, substance
in sufficient quantity to injure, or interfere, with any sewerage treatment
process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, or create any hazard in the
receiving waters of the sewage treatment facilities. Among substances that may
be toxic to sewer systems, humans, and animals are the following: copper;
chromium; cyanide; lead; zinc; arsenic; nickel; phenol detergents; wastes from
nuclear fission; paints, or waste products from paint manufacturers, or acids;
alkalis, or other corrosive liquids; gases; or substances of sufficient
strength to damage sewers, manholes, pumping stations, or treatment plant
units.
         (a)   Specifically, the following limitations on discharges to the
city sewer will be observed. The following pollutant limits are established to
protect against pass through and interference. No person shall discharge
wastewater containing in excess of the following instantaneous maximum
allowable discharge limits, except by permit from the Control Authority:
Pollutant Discharged Amount of Discharge
Pollutant Discharged Amount of Discharge
Arsenic              0.1 mg/l
Cadmium              0.02 mg/l
Chromium             0.48 mg/l
Copper               0.23 mg/l
Cyanide              0.01 mg/l
Lead                 0.1 mg/l
Mercury              0.0002 mg/l
Nickel               0.02 mg/l
Silver               0.024 mg/l
Zinc                 0.1 mg/l
 
         (b)   All concentrations for metallic substances are for “total”
metal, unless indicated otherwise. The Control Authority may impose mass
limitations in addition to, or in place of, the concentration-based limitations
above.
         (c)   The city may revise, or modify, the local limits as required, or
if deemed necessary to comply with the objectives presented in this subchapter,
or to ensure compliance with federal, state, or local law.
      (8)   Any noxious, or malodorous, gas or substance capable of creating a
public nuisance, or live steam, exhaust steam, or water having a temperature
above 1,400F;
      (9)   Any liquids, gases, solids, or other wastewater which, either
singly or by interaction with other wastes, are sufficient to create a public
nuisance or a hazard to life, or to prevent entry into the sewers for
maintenance or repair;
      (10)   Wastewater which imparts color which cannot be removed by the
treatment process, such as, but not limited to, dye, wastes, and vegetable
tanning solutions, which consequently imparts color to the treatment plant’s
effluent, thereby violating the city’s NPDES permit;
      (11)   Wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes, except
in compliance with applicable federal, or state, regulations, and approved by
the Control Authority;
      (12)   Sludges, screenings, or other residues from the pretreatment of
industrial wastes;
      (13)   Medical wastes, except as specifically authorized by the Control
Authority; and
      (14)   Detergents, surface-active agents, or other substances which may
cause excessive foaming in the POTW.
(Prior Code, § 10.04.09) (Ord. 2007-17, passed - -) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.09 SURCHARGE.
   (A)   Any significant user generating discharge which exhibits none of the
characteristics of wastes prohibited herein, but which has an average
concentration of total suspended solids (TSS), or carbonaceous biochemical
oxygen demand five (CBOD5) in excess of 150 mg/l during a 24-hour period, may
be required to obtain a discharge permit. Such discharge may, however, be
accepted by the POTW for treatment if:
      (1)   The user agrees to payment of a surcharge over, and above,
published sewer rates, as provided herein; and
      (2)   The discharge is amendable to treatment such that when it leaves
the sewage treatment plant to be discharged, the discharge does not exceed, or
cause the total discharge to exceed, the standards set by federal, and state,
agencies having jurisdiction.
   (B)   Prior to imposition of a surcharge, the user shall be notified, in
writing, that the discharge exceeds the maximum limits, as established in this
subchapter.
   (C)   If, after 60 days have elapsed from the date of notice, the quality of
the waste has not been brought within the maximum allowable limits, the user
must enter into a surcharge agreement with the city.
   (D)   The surcharge will be adjusted on billings for the month following
submission of new data, but not less frequently than quarterly.
   (E)   Carbonaceous biochemical oxygen demand five (CBOD5) and total
suspended solids (TSS) values will be determined for standard values
established by the Control Authority for various industries having normal
pretreatment facilities for that industry. The Control Authority shall sample
the discharge from a user to determine accurate values of CBOD5 and TSS being
discharged for the purpose of determining a surcharge. Analysis performed by a
user shall be under the direction of the Control Authority, and performed by an
approved qualified laboratory. Reports submitted to the Control Authority shall
contain a statement that the samples collected, and values determined, are
based on a 24-hour composite representative of the user’s flow.
   (F)   All sampling, and analyses, of the waste characteristics shall be
performed in accordance with 40 C.F.R. part 136; approved methods, and all such
costs, shall be borne by the user.
   (G)   The volume of flow used in computing surcharge shall be based upon
metered water consumption, as shown in the records of meter readings maintained
by the city’s business office. In the event that a person discharging waste
into the city sewerage system produces evidence to the Control Authority
demonstrating that a portion of the total amount of water used for all purposes
is not discharged into the POTW, a separate meter, or meters, or other approved
flow measuring device, may be installed at the user’s expense, upon his or her
request, to measure only that portion of the total flow being discharged into
the city sewerage system. If a surcharge is assessed by the city, it shall be
shown separately on the monthly billing.
   (H)   (1)   Any person discharging industrial waste into the sanitary sewers
of the city who procures any part of all of the user’s water supply from
sources other than the city, all, or part, of which is discharged into the
sanitary sewer, shall install, and maintain, at the user’s expense, water
meters of the type approved by the city for the purpose of determining the
proper volume of flow to be used in computing sewer service charges.
      (2)   Such meter will be read monthly, and tested for accuracy when
deemed necessary by the city. Where it can be shown that a portion of the water
measured by the aforesaid meter, or meters, does not enter the sanitary sewer
system of the city, then the user may install additional approved meters at the
user’s expense in such a manner as to measure the quantity of water actually
entering the sanitary sewer system from the property of such user, and the
quantity of wastewater used to determine the sewer service charge, and
surcharge, shall be the quantity of wastewater actually entering the sewage
system, as so determined.
   (I)   Computation of surcharge shall be based on the following: S=V * 8.34*
[X (CBOD5 - 150) + Y (TSS - 150)], where:
         (1)   “S” is the surcharge in dollars for the billing period;
         (2)   “V” is the water consumption in millions of gallons during the
billing period;
         (3)   “8.34" is the weight of water in pounds per gallon;
         (4)   “X” is the unit charge in dollars per pound for CBOD5 in effect
at the time of the billing;
         (5)   “Y” is the unit charge in dollars per pound for TSS in effect at
the time of the billing;
         (6)   “CBOD5" is the concentration of carbonaceous biochemical oxygen
demand five in milligrams per liter; and
         (7)   “TSS” is the concentration of total suspended solids in
milligrams per liter.
   (J)   (1)   The Control Authority reserves the right to review, and approve,
any water, or industrial waste, entering the city’s sewerage system, or
proposed to be discharged into the system, having an average daily flow greater
than 5% of the design flow capacity of the plant which will treat the waste.
      (2)   In the event the city’s measurement discloses such flow in excess
of such capacity, the city shall be under no obligation to receive such flow in
excess of 5% of designed capacity, and the city’s published rate shall not
apply to such excess. A user affected hereby shall be promptly notified of such
determination by the Control Authority. A special contract, at the city’s
option, may be made with the user to accommodate such excess flow.
(Prior Code, § 10.04.10) (Ord. 2007-17, passed - -)
§ 51.10 PRETREATMENT.
   (A)   Pretreatment facilities. Users shall provide wastewater treatment, as
necessary, to comply with this subchapter, and shall achieve compliance with
all pretreatment standards, local limits, and the prohibitions set forth herein
within the time limitations specified by the EPA, the state, or the Control
Authority, whichever is more stringent. Any facilities necessary for compliance
shall be provided, operated, and maintained at the user’s expense. Detailed
plans describing such facilities, and operating procedures, shall be submitted
to the Control Authority for review, and shall be acceptable by the Control
Authority before such facilities are constructed. The review of such plans, and
operating procedures, shall in no way relieve the user from the responsibility
of modifying such facilities as necessary to produce a discharge acceptable to
the Control Authority under the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Additional pretreatment measures.
      (1)   Whenever deemed necessary, the Control Authority may require users
to restrict their discharge during peak flow periods, designate that certain
wastewater be discharged only into specific sewers, relocate, and/or
consolidate, points of discharge, separate sewage wastestreams from industrial
wastestreams, and such other conditions as may be necessary to protect the
POTW, and determine the user’s compliance with the requirements of this
subchapter.
      (2)   The Control Authority may require any person discharging into the
POTW to install, and maintain, on his or her property, and at his or her
expense, a suitable storage, and flow control, facility to ensure equalization
of flow. A wastewater permit may be issued solely for flow equalization.
      (3)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Control Authority, they are necessary for the proper handling of
wastewater containing excessive amounts of grease and oil, or sand; except that
such interceptors shall not be required for residential users.
      (4)   Any water, or wastes, containing CBOD5 greater than 150 mg/l, or
TSS is greater than 150 mg/l, shall be subject to a surcharge in addition to
the standard sewer rate charges.
(Prior Code, § 10.04.11) (Ord. 2007-17, passed - -)
§ 51.11 INTERCEPTORS; TRAPS.
   (A)   Oil, grease, and sand interceptors, or grease traps, shall be provided
by hotels, restaurants, cafes, lunch counters, cafeterias, bars and clubs,
hospitals, factories, or school kitchens, filling and service stations,
laundries, processing plants, metal fabrication plants, and other places when
they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes, sand, and other
harmful ingredients, except that such interceptors, or traps, shall not be
required for private living quarters, or dwelling units.
   (B)   All interceptors, or traps, shall be of a type, design, and capacity,
as described by the applicable provisions of the State Plumbing Regulations,
latest edition, and approved by the City Inspector, and shall be located so as
to be readily, and easily, accessible for cleaning and inspection.
   (C)   Grease, oil interceptors, and grease traps shall be constructed of
impervious material capable of withstanding abrupt, and extreme, changes in
temperatures. They shall be of substantial construction, watertight, and
equipped with easily removable covers which, when bolted in place, shall be
watertight.
   (D)   Where installed, all grease, oil, and sand interceptors, or grease
traps, shall be maintained by the user, at his or her expense, in continuously
efficient operation at all times. The Control Authority shall ascertain that
all interceptors, or traps, are cleaned, and/or replaced at least once every
month, or as needed.
(Prior Code, § 10.04.12) (Ord. 2007-17, passed - -)
§ 51.12 SEWER SERVICE CHARGE.
   (A)   Sewer service charges, and assessment, shall be established by
ordinance. The monthly rates for sewerage system use shall be billed to each
user from the city. City ordinance has established the date as the fifteenth of
the month, when such rates first become payable.
   (B)   Sewerage system charges shall become due, and payable, on the fixed
date. Unpaid sewerage system service charges due from users of the sewerage
system shall become delinquent.
   (C)   All payments and collections of sewer service charges under this
subchapter shall be deposited in the Operation, Maintenance, and Repair Revenue
Fund (OM&R) of the city. The OM&R Revenue Fund may be used for, but not limited
to, the payment of reasonable administration costs, professional services,
fees, and expenses of collection of the charges, and connection fees, imposed
by this subchapter.
   (D)   The city shall disconnect sewer utility service in accordance with §§
50.01 through
50.12.
(Prior Code, § 10.04.15) (Ord. 2007-17, passed - -)
§ 51.13 SUMMARY OF RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The user shall (as a minimum):
      (1)   Apply for service in writing;
      (2)   Pay applicable city connection permit, and inspection, fees prior
to installation, as set by city ordinance, and §
51.19;
      (3)   Pay for a STEP system on each lot by depositing, in advance of
installation, an estimated amount with the city for all costs, including
engineering, construction management, excavation, installation, materials,
backfill, street repair, and overhead, as determined by the city;
      (4)   Provide a permanent, electrical “rough-in” for a dedicated
electrical circuit at a location designated by the City Inspector, if
requested;
      (5)   Notify the City Inspector a minimum of two weeks prior to the need
for actual installation;
      (6)   Grant the city an easement in advance of installation to facilitate
pumping and maintenance of tank(s);
      (7)   Be responsible for expenses associated with the proper maintenance
and repair of the tank, pump package, and sewer discharge line from the
building to the city’s collection line; and
      (8)   Pay monthly user fees, as set by city ordinance.
   (B)   The city shall:
      (1)   Ensure tap of sewer main at an appropriate location;
      (2)   Respond to alarms on the pump package;
      (3)   Perform repairs to pump packages, as needed, at the owner’s
expense;
      (4)   Perform inspection and sampling, as appropriate; and
      (5)   Pump the tank at appropriate intervals, at the owner’s expense.
(Prior Code, § 10.04.16) (Ord. 2007-17, passed - -; Ord. 2021-02, passed 2-22-
2021)
§ 51.14 COMPLIANCE MONITORING.
   (A)   Right of entry; inspection and sampling.
      (1)   The Control Authority shall have the right to enter the property of
any user to determine whether the user is complying with all requirements of
this subchapter, and any discharge permit, or order issued hereunder.
      (2)   Users shall allow the Control Authority ready access to all parts
of the property for the purposes of inspection, sampling, records examination
and copying, and the performance of any additional duties.
      (3)   If a user has security measures in force that require proper
identification and clearance before entry into his or her property, the user
shall make necessary arrangements with his or her security guards so that, upon
presentation of suitable identification, the Control Authority will be
permitted to enter, without delay, for the purposes of performing specific
responsibilities.
      (4)   The Control Authority shall have the right to set up on the user’s
property, or require installation of, such devices as are necessary to conduct
sampling, and/or metering, of the user’s operations.
      (5)   The Control Authority may require the user to install monitoring
equipment as necessary. The facility’s sampling, and monitoring, equipment
shall be maintained at all times in a safe, and proper, operating condition by
the user at his or her own expense. All devices used to measure flow and
quality shall be calibrated at least annually by a certified technician to
ensure their accuracy. Calibration records shall be made available to the
Control Authority upon request.
      (6)   Any temporary, or permanent, obstruction to safe, and easy, access
to the facility to be inspected, and/or sampled, shall be promptly removed by
the user at the written, or verbal, request of the Control Authority, and shall
not be replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the user.
      (7)   Unreasonable delays in allowing the Control Authority access to the
user’s property shall be a violation of this subchapter.
   (B)   Search warrants. If the Control Authority has been refused access to
the property, or any part thereof, and is able to demonstrate probable cause to
believe that there may be a violation of this subchapter, or that there is a
need to inspect, and/or sample, as part of a routine inspection and sampling
program of the Control Authority designed to verify compliance with this
subchapter, or any permit or order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall
public health, safety, and welfare of the community, then the Control Authority
may seek issuance of a search warrant from a court of proper jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 10.04.17) (Ord. 2007-17, passed - -)
§ 51.15 ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES.
   (A)   Administrative enforcement remedies.
      (1)   Notice of violation. When the Control Authority finds that a user
has violated (or continues to violate) any provision of this subchapter, a
discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment
standard, or requirement, the Control Authority shall serve upon such user
either an informal warning, or a written notice of violation. Within five
business days of the receipt of the notice of violation, an explanation of the
violation, and a plan for the satisfactory correction and prevention thereof,
to include specific required actions, shall be submitted by the user to the
Control Authority. Submission of this plan in no way relieves the user of
liability for any violations occurring before, or after, receipt of the notice
of violation. Nothing in this section shall limit the authority of the Control
Authority to take any action, including emergency actions or any other
enforcement action, without first issuing an informal warning, or a notice of
violation.
      (2)   Consent orders. The Control Authority may enter into consent
orders, assurance of voluntary compliance, or other similar documents
establishing an agreement with any user responsible for non-compliance. Such
documents will include specific action to be taken by the user to correct the
non-compliance within a time period specified by the document. Such documents
shall have the same force and effect as the administrative orders issued
pursuant to this subchapter, and shall be judicially enforceable.
      (3)   Show cause hearing. The Control Authority may order a user which
has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this subchapter a
discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard
or requirement, to appear before the Control Authority, and show cause why the
proposed enforcement action should not be taken. Notice shall be served on the
user specifying the time, and place, for the meeting, the proposed enforcement
action, the reasons for such action, and a request that the user show cause why
the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The notice of the meeting
shall be served personally, or by registered or certified mail (return receipt
requested), at least five business days prior to the hearing. Such notice shall
be served on a representative of the user who meets the criteria of an
authorized signatory. A show cause hearing shall not be a bar against, or
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
      (4)   Compliance orders. When the Control Authority finds that a user has
violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this subchapter, a
discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment
standard, or requirement, the Control Authority may issue an order to the user
responsible for the discharge directing that the user come into compliance
within a specified time.
         (a)   If the user does not come into compliance within the time
provided, water and sewer service may be discontinued unless adequate treatment
facilities, devices, or other related appurtenances are installed, and properly
operated. Compliance ordinances may also contain other requirements to address
the non-compliance, including additional self-monitoring, and management
practices designed to minimize the amount of pollutants discharged to the
sewer.
         (b)   A compliance order may not extend the deadline for compliance
established for a national pretreatment standard or requirement, nor does a
compliance order relieve the user of liability for any violation, including any
continuing violation. Issuance of a compliance order shall not be a bar
against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
      (5)   Cease and desist orders.
         (a)   When the Control Authority finds that a user has violated (or
continues to violate) any provision of this subchapter, a discharge permit, or
order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, or
that the user’s past violations are likely to recur, the Control Authority may
issue an order to the user directing him or her to cease, and desist, all such
violations, and directing the user to:
            1.   Immediately comply with all requirements; and
            2.   Take such appropriate remedial, or preventive, action as may
be needed to properly address a continuing, or threatened, violation, including
halting operations, and/or terminating the discharge.
         (b)   Issuance of a cease and desist order shall not be a bar against,
or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
   (B)   Administrative fines.
      (1)   Violation of the subchapter. When the Control Authority finds that
a user has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this subchapter,
a discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment
standard or requirement, the Control Authority may fine such user in an amount
not to exceed $1,000. Such fines shall be assessed on a per violation, per day
basis. The Control Authority may add the costs of preparing administrative
enforcement actions, such as notices and orders, to the fine.
      (2)   Issuance of the fine. Issuance of an administrative fine shall not
be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against the
user.
   (C)   Emergency suspensions. The Control Authority may immediately suspend a
user’s discharge, after informal notice to the user, whenever such suspension
is necessary to stop an actual, or threatened, discharge which reasonably
appears to present, or cause, an imminent, or substantial, endangerment to the
health, or welfare, of persons. The Control Authority may also immediately
suspend a user’s discharge, after notice and opportunity to respond, that
threatens to interfere with the operation of the POTW, or which presents, or
may present, an endangerment to the environment.
      (1)   Stopping contribution. Any user notified of a suspension of his or
her discharge shall immediately stop, or eliminate, his or her contribution. In
the event of a user’s failure to immediately comply voluntarily with the
suspension order, the Control Authority shall take such steps as deemed
necessary, including immediate severance of the sewer connection or water
service, to prevent, or minimize, damage to the POTW, its receiving stream, or
endangerment to any individuals. The Control Authority may allow the user to
recommence his or her discharge when the user has demonstrated, to the
satisfaction of the Control Authority, that the period of endangerment has
passed, unless the termination proceedings in this subchapter are initiated
against the user.
      (2)   Severance notice. If necessary, severance of the sewer connection,
or water service, may occur without notice.
      (3)   Responsibility. A user that is responsible, in whole or in part,
for any discharge presenting imminent endangerment, shall submit a detailed
written statement describing the causes of the harmful contribution, and the
measures taken to prevent any future occurrence, to the Control Authority
within five business days. Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as
requiring a hearing prior to any emergency suspension under this section.
   (D)   Termination of discharge. Any user that violates the conditions in
this subchapter is subject to discharge termination. Such user will be notified
of the proposed termination of his or her discharge, and be offered an
opportunity to show cause why the proposed action should not be taken. Exercise
of this option by the Control Authority shall not be a bar to, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
(Prior Code, § 10.04.18) (Ord. 2007-17, passed - -)
§ 51.16 JUDICIAL ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES.
   (A)   Injunctive relief. When the Control Authority finds that a user has
violated (or continues to violate) any provision of this subchapter, a
discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard
or requirement, the Control Authority may petition the appropriate court
through the Control Authority’s attorney for the issuance of a temporary, or
permanent, injunction, as appropriate, which restrains, or compels, the
specific performance of the discharge permit, order, or other requirement
imposed by this subchapter on activities of the user. The Control Authority may
also seek such other action as is appropriate for legal, and/or equitable,
relief, including a requirement for the user to conduct environmental
remediation. A petition for injunctive relief shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user.
   (B)   Civil penalties.
      (1)   In determining the amount of civil liability, the court shall take
into account all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to, the
extent of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration, any
economic benefit gained through the user’s violation, corrective actions by the
user, the compliance history of the user, and any other factor as justice
requires.
      (2)   Filing a suit for civil penalties shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user.
   (C)   Cost recovery. The Control Authority may recover reasonable attorney’s
fees, court costs, and other expenses associated with enforcement activities,
including sampling, and monitoring, expenses, and the cost of any actual
damages, or fines, incurred by the Control Authority.
   (D)   Remedies nonexclusive. The remedies provided for in this subchapter
are not exclusive. The Control Authority may take any, all, or any combination
of these actions against a non-compliant user. Enforcement of pretreatment
violations will generally be in accordance with the Control Authority’s
enforcement response plan. However, the Control Authority may take other action
against any user, including, but not limited to, misdemeanor and felony fines,
and imprisonment when the circumstances warrant.
   (E)   Right of revision. The city reserves the right to establish, by
ordinance or in discharge permits, more stringent standards, or requirements,
on discharges to the POTW.
(Prior Code, § 10.04.19) (Ord. 2007-17, passed - -)
§ 51.17 PROTECTION FROM DAMAGE.
   No person shall break, damage, uncover, deface, or tamper with any
structure, appurtenance, or equipment, which is a part of the sewerage works.
Offenders, or their adult guardians, will be required to fully reimburse the
city for repair costs required.
(Prior Code, § 10.04.20) (Ord. 2007-17, passed - -) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.18 PRESSURE SEWER SYSTEM SPECIFICATIONS.
   The pressure sewer system specifications, as reviewed, and recommended, by
the City Sewer Committee, which are attached hereto, are hereby adopted, and
shall apply to the installation of all pressure sewer systems within the city.
No builder, developer, or individual shall receive a permit for construction,
installation, or placement of a pressure sewer system in the city until all
construction is fully compliant with this subchapter, and with the approved
pressure sewer system specifications.
(Prior Code, § 10.04.21) (Ord. 2006-16, passed - -)
§ 51.19 MONTHLY RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Rates. The following monthly rates and charges, which the City Council
hereby finds, and declares, are fair, reasonable, and necessary, minimum rates
be, and they are hereby, fixed as rates to be charged for sewer services to be
rendered by the city.
 
Type of Charge Amount to be Charged
Commercial Users
Base rate      $55 per month
Residential Users
Base rate      $50 per month
 
   (B)   Sewer connection fee. There shall be a connection fee equal to the
actual cost to the city, or at a minimum of $500, for every sewer user who
connects to the sewer facilities of the system. Said connection fee shall be to
cover the city’s cost of the installation for the sewer connection. The city,
by and through the Mayor, or the Mayor’s designee, shall have the right to
reduce or waive the connection fee in the instances where:
      (1)   The customer has borne the cost of the installation of the public
infrastructure to which the sewer connection is being sought;
      (2)   In instances where the connection fee sought is for a property
owner within the municipal property owner’s improvement district who is subject
to the levy of annual assessments to pay off the bonds that financed the
initial purchase and installation of the system; and
      (3)   In other such situations where good causes exists to waive or
reduce the sewer connection fee in order to reflect the actual cost of the
connection.
   (C)   RV parks. Any customer operating a recreational vehicle park, or RV
park, shall have a master sanitary sewer meter owned and maintained by the
city. Monthly billing for an RV park customer shall be based on the volume of
sewer service provided, with the monthly cost being a $50 charge per living
unit equivalency unit (LEU) used during the monthly period as reflected by the
master sanitary sewer meter. An LEU shall be the equivalent of a sanitary sewer
user that disposes of 208 gallons per day of wastewater into the city’s sewer
system.
   (D)   Connection. None of the sewer facilities or services afforded by the
system shall be furnished without a charge being made therefore to the
customer. The sewer rates established and set forth herein went into effect
upon the effective date of this section. The city hereby authorizes the Mayor,
or the Mayor’s designee, in accordance with A.C. § 14-235-301 et seq., to order
any property owner within 300 feet of a public sanitary sewer line to connect
the city’s sanitary sewer system if it is determined that the public health
will be promoted by requiring such connection.
(Ord. 2021-02, passed 2-22-2021)
§ 51.20 NEW CONNECTIONS TO SEWER SYSTEM.
   (A)   The city’s sewer plants 1 and 2 are reaching their maximum capacity;
therefore, any new connections to the city sewer system must be closely
monitored.
   (B)   The City Council has determined that it is in the public interest, and
welfare, that all new connections to the city sewer system be closely
monitored, and require prior review, and approval, by the City Water and Sewer
Committees, and before any permit, or plat, is approved, which would allow
connection to the city sewer system.
(Ord. 2018-12, passed 5-8-2018)
§ 51.21 TREATMENT PLANTS.
   (A)   Accepted. The sewer system dedicated by the district to the city
should be, and the same is, hereby accepted, and approved, by the city, subject
to the satisfactory completion of the items, or issues, referenced in
Table VI of the Table of Special Ordinances within this code, within 60 days of
the passage of this section.
(Prior Code, § 10.12.01)
   (B)   Authorization.
      (1)   The Mayor, for, and on behalf of, the city, is hereby authorized,
and directed, to do any, and all, things necessary to effect the execution, and
delivery, of the transfer of the sewer system to the city.
      (2)   The Mayor is hereby authorized, and directed, for, and on behalf
of, the city, to execute all papers, documents, certificates, and other
instruments that may be required for the carrying out of such authority, or to
evidence the exercise thereof.
(Prior Code, § 10.12.03)
(Ord. 2008-3, passed - -)
WASTEWATER IMPACT FEE
§ 51.35 IMPACT FEE.
   A local wastewater impact fee is hereby established for the city’s
wastewater system for in-city facilities, or improvements, that meet in-city
demand, hereinafter referred to as the “system”.
(Ord. 2019-15, passed 8-26-2019)
§ 51.36 AUTHORITY AND APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Authority. This subchapter is enacted pursuant to the authority
granted to the city by the A.C. § 14-56-103, and other relevant laws, and
judicial interpretations, of the state.
   (B)   Applicability. The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to all of
the territory within the city’s wastewater service area, including the
corporate limits of the city, any unincorporated area of the county served by
the system, and all future additions to said areas.
   (C)   Development fees. The following types of development shall be required
to pay a local wastewater impact fee:
      (1)   New, and existing, developments seeking a new connection to the
city’s wastewater system, resulting in increased demand from wastewater
facilities. This shall not apply to an existing development that is connecting
to the wastewater system in order to eliminate an individual wastewater source;
and
      (2)   Non-residential, or residential, redevelopments seeking a larger
capacity, or an additional wastewater meter.
(Ord. 2019-15, passed 8-26-2019)
§ 51.37 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   CAPITAL WASTEWATER FACILITIES.
      (1)   The city’s wastewater distribution system, pumps, any treatment
facilities, lift lines, lift stations, interceptors, buildings, tanks,
improvements to land, land, and related equipment, used to provide city
wastewater services, as defined in the study.
      (2)   The costs of CAPITAL WASTEWATER FACILITIES also include the costs
of related planning, and design, for these facilities.
   CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
      (1)   A certificate issued by the city permitting the occupancy of a
structure connected to the city’s wastewater system.
      (2)   Said certificate may be limited to the structure’s wastewater
system for those structures located outside the corporate limits of the city.
   CITY. The City of Cave Springs, Arkansas, including, but not limited to, its
Wastewater Department.
   CITY COUNCIL. The duly elected/appointed City Council.
   DEVELOPER. Any person, firm, or corporation commencing a development who is
obligated to pay an impact fee in accordance with the terms of this subchapter,
or who would be obligated to pay such a fee, except for an exemption, refund,
or credit provided for in this subchapter.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any residential, multi-family, commercial, or industrial
improvement to lands within the system service area.
   IMPACT FEE STUDY (THE STUDY). A study that sets forth reasonable
methodologies and analysis for determining the impact of various types of
development on the city’s capital wastewater facilities, and that determines
the cost of the facilities necessary to meet the demands created by new
development.
   IMPACT FEE TRUST FUND. The Trust Fund established by this subchapter. There
shall be a Wastewater Impact Fee Trust Fund with fees collected into the
respective IMPACT FEE TRUST FUND.
   IMPACT FEES. The local wastewater impact fees established by this
subchapter, pursuant to A.C. § 14-56-103, for service area utilities/
improvements that meet increased service area demand.
   IMPROVEMENTS. The results of planning, engineering, design, construction
inspection, on-site construction, off-site construction, land, the purchase of
related equipment, and financing associated with new, or expanded, capital
wastewater facilities, buildings, and equipment that expand the capacity of
capital wastewater facilities, but not including maintenance, operations, or
improvements that do not expand capacity.
   INDEPENDENT FEE CALCULATION STUDY. A study prepared by McClelland
Engineering (including, but not limited to, all plans and studies referenced
therein), calculating the cost of expansions, or improvements, to the capital
wastewater facilities required to serve the developer’s proposed development,
that performed in compliance with this subchapter.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, governmental agency, business trust,
estate, trust, partnership, association, two, or more, persons having a joint
or common interest, or any other entity.
   STATE. The State of Arkansas.
   SUCCESSOR IN INTEREST. A person, as defined by this subchapter, who gains a
fee simple interest in land for which an impact fee is paid, or a credit is
approved pursuant to the terms of this subchapter.
   SYSTEM. The city’s municipal wastewater system, including capital wastewater
facilities.
(Ord. 2019-15, passed 8-26-2019)
§ 51.38 LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS.
   The City Council finds, determines, and declares that:
   (A)   System expansion required. The protection of the health, safely, and
general welfare of the citizens of the city requires that the city’s capital
wastewater facilities be expanded, and improved, to accommodate growth, and
development, with the city;
   (B)   System demand. New residential, and non-residential, development
imposes increased, and excessive, demands upon the existing system facilities,
and often overburdens the existing system facilities; provided, new development
is expected to continue, and will place ever-increasing demands on the system,
to provide these facilities to serve new development;
   (C)   System revenues. System revenues generated from new development often
does not generate sufficient funds to provide the necessary capital wastewater
facilities to accommodate new development; therefore, the creation of an
equitable local wastewater impact fee system would enable the city to impose a
proportionate share of the costs of the needed improvements to system capital
facilities to accommodate new development;
   (D)   Study conducted. In order to implement an equitable local impact fee
system, the city caused to be prepared a Water and Wastewater Capital Plan and
Impact Fee Analysis, hereinafter termed “study”. Said study is incorporated
herein by reference, and sets forth reasonable methodologies and analysis for
determining the impacts of various types of development on the city’s system
capital facilities, and for determining the costs of acquiring the improvements
necessary to meet the demands for such services created by new development;
   (E)   Standards established. The city hereby establishes, as city standards,
the assumptions and level of service standards in the study as part of its
current plans for future expansions to the city’s system capital facilities;
   (F)   Impact fee use limited. The impact fees described in this subchapter
are based on the study, and do not exceed the costs of improvements to serve
new development that will pay the impact fees, nor shall fees be used to
correct existing deficiencies for these capital facilities, or to replace, or
rehabilitate, existing improvements. This is intended to be a local improvement
impact fee (for in-city facilities/improvements that meet in-city demands) as
to wastewater;
   (G)   Benefit. The in-city capital wastewater facilities/improvements listed
in the study will benefit all new development that depends on city services,
and it is therefore appropriate to treat the entire system as a single service
area for purposes of calculating, collecting, and spending the local government
impact fees as to wastewater;
   (H)   Impact fee relationship. There is both a rational nexus and rough
proportionality between the development impacts created by each type of
development covered by this subchapter, and the impact fees that such
development will be required to pay for wastewater; and
   (I)   Impact fee purpose. This subchapter creates a system by which
wastewater impact fees paid by new development will be used to finance, defray,
or reimburse all, or a portion of, the costs incurred by the city to construct
improvements for the system’s capital wastewater facilities in ways that
benefit the development that paid each fee within a reasonable period of time
after the fee is paid.
(Ord. 2019-15, passed 8-26-2019)
§ 51.39 INTENT.
   (A)   Capital improvement plan.
      (1)   This subchapter is adopted to assist in the implementation of the
city’s capital improvement plan for system projects, as set forth in the study
from McClelland Consulting Engineers, which the plan was reviewed, and
approved, by the City Water and Sewer Committees and City Council, and used in
the independent fee calculation study.
      (2)   To that end, the intent of this subchapter is to ensure that new
development bears a proportionate share of the costs of improvements to capital
wastewater facilities; to ensure that such proportionate share does not exceed
the costs of improvements for capital wastewater facilities required to
accommodate new development; and to ensure that funds collected from new
development are actually used for improvements for capital wastewater
facilities that benefit such new development.
   (B)   Impact fee purpose. It is the further intent of this subchapter that
new development pays for its fair share of the costs of local improvements for
capital wastewater facilities required to accommodate new development though
imposition of impact fees that will be used to finance, defray, or reimburse
all, or a portion, of the costs incurred by the city to construct improvements
to the city capital wastewater facilities that serve, or benefit, such new
development. It is not the intent of this subchapter to collect any money from
any new development in excess of the actual amount necessary to offset new
demands for capital wastewater facilities.
   (C)   Funds restricted. It is not the intent of this subchapter that any
monies collected from any local impact fee deposited in the Wastewater Impact
Fee Trust Fund ever be commingled with monies from any other city trust funds
or account, or ever be used for a type of facility, or equipment, different
from that for which the fees are paid, or are ever used to replace, or
rehabilitate, existing improvements.
(Ord. 2019-15, passed 8-26-2019)
§ 51.40 LOCAL IMPACT FEE IMPOSED.
   (A)   Local impact fee obligation. After the effective date of this
subchapter, any person, firm, or corporation who commences any development,
except those exempted hereinafter, shall be obligated to pay local impact fees
upon commencement of such activity. The amount of the fees shall be determined
in accordance with this subchapter, and shall be paid to the city as provided
hereinafter. All monies paid by a developer pursuant to this subchapter shall
be identified as local wastewater impact fees, and shall be promptly deposited
into the Wastewater Impact Fee Trust Fund described herein.
   (B)   Local impact fee collection. Effective August 27, 2019, the local
impact fees imposed by this subchapter shall be collected in connection with,
and as a condition to, the installation of a water meter serving the
development, or of the connection to the wastewater system, whichever comes
first.
   (C)   Local impact fee calculation. Local impact fees shall be based on
water meter size. The impact fees established hereinafter may be revised from
time to time by the City Council; provided, such revisions are based upon the
independent fee calculation study, or a subsequent independent fee calculation
study.
   (D)   Fee determination.
      (1)   Schedule of fees. The Impact Fee Administrator shall determine the
amount of the local wastewater impact fees for residential uses based on the
type, or size, of the water meter, and for non-residential uses, based on the
size of the water meter using the following schedule:
 
Water Meter Size     Impact Fee
One inch             $3,000
Three-fourths inches $2,000
Two inches           $5,000
 
      (2)   Redevelopment, reconstruction, change of use. In the event of a
redevelopment, reconstruction, or change of use from an existing development or
use, the fee shall be the difference between what the fee would be for the
entire redevelopment, or reconstruction, project, and what the fee would have
been for the existing development, or use. Existing development must be
connected to the wastewater system at the time of redevelopment in order to
apply this credit.
      (3)   Mixed use. If the proposed development includes a mix of the
residential land uses, and/or non-residential meter sizes that are listed in
the local impact fee schedule, the fee shall be determined by adding up the
local wastewater impact fees that would be applicable for each residential land
use type, and/or non-residential meter size as if it was freestanding land use
type.
      (4)   Fire suppression/low pressure. It is the intent of this subchapter
to base the local wastewater impact fees on the typical usage in a new
building, or other facility. Extinguishing of fires is not a typical usage; to
allow adequate fire flow to sprinklers and internal hydrants at some large, and
at-risk, properties, it may be necessary, for fire protection purposes, to
install a larger wastewater meter than would be necessary to meet day-to-day
needs to that facility. In addition, a larger meter may be required in areas of
low wastewater pressure than in areas of normal wastewater pressure for the
same type of use. In those cases, it is the policy of the city that the impact
fees for wastewater should be based on the meter size needed by the facility
for its typical usage, without regard to fire-flow, or unusual pressure
conditions.
      (5)   Irrigation. Any separate water meter installed for irrigation
purposes only shall not be included in the calculation of the local wastewater
impact fee.
      (6)   Master meters. In the event that a wastewater master meter is
utilized for any development, including multi-family or mixed use, the local
wastewater impact fees shall be based on the master meter size.
      (7)   Impact fee correction. If a local impact fee has been calculated,
and paid, based on a mistake or misrepresentation, it shall be recalculated.
Any amounts overpaid by a developer shall be refunded by the city within 30
days after the city’s acceptance of the recalculated amount, with accrued
interest since the date of such overpayment. Any amounts underpaid by the
developer shall be paid to the city within 30 days after the city’s acceptance
of the recalculated amount, with accrued interest since the date of such
underpayment. In the case of an underpayment to the city, the city shall not
issue any additional permits, or approvals, for the development for which the
local impact fee was previously paid until such underpayment is corrected, and
if amounts owed to the city are not paid within such 30-day period, the city
may also rescind any permits issued in reliance on the previous payment of such
local impact fee, and refund such fee to the then current owner of the land.
(Ord. 2019-15, passed 8-26-2019)
§ 51.41 IMPACT FEE EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The following types of development shall be exempted from payment of
the local wastewater impact fees. Any claim for exemption shall be made not
later than the time when the applicant applies for the first wastewater
connection permit for the proposed development that creates the obligation to
pay the local impact fees. Any claim for exemption not made at, or before, that
time shall have been waived.
   (B)   The City Council, or designee, shall determine the validity of any
claim for exemption pursuant to the standards set forth below:
      (1)   Reconstruction, expansion, or replacement of a previously-existing
residential unit that does not create any additional residential units, or
installation of a larger wastewater meter;
      (2)   The replacement of a destroyed, or partially destroyed, non-
residential building, or structure, with a new non-residential building, or
structure, of the same use as the original structure, and with no more than a
5% increase in floor area from the original structure, and no increase in the
size, or number, of wastewater meters;
      (3)   Construction of unoccupied accessory structures related to a
residential unit;
      (4)   Developments for which local impact fees for each type of facility
covered by this subchapter has previously been paid in an amount that equals,
or exceeds, the local impact fees that would be required by this subchapter;
      (5)   Developments built by the federal government, and the state;
      (6)   Public schools;
      (7)   Construction within a duly established redevelopment district, or
improvement district, for which the local impact fees have specifically been
waived by resolution of the City Council prior to commencement of the
improvements; and
      (8)   Such other economic, or community, development projects for which
the local impact fees have specifically been waived by resolution of the City
Council prior to commencement of the development.
(Ord. 2019-15, passed 8-26-2019)
§ 51.42 USE OF IMPACT FEE TRUST FUND.
   (A)   Trust Fund. A local Wastewater Impact Fee Trust Fund is hereby
established for the purpose of ensuring that the impact fees collected,
pursuant to this subchapter, are designated for the accommodation of impacts
reasonably attributable to new development that paid the local impact fees.
   (B)   Trust Fund management. All local impact fees collected by the city
pursuant to this subchapter shall be promptly deposited into the local
Wastewater Impact Fee Trust Fund, as appropriate. The Impact Fee Trust Fund
shall be maintained in interest bearing accounts. Monies in the Trust Fund
shall be considered to be spent in the order collected, on a first-in/first-out
basis. These funds shall contain only local wastewater fees collected pursuant
to this subchapter, plus any interest, which may accrue, from time to time, on
each such fund.
   (C)   Trust Fund limitations. The following limitations shall apply to the
use, and expenditure, of local impact fees collected, and deposited, in the
Trust Fund:
      (1)   Each local impact fee imposed pursuant to this subchapter may be
assessed, collected, and expended only for the planning, design, and
construction of new wastewater facilities, or of capital improvements to
existing wastewater facilities that expand the system’s capacity, or for the
recoupment of prior capital improvements to wastewater facilities that created
capacity available to serve new development;
      (2)   The local wastewater impact fees may be pledged to the payment of
bonds issued by the city to finance wastewater capital improvements, or
wastewater facilities for which the local impact fees may be imposed;
      (3)   No local impact fee shall be assessed for, or expended for, the
operation, or maintenance, of any wastewater facility, or for the construction,
or improvement, of wastewater facilities that do not create additional
capacity;
      (4)   No monies from the Trust Fund shall be spent for periodic, or
routine, maintenance, rehabilitation, or replacement of any facility of any
type, or to cure deficiencies in capital wastewater facilities existing on the
effective date of this subchapter; and
      (5)   Monies, as described in §
51.43.
(Ord. 2019-15, passed 8-26-2019)
§ 51.43 REFUNDS.
   (A)   When refunds are due. The city shall refund the portion of collected
development local wastewater impact fees, including the accrued interest, that
has not been expended seven years from the date the fees were paid. The refund
shall be made on a pro rata basis, and shall be paid in full not later than 90
days after the date certain upon which the refund becomes due. Interest paid
shall be based on a 4% annual rate.
   (B)   Refund notice. When due, a refund shall be paid to the present owner
of the property that was the subject of new development, and against which the
fee was assessed and collected. Notice of the right to a refund, including the
amount of the refund and the procedure for applying for, and receiving, the
refund, shall be sent, or served, in writing, to the present owners of the
property no later than 30 days after the date on which the refund becomes due.
The sending by regular mail of the notices to all present owners of record
shall be sufficient to satisfy the requirement of notice.
   (C)   Refund payment. The refund shall be made on a pro rata basis, and
shall be paid in full no later than 90 days after the date certain upon which
the refund becomes due.
   (D)   Notice of refund rights. At the time of payment of the local
wastewater impact fee under this subchapter, the Impact Fee Administrator shall
provide the applicant paying such fees with written notice of those
circumstances under which refunds of such fees will be made. Failure to deliver
such written notice shall not invalidate any collection of any impact fee under
this subchapter.
(Ord. 2019-15, passed 8-26-2019)
§ 51.44 APPEALS.
   (A)    Any determination made by an official of the city charged with the
administration of any part of this subchapter may be appealed to the City
Council by filing with the City Clerk-Treasurer within ten days of the date of
the determination being appealed:
      (1)   A written notice of appeal on a form provided by the city;
      (2)   A written explanation of why the appellant feels that a
determination was in error; and
      (3)   An appeal fee established by the city, if any.
   (B)    The City Council shall promptly fix a time, and place, for hearing
the appeal, and the Clerk-Treasurer shall mail notice of the hearing to the
appellant at the address given in the notice of appeal by first-class mail
postage prepaid. The hearing shall be conducted at the time, and place, stated
in such notice given by the City Council. The determination of the City Council
shall be final.
(Ord. 2019-15, passed 8-26-2019)
§ 51.45 CAPITAL PLAN; LEVEL OF SERVICE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Plan adoption. The capital wastewater facilities, to be financed by
the wastewater impact fees, shall be those facilities identified in the capital
plan and level of service standards, as presented in the study prepared by
McClelland Engineering, as adopted §
50.35, by the City Council, and used in the independent fee calculation study.
In this regard, the applicable sections of such study and letter, are hereby
adopted as the official capital plan and level of services of the city’s
wastewater system.
   (B)   Plan revisions.
      (1)   Said plan in division (A) above, and standards, may be revised from
time to time by resolution of the City Council. To this end, periodically, the
Mayor, or engineers hired by the city, may present to the City Council a
proposed capital improvements program for the city capital wastewater
facilities, and such capital improvements program shall assign monies from the
Trust Fund as appropriate to specific projects, and related expenses for
capital wastewater facilities.
      (2)   Any monies, including any accrued interest not assigned to specific
projects within such capital improvements program, and not expended, shall be
retained in the Trust Fund, subject to the refund provisions above.
(Ord. 2019-15, passed 8-26-2019)
§ 51.46 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Impact Fee Administrator. The City Council shall assign to a city
employee the responsibilities of the Impact Fee Administrator, hereinabove set
forth. Failure of the Council to make such assignment, or in case of a lapse in
such responsibility after assignment by the Council, the responsibility shall
be on the Clerk-Treasurer to fulfill such responsibilities.
   (B)   Monies collected. All monies collected as local wastewater impact
fees, all funds held as local wastewater impact fees in the above-mentioned
Trust Fund, all accounts created to hold the local wastewater impact fees, and
all refunds of unexpended local wastewater impact fees (including interest
thereon) shall be by the duly elected/appointed City Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 2019-15, passed 8-26-2019)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter, for which no
specific penalty is prescribed, shall be subject to §
10.99
   (B)   A user which has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of
§§
51.01 through
51.21, a discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment
standard or requirement, shall be liable to the Control Authority for a maximum
civil penalty of $1,000 per violation, per day. In the case of a monthly, or
other long term, average discharge limit, penalties shall accrue for each day
during the period of violation.
(Ord. 2019-15, passed 8-26-2019)
CHAPTER 52: GARBAGE, COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
Section
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Authorized collectors
   
52.03   Collection
   
52.04   Accumulation of waste and the placement of containers
   
52.05   Removal of construction refuse, old appliances, bulky waste, and the
like
   
52.06   Rates and billing
   
52.07   Responsibility for payment of bill
   
52.08   Containment of construction refuse and debris
 
   
52.99   Penalty
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   APPROVED CONTAINER. A 96-gallon container, or other approved size, provided
by the contractor with wheels and a lid for the collection of acceptable solid
waste, and a 65-gallon container provided by the contractor with wheels and a
lid for the collection of solid waste or recycling.
   APPROVED SUBCONTRACTOR. An agent, or subcontractor, of the contractor
specifically authorized, and approved, by the city to collect solid waste and
recycling materials in the city.
   BULKY WASTE.
      (1)   Waste to include furniture, appliances, metal items, or larger
items not normally collected from the weekly residential collection programs.
      (2)   Items not considered BULKY WASTE include construction materials,
tires, paint, hazardous waste, pesticides, appliances containing Freon, and any
item specified as excluded waste.
   CITY. The City of Cave Springs, Arkansas.
   COMMERCIAL WASTE. Solid waste generated by a commercial or industrial
establishment, a multiple residential unit, business, residential construction,
or combined units of businesses that streamline waste into consolidated
containers that typically generate more than two cubic yards of solid waste per
week, or an agricultural customer, meaning any customer owning ten acres, or
more, of land for agricultural use who chooses not to be a residential waste
customer.
   CONTRACTOR. The sanitation company approved by the city for residential
solid waste and/or recycling services.
   EXCLUDED SOLID WASTE. Includes, but is not limited to, medical waste,
construction and demolition waste (except in roll-off containers), large bulky
items, appliances, batteries, paint, items containing an engine or compressor,
items containing CFCs or PCBs (such as white goods), and any radioactive,
volatile, flammable, explosive, toxic, or hazardous substance or material,
including any substance listed, or characterized, as toxic or hazardous by any
applicable federal, state, or local law.
   EXTRAORDINARY MATERIALS. Hazardous wastes, body wastes, dead animals,
abandoned vehicles, vehicle parts, large equipment, and parts thereof.
   EXTRA SOLID WASTE or EXTRA BAGS. Any solid waste that will not fit inside
the provided container.
   FRANCHISE FEE. Four percent of the total collected receipts from the
collection of residential or commercial waste in the city which is payable to
the city, as provided by the agreement between the contractor and the city for
the collection of residential solid waste or by the collection of commercial
solid waste within the city.
   GARBAGE. The same as SOLID WASTE.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Wastes that are hazardous by reason of their
pathological, explosive, radiological, or toxic characteristics, or by virtue
of their being defined as hazardous by any state, or federal, law or
regulation.
   RESIDENTIAL or RESIDENTIAL UNIT. An occupied dwelling within the corporate
limits of the city occupied by a person, or group of persons compromising not
more than four families or units who reside in the same dwelling. A RESIDENTIAL
UNIT shall be deemed occupied when either water or domestic light and power
services are being supplied thereto.
   RESIDENTIAL WASTE. Solid waste generated by residences, as well as
businesses, that generate less than two cubic yards of solid waste per week.
   SOLID WASTE. All putrescible, and non-putrescible, waste in solid, or
semisolid, form, including, but not limited to, garbage, rubbish, ashes, or
incinerator residue, or street refuse, but excluding yard waste, extraordinary
materials, hazardous materials, and special materials, as defined herein.
   TRASH. The same as, and shall be defined as, SOLID WASTE.
   UNIT. Residence, business, or industry within the city that generates solid
waste, and other materials, that must be disposed.
   YARD WASTE. Grass clippings, mulch, brush, tree limbs, leaves, sticks, or
any other item derived from a once-living tree, or plant species.
(2021-17, passed 6-28-2021)
§ 52.02 AUTHORIZED COLLECTORS.
   (A)   All residential units within the corporate limits of the city shall
use the contractor, or approved subcontractor, as set forth herein for the
collection of solid waste services. Residents, owners, or authorized agents of
residential units shall not negotiate for the collection of solid waste, other
than those arranged by the city through the contractor and approved
subcontractor, and no persons shall opt to assume the responsibility of
disposal of solid waste for themselves, or in any other manner not specifically
set forth by this chapter.
   (B)   No residential waste service provider shall provide residential waste
or recycling services within the city without the formal prior approval of the
City Council.
   (C)   Any individual found to be disposing of solid waste in a manner not
permitted by this chapter shall be guilty of a violation of this chapter, and
punished as provided by §
52.99(B) herein.
   (D)   The city grants to the contractor the exclusive right, and obligation,
to provide solid waste and recycling collection services for units within the
city boundaries. The terms of such exclusive franchise shall be in accordance
with the provisions of any such solid waste and recycling agreement between the
contractor and the city. No other person, or entity, except such contractor, or
approved subcontractor, shall be permitted to convey, or transport, solid waste
or recycling for residential units within the city. The contractor, or approved
subcontractor, shall pay the city a franchise fee, which shall be set at 4% of
the rates charged for the privilege of doing business in the city, pursuant to
such agreement between the city and the contractor, and/or approved
subcontractor.
   (E)   The contractor, and approved subcontractor, shall have the right, and
privilege, to operate collection vehicles, and equipment, on such streets,
public ways, rights-of-way, or easements of the city.
   (F)   Commercial waste providers licensed, or authorized, by the city to
provide commercial waste services shall be permitted to provide commercial
waste services to non-residential units within the city. The commercial waste
service provider shall pay the city a franchise fee, or license fee, which
shall be set at 4% of the rates charged for commercial waste services for the
privilege of doing business in the city and for the use of city streets, roads,
and rights-of-way, and for the privilege of doing business in the city. Such
franchise fee shall be payable in accordance with a written agreement with the
city, which shall be in place prior to entering into any service agreements
with commercial waste customers in the city. The franchise fee, or license fee,
for commercial waste service providers went into effect on September 1, 2021.
(2021-17, passed 6-28-2021)
§ 52.03 COLLECTION.
   Weekly collections are to be made under the following conditions:
   (A)   Approved containers required. All units shall set out solid waste and
recycling for collection by the contractor, or approved subcontractor, in
approved containers.
      (1)   Responsibility for containers. The contractor shall retain
ownership of all approved containers. Damaged, or lost, approved containers
shall be replaced with the costs of replacement to be billed to the customer,
unless the damage, or loss, is caused by the contractor. If a resident fails to
return an approved container upon moving from a residential unit, the resident
shall be billed for the replacement of the approved container.
      (2)   Non-recycling. Non-recyclables shall not be placed in the approved
container for recycling.
   (B)   Location. All solid waste and recycling shall be placed at a location
by 6:00 a.m. on the designated weekly collection day that is readily accessible
to the contractor’s personnel.
      (1)   Residential waste and recycling. Residential waste and recycling
shall be placed at a single collection point within six feet of the curb, or at
another approved location. Scavenging of recycling materials placed at the curb
in approved containers shall not be permitted.
      (2)   Commercial waste and industrial waste. Solid waste shall be kept on
the premises in approved containers, and placed at a single collection point in
a place near the street or alley, readily accessible to the collection
vehicles.
      (3)   Accessibility. The contract shall provide front porch, or house
line, service to any resident age 65, or older, or who has a documented
disability that makes the placement of the approved containers on the curbside
difficult.
   (C)   Residential solid waste and recycling collection frequency. The
contractor shall collect, one time per week, on a set schedule, the residential
waste for each residential unit that is placed in a provided container, as set
forth herein. Provided containers shall be placed by the resident of a unit in
a location that is readily accessible to the contractor and its collection
equipment, not to exceed six feet from the curb, or edge, of the travel portion
of the street, road, or alley, and not to be located in a manner that will
block the driveway or mailbox, or otherwise inhibit proper servicing. The
contractor shall not be required to collect any residential waste that is not
placed in a provided container, any residential waste from a provided container
that is overloaded, or a provided container that is not properly placed
curbside.
   (D)    Holidays. There shall be no residential waste, or recycling,
collection on Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving,
Christmas, and New Year’s Day. The collection of residential waste, or
recycling, for days which fall on a holiday, or on days of inclement weather
where collection is not possible, shall occur on the earliest possible day as
set forth by the contractor.
(2021-17, passed 6-28-2021)
§ 52.04 ACCUMULATION OF WASTE AND THE PLACEMENT OF CONTAINERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant, tenant, or lessee of any
dwelling, or place of business, or unit, in the city to allow solid waste, or
recycling, to accumulate on his or her premises, or to place, or cause to be
placed, the containers therefor in such a manner as to cause unsanitary
conditions in the city. Any individual found to be in violation of this
provision shall be punished as provided by §
52.99.
   (B)   It shall be a violation of this section for such owner, occupant,
tenant, or lessee to place, more than 24 hours before, or allow to remain more
than 24 hours after, the scheduled collection date, solid waste, recycling,
trash, or garbage containers at the curbside pick up point, except for a
showing of just cause. The collection date, and curbside collection point,
shall be established by the contractor, or his or her authorized
representative, who shall give adequate notice thereof to each owner, occupant,
tenant, or lessee.
   (C)   The curbside collection point is established only for efficient, and
economical, collection service, and it shall be the duty of each premises’
occupant to keep the approved containers at all times, other than as allowed by
this section, at a location on his or her premises, which is suitable, and
consistent, with the standard set forth herein.
   (D)   It shall be a violation of this section for such owner, occupant,
tenant, or lessee of any dwelling place, unit, or business in the city, or any
person, to dispose of solid waste, recycling, or yard waste, or construction
waste, by dumping, burning, or discharging, said waste on any property within
the city, except through the use of approved services, as provided for in this
chapter or specifically authorized by state law or authority. If a person is
found to have disposed of solid waste, recycling, or yard waste in a manner not
allowed by ordinance, he or she shall be guilty of a violation of this chapter,
and punished as provided by §
52.99(B) herein.
(2021-17, passed 6-28-2021) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.05 REMOVAL OF CONSTRUCTION REFUSE, OLD APPLIANCES, BULKY WASTE, AND THE
LIKE.
   (A)   The contractor shall not, in any way, be required, or obligated, to
collect, or remove, from private property refuse, or debris, resulting from the
repair, razing, or construction of buildings, nor to render any other service,
unless specifically provided for in this chapter. The removal of such items is
the responsibility of the owner, occupant, tenant, or lessee of the property.
   (B)   The contractor shall provide rates for the removal of bulky waste a
special bulky waste collection service twice per year to all residential
customers, unless otherwise specified. The contractor shall also provide city
wide cleanups for bulky waste in the fall and spring at locations which will be
announced from time to time.
(2021-17, passed 6-28-2021)
§ 52.06 RATES AND BILLING.
   The rates to be charged for sanitation services shall be as follows.
   (A)   Residential units or waste. The rates, and charges, for collection of
residential waste, and recycling, shall be as set, and as amended from time to
time, by the solid waste service agreement between the city and the contractor.
   (B)   Commercial waste. The rates, and charges, for the collection of solid
waste, and recycling, including all applicable sales tax and charges, shall be
set by the negotiation of commercially reasonable pricing and charges between
the customer and the contractor, in accordance with the amount of service
required.
(2021-17, passed 6-28-2021)
§ 52.07 RESPONSIBILITY FOR PAYMENT OF BILL.
   The fact that legal title to property is in any person, business, or other
entity, constitutes prima facie proof that the person, business, or other
entity is responsible for the payment of charges provided for in this chapter.
The fact that charges incurred were for services provided to a tenant, agent,
or other person using the title holder’s property shall not be grounds for
avoidance of penalties under this chapter.
(2021-17, passed 6-28-2021)
§ 52.08 CONTAINMENT OF CONSTRUCTION REFUSE AND DEBRIS.
   The general contractor of any construction site shall provide adequate trash
containment facilities for the construction site. All such trash containment
facilities must be able to hold a minimum of five cubic yards of refuse, and
must contain no openings of greater than three inches. The trash containment
facility must be in place no later than at the time of the first required
inspection of the site by the city, or its authorized representative. The trash
containment facility shall be emptied on a regular basis. If the city received
a complaint regarding a trash containment facility at a construction site, the
city, or its authorized representative, shall notify the general contractor, in
writing, regarding the complaint, and shall request that efforts be undertaken
by the general contractor to remedy the situation. If subsequent complaints are
received by the city pertaining to the same construction site, the city, or its
authorized representative, shall provide the general contractor with written
notice that the general contractor has three working days in which to remedy
the situation. If the general contractor does not remedy the situation within
that time, it shall be considered a violation of this chapter, and shall be
punishable pursuant to §
52.99(B). In addition, the city, or its authorized representative, shall cease
all inspections until the construction site complies with this section.
(2021-17, passed 6-28-2021)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person refusing, or failing, to pay any charge assessed pursuant
to the provisions of this chapter, including both the failure to pay for
residential solid waste, and recycling, collection, and the failure to pay for
the collection of commercial, or industrial, waste, shall be guilty of a
violation of this chapter, and punished as provided by division (B) below.
   (B)   Whoever violates any provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, and may be punished by a fine of not less than $10, nor more than
$500 for the first offense, and not less than $10, nor more than $250 for each
offense each day, plus court costs and reasonable attorney fees for each
violation.
(2021-17, passed 6-28-2021)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Adoption of state laws
   
70.02   Truck routes
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 ADOPTION OF STATE LAWS.
   The “Uniform Act Regulating Traffic on Highways of Arkansas”, being A.C. §
27-49-101, and as contained in A.C. Title 27, three copies of which are on file
in the office of the Mayor, is hereby adopted as traffic rules and regulations
within, and for, the city. Any person convicted of violation of said statutes
shall be deemed guilty of the violation of the ordinances of the city, and
shall be fined, or imprisoned, or both, in the manner set out under the state
statutes.
(Prior Code, § 8.04.01)
§ 70.02 TRUCK ROUTES.
   (A)   Controlled access highways. The city shall have the right to establish
certain controlled access highways within the city, upon which the City Council
can restrict selected roadways to certain truck vehicle traffic, as provided
herein.
(Prior Code, § 8.28.01)
   (B)   Signs. Upon posting of said streets, or roadways, with adequate signs
stating “No Through Trucks”, and providing for similar limitations, the
restrictions provided for shall be in effect. The sign posting set forth in
this section shall be as called for in the regulations of the State Highway and
Transportation Department.
(Prior Code, § 8.28.02)
   (C)   Definition. For purposes of this section, and the “No Through Trucks”
sign postings, a TRUCK shall be considered any vehicle in excess of 6,000
pounds in weight, or any combination of truck and trailer, which exceeds 6,000
pounds in weight.
(Prior Code, § 8.28.03)
   (D)   Destination. The controlled access highways of “No Through Truck”
restrictions shall not apply to trucks with a beginning point, or final
destination, on the posted street within the corporate limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 8.28.04)
(Ord. 2006-21, passed - -)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter, for which no
specific penalty is prescribed, shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   The penalty for violation of the provisions of §
70.02 shall be court costs, as established by the court in setting judgments of
said violation, plus an additional penalty not to exceed $50 for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 8.28.05) (Ord. 2006-21, passed - -)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Prohibition
   
71.02   Definitions
   
71.03   Careless and prohibited driving
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01 PROHIBITION.
   Vehicles (as defined by A.C. § 27-14-104(29)) shall be driven on both public
highways and private property in a careful manner, and with due regard for the
safety, and convenience, of pedestrians and all other vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 8.12.01) (Ord. 2003-6, passed - -)
§ 71.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   BUS. Every motor vehicle designed for carrying more than ten passengers, and
used for the transportation of persons, and every motor vehicle, other than a
taxicab, designed, and used, for the transportation of persons for
compensation.
   LOCAL AUTHORITIES. All officers of counties, cities, villages, incorporated
towns, or townships.
   MOBILE HOME. Every house trailer, or other vehicle, with, or without,
wheels, designed for use as living quarters, either permanent or temporary, and
at the time of manufacture, capable of being towed, or otherwise transported,
or drawn upon a highway.
   MOTOR HOME. A motor vehicle designated to provide temporary living quarters,
built onto an integral part of, or permanently attached to, a self-propelled
motor vehicle chassis. The vehicle must contain permanently installed,
independent life-support systems.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled, and every vehicle
which is propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires, but
not operated upon rails.
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle having a saddle for the use of the rider,
and designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the
ground, excluding a tractor.
   PUBLIC HIGHWAYS. Any highway, county road, state road, public street,
avenue, alley, park, parkway, driveway, or any other public road, or public
place, in any county, city, village, or incorporated towns.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. All real property used by the public, or dedicated to
public use by permission of the owner(s), and not as a matter of right, for
purposes of vehicular travel, or parking.
   SCHOOL BUS. Every motor vehicle owned by a public, or governmental, agency,
and operated for the transportation of children to, or from, school, or
privately-owned, and operated, for compensation for the transportation of
children to, or from, school.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person, or property, is, or
may be, transported, or drawn, upon a highway, excepting devices moved by human
power, or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(Prior Code, § 8.12.02) (Ord. 2003-6, passed - -)
§ 71.03 CARELESS AND PROHIBITED DRIVING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive, or operate, any vehicle
in such a careless manner as to evidence a failure to keep a proper lookout for
other traffic, vehicular or otherwise, or in such a manner as to evidence a
failure to maintain proper control on the public thoroughfares, or private
property in the state.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate, or drive, any vehicle
on the public thoroughfares, or private property, in the state in violation of
the following prohibited acts:
      (1)   Improper, or unsafe, lane changes on public roadways;
      (2)   Driving onto, or across, private property to avoid intersections,
stop signs, traffic control devices, or traffic lights;
      (3)   Driving in such a manner, or at such a speed, so as to cause a
skidding, spinning, or sliding of tires, or a sliding of the vehicle;
      (4)   Driving too close to, or colliding with, parked or stopped
vehicles, fixtures, persons, or objects adjacent to the public thoroughfares;
      (5)   Driving a vehicle which has any part thereof, or any object,
extended in such fashion as to endanger persons or property;
      (6)   To operate any vehicle in such a manner which would cause a failure
to maintain control;
      (7)   To operate, or drive, a vehicle wherein, or whereon, passengers are
located in such a manner as to be dangerous to the welfare of such passengers;
or
      (8)   To operate a vehicle in any manner when the driver is inattentive,
and such inattention is not reasonable, and prudent, in maintaining vehicular
control.
(Prior Code, § 8.12.03) (Ord. 2003-6, passed - -) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   All persons operating vehicles in violation of this chapter shall, if found
guilty of a first offense, pay restitution to the city of not less than $25,
and not more than $250, and for a second offense, and subsequent offenses, not
less than $50, and not more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 8.12.04) (Ord. 2003-6, passed - -)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   No parking zones
SCHEDULE I. NO PARKING ZONES.
   Upon request of the citizens of the city, and the City Police Department,
the City Council finds a need to establish a “No Parking” zone in a certain
area along Main Street. This area would be from the corner of East Midway and
Main south 80 feet in front of the Community Building. Parking in this area has
created a traffic hazard for traffic merging from Midway east onto Main Street.
(Prior Code, § 8.16.01) (Ord. 2004-15, passed - -)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
93.   EQUAL OPPORTUNITY HOUSING
      
94.   FIREWORKS
CHAPTER 90: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
Nuisances
   
90.01   Administration
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   General requirements
   
90.04   Nuisances
Motor Vehicles
   
90.15   Non-operating vehicles
   
90.16   Engine brakes
Open Burning
   
90.30   Regulations
   
90.31   Authority
   
90.32   Defense
 
   
90.99   Penalty
NUISANCES
§ 90.01 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Introduction.
      (1)   General. This subchapter shall be known as the City Nuisance
Abatement Code. These regulations are intended to ensure public health, safety,
and welfare insofar as they are affected by the continued occupancy, and
maintenance, of structures, and premises, within the city.
      (2)   Applicability. The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to all
residential, and non-residential, structures, and all premises within the city,
and constitute minimum requirements, and standards, for premises, structures,
life safety, safety from fire and other hazards, and for safe and sanitary
maintenance; the responsibility of owners, operators and occupants; the
occupancy of existing structures and premises; and for administration,
enforcement, and penalties. Structures, and premises, that do not comply with
these provisions shall be altered, or repaired, to provide a minimum level of
health and safety, as required herein. Repairs, alterations, additions to, and
change of, occupancy in existing buildings shall comply with the State Fire
Prevention Code. Where different standards, or requirements, are imposed by
this subchapter, and other competent authority, or by different sections of
this subchapter, the most restrictive standard, or requirement, shall govern.
      (3)   Maintenance. Equipment, systems, devices, and safeguards required
by this subchapter, or a previous regulation, or code, under which the
structure, or premises, was constructed, altered, or required, shall be
maintained in good working order. No occupant shall cause any required service,
facility, equipment, or utility to be removed from, or shutoff from or
discontinued, for any occupied dwelling, except for temporary interruptions
necessitated by repairs, or alterations. The requirements of this subchapter
are not intended to provide the basis for removal, or abrogation, of fire
protection and safety systems, and devices, in existing structures. Except as
otherwise specified herein, the owner shall be responsible for the maintenance
of buildings, structures, and premises.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.01)
   (B)   Code Enforcement Officers.
      (1)   General. This subchapter shall be enforced by all Code Enforcement
Officers of the city. For the purposes of this subchapter, a CODE ENFORCEMENT
OFFICER shall be defined as any city employee who has been duly sworn, and
authorized, to uphold the ordinances of the city, and laws of the state related
to property uses, maintenance, nuisances, inspections, issuances of building
permits, certifications and licensing, and the like, within the municipal
boundaries of the city. This subchapter may also be enforced by any, and all,
duly sworn law enforcement officers of the City Police Department.
      (2)   Identification. All Code Enforcement Officers shall carry proper
identification, and present the same upon request when performing duties under
this subchapter.
      (3)   Modifications. Whenever there are practical difficulties involved
in carrying out the provisions of this subchapter, the Senior Code Enforcement
Officer shall have the authority to grant modifications for individual cases;
provided, the Senior Code Enforcement Officer shall first make written findings
that a special condition, or circumstance, exists such that the strict letter
of this subchapter is impractical, and the modification is in compliance with
the intent and purpose of this subchapter, and that such modification does not
lessen health, life, and fire safety requirements. The details of action
granting modifications shall be recorded, and entered, in the Department files.
      (4)   Enforcement procedures. Whenever, in the judgment of the Code
Enforcement Officer charged with enforcement of this subchapter, it is
determined, upon investigation, that a public nuisance is being maintained, or
exists, within the city, such officer shall issue a written notice, in
accordance with §
90.04(C)(1), to the person committing, or maintaining, such nuisance, requiring
such person to remedy, and abate, the nuisance.
      (5)   No duty to enforce. Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed
as requiring the city to enforce the regulations in this subchapter against:
         (a)   Alleged violations determined to be frivolous complaints;
         (b)   Alleged violations lacking in substantive evidence to constitute
a nuisance;
         (c)   Alleged violations where the evidentiary value of the alleged
violation is not enough to support a conviction in court; or
         (d)   Violations which may occur, and are not recognized, by the city
due to the lack of availability of the resources.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.02)
   (C)   Inspections.
      (1)   Right of entry. Code Enforcement Officers are authorized to enter
structures, or premises, at reasonable times to inspect, subject to
constitutional restrictions on unreasonable searches and seizures. If entry is
refused, or not obtained, the officers may pursue such search authorizations as
are provided by law.
      (2)   Inspections. Code Enforcement Officers shall make all of the
inspections required by this subchapter. All reports of such inspections shall
be in writing by the responsible Officer. Code Enforcement Officers are
authorized to rely upon a responsible expert opinion, as the Officer deems
necessary, to report upon unusual technical issues that arise.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.03)
   (D)   Violations.
      (1)   Violations declared to be strict liability misdemeanors. It shall
be unlawful for a person, firm, or corporation to be in conflict with, or in
violation of, any of the provisions of this subchapter. Any person who is
convicted of a violation of this subchapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor,
and the violation shall be deemed a strict liability offense.
      (2)   Citations. Code Enforcement Officers are hereby authorized to issue
citations to any person, firm, or corporation in conflict with, or in violation
of, any of the provisions of this subchapter. Issuances of citations must
comply with the State Rules of Criminal Procedures. The State District Court
shall have exclusive jurisdiction over citations issued pursuant to this
subchapter.
      (3)   Appeals. Any person, after being found guilty of a violation, or
after entering a plea of guilty, or nolo contendere, to a violation, shall have
those appellant rights granted under the laws of the state, U.S. Constitution,
and the State Rules of Criminal Procedure. Appeals of convictions of a
violation will be with the County Circuit Court.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.04)
   (E)   Revocation of certificates, licenses, and permits.
      (1)   General. The purpose of this division (E) is to provide a procedure
for the revocation of various certificates, licenses, and permits issued by the
city to prevent the use of structures described in division (E)(2) below. The
certificates, licenses, and permits subject to revocation under this subchapter
are those relating to the particular, or general, use of property; including,
without limitation, and for the purpose of illustration only: certificates of
occupancy; zoning variances; certification of appropriateness; business
licenses; sign permits; building permits; electrical and plumbing inspection
approvals; conditional use permits; special use permits; and the like.
      (2)   Administrative revocation.
         (a)   Code Enforcement Officers shall have the authority to initiate
administrative revocation of any such certificate, license, or permit if he or
she has a reasonable belief that the use of the property or structure:
            1.   Poses a danger to the health, and welfare, of the public;
            2.   Threatens the property, or safety, of any citizen;
            3.   Violates the terms, and/or scope, of the certificate, license,
or permit; or
            4.   Lacks compliance with applicable state licensing laws and
requirements.
         (b)   The non-emergency administrative revocation of a certificate,
license, or permit shall follow the procedures of notice, and determination,
provided in division (F) below.
      (3)   Temporary emergency orders. The Senior Code Enforcement Officer
shall have the authority to issue a temporary emergency order in conjunction
with notice of an administrative revocation as described in division (E)(2)
above. The temporary emergency order shall have the effect of prohibiting all
activity that may be harmful to the public or any person, and suspending any
certificate, license, or permit authorizing the same. The Senior Code
Enforcement Officer may issue a temporary emergency order when he or she has a
reasonable belief that the use of the property or structure:
         (a)   Poses an imminent danger to the health, safety, or welfare of
the public; or
         (b)   Threatens the life, or poses an imminent danger of serious
injury, to any citizen.
      (4)   Service of temporary emergency orders. Service of temporary
emergency orders may be made by any Code Enforcement Officer upon the owner,
manager, employee, or occupant of a structure that is subject to the provisions
of division (E)(3) above. If no one is located at the structure, the temporary
emergency order shall be affixed to the structure, and written notice shall
proceed according to division (F)(2) below. All notices for this division (E)
(4) shall clearly state “Temporary Emergency Order”, and conform to the
requirements of division (F)(1) below.
      (5)   Special uses, conditional uses, and other authorizations issued by
City Council. The City Council may revoke a special use, conditional use, or
any other authorization to use property, or conduct business, that violates the
terms of the use, or threatens the property, or safety, of any citizen, or is
detrimental to the health, safety, or welfare of the public. Such a revocation
may be performed at any regular, or special meeting, of City Council. The
revocation shall be based upon the report of a Code Enforcement Officer,
complaint of a citizen, or sua sponte action by City Council.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.05)
   (F)   Administrative procedures.
      (1)   Notice of violation. A notice of violation shall be written on
standardized, or letter, form approved by the Senior Code Enforcement Officer
that shall include the following information:
         (a)   The name of the owner, if known;
         (b)   An address, or description, of the real estate sufficient for
identification;
         (c)   A description of the violation, or violations;
         (d)   A statement that citations may be issued, and fines assessed, in
addition to any administrative remedy imposed by the city;
         (e)   A statement that the city has a right to cause repairs, or
demolition, to be made, and that the costs may be assessed against the owner,
and the property of the owner; and
         (f)   The information required by A.C. § 14-54-903, if applicable.
      (2)   Method of service. Administrative notices (such as a notice of
violation) shall be issued by any person authorized under A.C. § 14-54-903 by:
         (a)   Posting on the subject property;
         (b)   Regular mail; or
         (c)   Certified mail, return receipt requested.
      (3)   Notice by mail. Notice by mail shall be sent to the owner’s address
of record with the applicable county treasurer or collector. When sent to the
proper address with proper postage, notice by mail shall be deemed properly
served without regard as to whether the owner, or occupant, accepted the mail,
or the mail was otherwise returned.
      (4)   Transfer of ownership. After receiving a notice of violation, it
shall be unlawful for the owner of any property, or structure, to sell,
transfer, mortgage, and lease, or otherwise alienate, or dispose of, the same
until:
         (a)   The property, or structure, has been caused to conform with this
subchapter; or
         (b)   The owner shall provide the other party a true copy of any
notice of violation issued by a Code Enforcement Officer, and shall furnish to
the Senior Code Enforcement Officer a signed, and notarized, statement from the
other party accepting responsibility for the property, or structure.
      (5)   Exceptions. The notice of violation requirements of this division
(F) shall not apply to the issuances of citations. Issuance of citations must
comply with the procedures described in division (G) below.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.06)
   (G)   Condemnation.
      (1)   Keeping of condemned structures prohibited. It shall be, and it is
hereby declared to be, unlawful for any person, or persons, partnership,
corporation, or association, to own, keep, or maintain any house, building,
and/or structure within the corporate limits of the city which constitutes a
nuisance, and which is found, and declared, to be a nuisance by resolution of
the City Council.
      (2)   Condemnation. Any such house, building, and/or structure which is
found, and declared, to be a nuisance by resolution of the City Council will be
condemned to ensure the removal thereof, as herein provided.
      (3)   Notices. The Code Enforcement Department shall be responsible for
publication, mailing, or delivery of all notices required to condemn
structures.
         (a)   Prior to the consideration of a resolution by the City Council
declaring any house, building, and/or structure as a nuisance, the owner(s) and
any mortgagee(s), or lien holder(s), of such house, building, and/or structure
shall be mailed written notification of the date, time, and place that the City
Council will consider said resolution. In addition, said notice shall inform
the owner(s) and any mortgagee(s), or lien holder(s), of the right to be heard
at the City Council meeting on the proposed resolution declaring such house,
building, and/or structure to be a nuisance.
         (b)   Should the owner(s) and mortgagee(s), and/or lien holder(s), of
any such house, building, and/or structure be unknown, or their whereabouts be
unknown, or if they do not reside in the state, then a copy of the written
notice shall be posted upon said premises, and the City Clerk-Treasurer, or his
or her designee, shall make an affidavit setting out the facts as to unknown
address, unknown whereabouts, and/or non-resident status of said owner(s),
mortgagee(s), and lien holder(s). Thereupon, service of publication, as now
provided for by law against unknown and/or non-resident defendant(s), may be
had, and an attorney ad litem shall be appointed to notify such persons by
registered letter addressed to their last known place(s) of residence, or
business.
      (4)   Resolution information. The resolution of the City Council
condemning any house, building, and/or structure which constitutes a nuisance
will include, in said resolution, an adequate description of the house,
building, and/or structure; the name(s), if known, of the owner(s) and
mortgagee(s), and/or lien holder(s), thereof; and shall set forth the reason,
or reasons, said house, building, and/or structure is, or has been, condemned
as a nuisance.
      (5)   Posting. After a house, building, and/or structure has been found,
and declared, to be a nuisance, and condemned by resolution as herein provided,
a true, and certified, copy of said resolution will be mailed to the owner(s)
and mortgagee(s), and/or lien holder(s) thereof, if the whereabouts of said
owner(s) and mortgagee(s), and/or lien holder(s) thereof, be known, or their
last known address be known, and a copy thereof shall be posted at a
conspicuous place on said house, building, and/or structure; provided, that if
the owner(s) and mortgagee(s), and/or lien holder(s), of said house, building,
and/or structure be unknown, or if his or her, or their, whereabouts, or last
known address, be unknown, the posting of the copy of said resolution, as
hereinabove provided, will suffice as notice of the condemnation.
      (6)   Removal. If the house, building, and/or structure constituting a
nuisance has not been torn down and removed, or said nuisance otherwise abated,
within 30 days after posting the true copy of the resolution at a conspicuous
place on said house, building, and/or structure constituting the nuisance, it
will be torn down, and/or removed, by the Senior Code Enforcement Officer, or
his or her duly designated representative.
      (7)   Saleable material. The Senior Code Enforcement Officer, or any
other person, or persons, designated by him or her to tear down, and remove,
any such house, building, and/or structure constituting a nuisance will ensure
the removal thereof, and dispose of the same in such a manner as deemed
appropriate in the circumstances, and to that end may, if the same have a
substantial value, sell said house, building, and/or structure, or any saleable
material thereof, by public sale to the highest bidder for cash, ten days’
notice thereof being first given by one publication in some newspaper having a
general circulation in the city, to ensure its removal, and the abatement of
the nuisance.
      (8)   Proceeds. All proceeds of the sale of any such house, building,
and/or structure, or the proceeds of the sale of saleable materials therefrom,
and all fines collected from the provisions of this subchapter shall be paid by
the person, or persons, collecting the same to the City Clerk-Treasurer. If any
such house, building, and/or structure, or the saleable materials thereof, be
sold for an amount which exceeds all costs incidental to the abatement of the
nuisance (including the cleaning up of the premises) by the city, plus any
fine, or fines, imposed, the balance thereof will be returned by the City
Clerk-Treasurer to the former owner, or owners, of such house, building, and/or
structure constituting the nuisance.
      (9)   Liens. If the city has any net costs in removal of any house,
building, or structure, the city shall place a lien on the personal property or
real estate property, as provided by A.C. § 14-54-904.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.07)
   (H)   Emergency procedures.
      (1)   Temporary safeguards. Notwithstanding other provisions of this
subchapter, whenever, in the opinion of the Senior Code Enforcement Officer,
there is imminent danger due to an unsafe condition, the Code Official shall
order the necessary work to be done, including the boarding up of openings, to
render such structure temporarily safe whether or not the legal procedure
herein described has been instituted; and shall cause such other action to be
taken as the Code Official deems necessary to meet such emergency.
      (2)   Closing streets. When necessary for public safety, the Code
Official shall temporarily close structures and close, or order the authority
having jurisdiction to close, sidewalks, streets, public ways, and places
adjacent to unsafe structures, and prohibit the same from being utilized.
      (3)   Emergency repairs. For the purposes of this division (H), the
Senior Code Enforcement Officer shall employ the necessary labor and materials
to perform the required work as expeditiously as possible. Costs incurred in
the performance of emergency work shall be paid by the city. The City Attorney
shall institute appropriate action against the owner of the premises where the
unsafe structure is, or was, located for the recovery of such costs.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.08)
   (I)   Noises generally prohibited.
      (1)   Noises. The creating of any unreasonably loud, disturbing, and
unnecessary noise of such character, intensity, or duration as to be
detrimental to the life, or health, of any individual, or in disturbance of the
public peace and welfare, is prohibited.
      (2)   Unlawful noises. The following acts, among others, are declared to
be loud, disturbing, and unnecessary noises unlawful, but this enumeration
shall not be deemed to be exclusive:
         (a)   No person shall operate, or cause to be operated, any motor
vehicle, or motorcycle, not equipped with a muffler, or other sound dissipative
device, in good working order, and in constant operation;
         (b)   No person shall sound any horn, or other auditory signaling
device, on, or in, any motor vehicle on any public right-of-way, or public
place, except as a warning of danger;
         (c)   Operating, or causing to operate, any sound amplification device
from within a vehicle so that the sound is plainly audible at a distance of 30
feet, or more, from the vehicle, whether in a street, a highway, an alley,
parking lot, or driveway, whether public or private property, is prohibited and
declared to be a noise disturbance in violation of this subchapter;
         (d)   No person shall operate, or cause to be operated, a motor
vehicle, or motorcycle, by rapidly advancing its throttle;
         (e)   The playing of any radio, phonograph, any type of audio
equipment, or any musical instrument in such a manner, or with such volume,
particularly during the hours between 10:30 p.m. and 7:30 a.m., as to annoy, or
disturb, the quietness, comfort, or peace of any persons in, or around, any
office, hospital, or in any dwelling, hotel, or other type of residence;
         (f)   Any group yelling, hooting, shouting out, or the playing of any
type, or audio equipment, on the public streets, at any time or place, in such
a manner as to annoy, or disturb, the quiet, comfort, or peace of persons in
any hospital, dwelling, hotel, or other type of residence, or otherwise creates
an annoyance, or problem;
         (g)   The keeping of any animal, bird, or fowl which, by causing
frequent, or long, continued noise shall disturb the comfort, or repose, of any
person in the vicinity;
         (h)   The use of any automobile, motorcycle, or vehicle so out of
repair, so loaded, or in such a manner as to create loud and unnecessary
grating, grinding, rattling, or other noise;
         (i)   The blowing of any steam whistle attached to any stationary
boiler, except to give notice of the time to begin, or stop, work, or as a
warning of fire or danger, or upon request, or proper city authorities;
         (j)   The creation of any excessive noise on any street adjacent to
any school, institution of learning, church, or court while the same is in
session, or adjacent to any hospital, which unreasonably interferes with the
workings, or sessions, thereof, or adjacent to, or near, any residence;
provided, however, that in case of emergencies when the public health, safety,
or general welfare is in danger, necessary work may be done immediately by
first securing a permit from the Building Inspector, if it is obtainable, or if
it is not first obtainable, the necessary work may be done, and at the first
opportunity reported to the Building Inspector, who shall issue a permit
effectively retroactively to the beginning of the emergency; provided also,
that where underground repair, or construction, work is necessary adjacent to,
or in the vicinity of, a school, an institution of learning, a church, a court,
or hospital, the Building Inspector may issue a permit for same, the work to be
done at reasonable hours to be designated by the Building Inspector;
         (k)   The use of any drum, loudspeaker, or other instrument, or
device, for the purpose of attracting attention by creation of noise to any
performance, show, or sale, or display of merchandise;
         (l)   A compression release engine brake (Jake Brake), or other
hydraulically operated device that converts a power producing diesel, or gas,
engine into a power absorbing retarding mechanism with a correspondingly
increased amount of noise emission, shall not be engaged, or used, within the
city limits, except in the case of failure, or the service brake system,
adverse weather conditions, or other emergency necessitating the compression
release engine brake's use. Fire trucks, and those municipal vehicles equipped
with the Quiet Brake and Silent Partner System are exempted from the
requirements of this section; and
         (m)   The use of mechanical loudspeakers, or amplifiers, on trucks, or
other moving or standing vehicles, for advertising, or other purposes.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.09)
   (J)   Construction allowed.
      (1)   Construction. Commercial and residential exterior and interior
construction work, including erection, excavation, demolition, or repair of any
building and its components, shall be allowed between the hours of 7:00 a.m. to
7:00 p.m., Monday through Saturday, and 1:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m. on Sunday.
Additional interior construction work shall be allowed to be performed between
the hours of 7:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m., Monday through Saturday; provided, that
all exterior openings are completely covered.
         (a)   The construction hours shall be adhered to, except in the case
of urgent emergency in the interest of public health and safety, and then only
with written permission from the Building Inspector, which permission may be
granted for a period not to exceed 30 days while the emergency continues. If an
emergency arises when permission is not obtainable, the necessary work may be
done, and reported to the Building Inspector at the earliest date that the
office is open after the emergency.
         (b)   If the Building Inspector should determine that the public
health and safety will not be impaired by the erection, demolition, excavation,
alteration, or repair, or any building within the designated hours, and if he
or she shall further determine that loss of inconvenience would result to any
party in interest, he or she may grant permission for such work to be done
within such hours upon application being made at the time the permit for the
work is obtained.
         (c)   The Code Enforcement Division may stop construction work at any
time when the work disrupts, or causes excessive disruptions, to adjoining
businesses or residential occupancies, or is found to be detrimental to the
health, safety, and welfare of the citizens.
      (2)   Working hours permit. In cases where construction-related work can
only be performed other than the hours listed in division (J)(1) above, a
temporary work permit may be issued by the Building Inspector. The applicant
must obtain the permit prior to commencement of work, and all referenced job
construction permits must be obtained. If approved, the permit may be issued
from one to seven days. The applicant must take all precautions to avoid
disturbing other adjacent occupancies. The Building Codes Division reserves the
right to revoke any temporary work permit if work disrupts, or causes excessive
disruptions, of adjoining businesses or residential occupancies, or is found to
be detrimental to the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens.
      (3)   Excavations. This division (J) does not apply to:
         (a)   Any vehicle of the city while engaged upon necessary public
business;
         (b)   Excavations, or repairs, of bridges, streets, or highways by, or
on behalf of, the city, county, or state, when the public welfare, and
convenience, renders it impossible to perform such work during the day;
         (c)   The reasonable use of amplifiers, or loudspeakers, in the course
of public addresses which are noncommercial in character;
         (d)   Necessary warning signals given by an ambulance operator, or
licensed physician, while answering an emergency call for medical assistance;
         (e)   Construction work between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m.
on weekdays and Saturdays in areas declared, by resolution of the Board of
Directors, to be disaster areas. For purposes of this division (J),
CONSTRUCTION WORK means the erection, including excavation, demolition,
alteration, or repair, of any building in a residential district. Any
resolution to declare an area a disaster area shall include a map of the area,
and a time period during which such designation shall be effective; or
         (f)   Ordinances set forth pertaining to the red dirt mine facilities.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.10)
(Ord. 2015-10, passed 11-9-2015; Ord. 2023-07, passed 6-27-2023) Penalty, see §
90.99
Cross-reference:
   Red dirt mining facilities, see §§
114.01 through
114.99
§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General. Where the following terms are not defined through the methods
authorized by this section, such terms shall have ordinarily accepted meanings,
such as the context implies. Whenever the words “dwelling unit”, “dwelling”,
“premises”, “building”, “rooming house”, “rooming unit”, “housekeeping unit”,
or “story” are stated in this subchapter, they shall be construed as though
they were followed by the words “or any part thereof”.
(Prior Code, § 5.05.01)
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a
different meaning.
      ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle, regardless of whether wrecked
or inoperable, which is left on public, or private, property, for a period of
more than 72 hours, without approval from the property owner to place the
vehicle upon such property.
      APPROVED. Consented, or agreed to, in writing by the Senior Code
Enforcement Officer, or his or her proper designee.
      BASEMENT. The portion of a building which is partly, or completely, below
grade.
      BATHROOM. A room containing plumbing fixtures, including a bathtub or
shower.
      BEDROOM. Any room, or space, used, or intended to be used, for sleeping
purposes.
      BOAT. Any vessel initially designed for the carrying of passengers, or
cargo, upon the water, whether currently seaworthy or not, and regardless of
size or design, including, without limitation, barges, motorboats, whether
inboard or outboard, canoes, rowboats, rafts, and sailboats.
      CARPORT. A roofed structure providing space for the parking of motor
vehicles, and enclosed on not more than two sides.
      CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any city employee who has been duly sworn, and
authorized, to uphold the ordinances of the city, and laws of the state,
related to property uses, maintenance, nuisances, inspections, issuances of
building permits, certifications and licensing, and the like, within the
municipal boundaries of the city. All duly sworn law enforcement officers of
the City Police Department are authorized to exercise authority as CODE
ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS.
      CONDEMN. To adjudge unfit for human occupancy.
      DWELLING UNIT. Any room, or group of rooms, located within a structure
forming a single habitable unit with facilities that are used, or intended to
be used, for living, sleeping, cooking, eating, and sanitation by a household
or family.
      EASEMENT. The portion of land, or property, reserved for present, or
future, use by a person, or agency, other than the legal fee owner(s) of the
property. The EASEMENT shall be permitted to be for use under, on, or above a
said lot, or lots.
      EXTERIOR PROPERTY. The open space on the premises, and on adjoining
property under the control of owners, or operators, of such premises.
      EXTERMINATION. The control, and elimination, of insects, rats, or other
pests by eliminating their harborage places; by removing, or making
inaccessible, materials that serves as their food; by poison spraying,
fumigating, and trapping; or by any other approved pest elimination methods.
      GARBAGE. The animal, or vegetable, waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, and consumption of food.
      GRAFFITI. Any inscription, word, figure, or design that is marked,
etched, scratched, drawn, painted, pasted, or otherwise affixed to, or on, any
structural component of any building, structure, or other permanent facility
regardless of the nature of the material of that structural component, or the
nature of the inscription, to the extent that the same was not authorized in
advance by the owner, or otherwise deemed to be a public nuisance.
      GUARD. A building component, or a system of building components, located
at, or near, the open sides of elevated walking surfaces that minimizes the
possibility of a fall from the walking surface to a lower level.
      HABITABLE SPACE. Space in a structure for living, sleeping, eating, or
cooking. Bathrooms, toilet rooms, closets, halls, storage, or utility spaces,
and similar areas, are not considered HABITABLE SPACES.
      HISTORIC. Any existing buildings, or structures, designated by the city,
the state, or the United States government to be historic, or located within a
city historic district.
      HOUSEKEEPING UNIT. A room, or group of rooms, forming a single habitable
space equipped, and intended to be used for, living, sleeping, cooking, and
eating which does not contain, within such a unit, a toilet, lavatory, and
bathtub or shower.
      IMMINENT DANGER. A condition which could cause serious, or life-
threatening, injury or death at any time.
      INFESTATION. The presence, within or contiguous to, a structure or
premises of insects, rats, vermin, or other pests.
      INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle which cannot be driven upon the
public streets for reasons including, but not limited to, being unlicensed,
uninsured, wrecked, abandoned, in a state of disrepair, or incapable of being
moved under its own power. Such vehicle is also considered an abandoned vehicle
if left on public, or private, property without authorization from the property
owner for a period in excess of 72 hours.
      LABELED. Devices, equipment, appliances, or materials to which has been
affixed a label, seal, symbol, or other identifying mark of a nationally
recognized testing laboratory, inspection agency, or other organization
concerned with product evaluation that maintains periodic inspection of the
production of the above-labeled items, and by whose label the manufacturer
attests to compliance with applicable nationally recognized standards.
      LET FOR OCCUPANCY or LET. To permit, provide, or offer possession, or
occupancy, of a dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming unit, building, premises, or
structure by a person who is, or is not, the legal owner of record thereof,
pursuant to a written, or unwritten, lease, agreement, or license, or pursuant
to a recorded, or unrecorded, agreement of contract for the sale of land.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. A machine of conveyance which is self-propelled and
designed to travel along the ground, and includes, but is not limited to,
automobiles, buses, electric scooters, mopeds, bicycles, motorcycles, trucks,
tractors, go-carts, golf carts, or motor homes.
      NUISANCE. As defined in §
90.04(A)(1).
      OCCUPANCY. The purpose for which a building, or portion thereof, is
utilized or occupied.
      OCCUPANT. Any individual living, or sleeping, in a building, or having
possession of a space within a building.
      OPENABLE AREA. The part of a window, skylight, or door which is available
for unobstructed ventilation, and which opens directly to the outdoors.
      OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care, or control of a structure, or
premises, which is let, or offered, for occupancy.
      OWNER. Any person, agent, operator, firm, or corporation having a legal,
or equitable, interest in the property; or recorded in the official records of
the state, county, or municipality as holding title to the property; or
otherwise having control of the property, including the guardian of the estate
of any such person, and the executor, or administrator, of the estate of such
person if ordered to take possession of real property by a court.
      PERSON. An individual, corporation, partnership, or any other group
acting as a unit.
      PREMISES. A lot, plot, or parcel of land, easement, or public way,
including any structures thereon.
      PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any real property within the city which is privately
owned, and which is not defined as public property in this section.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any real property in the city which is owned by a
governmental body, and includes buildings, parking lots, parks, streets,
sidewalks, rights-of-way, easements, and other similar property.
      PUBLIC WAY. Any street, alley, or similar parcel of land essentially
unobstructed from the ground to the sky, which is deeded, dedicated, or
otherwise permanently appropriated to the public for public use.
      REMOVAL. The act of clearing all material and debris whenever it becomes
necessary to demolish any building that has been condemned, and found to be a
nuisance by resolution of the City Council.
      RESIDENCE. A structure serving as a dwelling or home. For the purposes of
this subchapter, the term RESIDENCE includes DWELLING UNITS and ROOMING HOUSES.
      ROOMING HOUSE. A building arranged, or occupied, for lodging, with or
without meals, for compensation. Bed-and-breakfasts, boarding houses, half-way
houses, and hotels, as those terms are defined under the city zoning ordinance,
are included within the definition of a ROOMING HOUSE.
      ROOMING UNIT. Any room, or group of rooms, forming a single habitable
unit occupied, or intended to be occupied, for sleeping or living, but not for
cooking purposes.
      RUBBISH. Combustible, and noncombustible, waste materials, except
garbage; the term shall include the residue from the burning of wood, coal,
coke, and other combustible materials, paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood,
excelsior, rubber, leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metals,
mineral matter, glass, crockery, and dust, and other similar materials.
      UNCUT WEEDS AND GRASS. See §
90.04(B)(1) for definition.
      SENIOR CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. The Head of the Code Enforcement
Department or, in his or her absence, the person who is directed, or appointed,
to temporarily assume the duties of the Head of the Code Enforcement
Department.
      STRUCTURE. That which is built or constructed, or a portion thereof.
      TENANT. A person, corporation, partnership, or group, whether or not the
legal owner of record, occupying a building, or portion thereof, as a unit.
      TOILET ROOM. A room containing a water closet, or urinal, but not a
bathtub or shower.
      TRAILER. Any freewheeling object designed, or intended to be pulled, or
towed, behind a motor vehicle, regardless of whether wrecked or inoperable, and
regardless of whether currently inspected and/or registered, including, without
limitation, the following: boat trailers; camper trailers; cargo trailers;
special trailers for items such as golf carts or motorcycles; utility trailers;
and farm implements.
      VENTILATION. The natural, or mechanical, process of supplying
conditioned, or unconditioned, air to, or removing such air from, any space.
      WORKMANLIKE. Executed in a skilled manner; for example, generally plumb,
level, square, in-line, undamaged, and without marring adjacent work.
      WRECKED MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle which does not have, lawfully
affixed thereto, an unexpired license plate, and the condition of which is
wrecked, dismantled, partially dismantled, incapable of operation by its own
power on a public street, or from which the wheels, engine, transmission, or
any substantial part thereof has been removed.
(Prior Code, § 5.05.02) (Ord. 2015-10, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 90.03 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   Scope. The provisions of this section shall govern the minimum
conditions and the responsibilities of persons for maintenance of structures,
equipment, and exterior property.
      (2)   Responsibility. The owner of the premises shall maintain the
structures and exterior property in compliance with these requirements, except
as otherwise provided for in this subchapter. A person shall not occupy as
owner-occupant, or permit another person to occupy premises, which are not in a
sanitary, and safe, condition, and which do not comply with the requirements of
this section. Occupants of a dwelling unit, rooming unit, or housekeeping unit
are responsible for keeping in a clean, sanitary, and safe condition the part
of the dwelling unit, rooming unit, housekeeping unit, or premises which they
occupy and control.
      (3)   Vacant structures and land. All vacant structures, and premises
thereof, or vacant land, shall be maintained in a clean, safe, secure, and
sanitary condition, as provided herein, so as not to cause a blighting problem,
or adversely affect the public health, or safety.
(Prior Code, § 5.06.01)
   (B)   Exterior property areas.
      (1)   Sanitation. All exterior property, and premises, shall be
maintained in a clean, safe, and sanitary condition. The occupant shall keep
the part of the exterior property, which such occupant occupies or controls, in
a clean, and sanitary, condition.
      (2)   Grading and drainage. All premises shall be graded, and maintained,
to prevent the erosion of soil, and to prevent the accumulation of stagnant
water thereon, or within, any structure located thereon.
      (3)   Illegal dumping. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or
corporation to drop, dispose of, throw, toss, or otherwise deposit leaves,
paper, debris, brush, limbs, grass, or other similar articles in drainage
ditches, curbs, and along gutters of city streets.
      (4)   Sediments and mud. All public roadways shall be kept clean of
sediment and soil erosion from soil disturbing activities.
         (a)   Any person engaging in soil disturbing activities within the
city limits shall be required to implement measures to minimize the tracking of
sediments, and mud, onto adjacent streets, and roadways, by vehicles leaving
the site.
         (b)   The following activities are specifically excluded from the
requirements of this division (B)(4): emergency street; storm drainage; or
utility repairs. The following properties are specifically excluded from the
requirements of this division (B)(4): approved retention areas; and reservoirs.
         (c)   If a soil disturbing activity creates a violation, the violator
shall cleanup the material daily, or as frequently as needed, to avoid a hazard
or nuisance. If an activity is found in violation of the provisions of this
subchapter, the city’s appointed representative shall issue a cease and desist
order for all activities on the site until the appropriate cleanup measures are
implemented, and provisions are made to prevent additional pollution. The
city’s approval of construction, building permit approvals, payments, release
of payments, or bonds, and final approvals, shall also be withheld, or revoked,
until a violation is corrected, and appropriate sediment control measures are
in place.
      (5)   Grass or weeds. Grass or weeds shall not exceed eight inches in
height in all zoning districts. This restriction will not apply to:
         (a)   Property that is zoned A-1, except when abutting developed
property. A-1 property shall be maintained with a 15-foot buffer along the lot
line adjacent to the developed property with grass and weeds, and such buffer
shall not exceed eight inches in height; and
         (b)   Areas specifically designated, or recognized, by the city, the
state, or the United States as wetlands, open spaces, natural or wild flower
areas, or other designated preservation areas.
      (6)   Rodent harborage. All structures and exterior property shall be
kept free from rodent harborage and infestation. Where rodents are found, they
shall be promptly exterminated by approved processes which will not be
injurious to human health. After extermination, proper precautions shall be
taken to eliminate rodent harborage, and prevent reinfestation.
      (7)   Exhaust vents. Pipes, ducts, conductors, fans, or blowers shall not
discharge gases, steam, vapor, hot air, grease, smoke, odors, or other gaseous,
or particulate, wastes directly upon abutting, or adjacent, public or private
property, or that of another tenant.
      (8)   Accessory structures. All accessory structures, including detached
garages, fences, and walls, shall be maintained structurally sound and in good
repair.
      (9)   Motor vehicles. Except as provided for in other regulations, no
inoperative, or unlicensed, motor vehicle shall be parked, kept, or stored on
any premises, and no motor vehicle shall, at any time, be in a state of major
disassembly, disrepair, or in the process of being stripped or dismantled.
Painting of motor vehicles is prohibited unless conducted inside an approved
spray booth.
         (a)   No person shall park, store, leave, or permit the parking,
storing, or leaving of any motor vehicle, and/or trailer of any kind, which is
wrecked or inoperable, whether attended or not, upon any private property
within the city, except as allowed by the following exceptions:
            1.   Any subject item parked, or stored, within a building, or
enclosed garage, on private property;
            2.   Any subject item held in connection with a business enterprise
lawfully licensed by the city for servicing, and repair, of subject items, and
properly zoned, and operated, in an appropriate business zone pursuant to the
zoning ordinances of the city;
            3.   Any subject vehicle within a carport that is being actively
repaired on at least a weekly basis. Subject vehicles and its parts when not
being repaired shall be neatly, and completely, covered with an opaque cover;
            4.   Inoperable vehicles deemed inoperable only due to not having a
current vehicle license plate, or vehicle registration tag, may be stored in a
covered carport; and/or
            5.   Inoperable vehicles may be stored on private property when
provided with a fitted, and maintained, cover designed for such vehicle.
         (b)   Code Enforcement Officers shall have the authority to remove
inoperable motor vehicles on private property 30 days after written notice has
been affixed to the subject item. Such notice shall state that the subject item
is a nuisance, and order whoever has an interest in the subject item to remove
the item from the property. If such nuisance is found upon private property, in
addition to the foregoing notice, a copy of such shall be placed on the
residence or business. The presence of such subject items on private property
is hereby declared a public nuisance, which may be abated in accordance with
the provisions of this subchapter. Any inoperable vehicle sitting on city
streets can, and will be, removed immediately at the owner’s expense.
         (c)   The exception to this division (B)(9) shall be a motor vehicle
of any type is permitted to undergo major overhaul, including body work;
provided, that such work is performed inside a structure, or similarly enclosed
area designed, and approved, for such purposes.
      (10)   Defacement of property. No person shall willfully, or wantonly,
damage, mutilate, or deface any exterior surface of any structure, or building,
on any private, or public, property by placing thereon any marking, carving, or
graffiti. It shall be the responsibility of the owner to restore said surface
to an approved state of maintenance and repair.
(Prior Code, § 5.06.02)
   (C)   Swimming pools, spas, and hot tubs. Swimming pools, hot tubs, and spas
shall be maintained in a clean, and sanitary, condition, and in good repair.
(See A.C. § 14-54-901.)
(Prior Code, § 5.06.03)
   (D)   Exterior structure.
      (1)   General. The exterior of a structure shall be maintained in good
repair, structurally sound, and sanitary so as not to pose a threat to the
public health, safety, or welfare.
      (2)   Premises identification. Buildings shall have approved address
numbers placed in a position to be plainly legible, and visible, from the
street, or road, fronting the property. These numbers shall contrast with their
background. Address numbers shall be Arabic numerals or alphabet letters.
Numbers shall be a minimum of three inches in height on residential structures,
and shall be a minimum of four inches in height on commercial structures.
(Prior Code, § 5.06.04)
   (E)   Rubbish and garbage.
      (1)   Accumulation of rubbish or garbage. All exterior property and
premises of every structure shall be free from any accumulation of rubbish or
garbage.
      (2)   Disposal of rubbish. Every occupant of a structure shall dispose of
all rubbish in a clean, and sanitary, manner by placing such rubbish in
approved containers.
      (3)   Appliances and furniture. Appliances and furniture, and similar
equipment, not in operation shall not be discarded, abandoned, or stored on
premises outside of any enclosed building, such as a storage shed or accessory
building.
      (4)   Disposal of garbage. Every occupant of a structure shall dispose of
garbage in a clean, and sanitary, manner by placing such garbage in an approved
garbage disposal facility, or an approved, leak-proof garbage container.
         (a)   No trash or garbage container shall be stored in a front, or
side, yard abutting a street so as to be closer to the street than the building
on the lot, except on trash days.
         (b)   Garbage and trash containers must be placed within five feet of
the curb no earlier than 5:00 p.m. the day before, and removed before 7:00 p.m.
the day garbage is picked up.
(Prior Code, § 5.06.05)
   (F)   Sanitary drainage system.
      (1)   General. All plumbing fixtures shall be properly connected to
either a public sewer system, or to an approved private sewage disposal system.
      (2)   Maintenance. Every plumbing stack, vent, waste, and sewer line
shall function properly, and be kept free from obstructions, leaks, and
defects.
(Prior Code, § 5.06.06)
(Ord. 2015-10, passed 11-9-2015) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 NUISANCES.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   Intent. It is the intent of this subchapter to prevent, and abate,
nuisances within the municipal boundaries of the city. For the purposes of this
suchapter, the word NUISANCE is defined as any act, omission, or property
condition that is detrimental to the health, safety, and welfare of the public
in that it:
         (a)   Injures, or endangers, the comfort, repose, health, or safety of
others;
         (b)   Is offensive to the senses;
         (c)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, or tends to obstruct, or
renders dangerous for passage, any public, or private, street, highway,
sidewalk, stream, ditch, or drainage;
         (d)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life, or the use,
of property; or
         (e)   Essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life
and property, or tends to depreciate the value of the property of others.
      (2)   Prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person, or entity, to
cause, permit, maintain, or allow the creation, or maintenance, of a nuisance.
      (3)   Illustrative enumeration of a nuisance. The maintaining, using,
placing, depositing, leaving, or permitting to be, or remain, on any public, or
private, property of any of the following items, conditions, or actions is
hereby declared to be, and constitute, a nuisance; provided, however, this
enumeration shall not be deemed, or construed, to be conclusive, limiting, or
restrictive:
         (a)   Noxious weeds and other rank vegetation;
         (b)   Accumulations, or storage, of rubbish, garbage, materials,
metals, lumber, tires, and other materials;
         (c)   Any condition which provides harborage for rats, mice, snakes,
and other vermin;
         (d)   Dilapidated structures;
         (e)   All unnecessary, or unauthorized, noises and annoying
vibrations, including animal noises;
         (f)   All disagreeable, or obnoxious, odors and stenches, as well as
the conditions, substances, or other causes which give rise to the emission, or
generation, of such odors and stenches;
         (g)   The carcasses of animals or fowl not disposed of within a
reasonable time after death;
         (h)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream, lake,
canal, or body of water by sewage, dead animals, creamery, industrial wastes,
or other substances;
         (i)   Any building, structure, or other place, or location, where any
activity which is in violation of local, state, or federal law is conducted,
performed, or maintained;
         (j)   Any accumulation of stagnant water permitted, or maintained, on
any lot, or piece of ground;
         (k)   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas, soot, or cinders in
unreasonable quantities;
         (l)   Graffiti;
         (m)   Inoperable, or abandoned, motor vehicles;
         (n)   The use of tarpaulins, canvas, plastic, oil cloth, sheeting, and
other similar materials as fencing, or to shield, or enclose any structure
(including, without limitation, openings for windows, doors, walls, roofs,
garage doors, or carports), except when temporarily necessary to perform
repairs under a properly-issued building permit; and
         (o)   Permanent, or temporary, basketball goals (except those approved
by the city) on any public street, or on any right-of-way adjacent to a public
street.
(Prior Code, § 5.07.01)
   (B)   Unsightly appearances.
      (1)   Uncut weeds, grass, and other unsightly, and unsanitary, articles.
All property owners and occupants within the municipal boundaries of the city
are required to cut weeds and grass, remove garbage, rubbish, and other
unsightly, and unsanitary, articles and things from their property, and to
eliminate, fill up, or remove stagnant pools of water, or any other unsanitary
thing, place, or condition which might become a breeding place for mosquitoes,
flies, and germs harmful to the health of the community. For specific
requirements related to the required maintenance of grass and weeds, refer to §
90.03(B)(5).
      (2)   Nuisance structures. Any building, or other structure, which is in
such a dilapidated condition that it is unsafe, or unfit, for human habitation,
or kept in such an unsanitary condition that it is a menace to the health, or
safety, of people residing in the vicinity thereof, or presents a more than
ordinarily dangerous fire hazard in the vicinity where it is located, shall
constitute a nuisance.
         (a)   An unsafe structure is one that is found to be dangerous to the
life, health, property, or safety of the public, or the occupants of the
structure by not providing minimum safeguards to protect, or warn, occupants in
the event of fire, or because such structure contains unsafe conditions due to
lack of abandonment or lack of maintenance, or unsafe equipment, or is so
damaged, decayed, dilapidated, structurally unsafe, or of such faulty
construction, or unstable foundation, that partial, or complete, collapse is
possible.
         (b)   A structure is unfit for human occupancy whenever the Code
Official finds that such structure is unsafe, unlawful or, because of the
degree to which the structure is in disrepair, or lacks maintenance, is
unsanitary, vermin or rat infested, contains filth and contamination, or lacks
ventilation, illumination, sanitary or heating facilities, or other essential
equipment required by this subchapter, or because the location of the structure
constitutes a hazard to the occupants of the structure, or to the public.
         (c)   An unlawful structure is one found in whole, or in part, to be
occupied by more persons than permitted under this subchapter, or was erected,
altered, or occupied contrary to law.
(Prior Code, § 5.07.02)
   (C)   Additional remedies.
      (1)   Authorized abatement. If the owner of any lot, or other real
property, within the city shall neglect, or refuse, to remove, abate, or
eliminate any condition, violation, or prohibition as may be provided for in
this subchapter, after having been given a notice of violation with seven days’
notice, in writing, to do so by the appropriate city official, the city is
hereby authorized to do whatever is necessary to correct the condition,
including, but not limited to, entering upon the property and having such
weeds, rank grass, or other vegetation cut, and removed, or eliminating any
unsanitary and unsightly condition, or causing necessary repairs to be made,
and charging the cost thereof to the owner of such premises, which shall
constitute a lien thereon. The above mentioned seven days’ notice shall be
calculated by counting the first day of the seven-day period as the day after
written notice is given to the owner, by counting every calendar day, including
weekends and holidays, and by establishing the deadline to take the above
required actions as 11:59 p.m. on the seventh day. Condemnations shall follow
the procedures established in §
90.01(G). The city reserves the right to secure a priority cleanup lien
pursuant to A.C. § 14-54-903.
      (2)   Authorized removal of basketball goals. Code Enforcement Officers
shall have the authority to order the immediate removal of any permanent, or
temporary, basketball goal (unless approved by the city) that is on any public
street, or on any right-of-way adjacent to a public street. If the apparent
owner of the basketball goal is unknown, unavailable, or unwilling to remove
the basketball goal, a Code Enforcement Officer may cause the goal to be
removed.
      (3)   Vacating of unfit, or unsafe, structures and utility services. Any
dwelling, or dwelling unit, declared as unfit for human habitation, or unsafe,
by the City Code Enforcement Department as so designated, and placarded, by a
Code Enforcement Officer, shall be vacated within seven days after notice of
such action has been given by the Building Official to both the owner and
occupant of the building. On the eighth day after said notice, the Code
Enforcement Department shall notify all utility services that no such services
shall be provided to the dwelling, or dwelling unit. After utility services are
cutoff, no further services shall be made available until a rehabilitation
permit is obtained, or until the Director of Code Enforcement notifies
utilities that service may be provided to the dwelling, or dwelling unit.
(Prior Code, § 5.07.03)
   (D)   Placarding.
      (1)   General. Upon failure of the owner, or person responsible, to
comply with the notice of violation for a nuisance structure, or equipment,
within the time given, the Code Official shall then post on the premises, or on
the defective equipment, a placard bearing the word “NUISANCE”, and a statement
of the penalties provided for occupying the premises, operating the equipment,
or removing the placard.
      (2)   Placard removal. The Code Official shall remove unfit for human
habitation, or unsafe structure, placards whenever the defect, or defects, upon
which the condemnation and placarding action were based have been eliminated.
Any person who defaces, or removes, a condemnation placard without the approval
of the Code Official shall be subject to the penalties provided by this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 5.07.04)
   (E)   Prohibited occupancy. Any occupied structure condemned, and placarded,
by the Code Official shall be vacated, as ordered by the Code Official. Any
person who shall occupy placarded premises, or shall operate placarded
equipment, and any owner, or any person responsible for the premises, who shall
let anyone occupy placarded premises, or operate placarded equipment, shall be
liable for the penalties provided by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 5.07.05)
(Ord. 2015-10, passed 11-9-2015) Penalty, see §
90.99
MOTOR VEHICLES
§ 90.15 NON-OPERATING VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a
different meaning.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. A car, automobile, truck, bus, omnibus, tractor truck, or
other vehicle licensed to travel upon the roads of the state, or subject to
licensing for travel, or intended as a carrier for goods and persons from point
to point which uses motive power derived from a motor or engine, especially an
internal combustion engine, or rotary engine and a wankel.
      NON-OPERATING MOTOR VEHICLES. A motor vehicle with one, or more, of the
following characteristics:
         (a)   The engine, or motor, is inoperative;
         (b)   Any, or all, of the wheels are removed;
         (c)   The motor vehicle has flats on two, or more, tires;
         (d)   Major operating components are missing, including, but not
limited to: windshield glass; door glass; fenders; gauges; steering wheel; tie
rods; springs; drive train; gear box; rear end; or any parts connected with the
steering geometry of the motor vehicle, or the seats are removed;
         (e)   Any of the major operating components, such as those listed in
division (d) above, are in such damaged condition so as to make the motor
vehicle useless; or
         (f)   The motor vehicle does not have a current state registration.
(Prior Code, § 8.24.01)
   (B)   Prohibiting non-operating vehicles. It is unlawful to have a non-
operating motor vehicle within the corporate limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 8.24.02)
   (C)   Exceptions. Nothing in this section shall be construed so as to apply
to:
      (1)   Any motor vehicle that can be started, and moved, under its own
power on demand;
      (2)   Motorcycles and motor bikes;
      (3)   Antique automobiles; provided, the vehicle has an antique license
as by law required; and
      (4)   Temporarily disabled motor vehicles; provided, they are restored to
running condition within 30 days from date of disablement.
(Prior Code, § 8.24.03)
   (D)   Violators.
      (1)   A person shall be deemed in violation of this section if:
         (a)   Such person owns, or has registered to him or her, a non-
operating motor vehicle that is in a prohibited area within the terms of this
section; or
         (b)   Such person owns property that non-operating motor vehicles are
placed, parked, or found resting on in a prohibited area within the terms of
this section.
      (2)   It shall be a prima facie case that the record owner is the owner
of property in question.
      (3)   It shall be a prima facie case that the registered owner of a motor
vehicle is the owner of the motor vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 8.24.05)
(Ord. 2003-15, passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.16 ENGINE BRAKES.
   (A)   Prohibition. No person shall use, or engage, a compression release
engine brake, or other hydraulically-operated device that converts a power
producing diesel, or gas engine, into a power absorbing retarding mechanism
with a correspondingly increased amount of noise emission within the corporate
limits of the city, except in the case of failure of the service brake system,
adverse weather conditions, or other alternative emergency stopping situations
necessitating the use of the compression release engine brake.
(Prior Code, § 7.36.01)
   (B)   Exemption. Fire trucks, emergency vehicles, and those municipal
vehicles equipped with the Quiet Brake and Silent Partner System are exempted
from the requirements of this section.
(Prior Code, § 7.36.02)
   (C)   Signage. The Mayor, or the Mayor’s designee, is hereby authorized, and
directed, to erect appropriate signs, in accordance with the State Highway
Transportation Department requirements, that non-emergency use of unmuffled
engine brakes is prohibited within the corporate limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 7.36.04)
(Ord. 2014-09, passed - -)
OPEN BURNING
§ 90.30 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No person, or business, shall burn any tires, wiring, plastics, or any
other material which emits toxic smoke, or gases, within the city limits.
   (B)   No person, or business, shall burn brush, leaves, or household trash
in large amounts for any other person, other than their own personal household
trash, leaves, or brush.
   (C)   Any person, or business, burning household trash shall burn in a
container with a cover which will suppress sparks in order to provide a minimal
amount of safety when burning.
(Prior Code, § 7.24.01) (Ord. 97, passed - -)
§ 90.31 AUTHORITY.
   The Fire Chief, or officer of the Fire Department, shall have the authority
to extinguish any fire he or she deems hazardous, and shall have the authority
to issue a summons, or citation, to any persons, or firm, he or she finds in
violation of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7.24.02) (Ord. 97, passed - -)
§ 90.32 DEFENSE.
   Any representative of a firm, or individual, found to be violating this
subchapter shall be afforded a defense if such person was ordered to set fire
to material prohibited in this subchapter by his or her supervisor, or boss. In
the event the arresting officer has reasonable grounds to believe that such
person was acting on directives from his or her superior, the officer may issue
a summons, or citation, to the firm name, and may be signed by any employee of
the firm, binding said firm to appear in court to answer the charge.
(Prior Code, § 7.24.04) (Ord. 97, passed - -)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter, for which no
specific penalty is prescribed, shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided, any person, firm, or corporation
violating any of the several provisions of §
90.01(D) shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of $25. If the violation
continuous in nature, each day such violation shall be permitted to continue
shall be considered a separate offense, and shall be punishable as such.
      (2)   The penalty for subsequent offenses shall be:
         (a)   Fifty dollars for the second offense that occurs within 12
months of the prior offense;
         (b)   One hundred dollars for the third offense that occurs within 12
months of prior offenses; and
         (c)   Two hundred dollars for the fourth, and all subsequent, offense
that occur within 12 months of prior offenses.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.04)
   (C)   (1)   For violation of §
90.01(G), a fine of not less than $250, nor more than $500, is hereby imposed
against the owner(s) of any house, building, and/or structure found, and
declared, to be a nuisance by resolution of the City Council 30 days after the
same has been so found, and declared, to be a nuisance, and for each day
thereafter said nuisance be not abated constitutes a separate, and distinct,
offense punishable by a fine of $250 for each said separate, and distinct,
offense; provided, the notice, as herein provided in §
90.01(F) hereof, has been given within ten days after said house, building,
and/or structure has been, by resolution, found, and declared, to be a
nuisance.
      (2)   In the event it is deemed advisable by the City Council that a
particular house, building, and/or structure be judicially declared to be a
nuisance by a court having jurisdiction of such matters, the City Council is
hereby authorized to employ an attorney to bring such an action for said
purpose in the name of the city, and the only notice to be given to the owner
(s) and mortgagee(s), and/or lien holder(s), of any such house, building, and/
or structure sought to be judicially declared to be a nuisance will be that as
now provided for by law in such cases in Circuit Court. When any such house,
building, and/or structure has been declared judicially to be a nuisance by a
court of competent jurisdiction, a fine of $100 is hereby imposed against the
owner(s) thereof from the date said finding is made by the court, and for each
day thereafter said nuisance be not abated constitutes a continuing offense
punishable by a fine of $100 per day.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.07)
   (D)   Any violation of §
90.03(B)(4) shall be considered an offense punishable by a fine of not less
than $50, nor more than $500, and each day of violation may be considered a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 5.06.02)
   (E)   A violation of §
90.15 is hereby declared to be a misdemeanor, and punishable by a fine of not
less than $10, nor more than $100, or by a jail sentence of one to ten days.
Each day a non-operating motor vehicle is upon the premises of a person shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 8.24.04)
   (F)   Violation of §
90.16 shall be a misdemeanor, and upon conviction be subject to a fine of not
less than $50, nor more than $100 for a first offense, and a fine of not less
than $100, nor more than $500 for second, or subsequent, offenses within one
year of the previous conviction.
(Prior Code, § 7.36.03)
   (G)   Any person, or firm, or any person, or representative, of a firm, or
individual found to be in violation of §§
90.30 through
90.32 shall be subject to a fine of not less than $50, nor more than $300 for
the first offense. Such person, or firm, or person acting on behalf of a
person, or firm, shall be fined not less than $150, nor more than $500 for the
second offense. Persons, or firms, found guilty of a third, and subsequent,
offense shall be fined not less than $500, nor more than $1,000, or imprisoned
in the County Jail for a period not to exceed 30 days, or both fines and
imprisonment may be imposed.
(Prior Code, § 7.24.03)
(Ord. 97, passed - -; Ord. 2003-15, passed - -; Ord. 2014-09, passed - -)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
Dogs
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Care
   
91.03   Vaccination; harness or collar
   
91.04   License fee
   
91.05   Confinement of dogs
   
91.06   Incidents of dog bites to humans
   
91.07   Prevention of spread of rabies
   
91.08   Barking of dogs
   
91.09   Release of animals
 
   
91.99   Penalty
DOGS
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   AT LARGE. Any dog not confined to the premises of the owner, or under the
restraint of a person capable of controlling the animal.
   DOG. A member of the canine species.
   OWNER. Any person, corporation, partnership, or any other entity owning,
keeping, or harboring a dog within the city. This subchapter shall not apply to
law enforcement who have jurisdiction in the city and are handling canines for
law enforcement purposes.
   RESTRAINT. Confinement of a dog to the owner's property, or, when off the
owner's property, to be under control by leash. Hunting dogs, when accompanied
by their owner on a hunt, are considered to be under reasonable RESTRAINT, as
long as the animal has affixed to it a collar with a hunting tag and a current
rabies vaccination tag. Under this circumstance, the owner will not be subject
to a fine unless the animal has caused damage.
   STATE RABIES RULES AND REGULATIONS. A set of guidelines which were adopted
by the State Board of Health on January 28, 1971, the amendments thereto which
were adopted by the same board on July 24, 1975, and such other amendments as
may hereafter be adopted.
   STRAY. Any dog which does not have affixed to it a collar with a current
rabies vaccination tag attached.
   VACCINATION. The injection of an anti-rabies vaccine in the manner, and
frequency, set forth in the State Rabies Control Act, being A.C. 20-19-301,
administered by a licensed veterinarian.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.01) (Ord. 2013-3, passed - -; Ord. 2023-01, passed 2-14-
2023)
§ 91.02 CARE.
   (A)   No owner shall fail to provide his or her dog(s) with sufficient
wholesome, and nutritious, food, water in sufficient quantities, proper air,
shelter space, and protection from the weather, veterinary care when needed to
prevent suffering, and humane care and treatment, as provided by state law.
   (B)   No person shall beat, cruelly ill-treat, torment, overload, overwork,
or otherwise abuse a dog or cause, instigate, or permit any dogfight, or other
combat between animals, or between animals and humans, as provided by state
law.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.02) (Ord. 2013-3, passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 VACCINATION; HARNESS OR COLLAR.
   All dogs to which this subchapter applies shall:
   (A)   Be vaccinated against rabies by a regularly-licensed veterinary
surgeon; and
   (B)   Have a collar, or harness, to which is affixed a current rabies
vaccination tag, which attests to the rabies vaccination of the dog wearing it.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.03) (Ord. 2013-3, passed - -)
§ 91.04 LICENSE FEE.
   Any person owning, maintaining, or operating commercial kennels, or dog
breeding establishments, where dogs are kept confined on the premises of such
kennels, or establishments, or on a leash, shall pay an annual license fee of
$15, said fee to be paid to the designee of the city on April 30 of each year,
or within 30 days after the commencement of operation of such commercial
kennel, or breeding establishment.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.04) (Ord. 2013-3, passed - -)
§ 91.05 CONFINEMENT OF DOGS.
   No owner of a dog, whether vaccinated or unvaccinated, licensed or
unlicensed, shallow allow such dog, or dogs, to run at large within the
corporate limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.05) (Ord. 2013-3, passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 INCIDENTS OF DOG BITES TO HUMANS.
   As required by the State Rabies Control Act, being A.C. 20-19-301, all
incidents of persons being bitten by dogs shall immediately be reported to the
County Health Department.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.06) (Ord. 2013-3, passed - -)
§ 91.07 PREVENTION OF SPREAD OF RABIES.
   In the event of the prevalence of rabies to such an extent as, in the
discretion of the Mayor, makes such action advisable, the Mayor may, by
proclamation, require that all dogs owned, kept, or harbored, in the city be
kept confined upon the premises of the owners of such dogs for such time as may
be designated in such proclamation, and such proclamation to take effect upon
publication thereof by the Mayor in a newspaper having a general bona fide
circulation in the city.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.08) (Ord. 2013-3, passed - -)
§ 91.08 BARKING OF DOGS.
   No owner shall keep any dog which by loud, frequent, or habitual barking,
howling, or yelping shall annoy, or disturb, any neighborhood.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.09) (Ord. 2013-3, passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.09 RELEASE OF ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly release any animal within
the corporate limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.10) (Ord. 2013-3, passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating, or aiding in, or abetting the violation of any
provision of this subchapter, or counterfeiting, or forging, any certificate,
permit, or tag, or making any misrepresentation in any matter prescribed
herein, or resisting, obstructing, or impeding any authorized city official, or
who removes a tag from a dog for purposes of destroying, or concealing, its
identity, is guilty of a misdemeanor offense.
   (B)   Other than the violation set forth in §
91.09, for a first or second offense, a person shall be fined not less than
$100, nor more than $500, plus restitution owed. For a third, and subsequent,
offense, a person shall be fined not less than $500, and not more than $1,000,
except that if an act prohibited herein, or rendered unlawful is, in its
nature, continuous in respect to time, the fine for allowing continuance
thereof in violation of the subchapter shall not exceed $500 for each day that
the same is unlawfully continued, plus restitution owed.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.11)
   (C)   Any person in violation of §
91.09 shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor, and may be subject to
a fine of no less than $500, and no more than $1,000.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.10)
(Ord. 2013-3, passed - -)
CHAPTER 92: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
92.01   Park hours
   
92.02   Littering prohibited
   
92.03   Alcoholic beverages prohibited
   
92.04   Removal of natural resources prohibited
   
92.05   Motorized vehicles prohibited
   
92.06   Fire generally prohibited
   
92.07   Unleashed pets prohibited
   
92.08   Facility reservations
   
92.09   Vendor, solicitor permits
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 PARK HOURS.
   The hours of operation for the city’s parks and recreational facilities are
6:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m. No person shall be permitted to enter a city park, or
recreational facility, between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. unless
that person has obtain prior written permission from the city. Such permission
may be obtained by following the same procedures for reserving city parks, or
recreational facilities.
(Prior Code, § 12.04.01) (Ord. 2013-12, passed - -)
§ 92.02 LITTERING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall leave, or dispose of, trash or other waste in the city’s
parks, or recreational facilitates, except as permitted, and provided, in
designated receptacles.
(Prior Code, § 12.04.02) (Ord. 2013-12, passed - -)
§ 92.03 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall bring, or possess, alcoholic beverages in the city’s parks,
or recreational facilities.
(Prior Code, § 12.04.03) (Ord. 2013-12, passed - -)
§ 92.04 REMOVAL OF NATURAL RESOURCES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall remove any rocks, plants, minerals, or wildlife from the
city’s parks, or recreational facilities.
(Prior Code, § 12.04.04) (Ord. 2013-12, passed - -)
§ 92.05 MOTORIZED VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall operate, or park, a motorized vehicle in the city’s parks,
or recreational facilities, except on designated pathways, roadways, and
parking areas.
(Prior Code, § 12.04.05) (Ord. 2013-12, passed - -)
§ 92.06 FIRES GENERALLY PROHIBITED.
   No person shall make, or otherwise cause, a fire in the city’s parks, or
recreational facilities, except in designated fire pits or grilling equipment.
(Prior Code, § 12.04.06) (Ord. 2013-12, passed - -)
§ 92.07 UNLEASHED PETS PROHIBITED.
   Pets are generally allowed in the city’s parks, and recreational facilities;
however, all pets must be accompanied by a responsible person, and must be kept
on a leash at all times. The owners, or persons, accompanying a pet must
cleanup after their pets.
(Prior Code, § 12.04.07) (Ord. 2013-12, passed - -)
§ 92.08 FACILITY RESERVATIONS.
   (A)   The city’s parks and recreation facilities may be reserved for special
occasions by the citizens, or residents, of the city.
   (B)   Any person desiring a reservation must send a written request to the
city at least two weeks in advance of the proposed reservation date.
   (C)   The city will respond, in writing, within one week of receiving the
reservation request.
(Prior Code, § 12.04.08) (Ord. 2013-12, passed - -)
§ 92.09 VENDOR, SOLICITOR PERMITS.
   No person shall sell goods, or otherwise solicit, for commercial purposes
within the city’s parks or recreational facilities without prior written
permission from the city. Such permission may be obtained by following the same
procedures for reserving municipal parks.
(Prior Code, § 12.04.09) (Ord. 2013-12, passed - -)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates a provision, or terms, of this chapter shall be
guilty of a criminal violation. Each violation of this chapter shall constitute
a separate violation of this chapter, and shall be punishable by a fine of up
to $100, in addition to the cost to repair any damages caused to the city’s
parks or recreational facilities.
(Prior Code, § 12.04.10) (Ord. 2013-12, passed - -)
CHAPTER 93: EQUAL OPPORTUNITY HOUSING
Section
   
93.01   Policy
   
93.02   Definitions
   
93.03   Unlawful practice
   
93.04   Discrimination in sale, rental of housing
   
93.05   Discrimination in financing of housing
   
93.06   Discrimination in provision of brokerage
   
93.07   Exemption
   
93.08   Administration
   
93.09   Education, conciliation
   
93.10   Enforcement
   
93.11   Investigations; subpoenas, giving of evidence
   
93.12   Enforcement of private persons
   
93.13   Interference, coercion, intimidation
   
93.14   Intimidation in fair cases
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 POLICY.
   It is the policy of the city to provide, within constitutional limitations,
for fair housing throughout its jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 15.16.01) (Ord. 2013-10, passed - -)
§ 93.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
93.04,
93.05, or
93.06.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or portion thereof which is occupied as,
or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one, or more,
families, and any vacant land which is offered for sale, or lease for the
construction, or location, thereon of any such building, structure, or portion
thereof.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual.
   PERSON. Includes one, or more, individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees
in bankruptcy, receivers, and fiduciaries.
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let, and otherwise to grant for
a consideration, the right to occupy premises owned by the occupant.
(Prior Code, § 15.16.02) (Ord. 2013-10, passed - -)
§ 93.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below, and §
93.07, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale, or rental, of
housing set forth in §
93.04 shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings, except as exempted by division (B) below;
   (B)   Nothing in §
93.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold, or rented, by an owner; provided,
that such private individual owner does not own more than three such single-
family houses at any one time; provided further, that in the case of the sale
of any such single-family house by a private individual owner not residing in
such house at the time of such sale, or who was not the most recent resident of
such house prior to such sale, the exemption granted by this division (B) shall
apply only with respect to one such sale within any 24-month period; provided,
further, that such bona fide private individual owner does not own any interest
in, nor is there owned, or reserved, on his or her behalf, under any express,
or voluntary, agreement, title to, or any right to, all, or a portion, of the
proceeds from the sale, or rental, of more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided, further, that the sale, or rental, of any such
single-family house shall be excepted from the application of this chapter only
if such house is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales, or rental,
facilities, or the sales, or rental, services of any real estate broker, agent,
or salesman, or of such facilities, or services, of any person in the business
of selling, or renting, dwellings, or of any employee, or agent, of any such
broker, agent, salesperson, or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting, or mailing, after notice of
any advertisement, or written notice, in violation of §
93.04(C) of this chapter, but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use
of attorneys, escrow agents, abstractors, title companies, and other such
professional assistance as necessary to perfect, or transfer, the title.
      (2)   Rooms, or units, in dwellings containing living quarters occupied,
or intended to be occupied, by no more than four families living independently
of each other, if the owner actually maintains, and occupies, one of such
living quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B) above, a person shall be deemed to be
in the business of selling, or renting, dwellings if:
      (1)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three, or more, transactions involving the sale, or rental, of any
dwelling, or any interest therein;
      (2)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
agent, other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in
providing sales, or rental, facilities, or sales, or rental, services in two,
or more, transactions involving the sale, or rental, of any dwelling, or any
interest therein; or
      (3)   He or she is the owner of any dwelling designed, or intended, for
occupancy by, or occupied by, five, or more, families.
(Prior Code, § 15.16.03) (Ord. 2013-10, passed - -) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 DISCRIMINATION IN SALE, RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
93.03, and except as exempted by §§
93.03(B) and
93.07, it is unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell, or rent, after the making of a bona fide offer, or
to refuse to negotiate for the sale, or rental, of, or otherwise make
unavailable, or deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color,
religion, or national origin;
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale, or rental, of a dwelling, or in the provision of services,
or facilities, in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, or
national origin;
   (C)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or
published, any notice, statement, or advertisement, with respect to the sale,
or rental, of a dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or
discrimination based on race, color, religion, or national origin, or an
intention to make any such preference, limitation, or discrimination;
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, or
national origin that any dwelling is not available for inspection, sale, or
rental when such dwelling is in fact so available; and/or
   (E)   For profit, to induce, or attempt to induce, any person to sell, or
rent, any dwelling by representations regarding the entry, or prospective
entry, into the neighborhood of a person, or persons, of a particular race,
color, religion, or national origin.
(Prior Code, § 15.16.04) (Ord. 2013-10, passed - -) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 DISCRIMINATION IN FINANCING OF HOUSING.
   It shall be unlawful for any bank, building and loan association, insurance
company, or other corporation, association, firm, or enterprise whose business
consists in whole, or in part, in the making of commercial real estate loans,
to deny a loan, or other financial assistance, to a person applying therefor
for the purpose of purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling, or to discriminate against him or her in the fixing of
the amount, interest rate, duration, or other terms or conditions of such loan,
or other financial assistance, because of the race, color, religion, or
national origin of such person, or of any person associated with him or her in
connection with such loan or other financial assistance, or the purposes of
such loan or other financial assistance, or of the present, or prospective,
owners, lessees, tenants, or occupants of the dwelling, or dwellings, in
relation to which such loan, or other financial assistance, is to be made or
given; provided, that nothing contained in this section shall impair the scope,
or effectiveness, of the exception contained in §
93.03(B).
(Prior Code, § 15.16.05) (Ord. 2013-10, passed - -) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 DISCRIMINATION IN PROVISION OF BROKERAGE.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to, or membership or
participation in, any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers
organization, or other service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling, or renting, dwellings, or to discriminate against him or
her in the terms, or conditions, of such access, membership, or participation,
on account of race, color, religion, or national origin.
(Prior Code, § 15.16.06) (Ord. 2013-10, passed - -) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.07 EXEMPTION.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution, or organization,
operated, supervised, or controlled by, or in conjunction with, a religious
organization, association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental, or
occupancy of dwellings which it owns, or operates, for other than a commercial
purpose to persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such
persons, unless membership in such religion is restricted on account of race,
color, or national origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a
private club not in fact open to the public, which, as an incident to its
primary purpose, or purposes, provides lodgings which it owns, or operates, for
other than a commercial purpose, from limiting the rental, or occupancy, of
such lodgings to its members, or from giving preference to its members.
(Prior Code, § 15.16.07) (Ord. 2013-10, passed - -)
§ 93.08 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The authority, and responsibility, for administering this chapter
shall be in the Chief Executive Officer of the city.
   (B)   The Chief Executive Officer may delegate any of these functions,
duties, and powers to employees, or agents, of the city, or to boards of such
employees, including functions, duties, and powers with respect to
investigating, conciliating, hearing, determining, ordering, certifying,
reporting, or otherwise acting as to any work, business, or matter under this
chapter. The Chief Executive Officer shall, by rule, prescribe such rights of
appeal from the decisions of his or her hearing examiners to other hearing
examiners, or to other officers in the city, to boards of officers, or to
himself or herself, as shall be appropriate, and in accordance, with law.
   (C)   All executive departments, and agencies, shall administer their
programs, and activities, relating to housing and urban development in a manner
affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter, and shall cooperate with
the Chief Executive Officer to further such purposes.
(Prior Code, § 15.16.08) (Ord. 2013-10, passed - -)
§ 93.09 EDUCATION, CONCILIATION.
   Immediately after the enactment of this chapter, the Chief Executive Officer
shall commence such educational, and conciliatory, activities as will further
the purposes of this chapter. He or she shall call conferences of persons in
the housing industry, and other interested parties, to acquaint them with the
provisions of this chapter, and his or her suggested means of implementing it,
and shall endeavor with their advice to work out programs of voluntary
compliance, and of enforcement.
(Prior Code, § 15.16.09) (Ord. 2013-10, passed - -)
§ 93.10 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any person who claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing
practice, or who believes that he or she will be irrevocably injured by a
discriminatory housing practice that is about to occur (hereafter “person
aggrieved”), may file a complaint with the Chief Executive Officer. Complaints
shall be in writing, and shall contain such information, and be in such form,
as the Chief Executive Officer requires. Upon receipt of such a complaint, the
Chief Executive Officer shall furnish a copy of the same to the person, or
persons, who allegedly committed, or is/was about to commit the alleged
discriminatory housing practice.
      (1)   Within 30 days after receiving a complaint, or within 30 days after
the expiration of any period of reference under division (C) below, the Chief
Executive Officer shall investigate the complaint, and give notice, in writing,
to the person aggrieved whether he or she intends to resolve it.
      (2)   If the Chief Executive Officer decides to resolve the complaints,
he or she shall proceed to try to eliminate, or correct, the alleged
discriminatory housing practice by informal methods of conference,
conciliation, and persuasion.
      (3)   Nothing said, or done, in the course of such informal endeavors may
be made public, or used as evidence in a subsequent proceeding under this
chapter without the written consent of the persons concerned.
   (B)   A complaint under division (A) above shall be filed within 180 days
after the alleged discriminatory housing practice occurred. Complaints shall be
in writing, and shall state the facts upon which the allegations of a
discriminatory housing practice are based. Complaints may be reasonably, and
fairly, amended at any time. A respondent may file an answer to the complaint
against him or her, and with the leave of the Chief Executive Officer, which
shall be granted whenever it would be reasonable and fair to do so, may amend
his or her answer at any time. Both complaints and answers shall be verified.
   (C)   If, within 30 days after a complaint is filed with the Chief Executive
Officer, he or she has been unable to obtain voluntary compliance with this
chapter, the person aggrieved may, within 30 days thereafter, file a complaint
with the Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development. The
Chief Executive Officer will assist in filing.
   (D)   If the Chief Executive Officer has been unable to obtain voluntary
compliance within 30 days of the complaint, the person aggrieved may, within 30
days hereafter commence a civil action, in any appropriate court, against the
respondent named in the complaint, to enforce the rights granted, or protected,
by this chapter, insofar as such rights relate to the subject of the complaint.
If the court finds that a discriminatory housing practice has occurred, or is
about to occur, the court may enjoin the respondent from engaging in such
practice, or order such affirmative action as may be appropriate.
   (E)   In proceedings brought pursuant to this section, the burden of proof
shall be on the complainant.
   (F)   Whenever an action filed by an individual shall come to trial, the
Chief Executive Officer shall immediately terminate all efforts to obtain
voluntary compliance.
(Prior Code, § 15.16.10) (Ord. 2013-10, passed - -)
§ 93.11 INVESTIGATIONS; SUBPOENAS, GIVING OF EVIDENCE.
   (A)   In conducting an investigation, the Chief Executive Officer shall have
access, at all reasonable times, to premises, records, documents, individuals,
and other evidence, or possible sources of evidence, and may examine, record,
and copy such materials, and take, and record, the testimony, or statements, of
such persons as are reasonably necessary for the furtherance of the
investigation; provided, however, that the Chief Executive Officer first
complies with the provisions of the Fourth Amendment relating to unreasonable
searches and seizures. The Chief Executive Officer may issue subpoenas to
compel his or her access to, or the production of, such materials, or the
appearance of such persons, and may issue interrogatories to a respondent, to
the same extent and subject to the same limitations as would apply if the
subpoenas, or interrogatories, were issued, or served, in aid of a civil action
in the United States District Court for the district in which the investigation
is taking place. The Chief Executive Officer may administer oaths.
   (B)   Upon written application to the Chief Executive Officer, a respondent
shall be entitled to the issuance of a reasonable number of subpoenas by, and
in the name of, the Chief Executive Officer to the same extent, and subject to
the same limitations as subpoenas issued by the Chief Executive Officer himself
or herself. Subpoenas issued at the request of a respondent shall show, on
their face, the name and address of such respondent, and shall state that they
were issued at his or her request.
   (C)   Witnesses summoned by subpoena of the Chief Executive Officer shall be
entitled to the same witness and mileage fees as are witnesses in proceedings
in United States district courts. Fees payable to a witness summoned by a
subpoena issued at the request of a respondent shall be paid by him or her.
   (D)   Within five days after service of a subpoena upon any person, such
person may petition the Chief Executive Officer to revoke, or modify, the
subpoena. The Chief Executive Officer shall grant the petition if he or she
finds that the subpoena requires appearance, or attendance, at an unreasonable
time or place, that it requires production of evidence which does not relate to
any matter under investigation, that it does not describe with sufficient
particularity the evidence to be produced, that compliance would be unduly
onerous, or for other good reason.
   (E)   In case of contumacy or refusal to obey a subpoena, the Chief
Executive Officer, or person at whose request it was issued, may petition for
enforcement in the District, or State, Court for the district in which the
person to whom the subpoena was addressed resides, was served, and the like.
   (F)   The grantee’s attorney shall conduct all litigation in which the Chief
Executive Officer participates as a party, or as amicus, pursuant to this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 15.16.11) (Ord. 2013-10, passed - -)
§ 93.12 ENFORCEMENT OF PRIVATE PERSONS.
   (A)   The rights granted by §§
93.03,
93.04,
93.05, and
93.06 may be enforced by civil actions in state, or local, courts of general
jurisdiction. A civil action shall be commenced within 180 days after the
alleged discriminatory housing practice occurred; provided, however, that the
court shall continue such civil case brought pursuant to this section, or §
93.10(D), from time to time before bringing it to trial if the court believes
that the conciliation efforts of the Chief Executive Officer are likely to
result in satisfactory settlement of the discriminatory housing practice
complained of in the complaint made to the Chief Executive Officer, and which
practice forms the basis for the action in court; and provided, however, that
any sale, encumbrance, or rental consummated prior to the issuance of any court
order issued under the authority of this chapter, and involving a bona fide
purchaser, encumbrance, or tenant without actual notice of the existence of the
filing of a complaint, or civil action under the provisions of this chapter,
shall not be affected.
   (B)   The court may grant as relief, as it deems appropriate, any permanent
or temporary injunction, temporary restraining order, or other order, and may
award to the plaintiff actual damages, and not more than $1,000 punitive
damages, together with court costs and reasonable attorney fees in the case of
a prevailing plaintiff; provided, that the said plaintiff, in the opinion of
the court, is not financially able to assume said attorney’s fees.
(Prior Code, § 15.16.12) (Ord. 2013-10, passed - -)
§ 93.13 INTERFERENCE, COERCION, INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise, or enjoyment of, or on account of, his or her having
exercised, or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided, or encouraged,
any other person in the exercise, or enjoyment, of any right granted, or
protected, by §§
93.03,
93.04,
93.05, and
93.06. This section may be enforced by appropriate civil action.
(Prior Code, § 15.16.13) (Ord. 2013-10, passed - -) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.14 INTIMIDATION IN FAIR CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under color of law, by force, or threat of
force, willfully injures, intimidates, or interferes with, or attempts to
injure, intimidate, or interfere with, shall be guilty of a chapter violation:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, or national
origin, and because he or she is, or has been, selling, purchasing, renting,
financing, occupying, or contracting, or negotiating for the sale, purchase,
rental, financing, or occupation of any dwelling, or applying for, or
participating in, any service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings;
   (B)   Any person because he or she is, or has been, or in order to
intimidate such person, or any other person, or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion or national origin, in any of the activities, services, organizations,
or facilities described in division (A) above; or
       (2)   Affording another person, or class of persons, opportunity, or
protection, so to participate.
   (C)   Any citizen because he or she is, or has been, or in order to
discourage such citizen, or any other citizen, from lawfully aiding, or
encouraging, other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of
race, color, religion, or national origin, in any of the activities, services,
organizations or facilities described in division (A) above, or participating
lawfully in speech, or peaceful assembly, opposing any denial of the
opportunity to so participate.
(Prior Code, § 15.16.15) (Ord. 2013-10, passed - -)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever shall violate any provision of this chapter shall be fined not
more than $1,000, or imprisoned not more than one year, or both; and if bodily
injury results, shall be fined not more than $10,000, or imprisoned not more
than ten years, or both; and if death results, shall be subject to imprisonment
for any term of years, or for life.
(Prior Code, § 15.16.15)
   (B)   Any person who willfully fails, or neglects, as stated in §
93.11, to attend and testify, or to answer any lawful inquiry, or to produce
records, documents, or other evidence, if in his or her power to do so, in
obedience to the subpoena, or lawful order, of the Chief Executive Officer
shall be fined not more than $1,000, or imprisoned not more than one year, or
both. Any person who, with intent thereby to mislead the Chief Executive
Officer, shall make, or cause to be made, any false entry or statement of fact
in any report, account, record, or other document submitted to the Chief
Executive Officer pursuant to his or her subpoena, or other order, or shall
willfully neglect, or fail, to make, or cause to be made, full, true, and
correct entries in such reports, accounts, records, or other documents, or
shall willfully mutilate, alter, or by any other means falsify any documentary
evidence, shall be fined not more than $1,000, or imprisoned not more than one
year, or both.
(Prior Code, § 15.16.11)
(Ord. 2013-10, passed - -)
CHAPTER 94: FIREWORKS
Section
   
94.01   Necessity of safety provisions
   
94.02   Definition
   
94.03   Restricted sale
   
94.04   Prohibited and unsafe uses
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 NECESSITY OF SAFETY PROVISIONS.
   It is hereby found and determined that the city does not currently have
sufficient laws and regulations regarding the use and sale of fireworks within
the corporate limits of the city to provide adequate protection to the citizens
of the city. Therefore, an emergency is declared to exist, and this chapter
being immediately necessary for the preservation and protection of the public
peace, health, safety and welfare of the city and its citizens, became
effective on the date of its passage and approval by the Mayor. It shall
hereafter be lawful for any person to offer fireworks for sale at retail or
wholesale within the corporate limits of the city only under the terms and
regulations set out in this chapter.
(Ord. 2021-33, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 94.02 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIREWORKS. Any explosive device using gunpowder, including, but not limited
to, firecrackers, sparklers, foundations, bottle rockets, cherry bombs, and any
other exploding fireworks.
(Ord. 2021-33, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 94.03 RESTRICTED SALE.
   (A)   Any person, individual, firm, corporation, or other business entity
shall be authorized to sell fireworks at wholesale or retail within the
corporate limits of the city upon the following terms and conditions.
      (1)   Any entity shall make application to the Mayor, or authorized
personnel of the city, for the issuance of a permit to sell said fireworks,
prior to the beginning of the authorized period for sale of fireworks as
defined in state statutes.
         (a)   A person may pick up a permit application at City Hall.
         (b)   The permit shall not be issued unless the applicant has a valid
state permit to sell fireworks issued and approved by the State Police under
state law, being A.C. §§ 20-22-707, 20-22-708, and 20-22-710.
      (2)   Each application shall require a fee in the amount of $500, payable
prior to the issuance of said permit. Said application fee shall be payable for
each distinct location within the corporate limits of the city. Upon compliance
with the conditions hereinabove, the Mayor, or authorized personnel, shall
issue said permit and the sale of fireworks will be authorized.
      (3)   The sale of fireworks shall occur only in a commercially-zoned area
and recognize regulated setbacks from the property lines.
      (4)   The hours of operation for the fireworks stands within the city
shall be from 9:00 a.m. until 10:00 p.m., from June 20 through July 6, except
July 3 and 4 until the hour of 11:00 p.m. under A.C. §§ 20-22-704 and 20-22-
711.
      (5)   Prior to the opening of the fireworks sale facility, an on-site
inspection by the Fire Department must be conducted of the site.
      (6)   All fireworks stands shall have at least one five-pound ABC fire
extinguisher, or as many as the Fire Department inspectors require.
      (7)   All workers selling, stocking, or handling any fireworks shall be
at least 16 years of age. It shall be unlawful to offer for retail sale or sell
any fireworks to children under the age of 12, or to any person known to be
intoxicated or irresponsible under A.C. § 20-22-712.
      (8)   All grass surrounding the fireworks stand area shall be closely
trimmed. Trash and any other combustible materials shall be removed from the
fireworks stand area at all times.
      (9)   In cases of violation of any of the above-mentioned conditions, or
if the Mayor or Fire Chief, or their representatives, deem the fireworks stand
to be a danger to the health and safety of the community, the Mayor and/or Fire
Chief may exercise the right to close the stand temporarily until the
conditions have been complied with, or close the stand permanently, at their
discretion.
   (B)   Any sale, whether wholesale or retail, without possession of said
permit, which shall be prominently displayed at the sale location, shall be a
violation of this section. Each day for which any violation of this section
continues shall be deemed as a separate offense and punished accordingly.
(Ord. 2021-33, passed 9-27-2021) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 PROHIBITED AND UNSAFE USES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, or other
business entity, or individuals to use or discharge fireworks with the city,
except on the dates of June 30 through July 6 between the hours of 9:00 a.m.
and 10:00 p.m., except July 3 and 4 until the hour of 11:00 p.m., and at no
other time unless authorized herein. Fireworks which are permitted for
discharge include those that are permitted by A.C. §§ 20-22-701 et seq. and
other applicable state or federal laws.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use or discharge fireworks
within the city except on the person’s own property or with consent of the
property owner, and except while under competent or appropriate supervision.
   (C)   Pursuant to the State Fire Prevention Code (as amended and updated)
and under applicable state law including A.C. §§ 20-22-701 et seq., public
displays, as defined and set forth in the state law, shall be permitted only as
set forth herein. ORGANIZED PRIVATE DISPLAYS, which, for the purposes of this
chapter, are defined to be organized or spontaneous private fireworks displays
that are of a size and nature in excess of the typical discharge or use of
fireworks for personal, single family, or small gathering displays, and which
may, in the sole discretion of the Mayor or the Mayor’s designee, be of a
sufficient size and nature that the public health, safety, and welfare requires
that such displays be regulated as public displays, shall also be permitted as
set forth herein.
      (1)   Such public displays (or organized private displays deemed to be
public displays) shall only be permitted if written notification of the public
display is sent to the Mayor, or the Mayor’s designee, at least one week prior
to the public display, and such public display receives the approval of the
Mayor, or the Mayor’s designee, upon review by the appropriate law enforcement
and public safety authorities.
      (2)   Such public displays of fireworks must conform with applicable
state and federal requirements, and, when necessary, must have a validly-issued
permit. It shall be the duty of any person who wishes to have a public display
(or an organized private display) to be apprised of these regulations and to be
in communication with the Mayor, or the Mayor’s designee, with regard to any
requirements, or potential requirements, herein.
   (D)   The Mayor, or the Mayor’s designee, shall be authorized to declare an
emergency and prohibit all use of fireworks upon a determination that such use
would create a fire hazard in dry weather conditions.
(Ord. 2021-33, passed 9-27-2021) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor violation of city ordinances and may be punished by a fine not to
exceed $500, or double this sum for each repetition of such offense or
violation, in addition to all other court costs and fees.
(Ord. 2021-33, passed 9-27-2021)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
111.   SOLICITORS AND PEDDLERS
      
112.   AMUSEMENT AND LEISURE
      
113.   PERSONAL SALES
      
114.   RED DIRT MINING FACILITIES
      
115.   CAR DEALERS AND GARAGES
      
116.   BUSINESS LICENSING
CHAPTER 110: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
110.01   State laws
   
110.02   License
   
110.03   Hours of sale
   
110.04   Sale restrictions
§ 110.01 STATE LAWS.
   The city hereby recognizes that the sale of alcohol, beer, and wine, whether
wholesale, retail, or by the drink, is thoroughly regulated by the state, and
nothing in this chapter shall contradict the laws of the state. The definitions
of the terms of this chapter shall be consistent with those found in title
three (A.C. §§ 3-1-101 et seq.) of the most current state code.
(Prior Code, § 7.32.01) (Ord. 2013-5, passed - -)
§ 110.02 LICENSE.
   (A)   The sale of alcohol, beer, and wine in the city is declared a
privilege, and any seller of alcohol, beer, or wine shall obtain a privilege
license, or business permit, and shall renew it annually, in accordance with
city ordinances.
   (B)   Fees shall be as follows:
      (1)   Wholesaler’s license: $750;
      (2)   Off-premises retail/consumption: $500; and
      (3)   On-premises retail/consumption: $500.
(Prior Code, § 7.32.02) (Ord. 2016-04, passed 2-9-2016)
§ 110.03 HOURS OF SALE.
   Retailers may sell liquor, beer, and wine for off-premises consumption only
between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m. on Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays,
and Thursdays, and between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 12:00 a.m. on Fridays and
Saturdays. Sales of liquor, beer, and wine for off-premises consumption are
prohibited on Sundays and Christmas day.
(Prior Code, § 7.32.03) (Ord. 2014-3, passed - -)
§ 110.04 SALE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Off-premises consumption. As set forth in state law, no store selling
liquor for off-premises consumption may be located closer than 1,000 feet to a
church or schoolhouse, as defined by applicable state law.
(Prior Code, § 7.32.04)
   (B)   On-premises consumption.
      (1)   Pursuant to the terms of A.C. § 3-9-203, the sales, and
consumption, of alcoholic beverages for on-premises consumption is hereby
authorized for establishments within the city.
      (2)   The sales, and on-premises consumption, shall be conducted in
compliance with all applicable state statutes, and all applicable regulations
of the Alcoholic Beverage Control Division of the State Department of Finance
and Administration.
(Ord. 2013-5, passed - -; Ord. 2016-06, passed 4-12-2016)
CHAPTER 111: TRANSIENT MERCHANTS, PEDDLERS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Obtaining a “no soliciting/no peddling” decal
   
111.03   Principal permit
   
111.04   Permit for peddlers/solicitors
   
111.05   Prohibition
   
111.06   Exemptions
   
111.07   Revocation of permit
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases and their derivations, when used in
this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the section, except
where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
   CHARITABLE ACTIVITY. Any activity represented to be carried on for
unselfish, civic or humanitarian motives or for the benefit of others and not
for private gain and means, and includes patriotic, philanthropic, social
service, health, welfare, benevolent, educational, civic, cultural or
fraternal.
   CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION. A non-profit organization holding a tax exemption
certificate from the Internal Revenue Service pursuant to § 501 et seq., and
any amendments thereto.
   CITY. City of Cave Springs, Arkansas.
   NO SOLICITING/NO PEDDLING DECAL. A decal that, by posting at the front of a
private residence provides notice that soliciting or peddling at this address
is prohibited by city ordinance.
   NO SOLICITING/NO PEDDLING LIST. An official list of people who have
registered with the city, to provide written notice that soliciting or peddling
at listed addresses is prohibited by city ordinance.
   PEDDLER. Any person who goes upon the premises of any private residence in
the city, not having been invited by the occupant thereof, carrying or
transporting goods, wares, merchandise or personal property of any nature and
offering the same for sale.
   PEDDLING. All activities ordinarily performed by a peddler as indicated in
the previous defined term.
   POLITICAL PURPOSE. Any form of communication related to a political issue, a
particular candidate to a position or non-partisan office, a political
committee, or to a political party.
   PRINCIPAL. The person or other legal entity whose goods, merchandise,
personal property or services are being peddled or solicited.
   RELIGIOUS PURPOSE. The use of money or property for the support of a church,
religious society or other religious sect, group, or order.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who goes upon the premises of any private residence in
the city, not having been invited by the occupant thereof, for the purpose of
taking or intending to schedule appointments or take orders for the sale of
goods, wares, merchandise or other personal property of any nature for future
delivery, or for services to be performed in the future.
   SOLICITATION OR SOLICITING. All activities ordinarily performed by a
solicitor as indicated in the previous defined term.
(Prior Code, § 7.40.01) (Ord. 2023-05, passed 3-28-2023)
§ 111.02 OBTAINING A “NO SOLICITING/NO PEDDLING” DECAL.
   The City Clerk shall provide any resident of the city a decal which reads,
"no soliciting/no peddling." This decal may be posted at the front of any
private residence in the city, and by posting said notification, any solicitor
or peddler has notice that soliciting or peddling at this address is prohibited
by city ordinance. The City Clerk shall also have a list of residents’
addresses that have registered to be on the "no soliciting/no peddling list"
which provides written notice that soliciting or peddling at listed addresses
is prohibited by city ordinance.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 3-28-2023)
§ 111.03 PRINCIPAL PERMIT.
   No peddling or solicitation shall be conducted within the city without a
principal permit being issued. The cost for the principal to obtain a
solicitor/peddler's permit is $20.00, and shall be paid to the City Clerk
before any peddling or soliciting is conducted within the city. The permit
shall expire on December 31 in the year the permit is issued. In addition to
the principal's permit, the principal must also obtain a business license and
comply with the city's business license requirements under
Chapter 116: Business Regulations of this code. To obtain a permit and business
license, a representative of the principal shall provide a written, signed
application stating:
   (A)   The name, address, telephone number, type of organization, and contact
person for the principal applicant;
   (B)   The nature of the products or services involved;
   (C)   The proposed method of operation in the city;
   (D)   A list of persons who will peddle or solicit in the city on behalf of
the principal in the city.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 3-28-2023)
§ 111.04 PERMIT FOR PEDDLERS/SOLICITORS.
   In addition to the principal permit, each peddler or solicitor acting for
the principal shall also obtain a permit from the City Clerk before peddling or
soliciting within the city. The cost to obtain a peddler/solicitor permit is
$35.00. In applying for the permit, each applicant shall provide the following
to the City Clerk:
   (A)   The name of the principal applicant for whom they are going to act as
a peddler or solicitor;
   (B)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person who is going to
act as a peddler or solicitor, and in addition, they must also provide photo
identification;
   (C)   A signed statement under oath that the person applying to be a
peddler/solicitor has not been convicted of any felonies or any misdemeanors
involving theft, sexual offenses, or drug offenses;
   (D)   A criminal background check from the Arkansas State Police which shows
that the peddler or solicitor has not been convicted of any felonies, or any
misdemeanors involving theft, sexual offenses, or drug offenses. No person
shall be issued a permit as a peddler or solicitor that has been convicted of
any of the offenses set out herein.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 3-28-2023)
§ 111.05 PROHIBITION.
   It is unlawful for any solicitor or peddler to:
   (A)   Peddle or solicit within the city without having a copy of this
section and a copy of the no knock list on their person, as well as a copy of
their permit issued by the City Clerk, as well as photo identification visible,
which is provided by the principal, identifying the person peddling or
soliciting;
   (B)   Enter upon any private residence, knock on a door, ring the doorbell,
or otherwise attempt to gain admittance at the residence when the premises has
posted at the entry of the residence a decal or sign bearing the words, "no
soliciting/no peddling," "no peddlers," "no solicitors," "no trespassing," or
other words of similar import;
   (C)   Conduct the activities of peddler or solicitor and knock on a door,
ring the doorbell, or otherwise attempt to gain admittance at the residence
between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m. during regular standard time, and
between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m. during daylight savings time;
   (D)   Remain at the private residence when requested to leave, or to
otherwise conduct business in a manner which a reasonable person would find
obscene, threatening, intimidating or abusive;
   (E)   Make any false or misleading statements about the product or service
being sold, including untrue statements of endorsement;
   (F)   Claim to have the endorsement of the city solely based on the city
having issued a permit to that person;
   (G)   Fail to disclose his or her name and the name of the principal who he
represents at the outset of the initial conversation; and
   (H)   Fail to leave the premises or residence after having been asked by the
owner or occupant thereof to do so.
(Prior Code, § 7.40.07) (Ord. 2023-05, passed 3-28-2023) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.06 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following shall be exempt to all provisions of this section:
   (A)   Officers or employees of the city, county, state, or federal
government, or any subdivision thereof when on official business; and
   (B)   Charitable activities on behalf of a charitable organization, or
activities related to a religious purpose or political purpose.
   (C)   The activities of investigation, security, and alarm systems
businesses, which are exclusively regulated by the state and the State Police,
as provided in A.C. § 17-40-106, as amended, and other such activities exempt
from regulation by state, or federal, law.
(Prior Code, § 7.40.08) (Ord. 2023-05, passed 3-28-2023) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.07 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   Any permit issued pursuant to the provisions of this section may be
suspended or revoked for good cause by the City Council. Good cause for such
suspension or revocation shall include any violation of this section, or any
other reasons for suspensions or revocation as set out in
Chapter 116: Business Regulations of this code and said violations are hereby
incorporated herein by reference. The procedure for suspension or revocation
under this section shall be the same procedure as set out in in
Chapter 116: Business Regulations of this code and said procedure is hereby
incorporated herein by reference.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 3-28-2023)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   A person convicted of a violation of this subchapter shall be punished by a
fine not exceeding $1,000.00, or double such sum for each repetition thereof.
If the violation is, in its nature, continuous in respect to time, the penalty
for allowing the continuance thereof is a fine not to exceed $500.00 for each
day that the violation is unlawfully continued. The imposition of a penalty
does not prevent the revocation of a permit pursuant to §
111.07 herein. Violations of this chapter that are continuous with respect to
time, are a public nuisance and may be abated by injunctive or other equitable
relief. The imposition of a penalty does not prevent equitable relief.
(Prior Code, § 7.40.09) (Ord. 2023-05, passed 3-28-2023)
CHAPTER 112: AMUSEMENT AND LEISURE
Section
Pool Halls
   
112.01   Unlawful
   
112.02   License
   
112.03   Authority
   
112.04   Exemption
   
112.05   Time limit
 
   
112.99   Penalty
POOL HALLS
§ 112.01 UNLAWFUL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, or operator, of any poolroom or
pool hall, or pool parlor, or any employee of such owner, or operator, to
permit any person, or persons, under the age of 18 years to play pool,
billiards, or any other game, or frequent, or congregate, in such poolroom,
pool hall, or pool parlor, or any department thereof.
   (B)   No poolroom, pool hall, or pool parlor shall be operated between the
hours of 12:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m.
(Prior Code, § 7.20.01) (Ord. 91, passed - -) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.02 LICENSE.
   (A)    Owners, or operators, of businesses offering pool as an entertainment
form, whether the primary form of business or not, shall comply with §
112.01, as well as pay to the city a license fee of $10 on the first table, and
$5 on each additional table on the premises.
   (B)   A license must be publicly displayed on said business premises.
Licenses are to be issued by the City Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 7.20.02) (Ord. 91, passed - -)
§ 112.03 AUTHORITY.
   The City Council shall have the power to stop the operation of any business
operating within its boundaries found not to be in compliance with §§
112.01 and/or 112.02 until such business complies with all rules, and
regulations, set forth by the Mayor, and City Council, in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7.20.03) (Ord. 91, passed - -)
§ 112.04 EXEMPTION.
   Nothing in this subchapter will be construed as to prohibit nonprofit
organizations from allowing its members to play the game of pool, at no charge,
on said nonprofit organizations’ premises. Further, nonprofit organizations are
exempt from §
112.02(A).
(Prior Code, § 7.20.04) (Ord. 91, passed - -)
§ 112.05 TIME LIMIT.
   Businesses within the city that fall within these rules shall have 30 days
on, or after, the adoption of such rules, in which to comply, or face the
foregoing penalties.
(Prior Code, § 7.20.05) (Ord. 91, passed - -)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter, for which no
specific penalty is prescribed, shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person violating the provisions of §
112.01 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall, on conviction, be
fined not less than $10, nor more than $100.
(Prior Code, § 7.20.01)
      (2)   Failure to comply with §
112.02 by the owner, or operator, shall constitute, upon conviction, a
misdemeanor, and shall be fined not less than $10, nor more than $100.
(Prior Code, § 7.20.02)
(Ord. 91, passed - -)
CHAPTER 113: PERSONAL SALES
Section
Garage Sales
   
113.01   Permit
   
113.02   Application
   
113.03   Regulations
   
113.04   Signs
   
113.05   Removal of signs
 
   
113.99   Penalty
GARAGE SALES
§ 113.01 PERMIT.
   No person, partnership, corporation, or other legal entity shall conduct a
yard sale, rummage sale, or garage sale without first applying for, and
obtaining, a permit.
(Prior Code, § 7.28.01) (Ord. 2003-10, passed - -) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.02 APPLICATION.
   (A)    Application for permits for yard sales, rummage sales, and garage
sales should be made to the City Clerk-Treasurer, and he or she shall issue a
permit subject to the above conditions after payment of a $5 fee.
   (B)   After payment of the fee, the Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a garage
sale permit, which shall be posted where it is visible from the street, at the
location of the yard sale, rummage sale, or garage sale.
(Prior Code, § 7.28.02) (Ord. 2003-10, passed - -)
§ 113.03 REGULATIONS.
   Permits for yard sales, rummage sales, and garage sales shall be valid for
not more than two days, and shall not be granted for the same location for more
than two times during any calendar year, with the exception of city-wide garage
sales held twice a year (in the fall and spring).
(Prior Code, § 7.28.04) (Ord. 2003-10, passed - -)
§ 113.04 SIGNS.
   It is a violation of state law to post any signs on utility poles. Garage
sale signs may not be posted on street signs or stop signs, telephone, light,
or cable television, poles, and may not be posted any closer than ten feet to
the street.
(Prior Code, § 7.28.05) (Ord. 2003-10, passed - -) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.05 REMOVAL OF SIGNS.
   All yard, garage sale, or rummage sale signs must be removed by the
beginning of the first business day following the last day of the sale. If the
sale is cancelled due to rain, within one week of the rainout.
(Prior Code, § 7.28.06) (Ord. 2003-10, passed - -)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter, for which no
specific penalty is prescribed, shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, partnership, corporation, or other legal entity found in
violation of §§
113.01 through
113.05 shall be subject to a fine of not more than $50, with each day in
violation of §§
113.01 through
113.05 being considered a separate offense. In addition, the city may, at the
option of the City Council, bring an action to enjoin the continued violation
of this §§
113.01 through
113.05.
(Prior Code, § 7.28.03) (Ord. 2003-10, passed - -)
CHAPTER 114: RED DIRT MINING FACILITIES
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   Rock blasting; use of explosives
   
114.03   Operation of red dirt mining facilities
   
114.04   Dust, mud, and debris control measures
   
114.05   Control of dump truck tailgate banging and loader banging
   
114.06   Issuance, suspension, revocation of license
   
114.07   No reduction in property owner’s right to sue
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL PURPOSES. The sale of material from a red dirt mining facility as
either a cash transaction, part of contractual agreement involving payment for
materials provided, or for use in another process to create a product with
value.
   DUMP TRUCK TAILGATE BANGING. The avoidable, and loud, banging of a dump
truck tailgate used to vibrate the bed of the truck in order to loosen material
in the bed sough to be dumped. The relatively quiet bang that might be
unavoidable when a dump truck load is dumped, and the truck moves away from the
pile without applying the truck’s brakes, is not regulated by this chapter.
   HOUSE. Any habitable structure, including a mobile or manufactured home, a
dwelling, a residence, an apartment, a condominium, a hotel, or motel.
   LOADER BANGING. The avoidable, and loud, banging of loader and backhoe
scoops, and the scooping mechanisms of other similar machines, used to vibrate
the scoop in order to loosen material sought to be dumped.
   OPERATION OF RED DIRT MINING FACILITY. Any operation of any mechanical
equipment on the premises of the red dirt mining facility, or any operation of
dump trucks, or other large vehicles, on the premises of the red dirt mining
site. The removal, loading, or processing of materials shall constitute
operation of the red dirt mining facility.
   RED DIRT MINING. Any open excavation used for obtaining red dirt, or other
type of soil used for paving, grading, fill, or any construction, or
commercial, purposes.
(Prior Code, § 4.32.01) (Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-26-2015)
§ 114.02 ROCK BLASTING; USE OF EXPLOSIVES.
   No rock blasting through the use of any form of explosive charge for red
dirt mining shall be allowed within the city limits.
(Prior Code, § 4.32.02) (Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-26-2015)
§ 114.03 OPERATION OF RED DIRT MINING FACILITIES.
   (A)   All prospective red dirt mine facilities within the city limits,
including the expansion of the operations of an existing red dirt mine
facility, on to real property that has not received the zoning approval for the
operation of a red dirt mine facilities, in accordance with the ordinances of
the city, must secure the proper zoning approvals before the commencement of
the operation of a red dirt mine facility.
   (B)   Before the commencement of the operation of a red dirt mine facility
within the city limits, a prospective red dirt mine facility must receive an
issued red dirt mine facility operation permit from the city, as set forth in §
114.06.
   (C)   Red dirt mine facilities within the city limits shall only be allowed
to operate during daylight periods between 7:00 a.m. through 7:00 p.m., Monday
through Saturday. Despite the hours of operation set forth above, under no
circumstances shall operations of the red dirt mining facilities be allowed
before daylight in the morning, or after dark. It shall, in any case, be a
violation of this chapter for a red dirt mine facility to operate before 7:00
a.m., or after 7:00 p.m., Monday through Saturday.
   (D)   No red dirt mine facilities within the city limits shall be allowed to
operate on Sundays, or the recognized holidays of Independence Day,
Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day, and New Year’s Day.
   (E)   All red dirt mines within the city limits shall comply, at all times,
with all federal, and state (including the State Department of Environmental
Quality), laws, rules, regulations, and requirements. Specifically, all red
dirt mines within the city limits shall be in compliance with the State Open-
Cut Land Reclamation Act, being A.C. §§ 15-57-301 et seq., and the State Quarry
Operation, Reclamation, and Safe Closure Act, being A.C. §§ 15-57-401 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 4.32.03) (Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-26-2015)
§ 114.04 DUST, MUD, AND DEBRIS CONTROL MEASURES.
   (A)   All red dirt mine facilities within the city limits shall be allowed
to operate with the following safeguards, and measures, to ensure that dust,
dirt, mud, debris, loose rock, and gravel, and all other possible irritant or
nuisance substances, do not adversely affect the city’s residents.
   (B)   It is the express continuing duty of the licensed red dirt mine
facility operators to ensure all of these safeguards, requirements, and
measures are constantly enforced.
      (1)   Dust control measures. Water, or other substances or measures, must
be employed, and fully effective, during the operation of the red dirt mine to
ensure the mine is in full, and continual, compliance with the requirements of
the State Water and Air Pollution Control Act, being A.C. § 8-4-101, as
administered by the State Department of Environmental Quality. A violation of
the permit conditions required by the State Department of Environmental Quality
can be grounds for a suspension, or revocation, of the city’s red dirt mine
operating license.
      (2)   Loose rock and gravel. The red dirt mine operator is responsible to
post notice that all dump trucks leaving the red dirt mine site that may
utilize any city streets, and are carrying more than half a truck load of
gravel, rocks, or dirt, have their load fully, and properly, covered. Any dump
truck leaving a red dirt mine carrying more than a half a truck load of gravel,
rock, or dirt, without having this load properly covered, shall be in violation
of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4.32.04) (Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-26-2015)
§ 114.05 CONTROL OF DUMP TRUCK TAILGATE BANGING AND LOADER BANGING.
   Dump truck tailgate banging and loader banding, as defined in §
114.01, is hereby prohibited in the city, and constitutes a violation of this
chapter. It is the express duty of the red dirt mine facility operator to
prevent a dump truck delivering anything to the mine, or receiving rock or dirt
from the mine, from engaging in dump truck tailgate banging at any time upon
its property. Dump truck tailgate banging shall constitute a violation of this
chapter. Further, it is the express duty of the red dirt mine facility operator
to prevent a loader or backhoe, or other similar loading machine, from engaging
in loader banging, as defined in §
114.01, at any time upon his or her property. Loader banging shall constitute a
violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4.32.05) (Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-26-2015)
§ 114.06 ISSUANCE, SUSPENSION, REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Issuance.
      (1)   The owner, or operator, of a red dirt mine facility within the city
limits shall submit a proper application for a red dirt mining facility
operation permit to the city. The owner, or operator, shall pay an application
fee of $50, which fee shall be refunded by the city if a permit is not issued.
In order to receive an issued red dirt mining facility operation permit from
the city, the owner, or operator, must provide the following information with
the submission of the application:
         (a)   A legal description of the property where the proposed red dirt
mining operations shall take place;
         (b)   Current contact information, including after-hours contact
information, for the owner, or operator, of the red dirt mine facility;
         (c)   Proof that the owner, or operator, of the red dirt mine facility
has received the proper zoning approval for the operation of a red dirt mine
facilities, in accordance with the ordinances of the city, and such zoning
approval is in good standing;
         (d)   Proof that the owner, or operator, of the red dirt mine facility
has received the necessary, current, and valid federal, and state, mining
permits to conduct red dirt mining operations at the proposed location;
         (e)   A copy of the detailed plan of reclamation of the area to be
affected is required, as well as proof of issuance of a bond, or substituted
security, for the affected area required under state law; and
         (f)   A signed statement by the owner, or operator, of the red dirt
facility that the operation shall comply with all applicable federal, state,
and city laws, rules, regulations, and ordinances in the operation of the red
dirt mining facility.
      (2)   Within five days from the receipt of a completed red dirt mining
facility operation permit and application fee, the city shall issue the red
dirt mining facility operation permit to the owner, or operator, of the red
dirt mine facility.
   (B)   Citation. The Police Chief, or his or her designee, may issue a
citation to the operator of a red dirt mine facility licensed under this
chapter for a violation of the terms of the license, or any requirement of this
chapter.
   (C)   Suspension or revocation. In the event of repetitive, continuing,
intentional, or substantial violations of the requirements of this chapter, the
City Planning Commission may revoke a red dirt mine operating license at a
meeting of the Planning Commission at which the owner, or operator, of the red
dirt mine facility has been provided notice, and an opportunity, to oppose such
suspension, or revocation.
   (D)   Appeal. Any person, or entity, whose license has been revoked pursuant
to this section may appeal such a revocation to the City Council by providing a
written request to the Mayor for City Council review within ten business days
of the issuance of the revocation. The City Council may then determine whether
the red dirt mine operator violated the requirements of this chapter and, if
so, whether revocation of the license is appropriate for such violation.
(Prior Code, § 4.32.06) (Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-26-2015)
§ 114.07 NO REDUCTION IN PROPERTY OWNER’S RIGHT TO SUE.
   Nothing in this chapter shall remove, or reduce, a property owner’s right to
sue, or seek, an injunction against any owner, or operator, of a red dirt mine
if a court of competent jurisdiction finds that such facility constitutes a
private, or public, nuisance to that property owner.
(Prior Code, § 4.32.09) (Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-26-2015)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any owner, lessor, or lessee of real property upon which is located a
red dirt mine, and any operator, manager, or employee of such red dirt mine
shall ensure such mine is operated within the limits of this chapter, and shall
be guilty of a criminal violation for any violation of the requirements of this
chapter.
   (B)   The red dirt mine operating license may be suspended, or revoked, by
the City Planning Commission after a due process hearing for an owner’s,
manager’s, operator’s, employee’s, or lessee’s violation of any terms, or
limits, within this chapter, or for operating the red dirt mine facility not in
conformity with its red dirt mine operating license.
   (C)   Any owner, operator, manager, lessee, or employee of a red dirt mine
shall be guilty of a criminal violation if such person operates the red dirt
mine in violation of any of the terms of this chapter, without a current, and
valid, red dirt mine operating license, or in violation of any of the terms of
his or her red dirt mine operating license.
   (D)   Each violation of the operational hour limitations, the rock blasting
limitations of this chapter, or the applicable red dirt mine operating license,
or any other provisions, or term, of this chapter shall constitute a separate
violation of this chapter, and shall be punishable by a fine of up to $500 for
each offense.
(Prior Code, § 4.32.07) (Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-26-2015)
CHAPTER 115: CAR DEALERS AND GARAGES
Section
   
115.01   Permits
   
115.02   Publication
   
115.03   Permit fee
   
115.04   Permit revocation
   
115.05   Provisions against pollution
   
115.06   Civil remedies
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01 PERMITS.
   The City Council is given, and charged with, the power and duty to issue,
continue in effect, revoke, modify, or deny permits, under such conditions as
it may prescribe:
   (A)   To prevent control, or abate pollution;
   (B)   For the disposal of pollutants; and
   (C)   For the installation, modification, or operation of disposal systems,
or any part of them.
(Prior Code, § 8.20.01) (Ord. 2000-7, passed - -)
§ 115.02 PUBLICATION.
   When any application for the issuance of a new renewable permit is filed
with the City Council, the City Council shall cause notice of the application
to be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the county in which
the proposed facility is to be located.
   (A)   The notice shall afford any interested part 30 calendar days in which
to submit comments on the proposed permit action.
   (B)   At the conclusion of the public comment period, the City Council shall
announce its final decision regarding the permit application.
   (C)   All costs of publication of notices of applications under this section
shall be the responsibility of the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 8.20.02) (Ord. 2000-7, passed - -)
§ 115.03 PERMIT FEE.
   (A)   The fee for a new permit shall be $100 per year for each motor vehicle
dealer location, and/or motor vehicle garage. Such fee shall be for the
licensing period beginning on January 1 of each year, and ending on December 31
of each year, and shall be renewable during the month of January following its
expiration.
   (B)   All existing business in current form shall be grandfathered in
regarding permit fees. Any time, upon modification, or expansion, of ownership,
the business shall be required to conform to the ordinance in entirety.
(Prior Code, § 8.20.03) (Ord. 2000-7, passed - -)
§ 115.04 PERMIT REVOCATION.
   (A)   Upon giving 30 days’ written notice of non-compliance, the City
Council is given, and charged with, the power, and duty, to revoke, modify, or
suspend, in whole or in part, for cause any permit issued under this chapter,
including, without limitation, the following:
      (1)   Violation of any condition of the permit;
      (2)   Obtaining a permit by misrepresentation, or failure to disclose
fully, all relevant facts;
      (3)   Selling a vehicle without a dealer license;
      (4)   Committing a fraudulent act in selling, purchasing, or otherwise
dealing in motor vehicles;
      (5)   Failing to maintain the conditions, and requirements, necessary to
qualify for the issuance of a permit;
      (6)   Falsify, alter, or neglect to endorse, or deliver, a certificate of
title to a transferee, or lawful owner, or fail to properly designate a
transferee on a document of assignment of certificate of title;
      (7)   Knowingly purchase, sell, or otherwise acquire, or dispose of, a
stolen motor vehicle;
      (8)   Submitting a false affidavit setting forth that a title has been
lost or destroyed;
      (9)   Passing title, or reassigning title, as a dealer without a dealer’s
license, or when his or her dealer’s license has been suspended;
      (10)   Knowingly assist an unlicensed dealer in the sale of a motor
vehicle;
      (11)   Failing to deliver a certificate of title to any purchaser; or
      (12)   Violates any of the provisions against pollution in §
115.05.
   (B)   At the discretion of the City Council, a permit may be reinstated if
the new, and/or used, motor vehicle dealer, or motor vehicle garage, is in
compliance within the 30 days from the receipt of notice, and this is the first
notice of non-compliance received by the new, and/or used, motor vehicle
dealer, or motor vehicle garage.
(Prior Code, § 8.20.04) (Ord. 2000-7, passed - -)
§ 115.05 PROVISIONS AGAINST POLLUTION.
   (A)   The new, and/or used, motor vehicle dealer, and motor vehicle garage,
will comply with the provisions of this section, and all applicable state, and
federal, standards and regulations concerning air and water quality, and that
the transfer, handling, and storage of materials within the dealer’s facility
will not cause conditions which would violate state, and federal, standards
concerning unreasonable hazards to the environment, or to the health and
welfare of the people living and working in, or near, the facility.
   (B)   No person shall cause, or permit, the collection, transportation, or
disposal of lead-acid batteries mixed, or commingled with, solid waste by any
person.
   (C)   No person shall cause, or permit, the collection, storage, and
disposal, reuse, or recycling of used motor oil.
   (D)   No person shall cause, or permit, the hauling, storage, recycling, and
disposal of waste tires.
   (E)   No person shall cause, or permit, the open burning of tires in the
state.
   (F)   No person shall maintain a waste tire site unless the site is a state,
and city, approved waste tire processing facility, or collection center.
   (G)   The new, and/or used, motor vehicle dealers, and motor vehicle
garages, shall adopt an approved method for the disposal of petroleum
contaminated soil. PETROLEUM CONTAMINATED SOIL means those soils which have
been physically, chemically, or biologically altered by gasoline, diesel,
kerosene, heating oil, jet fuel, or any other petroleum product.
   (H)   No person shall purposely, knowingly, or recklessly cause pollution of
the waters, or air, of the city, and thereby create a substantial likelihood of
adversely affecting human health, animal or plant life, or property. WATERS OF
THE CITY means all streams, lakes, marshes, ponds, watercourses, waterways,
wells, springs, irrigation systems, drainage systems, and all other bodies, or
accumulations, of water, surface and underground, natural or artificial, public
or private, which are contained within, flow through, or border upon any
portion of the city. DISCHARGE INTO THE WATERS OF THE CITY means a discharge of
any wastes in any manner which directly, or indirectly, permits such wastes to
reach any of the waters of the city.
(Prior Code, § 8.20.05) (Ord. 2000-7, passed - -)
§ 115.06 CIVIL REMEDIES.
   The City Council is authorized to institute a civil action in any court of
competent jurisdiction to accomplish any, or all, of the following:
   (A)   Restrain any violation of, or compel compliance with, the provisions
of this chapter, and of any rules, regulations, orders, permits, or plans
issued pursuant thereto;
   (B)   Affirmatively order that remedial measures be taken as may be
necessary, or appropriate, to implement, or effectuate, the purposes, and
intent, of this chapter; and
   (C)   Recover all costs, expenses, and damages to the city in enforcing, or
effectuating, the provisions of this chapter, including, but not limited to,
natural resource damages.
(Prior Code, § 8.20.06) (Ord. 2000-7, passed - -)
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   In addition to the civil remedies, the city may assess criminal penalties in
an amount not to exceed $100 per day for violations of this chapter and of any
rules, regulations, permits, or plans issued pursuant thereto.
(Prior Code, § 8.20.07) (Ord. 2000-7, passed - -)
CHAPTER 116: BUSINESS LICENSING
Section
   
116.01   License required
   
116.02   Obligation to obtain license
   
116.03   Employee defined
   
116.04   License required for each place of business
   
116.05   Application
   
116.06   Part-year licenses; proration
   
116.07   Term of license; payment; publication of expiration dates
   
116.08   License fee schedule
   
116.09   Compliance with ordinances and regulations
   
116.10   Change of location
   
116.11   License not transferable
   
116.12   Operation of business constituting nuisance
   
116.13   Inspection of licensed premises
   
116.14   Display of license
   
116.15   Exemptions
   
116.16   Violations
§ 116.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   A license shall be required of any person, firm, individual, corporation, or
other entity who shall engage in, carry on, or follow any trade, business,
profession, vocation, or calling within the corporate limits of the city,
unless exempt by state law. The license shall be for the privilege of doing
business or carrying on any trade, business, profession, vocation, or calling
in the town.
(Ord. 2016-21, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 116.02 OBLIGATION TO OBTAIN LICENSE.
   All persons, firms, individuals, corporations, and other entities shall be
subject to the requirements of this chapter, if any such person or other
entity, by itself or through an agent, employee, or partner, holds himself,
herself, or itself forth as being engaged in a business or occupation; or
solicits patronage therefor, actively or passively; or performs, or attempts to
perform, any part of such business or occupation in the city.
(Ord. 2016-21, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 116.03 EMPLOYEE DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMPLOYEE. Any partner, corporate officer, or other individual who receives
any direct or indirect compensation from any entity subject to licensing
pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 2016-21, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 116.04 LICENSE REQUIRED FOR EACH PLACE OF BUSINESS.
   Any person or entity having more than one place of business within the city
shall obtain a license for each place of business. For the purpose of this
chapter, MORE THAN ONE PLACE OF BUSINESS shall mean any business operations
conducted within two or more separate buildings, or upon two or more separate
tracts of real estate.
(Ord. 2016-21, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 116.05 APPLICATION.
    Applications for all licenses required by this chapter shall be made in
writing to the City Clerk-Treasurer. Each application shall state the name of
the applicant, the location to be used for the business, the time covered, and
the fee to be paid; and each application shall contain such additional
information as may be needed for the proper guidance of the city officials in
issuing the license applied for. Each license issued shall bear the signature
of the City Clerk-Treasurer. All applications filed hereunder shall be kept and
filed by the City Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 2016-21, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 116.06 PART-YEAR LICENSES; PRORATION.
    All fees and charges for licenses shall be paid at the time application
therefor is made to the City Clerk-Treasurer. When an applicant has not engaged
in the business until after the expiration of part of the current license year,
the license fee shall be prorated by quarters and the fee paid for each quarter
or fraction thereof during which the business has been, or will be, conducted.
All license fees shall become part of the city’s General Fund.
(Ord. 2016-21, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 116.07 TERM OF LICENSE; PAYMENT; PUBLICATION OF EXPIRATION DATES.
    All licenses shall commence on January 1 and terminate on December 31 of
each year. The annual license fee shall be paid on, or before, January 31 of
each year. The City Clerk-Treasurer shall publish a notice in a newspaper of
general circulation in the city of the time of expiration of the licenses, at
least three weeks prior to the date of such expiration. A failure to publish
such notice, or the failure of the licensee to have actual knowledge of such
notice, shall not excuse the licensee from a failure to obtain a new license,
or a renewal thereof, nor shall it be a defense in an action for operation
without a license.
(Ord. 2016-21, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 116.08 LICENSE FEE SCHEDULE.
   Any person who shall engage in, carry on, or follow any trade, business,
profession, vocation, or calling within the corporate limits of the city shall
pay an annual license fee of $______________per year.
(Ord. 2016-21, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 116.09 COMPLIANCE WITH ORDINANCES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No license shall be issued for the conduct of any business if the
premises and building to be used for the purpose do not fully comply with all
of the laws, ordinances, regulations, and requirements of the city. No such
license shall be issued for the conduct of any business or performance of any
act which would involve a violation of the zoning ordinance of the city.
   (B)   The license is conditioned on the licensee complying with all
ordinances and regulations of the city, as well as the laws of the state and
the United States, during the year of issue. If the licensee shall fail to
comply with all city ordinances and regulations during the year, such license
may be revoked by the city, if, after notice of non-compliance is given to the
licensee, the licensee fails to come into compliance within ten working days
after notification. If the licensee fails to comply within ten working days,
the city shall notify the licensee that the license is revoked.
   (C)   If, after the license is revoked, the person, firm, individual,
corporation, or other entity continues to operate, such person, firm,
individual, corporation, or other entity shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and,
upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in the sum of not less than the amount
of the license fee provided for, nor more than double such amount for each
offense, plus the cost to the city of collecting such sums.
(Ord. 2016-21, passed 8-9-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.10 CHANGE OF LOCATION.
    The location of any licensed business or occupation, or of any permitted
act, may be changed, provided ten working days’ notice thereof is given to the
City Clerk-Treasurer in the absence of any provision to the contrary; provided,
that the building, zoning, and other ordinances of the city shall be complied
with.
(Ord. 2016-21, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 116.11 LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   A license issued under this chapter shall not be transferable.
(Ord. 2016-21, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 116.12 OPERATION OF BUSINESS CONSTITUTING NUISANCE.
   No business, licensed or not, shall be so conducted or operated as to amount
to a nuisance in fact, nor in violation of any ordinance of this city, state,
or federal law.
(Ord. 2016-21, passed 8-9-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.13 INSPECTION OF LICENSED PREMISES.
   Whenever inspections of the premises used for, or in connection with, the
operation of a licensed business or occupation are provided for or required by
ordinance, or are reasonably necessary to secure compliance with any ordinance
or provision, or to detect violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the
licensee, or the person in charge of the premises to be inspected, to admit
thereto, for the purpose of making the inspection, any officer or employee of
the city who is authorized or directed to make such inspections at any
reasonable time admission is requested.
(Ord. 2016-21, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 116.14 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   It shall be the duty of any person conducting a licensed business in the
city to keep his or her license posted in a prominent place on the premises
used for such business at all times. The holder of a license shall show the
license to any officer or agent of the city upon request.
(Ord. 2016-21, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 116.15 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following existing ordinances are not affected by the provisions
contained in this chapter:
   (A)   Any ordinance regulating, taxing, or licensing businesses which
manufacture, distribute, or sell beer, wine, or liquor;
   (B)   Ordinances licensing, regulating, or controlling the operation of
mobile home parks; and
   (C)   Any franchise ordinance specifically including, but not being limited
to, utilities and telephone service.
(Ord. 2016-21, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 116.16 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, upon conviction, shall
be fined a sum of not less than the amount of the license fee provided for, nor
more than double such amount for each offense, plus the cost to the town of
collecting.
(Ord. 2016-21, passed 8-9-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to punish violations, see A.C. § 26-77-102(e)
   Maximum penalty double license fee plus costs, see A.C. § 26-77-101
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   CURFEW FOR MINORS
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
CHAPTER 130: CURFEW FOR MINORS
Section
   
130.01   Definitions
   
130.02   Curfew
   
130.03   Exemptions
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   EMANCIPATED MINOR. A minor who no longer has a parent-child relationship as
a result of marriage, or as a result of being recognized as an adult by a court
of competent jurisdiction.
   LEGITIMATELY PARENTALLY-APPROVED ERRAND. A minor performing a necessary task
at the direction of the minor’s parent, and the non-performance of the errand,
or delay of performance until after curfew hours have abated, would result in
injury or undue hardship.
   MINOR. Any un-emancipated, or unmarried, person under the age of 18 years.
   PARENT. Any person having legal custody of a minor:
      (1)   As a natural parent;
      (2)   As an adoptive parent;
      (3)   As a legal guardian; or
      (4)   As a person to whom legal custody has been given by order of the
court.
   PUBLIC PLACE. A publicly, or privately, owned place to which the public, or
substantial numbers of people, have access. A PUBLIC PLACE does not include the
residence of a minor, or the residence of a minor’s parent, or a responsible
adult.
   RESPONSIBLE ADULT. A person at least 21 years of age to whom a parent has
given permission to accompany a minor.
(Prior Code, § 7.08.01) (Ord. 2003-13, passed - -)
§ 130.02 CURFEW.
   The minor curfew for the city is hereby established as follows:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any minor to be upon the streets, sidewalks,
parks, playgrounds, public places, and vacant lots, or to ride in, or upon,
drive, or otherwise operate, or be a passenger in, any automobile, bicycle, or
other vehicle in, upon, over, or through the streets, or other public places
between the following hours:
      (1)   On Sunday through Thursday evenings, from 11:00 p.m. through 5:00
a.m. (six hours); and
      (2)   On Friday and Saturday evenings, from 12:00 p.m. through 5:00 a.m.
(five hours).
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any parent to permit a minor to be upon the
streets, sidewalks, parks, playgrounds, public places, and vacant lots, or to
ride in, or upon, drive, or otherwise operate, a vehicle in, upon, over, or
through the streets, or other public places, in violation of division (A)(2)
above. The fact that a minor is in violation of the provisions of division (A)
(2), as set forth above, without a defense, as set forth in §
130.03, shall create a rebuttable presumption that a parent is in violation of
this section.
(Prior Code, § 7.08.02) (Ord. 2003-13, passed - -) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
130.02, this chapter does not apply:
      (1)   At any time a minor is accompanied by a parent, or by a responsible
adult authorized by a parent to take the parent’s place to accompany the minor,
for a designated period of time, and purpose, within a specified area;
      (2)   If the minor is employed for a period of time 45 minutes after
work; provided, that circumstances suggest the minor is returning from work to
a place of residence;
      (3)   When a minor is returning home from an activity that is supervised
by adults, and sponsored by the city, a civic organization, a public, or
private, school, or any entity that takes responsibility for the minor;
provided, that the activity has not been concluded for more than 45 minutes;
      (4)   At any time the minor is on a legitimate, parentally-approved
errand;
      (5)   At any time the minor is on a trip in interstate commerce;
      (6)   At any time the minor is required to leave a residence because of
an emergency; and/or
      (7)   At any time the minor is engaged in an activity that is protected
by the First Amendment of the United States Constitution, or the freedom of
speech, religion, or expression provisions contained in Article II of the State
Constitution.
   (B)   If a minor being questioned about the possible violation of this
chapter provides a law enforcement officer with sufficient reason to believe
that the minor is entitled to an exemption under this section, the law
enforcement officer shall take no enforcement action under this chapter;
provided, the officer may make a report of the minor’s identity, the exemption
claimed, and other necessary information to note the possible violation of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7.08.03) (Ord. 2003-13, passed - -)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A parent, or minor, found to be in violation of this chapter shall be
subject to the following penalties:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided, a person convicted of a violation of
this chapter shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $500, or double such sum
for each repetition thereof;
      (2)   At the discretion of the law enforcement officer, any minor
receiving a citation for violation of the minor curfew chapter may be released
immediately to return home, may be escorted to his or her home, or may be taken
into custody, and delivered to an appropriate juvenile authority to be held
until a parent can be located to take custody of the minor; and/or
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall prevent a law enforcement officer
from taking any, and all, appropriate actions for a minor’s violation of any
other local, or state, law.
   (B)   The penalties contained herein are in accordance with A.C. § 14-55-502
(a) and (b).
(Prior Code, § 7.08.04) (Ord. 2003-13, passed - -)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
Section
   
131.01   State criminal statutes adopted
   
131.02   Firearms
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 STATE CRIMINAL STATUTES ADOPTED.
   (A)   All criminal statutes of the state relating to misdemeanors and
violations of the laws of criminal procedure in connection therewith, three
copies of which are on file in the Mayor’s office, are hereby enacted by the
City Council to form a part of the laws of the city, and any person, firm, or
corporation being found guilty of the violation of any such laws shall be
deemed guilty of the violation of the ordinances of the city, and shall be
fined, or imprisoned, or both, in the manner set out under the state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 7.04.01)
   (B)   The same minimum, and maximum, penalties for the violation of
misdemeanors and violations, as are provided in the state statutes, are hereby
adopted as the minimum, and maximum, fines for the violation of the same
offenses which are prohibited by the ordinances of this city.
(Prior Code, § 7.04.02)
Statutory reference:
   State criminal statutes, A.C. § 14-55-501
   State penalties, A.C. § 14-55-502
§ 131.02 FIREARMS.
   (A)   Unlawful. It shall be unlawful to discharge any firearm which propels
a projectile, or multiple projectiles, of any size by means of an explosion
within such weapon created by the use of gunpowder, or any other explosive
material.
(Prior Code, § 7.12.01)
   (B)   Defense. It shall be an affirmative defense for anyone charged with
violation of this section, if such person acted in self defense, or defense of
another, or to protect his or her livestock in accordance with the laws of the
state.
(Prior Code, § 7.12.03)
(Ord. 107, passed - -) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter, for which no
specific penalty is prescribed, shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
131.02 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction, or plea of
guilty, nolo contendere, shall be punished by a fine of $25, and costs for the
first offense, and not more than $50, and costs for subsequent convictions.
(Prior Code, § 7.12.02)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   STREETS AND PUBLIC PROPERTY
      
152.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
153.   WIRELESS FACILITIES; CONSTRUCTION, REGULATIONS
      
154.   ZONING AND SUBDIVISIONS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
General Provisions
   
150.001   Fire Prevention Code adopted
   
150.002   Mechanical Code adopted
   
150.003   Building guidelines
   
150.004   Plumbing Code adopted
   
150.005   National Electric Code adopted
Building Permits
   
150.015   Residential building permit fee
   
150.016   Electrical and mechanical permit fee
   
150.017   Plumbing permit fee
   
150.018   Swimming pools; permit fee
   
150.019   Sewer installation permit fee
   
150.020   Heating and cooling permit fees (HVAC)
   
150.021   RPZ valve installation permit fee
   
150.022   Re-inspection fees
   
150.023   Residential renovation/modification permit fees
   
150.024   Agriculture renovation/modification permit fees
   
150.025   Commercial and industrial permit fees
   
150.026   Miscellaneous fees
   
150.027   Authority
Recreational Vehicle Parks
   
150.040   Definitions
   
150.041   Development requirements
   
150.042   Permit
   
150.043   Enforcement
Mobile Home Regulations
   
150.055   Definitions
   
150.056   Placement
   
150.057   Homes in location
   
150.058   Permit decal
   
150.059   Registration form
   
150.060   Inspection
   
150.061   Records
   
150.062   Decals
   
150.063   Exceptions
   
150.064   Powers of Planning Commission
   
150.065   Application fee
   
150.066   Public hearing
   
150.067   Parking on streets
   
150.068   Parking on premises
   
150.069   Temporary stopping
   
150.070   Automobile trailers
 
   
150.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.001 FIRE PREVENTION CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   Adopted by reference. The City Council does hereby adopt, by
reference, the 2012 edition of the State Fire Prevention Code, consisting of
Volume 1 Fire, Volume 2 Building, Volume 3 Residential, and all appendices
(also known as the International Building Code with the State Fire Code
exceptions), and the whole thereof, save, and except, such portions as are
hereinafter deleted, modified, or amended.
   (B)   Maintenance of copies; public view and inspection. Not less than three
copies have been, and now are, kept in the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 2017-40, passed 11-14-2017; Ord. 2023-10, passed 7-25-2023)
§ 150.002 MECHANICAL CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   Adopted.
      (1)   The city hereby does adopt the International Mechanical Code, 2021
Edition or most current edition.
      (2)   These rules, and regulations, are adopted in an attempt to ensure
safe mechanical installation, including alterations, repairs, and replacement
to equipment, appliances, fixtures, fittings, and appurtenances thereto, Manual
“J”, and Manual “D” as to safeguard life, health, and the public welfare.
(Prior Code, § 11.16.01)
   (B)   Amendment. In addition to the adoption of the aforementioned
International Mechanical Code, the City Council hereby adopts the following
local amendment to said code, which shall repeal only that portion of the code
which may be in conflict herewith, and shall otherwise be supplemental to said
code. Specifically, the local amendments are as follows:
      (1)   Dryer vents.
         (a)   Dryer vent terminations shall have a minimum clearance of 12
inches above the finished grade to the bottom of the vent termination;
         (b)   Dryer vents shall have at least a one-eighth inch per foot fall
to the termination;
         (c)   Dryer vents shall not be trapped; and
         (d)   Dryer vents shall not be located within five feet of a HVAC
condensing unit.
      (2)   HVAC ducts and plenums.
         (a)   All ducts, both supply and return, shall be of galvanized sheet
metal (refer to table 603.4 of the State Mechanical Code). Exceptions are, as
allowed by 603.4, sheetrock lined parts of the building structure, if approved
by the Building Official;
         (b)   Installation of flexible non-metallic duct, and flexible
metallic duct, material is prohibited, with the following exceptions: When a
suspended ceiling is to be installed, the final connections not to exceed six
feet, may be flexible duct material, or as approved by the Building Official;
         (c)   All types of wiring, including thermostat, non-metallic cable,
and alarm systems wiring, shall not be installed anywhere in the duct system;
         (d)   All joints, and connections, must be mechanically fastened
(sheet metal screws, or other approved fasteners), and sealed with welds,
gaskets, or mastic, and UL approved tape, as approved by the Building Official;
         (e)   Ducts shall be suspended to allow at least 12 inches for
insulation, as per State Energy Code; and
         (f)   Return air platform, plenum, duct, or space shall be lined, and
sealed, so as to be made airtight.
      (3)   HVAC electrical connections.
         (a)   All electrical connections shall be an approved disconnect
within six feet of each piece of heating and air-conditioning equipment, and
readily accessible (cord and plug connections are allowed on inside gas hearing
units, if accessible, and installed in accordance with N.E.C.); and
         (b)   A receptacle for service equipment shall be installed within six
feet of the equipment, and may be installed upstream from the equipment
disconnect where provided.
      (4)   Fuel line connections.
         (a)   As a minimum, rigid steel piping, of at least schedule 40, must
extend through the sheet metal cabinet where the final connections may be made
using an approved flexible connector; and
         (b)   Fuel line piping shall not be installed within any part of the
air system of the HVAC system, including ducts and plenums.
      (5)   Fireplace enclosures. Fireplace enclosures shall be fire-stopped at
each ceiling level, or attic space, in order to stop the unrestricted path of
fire to the attic, or other concealed spaces; and
      (6)   Bathroom exhaust fans. Section 501.3, exception 2 is deleted. All
bath exhaust fans will be vented outside, or to a vented soffit.
(Prior Code, § 11.16.02)
   (C)   Filed. Three copies of this code have been, and are now, on file in
the office of the City Hall, and the same are hereby adopted, and incorporated,
as if they are set out at length herein. From the date on which this section
shall take effect, the provisions of the aforementioned code shall be
controlling in the construction of all buildings, and other structures, within
the corporate limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 11.16.03)
(Ord. 2004-16, passed - -; Ord. 2023-09, passed 7-25-2023)
§ 150.003 BUILDING GUIDELINES.
   (A)   Guidelines.
      (1)   All residential structures must be on a concrete footer and
foundation that meets the Southern Building Code specifications and codes.
      (2)   All residential structures with a crawl space shall be supported on
the perimeter with masonry, and the interior with peers, spacing, and
dimensions to meet the Southern Building Code.
      (3)   All residential structures shall have a base structure of a width
of not less than 20 feet.
      (4)   All patios, porches, decks, and exterior railing shall be
constructed of pressure treated lumber, concrete, or weather resistant products
engineered for outdoor use.
      (5)   All residential structures shall have a minimum overhang of 12
inches.
      (6)   Gales from the top plate line to the roof decking shall be backed
with plywood or OSB.
      (7)   Street parking shall not be longer than 24 hours, and not be an
obstruction for emergency vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 11.08.01)
   (B)   Water used for construction. Commencing on September 29, 2003, all
water used for construction of lines, sanitizing, and flushing of lines, and
water used in testing the water quality and conditions of these lines, be
billed back to the construction company. A metering system will be applied to
these lines to determine the correct amount of flow used, and proper billing
will ensue.
(Prior Code, § 11.08.02)
(Ord. 2003-12, passed - -; Ord. 2004-10, passed - -)
§ 150.004 PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   Adopted by reference. The City Council does hereby adopt, by
reference, the Arkansas Plumbing Code, 2018 Edition, or most current edition.
   (B)   Maintenance of copies; public view and inspection. Three copies have
been, and now are, kept in the office of the City Clerk.
(Ord. 2023-12, passed 7-25-2023)
§ 150.005 NATIONAL ELECTRIC CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   Adopted by reference. The City Council does hereby adopt, by
reference, NFPA 70, National Electric Code, 2020 Edition, or most current
edition.
   (B)   Maintenance of copies; public view and inspection. Three copies have
been, and now are, kept in the office of the City Clerk.
(Ord. 2023-11, passed 7-25-2023)
BUILDING PERMITS
§ 150.015 RESIDENTIAL BUILDING PERMIT FEE.
   (A)   Valuation. The city shall determine the valuation of a structure using
the International Code Council (ICC) building valuation data table. The ICC
building valuation data table can be found at iccsafe.org. The building
valuation data table is updated every six months. Once the valuation is
determined, the following formulae are used to calculate permit fees.
 
Structural  Building Permit Fee
Value
$1,000 or   No fee, unless an inspection is required, in which case, the single phase of
less        construction or miscellaneous inspection fee shall apply
$1,000.01   $50 for the first $1,000, plus $5 for each additional $1,000, or fraction
up to       thereof, up to and including $50,000
$50,000
$50,000.01  $260 for the first $50,000, plus $4 for each additional § 1,000, or fraction
up to       thereof, up to and including $100,000
$100,000
$100,000.01 $460 for the first $100,000, plus $3 for each additional $1,000, or fraction
up to       thereof, up to and including $500,000
$500,000
$500,000.01 $1,660 for the first $500,000, plus $2 for each additional $1,000, or
on up       fraction thereof
 
      (1)   Electrical, mechanical, and plumbing permit fees. Electrical,
mechanical, and plumbing fees shall be paid by the appropriate licensed
subcontractor prior to the start of the trade work, or in addition with
building permits by the general contractor, owner, or applicant according to
fee schedule as stated in the chart below.
 
Square Footage Fee per Trade
0 to 1,500     $100
1,501 to 2,000 $115
2,001 to 3,000 $130
3,001 or more  $155
 
      (2)   Education fee or surcharge. Non-residential construction permits
must include an education fee or charged at the rate of $0.50 per $1,000
valuation up to a maximum of $1,000 per project, as set forth by the relevant
rules and regulations set forth by the State Department of Finance and
Administration in division (B) below.
   (B)   Non-residential construction surcharge regulation 1999-2. Pursuant to
the authority granted by Act 474 of 1999, the Director of the Department of
Finance and Administration, in compliance with A.C. § 25-15-204, does hereby
promulgate the following rules and regulations for the enforcement and
administration of state law.
      (1)   Definitions. For the purpose of this division (B), the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         NON-RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION PERMIT. Any construction permit issued by
a political subdivision of the state for a non-residential construction
project.
         NON-RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION PROJECT. Construction of a building or
structure for any use other than a residential construction project.
         RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION PROJECT. Any project consisting of one unit,
but not more than four units, of new construction for residential occupancy.
         SURCHARGE. A fee to be collected at the rate of $0.50 per each one
$1,000 of construction authorized on non-residential construction permits
issued by a political subdivision.
         UNIT. Includes any building or structure intended for use as a
residence or living quarters for an individual or his or her family, and shall
include any storage buildings, utility buildings, garages, or fences
appurtenant thereto.
      (2)   Effective date. Effective August 1, 1999, every political
subdivision of the state shall collect a surcharge in the amount of $0.50 per
each $1,000 of construction authorized on any non-residential construction
permit issued by any political subdivision of the state. Each subdivision of
the state shall be limited to collecting a maximum surcharge of $1,000 on each
non-residential construction project receiving a permit.
      (3)   Administration. The office of the political subdivision issuing the
permit is responsible for remitting the surcharge to the Department of Finance
and Administration, Miscellaneous Tax Section. This remittance must be made by
the fifteenth day of the month following the month in which the fee was
collected. The remittance shall be made on reports prescribed by the Director.
The political subdivision shall retain 5% of each permit surcharge to cover the
cost of administration.
      (4)   Audit and records. Each political subdivision shall submit a report
with remittance of the surcharge to the Department on the fifteenth day of the
month following collection of the surcharge. The report shall detail the total
dollar amount of non-residential construction permits issued by the political
subdivision for the month, the total dollar amount of surcharge remitted to the
Department for the month, the total dollar amount retained by the political
subdivision for administrative cost, and any other information requested by the
Department related to the collection of the surcharge. The Department of
Finance and Administration shall audit and administer the surcharge in
accordance with the State Tax Procedure Act, being A.C. §§ 26-18-101 et seq.
Each political subdivision of the state is required to maintain records
relating to the issuance of non-residential construction permits and the
collection of the surcharge from such issuance in accordance with the record
keeping requirements of the State Tax Procedure Act, being A.C. §§ 26-18-101 et
seq.
   (C)   All building permit fees non-refundable. No building permit fee
(including electrical, mechanical, plumbing, and the like) shall be refunded by
the city once collected, regardless of whether or not construction has taken
place.
   (D)   All new residential construction fees. Electrical, mechanical, and
plumbing construction fees shall be paid by the appropriate licensed
subcontractor prior to the start of that trade work or in addition to building
permits by the general contractor, owner, or applicant according to fee
schedule as stated.
   (E)   Applicability. The provisions of this chapter shall be applicable to
any buildings in the city presently under construction without a specific act
of the City Council.
   (F)   Waiver. The City Council may, for just cause, specifically waive
certain requirements of chapter after consideration, especially in those cases
wherein code requirements could create undue or unfair hardships.
(Prior Code, § 11.12.01) (2021-32, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 150.016 ELECTRICAL AND MECHANICAL PERMIT FEE.
   (A)   Residential electrical permits are based on the total square foot
under roof, and are set forth on the chart below. The base fee for commercial
electricity is $50.
 
Bid/Valuation Amount     To be Multiplied by
$0 up to $10,000         x0.01
$10,000.01 up to $20,000 x0.005
$ 20,000.01 or more      x0.0025
 
   (B)   Electricians must use a minimum of 12-gauge wire in any new
construction (e.g., residential/commercial), and must use the new N.E.C.
Electrical Codes (note: the trench for running the electric to the house is a
minimum of 24 feet deep).
   (C)   The city requires that the electrical subcontractor present a copy of
his or her current electrician’s license.
   (D)   Commercial mechanical fees shall include a base fee of $50, plus the
initial bid/valuation amount x0.005.
(Prior Code, § 11.12.02) (2021-32, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 150.017 PLUMBING PERMIT FEE.
   (A)   The city shall collect fees based on the fee schedule stated below.
 
Commercial Plumbing Service                         Fees
Base fee                                            $50
Fixtures (e.g., bathtubs, lavatories, and the like) $3 each
In-house water and drainage piping                  $7 each
Yard lines (e.g., water, sewer, gas, and the like)  $7 each
 
   (B)   The city requires that the plumbing subcontractor present a copy of
his or her current plumber’s license.
(Prior Code, § 11.12.03) (2021-32, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 150.018 SWIMMING POOLS; PERMIT FEE.
   (A)   Design barriers. The provisions of this section shall apply to design
of barriers to all swimming pools. These design controls are intended to
provide protection against the potential drowning and near drowning by
restricting access to such swimming pools.
   (B)   In-ground pool requirements. All outdoor in-ground swimming pools
shall be surrounded by a barrier. When (in-ground/below-grade) hot tubs are
within the confines of a pool, this section shall be applicable as well.
      (1)   The top of the barrier shall be not less than 48 inches above
grade. Such height shall exist around the entire perimeter of the swimming
pool.
      (2)   Openings in the barrier shall not allow passage of a four-inch
diameter sphere.
      (3)   The site plan for swimming pool, barrier, and septic with lateral
lines shall be submitted with swimming pool application.
      (4)   Swimming pool fences and gates are required to have a minimum
height of four feet and a maximum height of eight feet. Additionally, gates
must have child-resistant latches.
   (C)   Above ground swimming pool barrier.
      (1)   An above-ground pool wall, itself, shall be permitted to be the
barrier where the pool structure is on grade and the wall is above-grade for
the entire perimeter of the pool.
      (2)   Where the mean of access is a ladder or steps, the ladder or steps
shall be capable of being secure, locked, or removed to prevent access, or the
ladder or steps shall be surrounded by a barrier that meets the barrier
requirements set forth in division (B) above.
   (D)   Gates. Access gates shall be equipped to accommodate a locking device.
Pedestrian access gates shall open outward, away from swimming pool, and shall
be self-closing and have a self-latching device.
   (E) Requirements.
      (1)   Application shall require a plan review minimum of two weeks. A
site plan is required for the location of the pool and meets all requirements
according to Appendix Exhibit 1.2, Site Plan, of the zoning ordinance.
      (2)   Pre-site visit: For barriers, the pool layout, utility locations,
septic locations shall be marked.
      (3)   Electrical bonding: Pool bonding, deck bonding, and equipment
bonding per NEC 2017 requirements shall be included.
      (4)   Plumbing: Gas pressure, gas yard line, and gas service per APC
2006, or the most current edition, shall be included.
      (5)   Scheduling inspections: Applicants should contact the City Building
Inspection Department for inspection requests.
   (F)   Fees. Swimming pool fees are as follows:
      (1)   The swimming pool permit fee shall be $250, with electric or
plumbing permits also required.
      (2)   The completion deposit for fence barriers shall be $1,000. Fees are
to be paid prior to a swimming pool permit issuance.
      (3)   If a perimeter fence is pre-existing and in compliance with the
provisions herein, it is exempt from the deposit requirement.
      (4)   A perimeter (privacy) fence meeting the provisions contained herein
shall be installed prior to release of pool permit and prior to any
construction. An opening is allowed for access of equipment to construct the
pool. The completion deposit shall be applicable.
      (5)   If a perimeter fence is to be installed only around the pool and
not the perimeter (privacy fence), then the completion deposit shall be
required prior to release of permits and construction.
   (G)   Violation. If water is placed in a pool prior to barrier installation,
then the completion deposit shall be surrendered to the city. Any fines
assessment shall still be applicable.
(Prior Code, § 11.12.04) (2021-32, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 150.019 SEWER INSTALLATION PERMIT FEE.
   (A)   The city shall collect a fee of $70 for sewer tank and pump
installation required for the step-system.
   (B)   The city requires that the sewer installer present a copy of his or
her current sewer installer’s license.
(Prior Code, § 11.12.05) (Ord. 2014-12, passed - -)
§ 150.020 HEATING AND COOLING PERMIT FEES (HVAC).
   (A)   The city shall collect a fee of $50 for the first heating, and/or air
conditioning, unit, and $20 for each additional unit. This fee applies to
residential, commercial, and industrial uses.
   (B)   The subcontractor must present the Manual “J”, along with his or her
current HVAC license, when requesting an HVAC permit.
(Prior Code, § 11.12.06) (Ord. 2014-12, passed - -)
§ 150.021 RPZ VALUE INSTALLATION PERMIT FEE.
   (A)   The city shall collect a fee of $35 for RPZ valve installation
permits. One inspection is required after the installation is complete.
   (B)   The city requires that the RPZ valve installer present a copy of his
or her current installer license.
(Prior Code, § 11.12.07) (Ord. 2014-12, passed - -)
§ 150.022 RE-INSPECTION FEES.
   The city shall collect a minimum of $35, or the actual costs of the
reinspection, for each reinspection.
(Prior Code, § 11.12.08) (Ord. 2014-12, passed - -)
§ 150.023 RESIDENTIAL RENOVATION/MODIFICATION PERMIT FEES.
   The residential renovation/modification permit fees are applicable only if
electrical, plumbing, or HVAC modification/additions are made. There shall be
paid a $75 permit fee, plus $35 per inspection required under this section. The
number of inspections required shall be determined by the Building Official.
All new additions will be charged on the same basis as new construction.
(Prior Code, § 11.12.09) (Ord. 2014-12, passed - -)
§ 150.024 AGRICULTURE RENOVATION/MODIFICATION PERMIT FEES.
   For the area from one to 500 square feet, the city shall collect a fee of
$35, plus $0.10 per square foot for each additional square foot over 500 square
feet.
(Prior Code, § 11.12.10) (Ord. 2014-12, passed - -)
§ 150.025 COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL PERMIT FEES.
 
Type of Commercial/Industrial Cost per Square Foot
Assembly                      $0.32
Business                      $0.29
Factory/high hazard           $0.18
Hospital                      $0.41
Institutional                 $0.32
Warehouse                     $0.14
 
(Prior Code, § 11.12.11) (Ord. 2014-12, passed - -)
§ 150.026 MISCELLANEOUS FEES.
Service or Structure Fee
Service or Structure                       Fee
Backflow prevention or RPZ                 $50
Cleanup completion deposit for demolition, $500
house moving, and the like
Demolition (requires a 20-yard minimum     $100 with a cleanup deposit of $500
dumpster on site)
Fireworks tent/stand, haunted house, and   $50
the like
House moving/manufacturing (requires a 20- $100 with a cleanup deposit of $500
yard minimum dumpster on site)
Miscellaneous/single phase construction    $50
Permit renewal/extension                   $50
Re-inspection                              $55
Sewer installation permit for STEP system  $70 for sewer tank and pump
Storm shelter fee (site plan and permit    $120
shall be required)
Swimming pool fee (not to include electric $250
or plumbing permits)
 
   (A)   All cross-connection, RPZ, and backflow prevention devices shall
require an inspection and reporting to the city on an annual basis or a at such
rate and frequency as required by state law or state regulations.
   (B)   A cleanup completion deposit is required in the amount of $500 for
demolition, house moving, and the like. This deposit shall be refunded upon
completion of work, whereas no unsanitary, unsightly, trash, or health hazard
to the public exists. If such conditions exist, then deposit shall be forfeited
and the city can do as deemed necessary by law to ensure the site is cleaned
up.
   (C)   A house moving/manufacturing fee shall be accompanied by proof of a
state DOT permit.
   (D)   A certificate of occupancy deposit/completion deposit may accompany a
building permit if deemed necessary by Department of Building Safety. Each
completion deposit shall be equal to 50% of the total building permit fee. This
deposit shall be refunded upon issuance of a certificate of occupancy for the
building. If occupancy has taken place prior to certificate of occupancy
issuance, then deposit shall be forfeited.
(2021-32, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 150.027 AUTHORITY.
   The city is hereby authorized, and directed, to collect the above-referenced
fees, and charges, in connection with the various items listed therein, to be
paid by the applicants therefor at the time of making the application, and/or
request, for the above-referenced service, with all said sums to be deposited
into the General Fund of the city.
(Prior Code, § 11.12.12) (Ord. 2014-12, passed - -)
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS
§ 150.040 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   BUILDING PERMIT. A written permit issued by the city for the construction,
erection, alteration, remodeling, or repair of a RV park.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. The person designated by the City Council to enforce
this subchapter.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The county sanitarian, or other legally designated health
authority, of the city.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, or
association.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The City Planning Commission.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A wheeled vehicle which is not permanently attached to
the ground; it may be self-propelled or towed, it is equipped with sleeping,
cooking, and sanitary facilities, and it is designed for temporary occupancy
mainly for vacations, camping, or extended travel.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK. A lot, parcel, or tract of land designed,
maintained, and intended for the purpose of supplying a location for three, or
more, recreational vehicles, including all accessory structures.
(Prior Code, § 15.08.01) (Ord. 96, passed - -)
§ 150.041 DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All RV parks shall have frontage on, and direct access to, an
arterial, or collector, as identified by the City Master Street Plan.
   (B)   All RV parks shall be processed as large scale developments, as
required by the zoning ordinance.
   (C)   The access drives, and parking pads, shall be paved with a dust-free
hard surface.
   (D)   All RV parks shall be provided with central, and separate (male,
female), lavatory facilities and showers, and central human waste disposal and
solid waste disposal facilities.
   (E)   Each parking pad shall be equipped with electrical hook-ups.
   (F)   All RV parks shall be maintained in a clean, safe, and healthy manner.
   (G)   Water and sewage disposal facilities shall be provided in each RV
park, and shall be approved by the city and the Health Department.
(Prior Code, § 15.08.02) (Ord. 96, passed - -)
§ 150.042 PERMIT.
   Once the large scale development plan is approved by the city, the developer
shall apply for a building permit to construct the RV park. No RV park shall be
constructed, or operated, in the city without a building permit.
(Prior Code, § 15.08.03) (Ord. 96, passed - -)
§ 150.043 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Enforcement Officer to enforce the provisions of
this subchapter, and to investigate all alleged violations. The Enforcement
Officer shall notify, in writing, the RV park owner of any violation, and the
owner shall have 30 days to correct any violations. If the owner does not
correct the violation in 30 days, the Enforcement Officer shall notify the City
Council, in writing, and the City Council may take whatever legal action is
necessary to correct the violation.
(Prior Code, § 15.08.04) (Ord. 96, passed - -)
MOBILE HOME REGULATIONS
§ 150.055 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   AUTOMOBILE TRAILER, TRAILER COACH, or TRAILER. Any vehicle, or structure,
designed, and constructed, to permit occupancy thereof as sleeping quarters for
one, or more, persons, or the conduct of any business, profession, occupation,
or trade, or used as a selling, or advertising, device, and so designated that
it is, or may be, mounted on wheels, and used as a conveyance on streets or
highways, propelled, or drawn, by its own, or other, motive power, except a
device used exclusively upon stationary rails, or tracks.
   DEPENDENT MOBILE HOME. A mobile home which does not have a flush toilet and
a bath, or shower. No DEPENDENT MOBILE HOME may be set, or remain set, with the
city after the passage of this subchapter.
   INDEPENDENT MOBILE HOME. A mobile home which has a flush toilet and a bath,
or shower.
   MOBILE HOME. A manufactured, re-locatable living unit, specifically meaning
a non-self propelled vehicle, or similar portable structure, used, or so
constructed, as to permit its being transported upon the public streets, or
highways, and duly licensable as such, and designed to be used, with or without
a permanent foundation, as a dwelling, or for sleeping purposes.
   MODULAR HOME. A manufactured living unit constructed of two, or more,
sections designed to permit its being transported upon the public streets, or
highways, solely for the purpose of moving it to a permanent site, and
permanent foundation. The unit must have a minimum roof overhand of 12 inches,
and a minimum pitch of one and one-half inches per foot. A MODULAR HOME, as
described above, will not be classed as a mobile home.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, firm, company, corporation, tenant,
owner, lessee, or licensee, their agents, heirs, or assigns.
   PLACED or SET. Situated upon a foundation, tied down, or connected by any
means to any utility service of the city, or occupied as living, or sleeping,
quarters by one, or more, persons.
   TRAILER. See AUTOMOBILE TRAILER, TRAILER COACH, or TRAILER.
   TRAILER COACH. See AUTOMOBILE TRAILER, TRAILER COACH, or TRAILER.
   TRAILER PARK.
      (1)   Any park, trailer court, campsite, lot, parcel, or tract of land
zoned, and approved, by City Council for the purpose of supplying a location,
or accommodations, for trailer coaches, and upon which trailer coaches are
parked, and shall include all buildings used, or intended for use, as a part of
the equipment thereof whether a charge is made for the use of the trailer camp,
and its facilities, or not.
      (2)   TRAILER PARK shall not include automobile or trailer sales lots on
which unoccupied trailers are parked for purposes of inspection and sale.
(Prior Code, § 15.12.01) (Ord. 126, passed 6-6-1994)
§ 150.056 PLACEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any mobile home, independent or dependent, to
be placed, or set, in any area, or upon any lot or property, in the city from
the date of adoption hereof, and the placement of any mobile home shall be
illegal, except when placed in mobile home developments.
   (B)   The mobile homes which exist prior to the date of adoption of this
subchapter, shall comply with inspection provisions of this subchapter in §
150.060.
(Prior Code, § 15.12.02) (Ord. 126, passed 6-6-1994) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.057 HOMES IN LOCATION.
   All mobile homes set within the corporate limits as of the date of the
adoption of this subchapter shall be considered legally, and properly,
permitted, except as subject to the inspection provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 15.12.03) (Ord. 126, passed 6-6-1994)
§ 150.058 PERMIT DECAL.
   All owners of mobile homes set, as of the date of this subchapter, in the
corporate limits of the city shall be required, within 90 days of the passage
of this subchapter, to register their mobile home with the Building Official,
and to obtain a permit decal for the mobile home at no cost, or fee, to the
owner.
(Prior Code, § 15.12.04) (Ord. 126, passed 6-6-1994)
§ 150.059 REGISTRATION FORM.
   Each registration form shall include the following information:
   (A)   Serial number of the mobile home;
   (B)   Location of the mobile home by legal description and street address;
   (C)   Name, and address, of legal owner(s) of the mobile home; and
   (D)   Date of registration.
(Prior Code, § 15.12.05) (Ord. 126, passed 6-6-1994)
§ 150.060 INSPECTION.
   Each mobile home within the city shall be subject to inspection for
compliance with electrical, and plumbing, codes on each reconnection of
utilities, or upon evidence of violation of plumbing, or electrical,
requirements, or minimum area requirements for mobile homes, as set forth in
Ord. 49, Art. VI, § 5.
(Prior Code, § 15.12.06) (Ord. 126, passed 6-6-1994)
§ 150.061 RECORDS.
   The Building Official shall keep a record of all permit decals issued by the
city, said record to reflect the information contained in the permit
registration, and the date of issuance. The Building Official shall keep a
record of the physical location, inspection, and registration and permit status
of each mobile home in the city, and shall report the status of all non-permit
mobile homes to the City Council at least once each quarter of each year.
(Prior Code, § 15.12.07) (Ord. 126, passed 6-6-1994)
§ 150.062 DECALS.
   Permit decals shall be five inches by seven inches in size, green in color
with white lettering, which shall indicate, in bold numbering, the issuance
date of the permit decal, and shall also identify the address location, serial
number, and specific issuance date of the mobile home. Each mobile home permit
decal shall be sequentially numbered, said permit decal number to correspond to
a registration card. Each permit decal shall be prominently displayed to the
right of the main entry to each mobile home.
(Prior Code, § 15.12.08) (Ord. 126, passed 6-6-1994)
§ 150.063 EXCEPTIONS.
   No permit decal shall be issued for any mobile home after date of this
subchapter, except for the following:
   (A)   Decals will be permitted to existing mobile homes only; and
   (B)   Decals will be issued for new mobile homes if they are located in
mobile home developments, and other provisions of this subchapter are met.
(Prior Code, § 15.12.09) (Ord. 126, passed 6-6-1994)
§ 150.064 POWERS OF PLANNING COMMISSION.
   The City Planning Commission will hear any variance cases, as set forth in
said section, pursuant to the following procedure. The powers and duties given
to the Planning Commission, found in §
32.21, as hereby amended, shall include the following powers and duties:
   (A)   Enforcing the provisions of this subchapter, and other ordinance
provisions relating to trailers and trailer parks, and mobile homes;
   (B)   The Planning Commission, or its duly authorized representatives, may
enter upon the premises of any trailer park, or mobile home, at any reasonable
time for purposes of inspection, and enforcement;
   (C)   Issuing orders granting, and revoking, permits under the provisions of
this section; and
   (D)   Establishing rules, regulations, and criteria for the granting, or
denying, of permits.
(Prior Code, § 15.12.10) (Ord. 126, passed 6-6-1994)
§ 150.065 APPLICATION FEE.
   Any application to the Planning Commission for relief under the provisions
of this subchapter shall be accompanied by payment of a $10 fee.
(Prior Code, § 15.12.11) (Ord. 126, passed 6-6-1994)
§ 150.066 PUBLIC HEARING.
   (A)   Upon application to the Planning Commission for relief under the
provisions of this subchapter, the Planning Commission shall, as soon as
practical, set a date, and time, certain for a public hearing on said
application.
   (B)   The applicant shall notify all adjoining property owners, and/or those
within 300 feet of the property boundaries, of the date, and time, of the
hearing, of the proposed location of the mobile home, or automobile trailer,
the proposed use of same, purpose therefor, and proposed duration of time the
automobile trailer is expected to remain. The notification shall be by
certified mail, return receipt requested.
   (C)   The Planning Commission shall, not less than four days prior to the
public hearing on the application, publish, in a local newspaper of general
circulation, the date, time, place, and purpose of the public hearing.
   (D)   The Planning Commission shall cause a sign to be placed on, or near,
the proposed location for the automobile trailer, or mobile home, giving notice
to the public that an application has been filed that a public hearing is to be
held on said application, and who to contact to obtain further information
concerning the application, and hearing.
(Prior Code, § 15.12.12) (Ord. 126, passed 6-6-1994)
§ 150.067 PARKING ON STREETS.
   No person shall, within the city, park any trailer on any street, alley, or
highway, other public place, or on any tract of land owned by any person,
occupied or unoccupied, except as provided in the herein.
(Prior Code, § 15.12.13) (Ord. 126, passed 6-6-1994)
§ 150.068 PARKING ON PREMISES.
   No person shall park, or occupy, any trailer on the premises of any occupied
dwelling, or on any lot which is not a part of the premises of any occupied
dwelling, either of which is situated outside an approved trailer park. The
parking of unoccupied trailers in an accessory private garage building, or in a
rear yard, is prohibited, except as permitted under §
150.069.
(Prior Code, § 15.12.14) (Ord. 126, passed 6-6-1994) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.069 TEMPORARY STOPPING.
   Emergency, or temporary, stopping, or parking, of a trailer is permitted on
any street, alley, or highway, for no longer than one hour, subject to any
other, and further, prohibitions, regulations, or limitations imposed by the
traffic, and parking, provisions of the ordinance for that street, alley, or
highway.
(Prior Code, § 15.12.15) (Ord. 126, passed 6-6-1994)
§ 150.070 AUTOMOBILE TRAILERS.
   (A)   Automobile trailers shall not be used as a permanent place of abode,
or as a permanent dwelling, or for indefinite periods of time.
   (B)   It shall be permitted for a guest to park an automobile trailer on the
premises of an occupied dwelling for a period not to exceed 14 days.
   (C)   It shall be permitted for an evangelist, or team of evangelists, to
park, and occupy, an automobile trailer on church property for a period not to
exceed 14 days, unless such time period may be extended by special permit
issued by the city, so long as the parking, and occupancy, is related to a
revival, seminar, concert, or planned church function.
(Prior Code, § 15.12.16) (Ord. 126, passed 6-6-1994)
§ 150.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter, for which no
specific penalty is prescribed, shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   A.C. § 14-54-103 empowers municipal corporations to adopt ordinances
to provide for the safety, health, comfort, and convenience of the city.
Violation to the Mechanical Code shall be considered a violation of §
150.002, and shall be punishable as a misdemeanor offense. Violation of any of
the Mechanical Code adopted as a result of §
150.002, or other provisions of §
150.002, shall be punishable by a fine up to $250 per day that the violations
continue.
(Prior Code, § 11.16.04)
   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation found guilty of violating any of the
provisions of §§
150.015 through
150.027 shall be subject to a fine not greater than the sum of $500 for any one
specified offense or violation of §§
150.015 through
150.027, or double that sum for each repetition of such offense or violation.
If the thing prohibited or rendered unlawful is, in its nature, continuous in
respect to time, the fine or penalty for allowing the continuance thereof in
violation of §§
150.015 through
150.027 shall not exceed $250 for each day that the same may be unlawfully
continued.
   (D)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
150.040 through
150.043 shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not less than $25, and
each day’s failure to comply shall constitute a separate violation.
(Prior Code, § 15.08.05)
   (E)   Violation or failure to comply with the provisions of §§
150.056 through
150.070 shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $25 per day. Each day
such violation continues shall be considered a separate offense. The owner or
tenant of any mobile home who commits, participates in, or maintains such
violation may be found guilty of a separate offense and will suffer the
penalties provided in §§
150.056 through
150.070. Nothing contained in §§
150.056 through
150.070 shall prevent the city from taking such other lawful action as is
necessary to prevent the remedy of any violation.
(Ord. 96, passed - -; Ord. 126, passed 6-6-1994; Ord. 2004-16, passed - -; Ord.
2021-32, passed 9-27-2021)
CHAPTER 151: STREETS AND PUBLIC PROPERTY
Section
Ditches or Trenches
   
151.01   Purpose
   
151.02   Construction or trenches
   
151.03   Laying cable or pipe
   
151.04   Return of bond
   
151.05   Regulation for cables and pipes
Street Naming
   
151.20   Purpose
   
151.21   Street address map
   
151.22   Centerlines
   
151.23   Street names
   
151.24   Address numbers
   
151.25   Signs, numbers, and system maintenance
   
151.26   Number assignment
   
151.27   Amendments
   
151.28   Coordination with 911 Emergency Service Data Center
 
   
151.99   Penalty
DITCHES OR TRENCHES
§ 151.01 PURPOSE.
   Because repairing city streets and roads is very expensive, the city does
hereby adopt this subchapter for the purpose of setting a bond amount for
construction near city streets or roads, for ditching across city streets or
roads, and for roadside ditching.
(Prior Code, § 9.04.01) (Ord. 97-4, passed - -)
§ 151.02 CONSTRUCTION OR TRENCHES.
   Any individual, organization, business, corporation, or public utility
desiring to perform construction near a city street, or road, desiring to cut a
ditch, or trench, across any city street, or road, for any purpose, shall
notify the Planning Commission, or its agent, and post bond in the amount of
$500.
(Prior Code, § 9.04.02) (Ord. 97-4, passed - -)
§ 151.03 LAYING CABLE OR PIPE.
   Any individual, organization, business, corporation, or public utility
desiring to cut trenches, ditches, lay cable, or pipe or other device, or
otherwise disturb the existing right-of-way of a city street or road, for any
purpose, shall notify the Planning Commission, or its agent, and post bond in
the amount of $2,000 for each mile.
(Prior Code, § 9.04.03) (Ord. 97-4, passed - -)
§ 151.04 RETURN OF BOND.
   The bond shall continue in effect until approval of completion. The bond
shall be returned upon the proper restoration of the city street, or road, and
upon inspection, and approval, by the Planning Commission, or its agent.
(Prior Code, § 9.04.04) (Ord. 97-4, passed - -)
§ 151.05 REGULATION FOR CABLES AND PIPES.
   All cable, pipe, or other devices buried on city rights-of-way must be
placed at least 36 inches below the ground at the point of entrenchment.
(Prior Code, § 9.04.05) (Ord. 97-4, passed - -)
STREET NAMING
§ 151.20 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter establishes a system for assigning street names and address
numbers which will assist the public, and private, sector in locating
individual streets, buildings, and places in an easy, and logical, manner, and
for the protection of public health, and safety, of all persons living,
working, or visiting in the city.
(Prior Code, § 9.08.01) (Ord. 83, passed - -)
§ 151.21 STREET ADDRESS MAP.
   (A)   The official street address map is a part of this subchapter, and
shall contain the ordinance numbers and certifications which appear upon this
document. The map shall identify all named streets, numbering centerlines, and
block numbering grids which specify address number ranges. A typical section of
land shall be divided into 16 blocks, or grids, north/south and east/west. Each
grid interval shall be 330 feet, except in non-standard areas identified on the
map.
   (B)   The official street address map shall be automatically undated upon
final plat approval of any plat, or large scale development. The map shall
include a revision block which lists the date, and ordinance number, of the
latest change.
(Prior Code, § 9.08.02) (Ord. 83, passed - -)
§ 151.22 CENTERLINES.
   The address grid centroid is the intersection of Midway Street and Main
Avenue. The address numbers increase proceeding north, south, east, and west.
The north and south address centerline is a line extending east and west from
the grid centroid to the city limits. The east and west address centerline is a
line extending north and south from the grid centroid to the city limits.
(Prior Code, § 9.08.03) (Ord. 83, passed - -)
§ 151.23 STREET NAMES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the word STREET shall mean all
roadways, public and private, open for general public travel. Access drives to
apartments and commercial complexes shall not be considered as STREETS, and
shall not be named as such.
   (B)   Streets running east and west shall be identified with the suffix
“street” or “boulevard”. Streets running north and south shall be identified
with the suffix “avenue” or “road”.
   (C)   Streets which are also state and federal highways will be identified
by their local street name followed by their state, or federal, designation in
parentheses on the official street address map (for example, N. Highway 59 (AR
59)).
   (D)   Cul-de-sac streets, which have only one entrance/exit, shall not be
called “avenue” or “road”, but shall have a suffix name such as “cove”, “lane”,
“place”, or “terrace” to indicate their dead end nature.
   (E)   Loop streets are circular, or rectangular, plan streets which begin at
one point, and end at another point along a commons street, and do not connect
to any other streets. The street name suffixes on these streets must not be
“road” or “avenue”, but shall be “loop”, “circle”, “court”, or other name
indicating a closed street layout.
(Prior Code, § 9.08.04) (Ord. 83, passed - -)
§ 151.24 ADDRESS NUMBERS.
   (A)   Address numbers shall be even on the north and west sides of the
street, and odd on the south and east sides of the street. One hundred numbers
shall be assigned to each identified grid block, with the lowest number
beginning at the point nearest the grid centerline. Address numbers shall be
determined by the number grid in which the property is located.
   (B)    In new residential subdivision, each standard sized lot shall be
given a pre-assigned street number by the City Clerk-Treasurer upon final plat
approval. Address numbers will be assigned to large lots relative to their
capacity to be divided into two, or more, minimum sized lots for the minimum
width allowed by the zoning district. Address numbers shall be assigned to lots
in the appropriate odd, or even, numerical sequence relative to their location,
such as 201, 203, 205, and the like.
   (C)   Address numbers for unplatted residential, and all other non-
residential, buildings shall be determined by calculation. The distance from
the center of the driveway to the last corner, or grid, shall be measured to
get a location number. The location number is then divided by 3.30 to get the
address. If the block number is 1200 and the location number divided by 3.30 is
43, the address is 1243 or 1244, depending upon which side of the street the
building is located.
   (D)   When street intersections are within 120 feet of a grid line, the
number series change shall be made at the intersection to be more logical to
the public. When a long block faces two blocks divided by a street, the number
series on the long block shall change at the intersection street so that houses
facing each other will have compatible addresses.
   (E)   Diagonal streets which run 45 degrees, or less, from a north/south
line will be numbered by the north/south grid, and those more than 45 degrees
from the north/south line will be numbered by the east/west grid. Curving
streets will be assigned numbers based upon the grid of their greatest length.
For instance, if the beginning is more south than east of the end, then the
north/south grid will be used.
   (F)   On loop streets and cul-de-sac streets address numbering shall begin
at the entrance nearest the grid centerline. Address numbers shall increase, or
decrease, relative to their initial movement from the grid centerline, and
continue to the opposite end as if the street were in a straight line. Block
number changes will be made every 330 feet, with odd and even numbers remaining
on the same side of the street as they began.
   (G)   Apartment buildings on public streets shall be assigned individual
addresses. Apartments clustered about a central parking area immediately facing
a public street shall also be assigned separate street addresses.
   (H)   When apartments are arranged along a private street, a sign showing
the apartment complex name, with public street address below it, must be posted
at the entrance. In these instances, each building is lettered A, B, C, and the
like, but a central postal facility for all apartments must be located so it is
readily accessible to a mail carrier for the public street serving the complex.
   (I)   Each apartment must be identified on the exterior entrance by number
of building letter, and number for multiple buildings. The numbers shall be in
sequence (for example, 1, 2, 3, and the like). Apartments in lettered buildings
shall have the building letter as part of each apartment number, such as B-210.
When units are on multiple floors, ground floor numbers shall be in the 100
series (101, 102, 103, and so on), second floor in the 200 series (201, 202,
203, and so on), and the like. If a common hallway is used for several
apartments, the external hallway entrance to each apartment shall contain a
list of the apartments served. When addressing townhouses, and other buildings
containing units separately owned, each address shall be placed upon the
principal external entryway to the unit.
   (J)   The official address for each apartment on a public street shall be
the building address followed by the apartment number, such as “329 Fernway
Avenue, Apt. B”. Addresses for units in apartment buildings not on a public
street shall include the public street address and the building number with the
apartment designation. The official address for each apartment will be the
public street address followed by the building letter, a dash, and the
apartment number, such as “329 Fernway Avenue, Apt. C-104".
(Prior Code, § 9.08.05) (Ord. 83, passed - -)
§ 151.25 SIGNS, NUMBERS, AND SYSTEM MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Public, and private, street signs shall be installed at the expense of
the original developer, and thereafter maintained by the city.
   (B)   Private street signs shall be required. They shall conform to the
public street sign standards, except they shall have a blue background with
white letters.
   (C)   Only street name signs which are authorized by the City Council shall
be installed within the corporate limits of the city. All street name signs,
public or private, found not to conform with this subchapter shall be removed
by the City Council. Non-conforming, damaged, or deteriorated public street
signs shall be replaced as soon as possible by the City Council.
   (D)    Requests for private street signs on existing streets shall be
submitted to the City Clerk-Treasurer. The City Clerk-Treasurer shall forward
authorization to the Mayor immediately upon completion, after which the Mayor
shall have the sign prepared and installed as soon as possible.
   (E)   Address numbers shall be assigned by the city, and shall be installed
by the builder before final inspection, and shall be the owner’s responsibility
thereafter.
   (F)   Replacement of address numbers is required within 15 days after
written notice to the owner by the City Clerk-Treasurer. New, and replacement,
numbers must be placed so that they will be clearly visible from the street of
primary access to the building.
   (G)   Address numbers shall be a minimum of three inches high with black
block letters on a white background, and shall be visible from the street.
Other colors, which have sufficient contrast to be read from the street under
normal nighttime conditions, may be approved by the Mayor. The numbers shall be
placed as near as possible to the primary entrance of the building, and
preferably above the entrance doorway. The location, style, size, and color of
the required numbers shall be approved by the Mayor. Appeals concerning numbers
shall be made to the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 9.08.06) (Ord. 83, passed - -)
§ 151.26 NUMBER ASSIGNMENT.
   (A)    Official records of address numbers shall be maintained by the City
Clerk-Treasurer. The City Council shall have the final authority to change any
assignment upon an appeal by any affected party.
   (B)   All proposed street names, and name changes, shall be reviewed for
continuity with this subchapter by the City Clerk-Treasurer, who shall
recommend alternative names when a proposed name duplicates, or is so similar
to an existing name, that confusion could hamper prompt delivery of emergency
services. The City Council shall hold a public hearing on street name changes,
and shall have the final authority to change any assignment.
(Prior Code, § 9.08.07) (Ord. 83, passed - -)
§ 151.27 AMENDMENTS.
   On any proposed amendments to these regulations, or to the street address
map, the City Council shall hold a public hearing, a notice of which shall be
published in a local newspaper of general distribution, at least 15 days prior
to the date of the hearing. Following the public hearing, the City Council may
adopt the amendment, or amendments, by a majority vote of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 9.08.08) (Ord. 83, passed - -)
§ 151.28 COORDINATION WITH 911 EMERGENCY SERVICE DATA CENTER.
   (A)    Following the naming of a new street, the renaming of an existing
street, a change of an existing street number, or the assignment of a new
street number, the City Clerk-Treasurer shall notify the 911 Emergency Service
Data Center on a form provided by the Center.
   (B)   The 911 Data Center shall not accept any street name or number change,
or number assignment, which is not on the form provided, and signed by the City
Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 9.08.09) (Ord. 83, passed - -)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter, for which no
specific penalty is prescribed, shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, partnership, corporation, or other legal entity found in
violation of §§
151.01 through
151.05 shall be subject to a fine of not more than $250, with each day in
violation of §§
151.01 through
151.05 being considered a separate offense. In addition, the city may, at the
option of the City Council, bring an action to enjoin the continued violation
of §§
151.01 through
151.05.
(Prior Code, § 9.04.06)
   (C)   Any person failing to comply with the provisions of §§
151.20 through
151.28 shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not less than $10, nor more
than $25, plus prosecution costs for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 9.08.10)
(Ord. 83, passed - -; Ord. 97-4, passed - -)
CHAPTER 152: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
   
152.01   Statutory authority
   
152.02   Findings of fact
   
152.03   Statement of purpose
   
152.04   Chapter application
   
152.05   Methods of reducing flood losses
   
152.06   Flood Damage Prevention Code adopted
   
152.07   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
152.08   Interpretation
   
152.09   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
152.10   Compliance; non-compliance
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01 STATUTORY AUTHORITY.
   The legislature of the state has, in A.C. §§ 14-268-101 et seq., delegated
the responsibility of local governmental units to adopt regulations to minimize
flood losses. Therefore, the City Council does hereby ordain as follows.
(Prior Code, § 14.12.01) (Ord. 2012-4, passed - -)
§ 152.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has identified special
flood hazard areas of the city in the current scientific, and engineering,
report entitled “The Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for Benton County, Arkansas,
and incorporated areas” (dated revised: June 5, 2012), with an effective Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) (date revised: June 5, 2012).
   (B)   These special flood hazard areas are subject to periodic flooding
events that result in loss of life, and property, pose health and safety
hazards, disrupt commerce and governmental services, and cause extraordinary
public expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which adversely
affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (C)   These periodic flooding events are exacerbated by the cumulative
effect of floodplain developments, which cause an increase in flood heights and
velocities, and by the placement of inadequately elevated, inadequately flood
proofed, or otherwise unprotected structures, or uses, vulnerable to floods
into special flood hazard areas. Such structures, or uses, are inherently
hazardous to other lands because of their adverse impact on flooding events.
(Prior Code, § 14.12.02) (Ord. 2012-4, passed - -)
§ 152.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to promote the public health, safety,
and general welfare, to prevent adverse impacts from any floodplain development
activities, and to minimize public, and private, losses due to flooding events
in identified special flood hazard areas.
   (B)   This chapter advances the stated purpose in division (A) above through
provisions designed to:
      (1)   Protect human life and health;
      (2)   Protect natural floodplains against unwise development;
      (3)   Eliminate adverse impacts of necessary floodplain development;
      (4)   Minimize expenditure of public monies on flood control projects;
      (5)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding, and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      (6)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions due to flooding events;
      (7)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities, such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone, and sewer lines, and streets and bridges
located in special flood hazard areas;
      (8)   Minimize future flood blight areas to help maintain a stable tax
base; and
      (9)   Provide for notice to potential buyers when property is in a
special flood hazard area.
(Prior Code, § 14.12.03) (Ord. 2012-4, passed - -)
§ 152.04 CHAPTER APPLICATION.
   The chapter shall apply to all special flood hazard areas within the
jurisdiction of the city.
(Prior Code, § 14.12.04) (Ord. 2012-4, passed - -)
§ 152.05 METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES.
   This chapter uses the following methods to accomplish the stated purpose.
   (A)   This chapter restricts, or prohibits, structures, or uses, in special
flood hazard areas that adversely impact health, safety, or property during
flooding events.
   (B)   This chapter requires protection against flood damage for structures,
or uses, vulnerable to floods at the time of initial construction, or after
substantial improvement of the structure, or after substantial damage has
occurred.
   (C)   This chapter controls the alteration of natural floodplains, stream
channels, and natural protective barriers which are involved in the
accommodation, and transport, of floodwaters.
   (D)   This chapter controls floodplain development (structural development,
placement of manufactured structures, clearing, grading, mining, drilling,
dredging, placement of fill, excavating, watercourse alteration, drainage
improvements, roadway or bridge construction, individual water or sewer
installations, and other activities) which may increase flood damage by
increasing flood elevations, floodwater velocities, or flood discharge
patterns.
   (E)   This chapter regulates the construction of flood barriers which
unnaturally divert floodwaters, or which may adversely impact other lands.
(Prior Code, § 14.12.05) (Ord. 2012-4, passed - -)
§ 152.06 FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   The city has published notice, as required by law, to adopt the Flood
Damage Prevention Code as a technical code by reference. The city has had, and
shall continue to have, three copies of the Flood Damage Prevention Code on
file in the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer for inspection, and copying, by
the public. The Flood Damage Prevention Code for the city is dated December 17,
2007.
   (B)   The code shall include:
      (1)   “ARTICLE 1 DEFINITIONS”;
      (2)   “ARTICLE 2 ADMINISTRATION”; and
      (3)   “ARTICLE 3 PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION”.
(Prior Code, § 14.12.06) (Ord. 2012-4, passed - -)
§ 152.07 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter does not repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements,
covenants, or deed restrictions. Whenever there is a conflict, or overlap,
between this chapter and another ordinance, easement, covenant, or deed
restriction, the instrument with the more stringent restrictions applies.
(Prior Code, § 14.12.07) (Ord. 2012-4, passed - -)
§ 152.08 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation, and application, of this chapter, all provisions
must:
   (A)   Be considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Be liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Be deemed to neither limit, nor repeal, any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 14.12.08) (Ord. 2012-4, passed - -)
§ 152.09 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes. Documented scientific, and engineering,
data form the basis for these requirements. On rare occasions, flooding events
greater than those considered for this chapter will occur. In addition, flood
heights may increase over time due to human-made, or natural, causes. This
chapter does not imply that land outside special flood hazard areas will be
free from flooding, nor that strict adherence to this chapter protects uses
permitted within special flood hazard areas from all flood damages. This
chapter, specifically, does not create liability on the part of the community,
nor any official, or employee, of the community, for any flood damages that
result while strictly following this chapter, or from any lawful administrative
decision made under the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 14.12.09) (Ord. 2012-4, passed - -)
§ 152.10 COMPLIANCE; NON-COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Constructing, locating, substantially altering, or changing the use of
any structure, or land, after the effective date of this chapter requires full
compliance with the provisions of this chapter, and all other applicable
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 14.12.10)
   (B)   Flood hazards are reduced by compliance with the provisions of this
chapter. Accordingly, enforcement of this chapter discourages non-compliance,
and is a recognized mechanism for flood hazard reduction.
   (C)   The Floodplain Administrator must enforce the provisions of this
chapter, and is authorized to:
      (1)   Issue cease, and desist, orders on non-compliant floodplain
development projects;
      (2)   Issue citations for non-compliance;
      (3)   Request that FEMA file a 1316 Action (denial of flood insurance)
against non-compliant properties; and
      (4)   Take any other lawful action necessary to prevent, or remedy, any
instance of non-compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 14.12.11)
(Ord. 2012-4, passed - -) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   It is a misdemeanor to violate, or fail to comply with, any provision
of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person found, in a court of competent jurisdiction, guilty of
violating this chapter is subject to fines of not more than $500 per day for
each violation. In addition, the defendant is subject to payment of all
associated court costs, and costs involved in the case.
(Prior Code, § 14.12.11) (Ord. 2012-4, passed - -)
CHAPTER 153: WIRELESS FACILITIES; CONSTRUCTION, REGULATIONS
Section
   
153.01   Purpose, scope
   
153.02   Definitions
   
153.03   Permitted uses; other standards
   
153.04   Application, review process
   
153.05   Exclusive arrangements prohibited
   
153.06   Local authority
   
153.07   Guidance illustrations
§ 153.01 PURPOSE, SCOPE.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to provide policies, and
procedures, for the placement of small wireless facilities, which will provide
a public benefit consistent with the preservation of the integrity, safe usage,
and visual qualities of the city, and comply with applicable state, and
federal, laws, regulations, and guidelines.
   (B)   Intent.
      (1)   In enacting this chapter, the city is establishing uniform
standards to address issues presented by small wireless facilities, including,
without limitation:
         (a)   Health, safety, and welfare of citizens;
         (b)   Limit interference with the use of streets, sidewalks, alleys,
parkways, public utilities, public views, certain city corridors, and other
public ways and places;
         (c)   Limit the creation of visual, and physical, obstructions and
other conditions that are hazardous to vehicular, and pedestrian, traffic;
         (d)   Limit interference with the facilities, and operations of
facilities, lawfully located in rights-of-way, or public property;
         (e)   Limit environmental damage, including damage to trees;
         (f)   Respect the character of the neighborhoods in which facilities
are installed by minimization of visual clutter, and preservation of the
character and aesthetics of areas in close proximity to small wireless
communication facilities;
         (g)   Facilitate the city’s permitting process to encourage fair, and
meaningful, competition;
         (h)   Encourage collocation of antenna on existing facilities; and
         (i)   Facilitate deployment of small cell facilities to provide the
benefits of advanced wireless services to all citizens, and organizations,
throughout the city.
      (2)   Municipalities recognize the economic, and social, value of data
connectivity, and desire to encourage wireless infrastructure investment by
providing a fair, and predictable, process for the deployment of small wireless
facilities within the public rights-of-way in a manner that is:
         (a)   Safe;
         (b)   Compatible with, and complementary to, the provision of services
by the municipality, and others lawfully using the rights-of-way; and
         (c)   Consistent with the aesthetic standards of the municipality.
   (C)   Zoning and use of rights-of-way by wireless providers.
      (1)   A wireless provider shall have the right, as a permitted use, not
subject to zoning review or approval, to collocate, maintain, modify, operate,
and replace small wireless facilities and to install, maintain, modify, and
replace poles it owns or manages, or, with the permission of the owner, a third
party’s pole, associated with a small wireless facility, along, across, upon,
and under the right-of-way.
      (2)   Small wireless facilities, and associated poles, shall be
installed, and maintained, as to not obstruct, or hinder, the usual travel, or
public safety, of the right-of-way, or the usage of the right-of-way by
utilities.
      (3)   Therefore, applications to collocate a small wireless facility, or
install, or modify, an associated utility pole in the rights-of-way, shall be
treated as a permitted use in all districts within the city, but are not exempt
from the following local regulations and review.
      (4)   All wireless facilities not meeting the definition of a small
wireless facility shall be subject to applicable local zoning, and development,
requirements.
   (D)   Conflicts with other chapters. This chapter supersedes all chapters,
or parts of chapters, adopted prior hereto that are in conflict herewith, to
the extent of such conflict.
   (E)   Conflicts with state and federal laws. In the event that applicable
federal, or state, laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
chapter, the wireless services provider shall comply with the requirements of
this chapter to the extent that its provisions are not preempted by, or do not
conflict with, applicable federal, or state, laws or regulations.
(Ord. 2019-16, passed 8-26-2019)
§ 153.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   AFFILIATE. An entity that directly, or indirectly, controls, is controlled
by, or is under common control with another party.
   ANTENNA. Communications equipment that transmits, or receives, an
electromagnetic radio frequency signal in the provision of wireless service.
   ANTENNA EQUIPMENT. Equipment, switches, wiring, cabling, power sources,
shelters, or cabinets associated with an antenna, located at the same fixed
location as the antenna, and, when collocated on a structure, is mounted, or
installed, at the same time as the antenna. ANTENNA EQUIPMENT does not include:
      (1)   The structure, or improvements, on, under, or within which the
equipment is collocated; or
      (2)   Wireline backhaul facilities, coaxial, or fiber optic, cable that
is between structures, or coaxial, or fiber optic, cable that is otherwise not
immediately adjacent to, or directly associated with, an antenna.
   ANTENNA FACILITY. An antenna, and associated antenna equipment.
   APPLICABLE CODES. Uniform electrical reliability, building, fire,
electrical, plumbing, or mechanical codes, as adopted by a recognized national
code organization, or local amendments to the codes that are of general
application, or local ordinances that are of general application, that address
public health, safety, or welfare, and are consistent with this chapter.
   APPLICANT. A person who submits an application as, or on behalf of, a
wireless provider.
   APPLICATION. A request submitted by an applicant to an authority for a
permit:
      (1)   To collocate small wireless facilities; or
      (2)   To install, modify, or replace a pole on which a small wireless
facility is, or will be, collocated, in the right-of-way.
   AUTHORITY. The City of Cave Springs, Arkansas.
   AUTHORITY POLE. A pole owned, managed, or operated by, or on behalf of, an
authority.
   COLLOCATE or COLLOCATE ON. The placement, mounting, replacement, or
modification of a small wireless facility on, or of ground-mounted antenna
equipment adjacent to, a structure. COLLOCATE or COLLOCATE ON includes
collocated ground-mounted antenna equipment as a small wireless facility if it
meets the requirements of A.C. § 23-17-503(25)(A)(iii) through (vi), and the
associated facilities on the adjacent structure meet the requirements of A.C. §
23-17-503(25)(A)(i) through(vi).
   COLLOCATION. Placing an antenna on any existing structure, regardless of
whether that structure already has wireless equipment on it, or whether it has
been zoned for placing that equipment.
   COMMUNICATION SERVICE PROVIDER.
      (1)   A cable operator, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(5), as it existed
on January 1, 2019;
      (2)   A provider of information service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153
(24), as it existed on January 1, 2019;
      (3)   A telecommunications carrier, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(51); or
      (4)   A wireless provider.
   COMMUNICATION SERVICES.
      (1)   A cable service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(6), as it existed on
January 1, 2019;
      (2)   A telecommunications service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(53), as
it existed on January 1, 2019;
      (3)   An information service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(24), as it
existed on January 1, 2019; or
      (4)   Wireless service.
   CONTROL. The direct, or indirect:
      (1)   Ownership of at least 50% of the equity;
      (2)   Ability to direct at least 50% of voting power; or
      (3)   Ability otherwise to direct management policies.
   CONTROLLED ACCESS FACILITY. A highway or street described in A.C. § 27-68-
102.
   DECORATIVE POLE. An authority pole that is specifically designed, and
placed, for aesthetic purposes, and on which limited appurtenances, or
attachments, such as a small wireless facility, lighting, specially designed
informational, or directional, signage, or temporary holiday, or special event
attachments, have been placed, or are permitted to be placed, according to
nondiscriminatory city rules or codes.
   DAY. A calendar day, unless there is a timeframe for the city to respond to
a request, and the last day to respond ends on a weekend, holiday, or time when
all but city emergency services are closed due to weather, or some unforeseen
situation.
   FACILITY. An antenna facility, or a structure, that is used for the
provision of wireless service.
   FEE. A one-time, nonrecurring charge.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT. A group of buildings, properties, or sites that are
either:
      (1)   Listed in the National Register of Historic Places, or formally
determined eligible for listing by the Keeper of the National Register of
Historic Places, according to § VI.D.l.a.i-v of the Nationwide Programmatic
Agreement regarding the § 106 National Historic Preservation Act Review
Process, 47 C.F.R. part 1, appendix C, as it existed on January 1, 2019;
      (2)   A HISTORIC DISTRICT designated under the Historic Districts Act, §§
14-172-201 et seq.; or
      (3)   A HISTORIC DISTRICT otherwise designated under a local ordinance as
of January 1, 2019.
   MICRO-WIRELESS FACILITY. A wireless facility that:
      (1)   Is not larger in dimension than 24 inches in length, 15 inches in
width, and 12 inches in height;
      (2)   Has an exterior antenna that is no longer than 11 inches; and
      (3)   Is not placed any farther than ten feet down the span, as measured
from the side of the pole.
   PERMIT. An authorization, written or otherwise, required by an authority to
perform an action, or initiate, continue, or complete a project for the
deployment of wireless service at a specified location.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership,
association, trust, authority, or other entity or organization.
   POLE. A pole in a right-of-way that may be used by, or for, wireline
communications, electric distribution, lighting, traffic control, signage, or a
similar function, or for collocation of small wireless facilities. POLE does
not include a wireless support structure, or an electric transmission
structure.
   RATE. A recurring charge.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. An area on, below, or above a public utility easement,
roadway, highway, street, sidewalk, alley, or similar property. Such areas are
formally owned by the city, or used as prescriptive easements. RIGHT-OF-WAY
does not include a federal interstate highway, controlled-access facility, or a
public utility easement that does not authorize the deployment sought by the
wireless provider.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY.
      (1)   A wireless facility that meets all of the following specifications:
         (a)   The facility:
            1.   Is mounted on a structure 50 feet, or less, in height,
including the antennas;
            2.   Is mounted on a structure no more than 10% taller than other
adjacent structures; or
            3.   Does not extend an existing structure on which it is located
to a height of more than 50 feet, or by more than 10%, whichever is greater.
         (b)   Each antenna associated with the deployment, excluding
associated antenna equipment, is no more than three cubic feet in volume;
         (c)   All other wireless equipment associated with the structure,
including the wireless equipment associated with the antenna, and any
preexisting associated equipment on the structure, is no more than 28 cubic
feet in volume;
         (d)   The facility does not require antenna structure registration
under 47 C.F.R. part 17, as it existed on January 1, 2019;
         (e)   The facility is not located on tribal lands, as defined in 36
C.F.R. § 800.16(x), as it existed on January 1, 2019; and
         (f)   The facility does not result in human exposure to radio
frequency in excess of the applicable safety standards, specified in 47 C.F.R.
§ 1.1307(b), as it existed on January 1, 2019.
      (2)   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY does not include:
         (a)   The structure, or improvements on, under, or within which the
equipment is located, or collocated, or to which the equipment is attached; and
         (b)   Any wireline backhaul facility, or coaxial or fiber optic cable,
that is between wireless support structures, or utility poles, or that is
otherwise not immediately adjacent to, or directly associated with, a
particular antenna.
   STRUCTURE. A pole, or wireless support structure, whether or not it has an
existing antenna facility, that is used, or to be used, for the provision of
wireless service.
   TECHNICALLY FEASIBLE. By virtue of engineering, or spectrum usage, the
proposed placement for a small wireless facility, or its design, concealment
measures, or site location, can be implemented without a material reduction in
the functionality of the small wireless facility.
   UTILITY POLE. A pole, or similar structure, that is used in whole, or in
part, for the purpose of carrying electric distribution lines or cables, or
wires, for telecommunications, cable, or electric service, or for lighting,
traffic control signage, or a similar function regardless of ownership. Such
term shall not include structures supporting only wireless facilities.
   WIRELESS FACILITY.
      (1)   Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless communications
between user equipment and a communication network, including:
         (a)   Equipment associated with wireless communications; and
         (b)   Radio transceivers, antennas, coaxial, or fiber optic, cable,
regular, and backup, power supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless of
technological configuration.
      (2)   The term includes SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES. The term does not
include the structure, or improvements, on, under, or within which the
equipment is collocated, wireline backhaul facilities, coaxial, or fiber optic,
cable that is between wireless support structures or utility poles, or coaxial,
or fiber optic, cable that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to, or
directly associated with, an antenna.
   WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER. A person, or an affiliate thereof,
including a person authorized to provide communications service in the state,
that builds, or installs, facilities for the provision of wireless service, but
that is not a wireless service provider.
   WIRELESS PROVIDER. A wireless infrastructure provider, or a wireless service
provider.
   WIRELESS SERVICE. Any service using licensed, or unlicensed, spectrum,
including the use of Wi-Fi, whether at a fixed location or mobile, provided to
the public.
   WIRELESS SERVICE PROVIDER. A person who provides wireless service.
   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A structure, including:
      (1)   A monopole;
      (2)   A tower, either guyed or self-supporting;
      (3)   A billboard;
      (4)   A building; or
      (5)   Any other existing, or proposed, structure designed to support, or
that is capable of supporting, small wireless facilities, other than a
structure designed solely for the collocation of small wireless facilities.
   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. Does not include a pole.
   WIRELINE BACKHAUL FACILITY. An aboveground, or underground, facility used to
transport communications services from a wireless facility to a network.
(Ord. 2019-16, passed 8-26-2019)
§ 153.03 PERMITTED USES; OTHER STANDARDS.
   (A)   Location. While small cell facilities are permitted uses within all
zoning districts within the city, deployment of small cell facilities within
the city is subject to the standards set forth in this chapter.
   (B)   Height.
      (1)   Each new, or modified, pole installed in the right-of-way for the
purpose of collocation of small wireless facilities shall not exceed the
greater of:
         (a)   Fifty feet in height above ground level; or
         (b)   Ten percent taller than the tallest existing pole in place in
the same right-of-way as of September 1, 2019, within 300 feet of the new, or
modified, pole.
      (2)   A new small wireless facility in the right-of-way shall not extend
more than 10% above the existing structure on which it is located, or 50 feet
above ground level, whichever is greater.
      (3)   A wireless provider shall have the right to collocate a wireless
facility and install, maintain, modify, and replace a pole that exceeds the
height limits required under division (B)(1) above along, across, upon, and
under the right-of-way, subject to this section, and any applicable zoning
regulations.
   (C)   Location and design.
      (1)   A wireless provider shall not install a small wireless facility, or
pole, in a historic district without complying with the requirements of general
application for structures within the historic district.
      (2)   A wireless provider may replace decorative poles when necessary to
deploy a small wireless facility, so long as the replacement reasonably
conforms to the design of the original decorative pole.
   (D)   Damage and repair; replacements, abandonment, removal.
      (1)   (a)   A wireless provider shall repair all damage to the right-of-
way directly caused by the activities of the wireless provider in the right-of-
way, and return the right-of-way to its functional, and aesthetic, equivalence
before the damage under the competitively neutral, reasonable requirements, and
specifications, of the city.
         (b)   If the wireless provider fails to make the repairs required by
the city within a reasonable time after written notice, the city may make those
repairs, and charge the applicable party the actual, and reasonable, documented
cost, including overhead, of the repairs.
      (2)   (a)   A wireless provider is not required to replace, or upgrade,
an existing pole, except for reasons of structural necessity, or compliance
with applicable codes.
         (b)   A wireless provider may, with the permission of the pole owner,
replace, or modify, existing poles, but any such replacement, or modification,
shall substantially conform to the design aesthetics of the pole being
modified, or replaced.
      (3)   (a)   A wireless provider shall notify the city at least 30 days
before the wireless provider’s abandonment of a small wireless facility.
         (b)   If the wireless provider fails to remove the abandoned small
wireless facility within 90 days after the notice, the city may undertake the
removal, and recover the actual, and reasonable, documented cost, including
overhead, of the removal from the wireless provider, or its successors or
assigns.
      (4)   (a)   The city may order the removal of a small wireless facility,
or associated pole, in the right-of-way that violates A.C. §§ 23-17-505, 23-17-
506, or applicable codes.
         (b)   The city shall provide written notice of the violation to the
owner of the small wireless facility at least 30 days before removal to afford
the owner the opportunity to conduct repairs or removal, or otherwise remedy
the violation.
      (5)   (a)   If the city determines that a wireless provider’s activity in
a right-of-way under this section creates an imminent risk to public safety,
the city may provide written notice to the wireless provider, and demand that
the wireless provider address the risk.
         (b)   If the wireless provider fails to reasonably address the risk
within 24 hours of the written notice, the city may take, or cause to be taken,
action to reasonably address the risk, and charge the wireless provider the
reasonable documented cost of the actions.
      (6)   A wireless provider shall not collocate a small wireless facility,
or install, modify, or replace a pole in the right-of-way that:
         (a)   Materially interferes with the safe operation of traffic control
equipment;
         (b)   Materially interferes with sight lines or clear zones for
transportation, or pedestrians;
         (c)   Materially interferes with compliance with the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq., or similar federal,
or state, standards regarding pedestrian access, or movement; or
         (d)   Fails to comply with applicable codes.
   (E)   Collocation.
      (1)   This section applies to activities of a wireless provider
collocating small wireless facilities on authority poles in the city’s right-
of-way, or in a right-of-way controlled by the State Department of
Transportation located within the city.
      (2)   (a)   A person owning, managing, or controlling poles in the city,
or state right-of-way, shall not enter into an exclusive arrangement with any
person for the right to attach to the poles.
         (b)   A person who purchases, or otherwise acquires, a pole in the
city, or state right-of-way, is subject to the requirements of this section.
      (3)   The city shall allow the collocation of small wireless facilities
on authority poles on nondiscriminatory terms, and conditions, using the
process in §
153.04(A).
      (4)   The rates to collocate on authority poles is provided in §
153.04(F)(13).
      (5)   (a)   As part of an application to collocate a small wireless
facility on an authority pole, the wireless provider shall submit make-ready
design drawings, and work descriptions, that enable the pole to support the
requested collocation by the wireless provider, including pole replacement, if
necessary.
         (b)   The city may amend the make-ready design drawings, and work to
comply with applicable codes before the issuance of a permit to the extent
reasonably necessary.
         (c)   The rates, fees, and terms and conditions for the make-ready
work to collocate on an authority pole shall be nondiscriminatory,
competitively neutral, and commercially reasonable, and shall comply with this
chapter.
         (d)   The city shall not require more make-ready work than required to
meet applicable codes or industry standards, nor may the fees for make-ready
work include costs related to preexisting, or prior, damage or non-compliance.
      (6)   (a)   The city may require replacement of an authority pole only if
the collocation would make the authority pole structurally unsound.
         (b)   The city may require that the replaced authority pole have the
same functionality as the pole being replaced.
         (c)   If the authority pole is replaced, the city shall take ownership
of the new pole, and operate authority fixtures on the pole.
      (7)   (a)   Make-ready fees charged by the city may include the amount
the authority pays a professional engineer registered in the state to review
the wireless provider’s make-ready work plans.
         (b)   Fees for make-ready work shall not include any revenue, or
contingency-based consultant’s fees, or expenses of any kind.
      (8)   Within 60 days of the receipt of the application filed to collocate
on a city pole, the city shall elect to:
         (a)   Perform the make-ready work necessary to enable the pole to
support the requested collocation by a wireless provider, and provide a good-
faith estimate for the work, including pole replacement, if necessary; or
         (b)   Authorize the wireless provider to perform the make-ready work.
      (9)   (a)   The city shall complete make-ready work it elects to perform,
including any pole replacement, within 60 days of written acceptance of the
good faith estimate of the applicant.
         (b)   If the city, electing to perform the make-ready work, has not
completed the work within 60 days after the written acceptance, and deposit of
the good faith estimate by the applicant, the applicant may demand a return of
any deposited funds, and proceed with the make-ready work as described in
division (E)(5) above, using authorized, qualified contractors approved by the
city with the authorization not to be unreasonably withheld, conditioned, or
delayed.
      (10)   The city, or other applicable authority, may reserve space on an
authority pole for future public safety, or transportation, uses in a
documented, and approved, plan in place at the time an application is filed.
         (a)   A reservation of space shall not preclude placement of a pole,
or collocation of a small wireless facility.
         (b)   If replacement of the city’s pole is necessary to accommodate
the collocation of the small wireless facility and the future use, the wireless
provider shall pay for the replacement of the authority pole, and the replaced
pole shall accommodate future use.
   (F)   Aesthetics.
      (1)   The aesthetic appearance of small wireless facilities, and
associated poles, is regulated by the city to ensure coordinated, adjusted, and
harmonious development, as provided in this section. The city may apply these
requirements to areas of the city in which coordinated, adjusted, and
harmonious development has been established through the use of overlay
districts, or historical districts, which have been in existence at least 90
days prior to the passage of this chapter.
      (2)   These aesthetic standards shall adhere to the following
requirements:
         (a)   Reasonable, in that they are technically feasible and reasonably
directed to avoiding, or remedying, unsightly, or out-of-character,
deployments;
         (b)    No more burdensome than those applied to other types of utility
and communications infrastructure deployments;
         (c)   Objective, and published, at least 90 days in advance of the
filing of an application under this chapter;
         (d)   Any design, or concealment, measures are not considered a part
of the small wireless facility for purposes of the size parameters in the
definition of small wireless facility; and
         (e)   The city may deny an application for not complying with
aesthetic requirements only if the city finds that the denial does not
prohibit, or have the effect of prohibiting, the provision of wireless service.
      (3)   The Board of Zoning Adjustment may:
         (a)   Hear appeals of the decision of the Administrative Officer in
respect to the enforcement, and application, of the aesthetic standards, and
may affirm, or reverse, in whole or in part, the decision of the Administrative
Officer;
            1.   Decisions of the Administrative Officer shall be rendered to
the applicant in writing; and
            2.   An appeal must be filed within ten days of the written
decision of the Administrative Officer.
         (b)   Hear requests for variances from the literal provisions of the
aesthetic standards, and grant the variances only when it is necessary to avoid
the prohibition of wireless service, or otherwise comply with the law.
      (4)   Decisions of the Board, in respect to this section, shall be
subject to appeal only to a court of record having jurisdiction.
      (5)   Equipment enclosures standards shall be:
         (a)   To the extent technically feasible, if the support structure is
a pole, all radios and wireless communication equipment, except the antenna,
shall be enclosed within an equipment cabinet, and housed at the base of the
support structure, pole mounted (at a height, and placement, that will not
interfere with pedestrian, cyclist, or vehicular movements), or below grade;
and
         (b)   Where underground utilities are required by the provisions of
this chapter, or other city adopted regulations or codes, ancillary equipment
related to the small wireless facility shall be placed in an underground vault
to the greatest extent possible.
      (6)   Design shall be consistent with the provisions of this section. A
small wireless facility shall be installed using the following design
approaches to the extent reasonable, including, without limitation, the
following:
         (a)   For location on newly proposed wireless support structures, the
following options are available:
            1.   New poles installed to support small wireless facilities shall
be made of the same, or similar, material as existing poles in the immediate
area;
            2.   In an area where other above ground utilities are present, the
deployment of a new small cell facility shall be located on the same side of
the street which the existing above ground utilities are located, and a similar
style utility pole (as those utilized by existing above ground utilities) may
be utilized;
            3.   In an area where the city has required all electrical, and
communication, lines to be placed underground by a date certain that is three
months before the submission of the application, or where undergrounding is
required after small wireless facilities have been installed, an explanation as
to why collocation, or use, of an existing structure, remaining pole, or
replacement pole is not technically feasible shall be required. This shall
apply to the location of all pole attached utilities, and shall include
demonstration of a reasonable attempt to collocate, or utilize, an existing
structure. A wireless provider may install a new pole in the designated area
that otherwise complies with this section when it is not able to provide
wireless service by collocating on an existing structure, remaining pole, or
replacement pole;
            4.   When a wireless provider applies to install a new pole in the
right-of-way in an area zoned for residential use, the city may propose an
alternative location in the right-of-way within 100 feet of the location stated
in the application, and the wireless provider shall use the city’s proposed
alternative location, unless the location imposes technical limits, or
significant additional costs. The wireless provider shall certify that it has
made the determination in good faith, based on the assessment of a licensed
engineer, and the wireless provider shall provide a written summary of the
basis for the determination; and
            5.   The city may require wireless providers to comply with
reasonable, and nondiscriminatory, horizontal spacing requirements of general
application for new poles and ground-mounted small wireless facilities, but the
requirements shall not prevent a wireless provider from serving any location.
         (b)   For location on existing pole structures:
            1.   Stealth antennas and mounts (completely encased, or screened,
antennas, when possible, to approximately match the color of the existing
poles). In the event that some antennas cannot be covered due to their
operational wavelength, the applicant shall provide proof of such to the city,
and the antenna shall be required to be painted in a way that blends with the
pole;
            2.   Stealth base cabinet enclosures (completely encases base
cabinet equipment to match the colors of the existing poles to the extent
feasible). Base cabinet may be placed in any location on the lower portion of
the pole, but may not impede ADA accessibility of a sidewalk. The base cabinet
may also be placed underground; and
            3.   The city shall not limit the collocation of small wireless
facilities by minimum horizontal separation distance requirements from existing
small wireless facilities, poles, or wireless support structures.
         (c)   For location on existing building structures:
            1.   New steeple, extension to existing steeple, and replacement
steeple concealment structures;
            2.   Chimney concealment structures;
            3.   Chimney pot concealment structures;
            4.   Rooftop facade extension concealment;
            5.   Rooftop cupola concealment;
            6.   Rooftop screen concealment;
            7.   Rooftop pod concealment systems;
            8.   Building side grid concealment structures;
            9.   Building side screen concealment structures; and
            10.   Rooftop, or wall mounted, lantern concealment structures.
         (d)   Antenna arrays, cables, and other ancillary facilities used for
providing the wireless service shall not be obtrusive, or noticeably visible
from adjacent properties, or adjacent rights-of-way;
         (e)   The color of the facility shall be compatible with that of the
non-tower support structure. To the extent any small wireless facilities extend
above the height of the vegetation buildings and utilities immediately
surrounding it, they shall be painted in a non-reflective light gray, light
blue, or other hue, which blends with the skyline and horizon;
         (f)   Attachments, which are ancillary to the antenna arrays mounted
onto a non-tower support structure, shall not project greater than three feet,
as measured horizontally, from the surface of the non-tower support structure,
and shall be painted, or screened, with materials that are a compatible color
to the non-tower support structure. Cables that travel along the exterior of a
non-tower support structure shall be closely connected to the structure,
creating a minimal appearance of gaps, or loose wires. When possible, visible
cables should be in conduit, or otherwise covered, in a material visually
compatible in color to the support structure;
         (g)   The general design of a small wireless facility shall be
compatible to the streetscape and aesthetics of the surrounding area with
respect to street furniture and lights, building facade designs, and area
character;
         (h)   Other design elements which, by industry standards, are
considered stealth technology deployment may also be used; and
         (i)   Within enacted overlay district stealth concealment is required
except when specifically identified by the applicant that such stealth
concealment results in a material reduction in the functionality of the
proposed small wireless facility.
   (H)   Signage. The applicable provisions of the city municipal code
regarding signage shall apply to all small wireless facilities.
   (I)   Illumination. A small wireless facility shall not have lights on the
facility, unless the lights are required by other laws, and consistent with the
requirements of law, or designed as an intended amenity of the support
structure.
   (J)   Fencing. A small wireless facility installed in the public right-of-
way shall not be fenced.
   (K)   Use of right-of-wav and indemnification.
      (1)   The wireless provider shall fully indemnify, and hold harmless, the
city and its officers, agents, and employees against any claims, demands,
damages, lawsuits, judgments, costs, liens, losses, expenses, and attorney’s
fees resulting from the installation, construction, repair, replacement,
operation, or maintenance of poles, small wireless facilities, or attachments
to city poles to the extent directly caused by the negligence of the wireless
provider, its contractors, subcontractors, and their officers, employees, or
agents.
      (2)   A permit from the city shall not create a property right, or grant
any authority to the owner of the small wireless facility to impinge upon the
rights of others who may already have an interest in the right-of-way.
   (L)   Guidance illustrations. Attached to this chapter, as a guidance to
this section, are illustrations to provide guidance to applicants of aesthetic
standards encouraged, and preferred, by the city in the installation of small
wireless facilities, and associated poles. (See § 153.07).
(Ord. 2019-16, passed 8-26-2019)
§ 153.04 APPLICATION REVIEW PROCESS.
   (A)   Permit and application. A permit is required for the placement, and
construction, of a small wireless facility. Approval of a permit shall require
an application.
   (B)   Contents of application. The small wireless facility permit
application shall be made by the wireless services provider, or an authorized
agent. A permit application shall contain the following:
      (1)   The applicant’s name, address, telephone number, and email address;
      (2)   The names, addresses, telephone numbers, and email addresses of all
consultants, if any, acting on behalf of the applicant with respect to the
filing of the application;
      (3)   A general description of the proposed work. The scope, and detail,
of such description shall be appropriate to the nature, and character, of the
work to be performed, with special emphasis on those matters, including, but
not limited to, sub-surface utilities, likely to be affected, or impacted, by
the work proposed;
      (4)   Authorization for any consultant acting on behalf of the applicant
to speak with the city, or a designee of the city;
      (5)   Verification from an appropriate professional that the small
wireless facility shall comply with all applicable codes;
      (6)   Drawings, and descriptions, of the proposed facilities, non-tower
support structures, and ancillary equipment;
      (7)   Maps with the specific locations;
      (8)   Geographic coordinates of the locations;
      (9)   If the proposed location is a new pole, an explanation as to why
collocation, or use, of an existing structure is not technically feasible. This
shall apply to the location of all pole attached utilities, and shall include
demonstration of a reasonable attempt to collocate, or use, an existing
structure, remaining pole, or replacement pole;
      (10)   If the applicant proposes to collocate on, or occupy any, existing
structure not owned by the applicant, a letter, or written statement, from the
owner allowing the use; and
      (11)   A description and substantiation of any requests for exceptions
from the requirements of this section.
   (C)   Batch applications. The city may require the applicant to file a
separate application for any small wireless facility that is not of a
substantially similar design to the others included in the application, or if
submitted in a batch, the application must be sufficiently clear so that the
city may determine whether one, or more, of the proposed facilities is not of a
substantially similar design.
   (D)   Bond. The city may require the applicant to post a bond as required
for any open cut, sidewalk, curb and gutter, or other public right-of-way work,
as set forth in §§
151.01 through
151.05.
   (E)   Routine maintenance and replacement.
      (1)   An application shall not be required for:
         (a)   Routine maintenance that does not expand the size, or height, of
the small wireless facility; and
         (b)   The replacement of a small wireless facility with another small
wireless facility that is substantially similar, or smaller, in size, weight,
and height.
      (2)   Provided, however, on a location where the city, or another
provider, has placed equipment, or facilities, any routine maintenance, or
replacement, that is done shall not occur until written notice of an intent to
proceed is provided to the city.
   (F)   Review procedure. The Administrative Official shall review the
application for compliance with these, and other, applicable laws and
regulations. Review, and approval, shall be in accordance with timeframes
established by federal, and state, law/policy, and the following:
      (1)   All applications shall be processed on a nondiscriminatory basis
within:
         (a)   Sixty days of receipt of an application for the collocation of a
small wireless facility; and
         (b)   Ninety days for an application to install, modify, or replace a
pole on which a small wireless facility is, or will be, collocated.
      (2)   Within ten days of receiving an application, the Administrative
Official shall determine, and notify, the applicant in writing:
         (a)   Whether the application is complete; or
         (b)   If the application is incomplete, what specific information is
missing.
      (3)   If the application is incomplete, the applicant shall be allowed to
resubmit the amended application without penalty, or payment, of any additional
application fees, if resubmission occurs within 30 days of notification;
      (4)   The timeframe for reviewing shall commence when the application is
submitted, but may be tolled upon notification of incompleteness. If the
application is incomplete, the applicable timeframe for reviewing is reset when
the missing information is provided by the applicant;
      (5)   Once the application is determined to be complete, the
Administrative Official shall review the application, and if the application
meets the requirements, and standards, set forth in this section, the
application shall be granted, and a permit issued;
      (6)   If the applicant is requesting an exception to any requirement, the
standard of review shall be to determine if the exception is warranted due to
an identifiable site-specific hardship, or a technological challenge, and more
specifically, if the excepted requirement is:
         (a)   Not necessary, or desirable, for the protection of the
surrounding property, public health, public safety, or general welfare; or
         (b)   Unreasonable, as applied to the particular application.
      (7)   The Administrative Official may approve some, or all, of the
requested exception, and advise the applicant, in writing, of the extent of
approval, and/or reasons for denial. At his or her discretion, the
Administrative Official may also submit the application to the Development
Review Committee for input, or comment.
         (a)   If the applicant believes the decision of the Administrative
Official to be in error, an appeal may be made to the City Board of Zoning
Adjustments.
         (b)   If the applicant accepts the decision of the Administrative
Official, the application shall proceed with review, and approval or denial.
      (8)   The Administrative Official shall have the authority to defer an
exception request to the Board of Zoning Adjustment. The Board of Zoning
Adjustment shall act upon the request in a timely manner. If the decision of
the Board of Zoning Adjustment is in the affirmative, the permit shall be
approved; provided, all other review requirements are met. If not, the
application shall be referred to the Administrative Official for continued
review;
      (9)   If the Board of Zoning Adjustment denies any, or all, of the
requested exception, the applicant may appeal the decision to a court of
jurisdiction, in accordance with state law;
      (10)   The Administrative Official, or designee, shall notify the
applicant, in writing, of its final decision:
         (a)   Within 60 days of receiving an application for the collocation
of a small wireless facility using an existing structure;
         (b)   Within 90 days for an application to collocate a small wireless
facility on a new structure. These timelines may be tolled only by mutual
agreement between the applicant and the city;
         (c)   If the application is approved, a permit shall be issued;
         (d)   If the application is denied, the Administrative Official shall
specify, in writing, the basis for denial, citing specific code provisions from
federal, state, or local law as to why the application was denied;
         (e)   Notwithstanding the initial denial, the applicant may cure any
deficiencies identified by the Administrative Official within 30 days of the
denial without paying an additional application fee. The Administrative
Official shall approve, or deny, the revised application within 30 days of
receipt of the amended application, and its review shall be limited to the
deficiencies specified in the original notice of denial; and
         (f)   If a decision on an application is not made within the
applicable timeframe, the application shall be deemed approved ten days after
written notice is provided by the applicant to the city that the time period
for acting on the application has lapsed.
      (11)   (a)   If after commencement of construction, but before
construction is complete for an approved permit, circumstances unforeseen at
the time of approval arise which make continued construction unsafe, or
impracticable, the applicant may request an amendment to the application, or
plan, by filing a request to amend the approved application.
         (b)   The applicant shall cease work, and the procedure for the
amendment request shall proceed in the same manner as if it were a new
application under this section. There is no application fee for an amendment
request;
      (12)   Prohibitions, and work requirements, are as follows:
         (a)   Within 60 days of written notice, the owner of the small
wireless facility shall:
            1.   Remove all graffiti on the facility at his or her expense; and
            2.   Repair, or replace, any damaged equipment.
         (b)   Facilities located in the public right-of-way shall not
materially, or visually, obstruct traffic signals, or signage, and shall be
maintained in a manner that does not materially interfere with public safety
equipment;
         (c)   The owner shall employ due care during the installation,
maintenance, or any other work in the ROW, and shall comply with all safety and
public ROW protection requirements of all applicable local, state, and federal
laws. The owner shall restore, repair, and/or replace any portion of the public
improvements in the ROW that are damaged, or disturbed, by the owner’s work, or
small wireless facilities;
         (d)   Unless otherwise specified in the permit, the owner shall erect
a barrier around the perimeter of any excavation, and provide appropriate
traffic control devices, signs, and lights to protect, warn, and guide the
public (vehicular and pedestrian) through the work zone. The manner, and use,
of these devices shall be described within a traffic control plan in accordance
with the Uniform Manual of Traffic Control Devices. The owner shall maintain
all barriers, and other traffic control, and safety, devices related to an open
excavation until the excavation is restored to a safe condition, or as
otherwise directed by the city;
         (e)   If use of the right-of-way on which the small wireless facility
is located is necessary for a construction, or improvement, project undertaken
by the city, or on its behalf, the small wireless facility shall be relocated.
Notice of such relocation shall be provided by the city as soon practicable,
and at least 90 days before the deadline for completing the relocation. The
city shall not bear any expense of any necessary relocation;
         (f)   A small wireless facility shall not interfere with city, and
public safety, communication systems, and shall comply with all FCC regulations
governing interference;
         (g)   A guy wire, or other support wire, shall not be used in
connection with an antenna, antenna array, or a non-tower support structure,
except when used to anchor the antenna, antenna array, or non-tower support
structure to an existing building, or ground, to which such antenna, antenna
array, or non-tower support structure is attached; and
         (h)   The owner of a small wireless facility that is not in service,
or use, for more than six months shall disassemble, and remove, the facility.
      (13)   The fees and rates are as follows:
         (a)   For the co-location of a small wireless facility on an existing
pole or structure, a $100 non-recurring application fee.
            1.   Additionally, except as described in A.C. § 23-17-510(e), a
wireless provider shall pay the city compensation for use of the right-of-way
an annual rate of $30 per small wireless facility. The annual rate shall be
paid to the city by January 31 of the following year.
            2.   A wireless provider shall pay the city compensation for
collocation of small wireless facilities on city poles an annual rate of $240
for each city pole.
         (b)   For the installation of a small wireless facility and a pole,
$250 for the installation, modification, or replacement of a pole, together
with the collocation of an associated small wireless facility in the right-of-
way.
            1.   Additionally, except as described in A.C. § 23-17-510(e), a
wireless provider shall pay the city compensation for use of the right-of-way,
an annual rate of $30 per small wireless facility.
            2.   The annual rate shall be paid to the city by January 31 of the
following year.
         (c)   If the application is for multiple facilities, the fee is $100
(non-recurring application fee) for each additional facility.
   (G)   Exceptions. A wireless provider is not required to pay an authority
compensation for micro-wireless facilities that are suspended on cables strung
between existing utility poles in the right-of-way, as long as the wireless
provider compensates the authority through other licenses, or franchises, held
directly, or through one of the wireless provider’s affiliates, for the
placement of the suspension cables in the right-of-way.
(Ord. 2019-16, passed 8-26-2019)
§ 153.05 EXCLUSIVE ARRANGEMENTS PROHIBITED.
   The city shall not enter into an exclusive arrangement with a person for use
of the right-of-way for the collocation of small wireless facilities, or the
installation, operation, marketing, modification, maintenance, or replacement
of poles for the collocation.
(Ord. 2019-16, passed 8-26-2019)
§ 153.06 LOCAL AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Exercise of Zoning Authority. Subject to the provisions of the Small
Wireless Facility Deployment Act, codified at A.C. §§ 23-17-501 et seq., and
applicable federal law, the city may continue to exercise zoning, land use,
planning, and permitting authority within its territorial boundaries with
respect to wireless support structures, including the enforcement of applicable
codes.
   (B)   Interior installations. The city shall not have, or exercise, any
jurisdiction, or authority, over the design, engineering, construction,
installation, or operation of a small wireless facility located in an interior
structure, or upon the site of a campus, stadium, or athletic facility not
owned, or controlled, by the city, other than to require compliance with
applicable codes.
(Ord. 2019-16, passed 8-26-2019)
§ 153.07 GUIDANCE ILLUSTRATIONS.
   (A)   Examples of stealth building attachments:
   (B)   Examples of stealth pole attachments for small wireless facilities:
(Ord. 2019-16, passed 8-26-2019)
CHAPTER 154: ZONING AND SUBDIVISIONS
Section
   
154.01   Zoning regulations adopted by reference
   
154.02   Subdivision regulations adopted by reference
§ 154.01 ZONING REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The city’s land use provisions, and any, and all, amendments, are hereby
adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Prior Code, Chapter 14.04) (Ord. 2019-10, passed 5-28-2019; Ord. 2020-02,
passed 1-27-2020; Ord. 2020-04, passed 1-27-2020; Ord. 2020-07, passed 1-27-
2020; Ord. 2020-13, passed 4-27-2020; Ord. 2021- 14, passed 5-24-2021; Ord.
2021-18, passed 6-28-2021; 2021-28, passed 8-23-2021; Ord. 2022-14, passed 5-
24-2022; Ord. 2023-04, passed 3-14-2023)
§ 154.02 SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The city’s subdivision regulations, and any, and all, amendments, are hereby
adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Prior Code, Chapter 15.04) (Ord. 2021-27, passed 8-23-2021)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES AND AGREEMENTS
      
II.   LAND VACATIONS
      
III.   ANNEXATIONS AND INCORPORATIONS
      
IV.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
      
V.   IMPROVEMENT DISTRICTS
      
VI.   LEASE AGREEMENTS; PURCHASES
TABLE I: FRANCHISES AND AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
99    - -    Telephone franchise with Contel Telephone Company; 30-year contract.
             (Prior Code, Chapter 4.12)
2013- - -    Telecommunications franchise with AT&T.
1            (Prior Code, Chapter 4.24)
2013- - -    Telecommunication franchise with Centurylink.
2            (Prior Code, Chapter 4.28)
98    2-4-   Gas franchise with Arkansas Western Gas Company.
      1991   (Prior Code, Chapter 4.04; Chapter 4.16)
100   3-4-   Electric franchise fees set with Carroll Electric Cooperative Corporation.
      1991   (Prior Code, Chapter 4.08)
             Accepting the final plat of phase one of the Allen’s Mill Subdivision on
2019- 3-25-  behalf of Buff Cave, LLC; agreeing all public facility improvements
06    2019   constructed as part of the subdivision are subject to city maintenance,
             upkeep, and care.
2021- 4-26-  Waiving competitive bidding in order to accept a bid from Myrick
09    2021   Construction, Inc. for the construction of two public works structures.
2021- 4-26-  Waiving competitive bidding in order to accept a bid from Five Star
11    2021   Paving, Inc. for the cleaning, repair, and sealing of certain streets.
2021- 4-26-  Waiving competitive bidding in order to accept a bid from Hutchens
12    2021   Construction for a street overlay project.
2021- 8-23-  Waiving competitive bidding in order to accept a bid from Hutchens
31    2021   Construction for asphalt removal and replacement in various areas.
 
TABLE II: LAND VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
70    - -    Alley between Lots 15 and 18 of Johnson’s addition.
             (Prior Code, Chapter 8.32)
71    - -    Alley in Block 2 of Allen’s addition.
             (Prior Code, Chapter 8.32)
             Part of Alton Street in northwest corner of Lot 2 in Bartlett’s revised
77    - -    addition.
             (Prior Code, Chapter 8.32)
82    - -    Alley in Block 23 of Bartlett’s revised addition.
             (Prior Code, Chapter 8.32)
86    - -    Part of Benton Avenue, between Blocks 20 and 23 in Bartlett’s revised addition.
             (Prior Code, Chapter 8.32)
88    - -    Alley in Block 2 of Johnson’s second addition.
             (Prior Code, Chapter 8.32)
             Alley from Midway Avenue to railroad in Block 6 of Bartlett’s addition; Chico
             Street in Block 6 of Bartlett’s addition; alley from Midway Avenue between Lots
96-9  - -    2 through 6 in Bartlett’s addition; and alley in Lots 4 and 5 in Bartlett’s
             addition.
             (Prior Code, Chapter 8.32)
97-5  - -    Alley on east side of Lot 1 in Block 4 of Johnson’s addition.
             (Prior Code, Chapter 8.32)
99-7  - -    Alton Street east of Block 24 between Johnson Avenue and Bartlett’s addition.
             (Prior Code, Chapter 8.32)
             Unnamed street north of Block 7 of Bartlett’s revised addition; Washington
105   - -    Street abutting Block 7 of Bartlett’s revised addition.
             (Prior Code, Chapter 8.32)
108   - -    Wilson Avenue in Block 3 of Johnson’s addition.
             (Prior Code, Chapter 8.32)
109   - -    Alley in Block 3 of Johnson’s addition.
             (Prior Code, Chapter 8.32)
2003-        Unnamed street between Sections 2 through 23 of Block 2 of Johnson’s second
17    - -    addition.
             (Prior Code, Chapter 8.32)
2004-        Unnamed street between Lots 2 through 23 in Block 20 of Johnson’s second
9     - -    addition.
             (Prior Code, Chapter 8.32)
2005- - -    Adele Street in western edge of Block 20 in Bartlett’s revised addition.
16           (Prior Code, Chapter 8.32)
2005- - -    Alley running east and west in Blocks 7 and 8 of Johnson’s addition.
27           (Prior Code, Chapter 8.32)
2006- - -    Alley in Lots 4 through 18 in Block 4 of Johnson’s addition.
24           (Prior Code, Chapter 8.32)
2007- - -    Part of Stroud Avenue in Section 1, Township 18 north, Range 31 west.
10           (Prior Code, Chapter 8.32)
2017- 9-12-  Kyle and Judy Castor; a 20-foot platted alley in Block 7, south of East Lowell
35    2017   Avenue (AR Highway 264), and north of Wilson Avenue, Johnson’s addition.
2017- 12-12- Part of the unopened street (Lots 11 through 15 in Block 6, and Lots 1 through
47    2017   4 of Block 7), and unopened alley (Lots 11 through 15), located on Midway
             Avenue.
2021- 3-22-  A portion of Second Street and an alley located between and around Lots 1
06    2021   through 6 and the north half of Lots 7 and 8 of Block 1 of Johnson’s addition.
2021- 8-23-  A portion of Second Street and a portion of an alley located between Second
29    2021   Street and Third Street of Johnson’s addition.
 
TABLE III: ANNEXATIONS AND INCORPORATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
92       - -         Part of Section 1, Township 1, Range 31 west.
                     (Prior Code, §14.16.01)
95-6     - -         Submitted to electors to vote.
                     (Prior Code, §14.16.01)
96-5     - -         West half of Section 36, Township 19 north, Range 31 west.
                     (Prior Code, §14.16.01)
                     Southwest quarter of Section 29, Township 19 north, Range
98-3     - -         30 west.
                     (Prior Code, §14.16.01)
                     Part of the west quarter of Section 18, Township 19 north,
99-13    - -         Range 30 west.
                     (Prior Code, §14.16.01)
                     Northwest quarter of Section 13, Township 19 north, Range
2001-8   - -         31 west.
                     (Prior Code, §14.16.01)
2002-9   - -         Final plat of St. Valery Downs subdivision.
                     (Prior Code, §14.16.01)
                     Southwest corner of Section 17, Township 18 north, Range
2004-12  - -         30 west.
                     (Prior Code, §14.16.01)
                     Southwest quarter of Section 5, Township 18 north, Range
2004-19  - -         30 west.
                     (Prior Code, §14.16.01)
                     Part of the southeast quarter of Section 7, Township 18
2005-12  - -         north, Range 30 west.
                     (Prior Code, §14.16.01)
                     Northwest quarter of Section 32, Township 19 north, Range
2008-6   - -         30 west.
                     (Prior Code, §14.16.01)
2011-2   - -         South half of Section 7, Township 18 north, Range 30 west.
                     (Prior Code, §14.16.01)
                     Part of northwest quarter of Section 8, Township 18 north,
2011-4   - -         Range 30 west.
                     (Prior Code, §14.16.01)
                     Northeast quarter of Section 2, Township 18 north, Range
2011-5   - -         30 west.
                     (Prior Code, §14.16.01)
2021-35  - -         Detachment of certain territory from the City of
                     Springdale, and annexation to the City of Cave Springs.
                     Approving ordinance 2017-12 from the City of Rogers;
2017-08  2-14-2017   detachment of certain property from the City of Cave
                     Springs, and annexation to the City of Rogers.
2017-45  11-14-2017  Annexation of certain territory to the city west from
                     Highway 112.
2017-46  11-14-2017  Annexation of certain territory to the city east from
                     Highway 112.
2017-48  12-12-2017  Assigning certain annexed territory from ordinance 2017-45
                     as Ward 1 (west from Highway 112).
2018-10  5-8-2018    Sewell Development, LLC; simultaneous detachment and
                     annexation into the City of Bentonville.
                     Approving ordinance 2018-55 from the City of Rogers;
2018-19  10-9-2018   detachment of certain property from the City of Cave
                     Springs, and annexation to the City of Rogers.
                     Approving ordinance 5448 of the City of Springdale;
2020-11  3-23-2020   detachment of certain property from the City of Cave
                     Springs, and annexation to the City of Springdale.
                     Annexation of certain territory in Sections No. 25, 26,
2021-05  4-26-2021   35, and 36 of in Township 19 North, Range 31 West, and
                     Sections No. 2, 3, 10, 11, 14, and 15 of Township 18
                     North, Range 31 West.
                     Approving Ord. 2021- 115 from the City of Bentonville;
2021-34  9-27-2021   detachment of certain property from the City of Cave
                     Springs, and annexation to the City of Bentonville.
 
TABLE IV: ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     From A to R; part of the northeast quarter of Section 1,
94       - -         Township 18 north, Range 31 west.
                     (Prior Code, 14.16.02)
                     From A-1 to R-MH; part of the southeast quarter of Section
99-4     - -         31, Township 19 north, Range 30 west.
                     (Prior Code, 14.16.02)
                     From A-1 to R-MH; part of the northeast quarter of Section
99-5     - -         36, Township 19 north, Range 31 west.
                     (Prior Code, 14.16.02)
                     From A-1 to R-MH; part of the northeast quarter of Section
99-8     - -         12, Township 18 north, Range 31 west.
                     (Prior Code, 14.16.02)
                     From A-1 to R-MH; part of the east half of Section 12,
99-10    - -         Township 18 north, Range 31 west.
                     (Prior Code, 14.16.02)
                     From A-1 to R-2; the south half of Section 13, Township 19
2004-8   - -         north, Range 31 west.
                     (Prior Code, 14.16.02)
                     From A-1 to R-2; part of the northeast quarter of Section
2004-14  - -         12, Township 18 north, Range 31 west.
                     (Prior Code, 14.16.02)
                     From A-1 to R-2; part of the northwest quarter of Section
2004-20  - -         19, Township 19 north, Range 30 west.
                     (Prior Code, 14.16.02)
                     From A-1 to R-2; part of the southwest quarter of Section
2004-21  - -         5, Township 18 north, Range 30 west.
                     (Prior Code, 14.16.02)
                     From A-1 to R-2; the southwest quarter of Section 31,
2005-4   - -         Township 19 north, Range 30 west.
                     (Prior Code, 14.16.02)
                     From R-2 to C-2; part of the north half of Township 18
2005-5   - -         north, Range 30 west.
                     (Prior Code, 14.16.02)
                     From A-1 to C-2; part of the northwest quarter of Section
2005-6   - -         33, Township 19 north, Range 30 west.
                     (Prior Code, 14.16.02)
                     From A-1 to R-2; part of the northeast quarter of Section
2005-13  - -         7, Township 18 north, Range 30 west.
                     (Prior Code, 14.16.02)
                     From A-1 to R-1; part of the southeast quarter of Section
2005-18  - -         24, Township 19 north, Range 31 west.
                     (Prior Code, 14.16.02)
                     From A-1 to C-2; part of the southwest quarter of Township
2005-19  - -         18 north, Range 31 west.
                     (Prior Code, 14.16.02)
                     From A-1 to C-2; part of the southeast quarter of Section
2005-20  - -         1, Township 18 north, Range 31 west.
                     (Prior Code, 14.16.02)
                     From A-1 to C-2; the north half of Section 6, Township 18
2005-22  - -         north, Range 30 west.
                     (Prior Code, 14.16.02)
                     From A-1 to C-2; the north half of Section 6, Township 18
2005-23  - -         north, Range 30 west.
                     (Prior Code, 14.16.02)
                     From A-1 to R-2; part of the southwest quarter of Section
2005-24  - -         31, Township 19 north, Range 31 west.
                     (Prior Code, 14.16.02)
                     From A-1 to R-2; part of the north half of Section 5,
2006-4   - -         Township 18 north, Range 30 west.
                     (Prior Code, 14.16.02)
                     From A-1 to C-2; the southwest quarter of Section 19,
2006-5   - -         Township 19 north, Range 30 west.
                     (Prior Code, 14.16.02)
                   (Prior Code, 14.16.02)
                     From R-2 to C-3; part of the east half of Section 12,
2006-9   - -         Township 18 north, Range 31 west.
                     (Prior Code, 14.16.02)
                     From A-1 to R-2; part of the southwest quarter of Section
2006-10  - -         7, Township 18 north, Range 30 west.
                     (Prior Code, 14.16.02)
                     From A-1 to R-1; part of the northwest quarter of Section
2006-14  - -         1, Township 18 north, Range 31 west.
                     (Prior Code, 14.16.02)
                     From A-1 to R-1; part of the southeast quarter of Section
2006-15  - -         12, Township 18 north, Range 31 west.
                     (Prior Code, 14.16.02)
                     From R-2 to C-1; 478 Main Street, south half of Lots 11
2006-17  - -         through 17.
                     (Prior Code, 14.16.02)
                     From R-2 to C-1; 118 East Johnson Avenue, Block 3, Johnson
2006-18  - -         s addition.
                     (Prior Code, 14.16.02)
                     From R-2 to C-1; 142 East Johnson Avenue, Block 3, Johnson
2006-19  - -         s addition.
                     (Prior Code, 14.16.02)
                     From R-2 to C-2; the southwest quarter of Section 5,
2006-23  - -         Township 18 north, Range 30 west.
                     (Prior Code, 14.16.02)
                     From A-1 to R-1; part of the southwest quarter of Section
2006-27  - -         1, Township 18 north, Range 31 west.
                     (Prior Code, 14.16.02)
                     From A-1 to C-3; part of the northwest quarter of Section
2007-20  - -         18, Township 19 north, Range 30 west.
                     (Prior Code, 14.16.02)
                     From R-2 to C-2; part of the northeast quarter of Section
2007-21  - -         6, Township 18 north, Range 30 west.
                     (Prior Code, 14.16.02)
                     From C-2 to R-1; part of the southwest quarter of the
2014-02  - -         southeast quarter of Section 6, Township 18 north, Range
                     30 west.
                     (Prior Code, 14.16.02)
                     From A-1 to C-2; part of the southeast quarter of the
                     northeast quarter, and the southeast quarter of the
2014-05  - -         northwest quarter, of Section 12, Township 18 north, Range
                     31 west.
                     (Prior Code, 14.16.02)
                     From A-1 to R-1; part of the northeast quarter of the
2014-07  - -         southwest quarter of Section 25, Township 19 north, Range
                     31 west.
                     (Prior Code, 14.16.02)
                     From A-1 to R-1; part of the northeast quarter of Section
2014-08  - -         6, Township 18 north, Range 30 west.
                     (Prior Code, 14.16.02)
                     From A-1 to R-2; part of the southeast quarter of Section
2014-10  - -         1, Township 18 north, Range 31 west.
                     (Prior Code, 14.16.02)
                     From R-2 to C-2; part of the northwest quarter of the
2015-02  - -         northeast quarter of Section 12, Township 18 north, Range
                     31 west.
                     (Prior Code, 14.16.02)
                     From A-1 to C-2; part of the east half of the southeast
2015-07  - -         quarter of Section 6, Township 18 north, Range 30 west.
                     (Prior Code, 14.16.02)
                     Chuck Bell, Wanda L. Sanders; from R-1 to R-E; Lot 5B,
2017-03  - -         containing 3.11 acres, Section 11, Township 18 north,
                     Range 31 west.
2005-17  7-11-2004   From A-1 to C-2; part E2 SE SE, 2.57 acres.
                     (Prior Code, 14.16.02)
2016-03  1-12-2016   From R-1 to C-3; approximately 0.64 acres located on 1045
                     E. Lowell Avenue.
                     Robert D. and Rhonda C. Barenberg; Tract 1, from A-1 to R-
2016-13  6-14-2016   1 (1.17 acres); and Tract 2, from A-1 to R-1 (four acres);
                     Section 7, Township 18 north, Range 30 west.
2016-15  7-12-2016   Joseph R. and Megan L. Neal; from A-1 to R-1 (1.75 acres);
                     Section 8, Township 18 north, Range 30 west.
2016-17  8-9-2016    Alan Hall; from A-1 to A-2 (3.85 acres); Section 31,
                     Township 19 north, Range 30 west.
2016-18  8-9-2016    Steven Turner, Petromark, Inc.; from C-1 to C-2 (0.55
                     acre); Section 1, Township 18 north, Range 31 west.
                     Justin Salter, V.P. of Northrock Builders, LLC; from A-
2016-19  8-9-2016    1 to R-3 (0.25 acre); Section 31, Township 19 north, Range
                     30 west.
                     Roderick G. and Kathleen I. Wallis; Tract 1, from A-1 to
2016-20  8-9-2016    A-2 (4.98 acres), and Tract 2, from A-1 to C-2 (0.55
                     acres); Section 31, Township 19 north, Range 30 west.
2016-26  9-13-2016   Alejandro and Maribel Loyola; from A-1 to R-3 (0.54 acre);
                     Section 6, Township 18 north, Range 30 west.
                     Kirby Burks, Can-Ark Diamond Realty Holdings, LLC; from R-
2016-27  9-13-2016   1 to R-3 (0.23 acre); Section 5, Township 18 north, Range
                     30 west.
                     Pat Simpson, trustee of the Simpson martial deduction
2016-29  11-8-2016   trust; from A-1 to C-2 (0.48 acre); Section 1, Township 18
                     north, Range 31 west.
                     Denise L. Macintosh and Jeff Patterson; Block 1, Lot 1
2016-30  11-8-2016   from A-1 to C-2 (3.83 acres), Block 2, Lot 1 from A-1 to
                     R-2 (6.27 acres), and Block 2, Lot 2 from A-1 to R-2 (6.09
                     acres); Section 12, Township 18 north, Range 31 west.
                     Michael Thorpe, MST Properties, LLC; Lot 1R from A-1 to R-
2016-31  11-8-2016   2 (1.52 acres), and Lot 3R from A-1 to R-2 (1.50 acres);
                     Section 7, Township 18 north, Range 30 west.
2016-32  11-8-2016   Matthew and Kelsey Mangin; Tract 2 from R-1 to A-2 (2.01
                     acres); Section 7, Township 18 north, Range 30 west.
                     Labinot Dedushaj; Lot 1 from A-1 to R-1 (4.68 acres), and
2017-09  2-14-2017   Lot 2 from A-1 to C-2 (0.59 acre); Section 6, Township 18
                     north, Range 30 west.
2017-10  2-14-2017   Chad Hatfield and Aaron Ruble; Tract B from A-1 to R-2
                     (1.79 acres); Section 7, Township 18 north, Range 30 west.
2017-11  2-14-2017   Thomas A. Hennelly; rezoning five tracts, all from A-1 to
                     R-3; Section 32, Township 19 north, Range 30 west.
                     Chuck Bell; Lot 1 from A-1 to C-2 (1.59 acres), Lots 2 and
2017-12  2-14-2017   3 from A-1 to R-2; Section 2, Township 18 north, Range 30
                     west.
2017-13  2-14-2017   Jake Helton; rezoning 54 lots, all from A-1 to R-3;
                     Section 5, Township 18 north, Range 30 west.
2017-14  2-14-2017   Jake Helton; rezoning 113 lots, all from R-2 to R-3;
                     Section 6, Township 18 north, Range 30 west.
2017-17  3-14-2017   Robert Smittle; Tract C from A-1 to A-2 (two acres);
                     Section 6, Township 18 north, Range 30 west.
                     Susan Werling; from A-1 to A-2 (4.59 acres); part of the
2017-18  3-14-2017   southwest quarter of the southwest quarter of Section 7,
                     Township 18 north, Range 30 west.
2017-19  3-14-2017   Brandon Sewell; rezoning 100 lots, all from R-1 to R-3.
2017-25  6-13-2017   Marbella subdivision; rezoning four lots, all from A-1 to
                     R-3.
                     1001 Shores Avenue; from A-1 to R-E (2.23 acres); part of
2017-26  6-13-2017   the east half of Section 6, Township 18 north, Range 30
                     west.
                     Kimberley Hutcheson; from A-1 to C-2 (0.6 acre); part of
2017-27  6-13-2017   the southwest quarter of the northeast quarter of Section
                     1, Township 18 north, Range 31 west.
                     Kimberley Hutcheson; from R-2 and C-1 to C-2 (1.14 acres);
2017-28  6-13-2017   part of the southwest quarter of the northeast quarter of
                     Section 1, Township 18 north, Range 31 west.
                     Ferdinand Fourie; from R-2 to R-12 (2.78 acres); part of
2017-29  6-13-2017   the north half of the southwest quarter of Section 12,
                     Township 18 north, Range 31 west.
                     Ferdinand Fourie; from R-2 to C-2 (12.35 acres); part of
2017-30  6-13-2017   the north half of the southwest quarter of Section 12,
                     Township 18 north, Range 31 west.
                     Chuck Bell; from R- 12 to RM-12 (3.57 acres); part of Lot
2017-31  7-14-2017   3, part of Lot 4, part of Lot 5, all of Lot 6, and part of
                     the southeast quarter of the northwest quarter of Section
                     1, Township 18 north, Range 31 west.
                     Danny and Diana Bashaw; from R-2 to A-2 (16.25 acres);
2017-33  9-12-2017   part of the northeast quarter of the northeast quarter of
                     Section 1, Township 18 north, Range 31 west.
2017-34  9-12-2017   Kyle D. and Judy K. Castor; from C-1 and R-2 to C-2 (1.923
                     acres); Lots 1 through 12, Block 7, Johnson s addition.
                     Gwendolen Ann Rakes; from A-1 to C- 3 (two acres); part of
2017-41  11-14-2017  the northeast quarter of the northeast quarter, and part
                     of the southeast quarter of the northeast quarter of
                     Section 32, Township 19 north, Range 30 west.
                     Julio Molano; from R- 2 to R-3 (0.80 acres); Lots 14, 15,
2017-42  11-14-2017  18, 19, 22, 23, 26, 27, and 30, Block 23, Bartlett s
                     revised addition.
                     Brett Hash, Hash Properties, LLC; from R-2 to RM-12; part
2017-43  11-14-2017  of the southeast quarter of the northwest quarter of
                     Section 1, Township 18 north, Range 31 west.
                     Derek R. and Sarah L. Kilpatrick; from A-1 to A-2 (3.18
2018-04  3-14-2018   acres), and A-1 to R-2 (1.80 acres); part of the southwest
                     quarter of the northwest quarter of Section 8, Township 18
                     north, Range 30 west.
                     Jason Young, P4 Partners, LTD; from A-1 to C-2 (25.97
2018-09  4-8-2018    acres); part of the northeast quarter of Section 12,
                     Township 18 north, Range 31 west.
2018-08  4-10-2018   Lebron and Charlotte Tatum; from A-1 to A-2 (ten acres);
                     3860 Ozark Acres Drive.
                     Powell McKinney, Pheasant Plot, LLC; from A-1 to R-1 (13.1
2018-13  5-29-2018   acres); part of the southeast quarter of the northeast
                     quarter of Section 24, Township 19 north, Range 31 west.
                     Franciso Gomez; Tracts 1 and 2 from A-1 to R-1, and Tract
2018-15  7-10-2018   3 from A-1 to A-2; part of the northeast quarter of the
                     southwest quarter of Section 7, Township 18 north, Range
                     30 west.
2018-16  8-14-2018   Josh Porter; from A-1 to R-1 (1.22 acres), and from A-1 to
                     C-3 (0.60 acre); 2908 South Rainbow Road.
2019-03  1-8-2019    Nathan L. and Mary K. Van Name; from R-1 to A-2 (2.31
                     acres); 729 Shores Avenue.
                     Nicholas Honea and Jared Schoonover; from R-1 to C-1 (0.21
2019-08  5-28-2019   acre); part of the southwest quarter to the northeast
                     quarter of Section 1, Township 18 north, Range 31 west.
                     Edward Bowers; from A-1 to R-1 (1.35 acres); part of the
2019-14  7-22-2019   southeast quarter of Section 36, Township 19 north, Range
                     31 west.
                     Janet Wendike; from A-1 to A-2 (2.94 acres); part of the
2019-21  9-23-2019   northeast quarter of the northeast quarter of Section 1,
                     Township 18 north, Range 31 west.
                     Janet Wendike; from A-1 to R-1 (1.09 acres); part of the
2019-22  9-23-2019   northeast quarter of the northeast quarter of Section 1,
                     Township 18 north, Range 31 west.
                     James Clay and Paula R. Olden; from A-1 to R-3 (30.63
2019-23  10-28-2019  acres); part of the northeast quarter of the northwest
                     quarter of Section 8, Township 18 north, Range 30 west.
                     Stephen Hershel and Carol M. Vanderpool; from A-1 to A-2
2019-24  12-23-2019  (3.67 acres); part of the southeast quarter of the
                     northwest quarter of Section 8, Township 18 north, Range
                     31 west.
                     Jimmy and Thekla Wallis; from A-1 to R-3 (54.9 acres);
                     part of the southwest quarter of the northeast quarter,
2020-10  3-23-2020   part of the southeast quarter of the northwest quarter,
                     and part of the northwest quarter of the southeast quarter
                     of Section 36, Township 19 north, Range 31 west.
2021-01  1-25-2021   From A-1 to C-1; 2.85 acres of property located at 142
                     Healing Springs Road, Parcel No. 05-10129-001.
                     From C-3 and R-2 to C-3; one acre of property located at
                     269 and 365 east Lowell Avenue, Parcel No. 05-10443- 000
2021-03  2-22-2021   and 05-10446- 000, and including a portion to the 20-foot
                     alley and to the centerline of the existing right-of-way
                     of Second Street.
                     From A-2 and C-2 to R-1; 1.13 acres of property classified
2021-04  2-22-2021   as A-2 and 4.54 acres of property classified as C-2,
                     located at 546 and 568 Shores Avenue.
2021-07  3-22-2021   From A-1 to R-3; 3.41 acres of property located at 739
                     Sand Road, Parcel No. 05- 10094-000.
                     From A-1 to R-1; 5.97 acres of property located at Block
2021-08  3-22-2021   300 of Sherman Avenue, Western Terminus, Parcel No. 05-
                     10225-001.
2021-13  4-26-2021   From R-2 to R-4; 0.96 acres of property located at 308
                     East Johnson Avenue, Parcel No. 05-10497-000.
2021-15  5-24-2021   From A-1 to R-1; five acres of property located at 201
                     Haxton Road, Bentonville, Parcel No. 05-10260- 002.
2021-16  5-24-2021   From A-1 to R-4; 1.13 acres of property located at 593
                     South Rainbow Road, Parcel No. 05-10004-001.
2021-20  7-26-2021   From R-3 to R-4; 30.63 acres of property located at 758
                     Burdine Lane, Parcel No. 05-10045- 322.
                     From A-1 to R-4; 11.5 acres of property located at Block
2021-21  7-26-2021   700 of Ford Lane, Parcel No. 05-10045-309 and 05-10045-
                     310.
2021-24  8-23-2021   From R-3 to R-4; 3.41 acres of property located at 739
                     Sands Road, Parcel No. 05- 10094-000.
                     Brett Hash of Hash Properties, LLC; from R-2 to R-4; 9.13
2021-25  8-23-2021   acres of property located at Block 1300 of South Main
                     Street and Doral Drive, Parcel No. 05-12294-000.
                     Misty McMulen and Roger and Teresa Meredeth; from A-1 and
2021-30  8-23-2021   R-2 to C-1; 0.58 acres of property located at Block 400 of
                     AR 112 and South Main Street, Parcel No. 05-10433-000 and
                     05-10432-000.
2021-36  9-27-2021   From A-1 to R-3; 2.5 acres of property located at 855
                     Shores Avenue, Parcel No. 05-10012-000.
                     From A-1 to PZD; 21.18 acres of property located at 2050
2022-02  1-24-2022   West Wallis Road, Parcel No. 05-10073-003 and 05-10073-
                     004.
2022-13  4-26-2022   From A-1 to R-2; 3.05 acres of property located at 977
                     West Shores Avenue, Parcel No. 05-10011-000.
2022-15  6-28-2022   From A-1 to R-E; 18.42 acres of property located at 3168
                     Ozark Acres Drive, Parcel No. 05-10069-000.
2022-18  8-23-2022   From A-1 to C-2; 0.941 acres of property located at 249
                     North Main Street, Parcel No. 05-10137-000.
2022-19  9-27-2022   From A-1 to R-2; 1.43 acres of property located at 259
                     Bright Street, Parcel No. 05-10145-000.
                     From RM-12 to C-2; for property located at the southern
2022-20  10-25-2022  end of Torrey Pines Land, between The Creeks RV Park and
                     the golf course, described as the western portion of Lot
                     90, Fairway Subdivision Ph.3.
2022-21  11-29-2022  From A-1 to R-E; 2.85 acres of property located at 906
                     Sands Road, Parcel No. 05-10082- 000.
2022-22  11-29-2022  From A-1 to R-E; 5.04 acres of property located at 2804
                     Ozark Acres Drive, Parcel No. 05-10492-000.
2023-03  2-28-2023   From R-E to R-1; 1.0 acre tract located at 95 Brown Road.
                     From A-1 to R-1; 3.323 acres of property located at 455
2023-06  4-25-2023   South Rainbow Road, Parcel No. 05- 1005-000 and 05- 10006-
                     000.
2023-08  6-27-2023   From A-1 to R-4; 40.2 acres of property located at 1499 W.
                     Wallis.
2023-13  9-26-2023   From R-3 to PZD; 53.7 acres of property located at Benton
                     County Parcel No. 05-10285- 000 and 05-10274- 000.
2023-14  10-24-2023  From A-1 and C-2 to PZD; 1.75 acres of property located at
                     260 North Main Street.
                    
 
TABLE V: IMPROVEMENT DISTRICTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
2005-        The Cave Springs Municipal Property Owners’ Improvement District No. 1, the
26    - -    Creeks Special Sewer District (Gary L. Brandon, Greg Henry, Michael G. Shook).
             (Prior Code, § 14.08.01)
2005-        The Cave Springs Municipal Property Owners’ Improvement District No. 3, the
26    - -    Creeks Special Sewers District (Gary L. Brandon, Greg Henry, Michael G. Shook).
             (Prior Code, § 14.08.03)
2005-        The Cave Springs Municipal Property Owners’ Improvement District No. 2, Hyde
28    - -    Park (Brandon Sewell, Greg Henry, Paula Reynolds).
             (Prior Code, § 14.08.02)
2006-        The Cave Springs Municipal Property Owners’ Improvement District No. 4, Otter
6     - -    Creek (Gary L. Brandon, Sherri D. Brandon, Kim Williams).
             (Prior Code, § 14.08.04)
2006-        The Cave Springs Municipal Property Owners’ Improvement District No. 5, Sand
12    - -    Springs (Charles E. Bell, Sr., Larry J. Goddard, Brian D. Scott).
             (Prior Code, § 14.08.05)
2006-        The Cave Springs Municipal Property Owners’ Improvement District No. 6, Mt.
13    - -    View (Charles E. Bell, Bret Hash, Brian D. Scott).
             (Prior Code, § 14.08.06)
2006-        The Cave Springs Municipal Property Owners’ Improvement District No. 7, Hampton
20    - -    Estates (Cameron Torabi, Charles Furlow, William Wibert).
             (Prior Code, § 14.08.07)
            
 
TABLE VI: LEASE AGREEMENTS; PURCHASES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Lease purchase agreement with the Arkansas Soil and Water
2001-3   - -         Conservation Commission for construction project financing
                     for $636,881.44.
                     (Prior Code, § 3.24.01)
                     Lease purchase agreement with HD Supply Waterworks, LLC;
2007-9   - -         purchase, and installation, of 550 Sensus Brand water
                     meters with TouchRead capability.
                     (Prior Code, § 10.20.01)
                     Purchase of Chevrolet Tahoe for the city for $38,480 to be
2014-01  - -         paid in 60 monthly payments.
                     (Prior Code, § 3.24.04)
                     The Sewer Expenses Agreement, and the Drip Lease
2008-3   2-11-2008   Agreement; Exhibits A and B detail specific lists of
                     alterations to the system.
                     (Prior Code, § 10.12.02)
                     John Jouvenaux (Council member), an owner of WWJD Inc.,
                     BBB septic and portable toilets, to enter into a contract
2011-06  4-11-2011   with the city for the furnishing of septic services to
                     buildings owned by the city.
                     (Prior Code, § 3.20.02)
                     Lease purchase agreement with Government Capital
2020-12  4-9-2020    Corporation for a brush truck for the City Fire Department
                     (lease agreement expires after 60 monthly payments).
                     Waiving competitive bidding in order to accept a bid from
2021-10  4-26-2021   Happy Playgrounds, LLC for the purchase and installation
                     of new synthetic turf at the city park.
                     Waiving competitive bidding for the purchase of a 2021
2022-01  1-11-2022   Dodge Ram 1500 truck for use by the Public Works
                     Department.
                     Waiving competitive bidding for the purchase of a 2022
2022-05  1-24-2022   Chevrolet Tahoe for use by the Cave Springs Fire
                     Department.
                     Waiving competitive bidding for the purchase of a 2022
2022-06  1-24-2022   Chevrolet Tahoe 4WD for use by the Cave Springs Police
                     Department.
                    
 
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Arkansas Code
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ARKANSAS CODE
A.C. Cite Code Section
A.C. Cite                          Code Section
3-1-101 et seq.                    110.01
3-9-203                            110.04
3-9-213                            35.17
3-9-214                            35.17
8-4-101                            114.04
12-9-108(b)(3)                     31.05
14-2-201                           36.20
14-2-201 et seq.                   36.16
14-2-203                           36.15
14-2-204                           36.18
14-37-103                          11.02
14-42-110                          31.04
14-42-112                          31.01
14-44-109                          31.02
14-52-101 et seq.                  34.20
14-54-901                          90.03
14-54-903                          90.01;
                                   90.04
14-54-904                          90.01
14-55-501                          131.01
14-55-502                          131.01
14-55-502(a)                       130.99
14-55-502(b)                       130.99
14-55-504                          10.99
                                   50.26;
                                   50.27;
14-56-103                          50.35;
                                   50.36;
                                   51.37
14-56-202                          31.03 
14-56-413                          32.28
14-58-104                          35.02
14-58-303                          35.02
14-59-101 et seq.                  31.02
14-59-107                          35.01
14-235-207                         32.02
14-235-301 et seq.                 51.19
14-237-101 through 14-237-113      31.02
14-268-101 et seq.                 152.01
14-284-401 through 14-284-411      34.03
15-54-103                          150.999
15-57-301 et seq.                  114.03
15-57-401 et seq                   114.03
16-10-209(5)(F)                    33.02
17-40-106                          111.06
20-19-301                          91.01;
                                   91.06
20-22-701 et seq.                  94.04
20-22-704                          94.03
20-22-707                          94.03
20-22-708                          94.03
20-22-710                          94.03
20-22-711                          94.03
20-22-712                          94.03
20-28-101 et seq.                  50.07
23-17-501 et seq.                  153.06
23-17-503(25)(A)(i) through(vi)    153.02
23-17-503(25)(A)(iii) through (vi) 153.02
23-17-505                          153.03
23-17-506                          153.03
23-17-510(e)                       153.04
25-15-204                          150.015
25-19-101 et seq.                  31.02;
                                   32.23
26-18-101 et seq.                  150.015
26-52-101 et seq.                  35.16
26-53-101 et seq.                  35.16
26-57-614                          34.03
26-77-101                          116.16
26-77-102(e)                       116.16
Title 27                           70.01
27-14-104(29)                      71.01
27-49-101                          70.01
27-68-102                          153.02
                                   
 
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2021 Code
Prior Code   2021 Code
1.36.01      36.03
1.36.02      36.03
1.36.03      36.03
1.36.04      36.03
2.04.01      11.02
2.12.01      31.02
2.12.02      31.02
2.20.01      31.03
2.20.03      31.03
2.24.01      34.01
2.24.02      34.02
2.24.03      34.03
2.24.04      34.04
2.24.05      34.05
2.24.06      34.06
2.24.07      34.07
2.24.08      34.08
2.24.09      34.09
2.28.01      34.20
2.28.02      34.21
2.28.03      34.22
2.28.04      34.23
2.32.01      35.30
2.32.02      35.30
2.32.03      35.30
2.32.04      35.30
2.32.05      35.30
2.32.06      35.30
2.32.07      35.30
2.36.01      31.05
2.36.02      31.05
2.40.01      33.01
2.40.02      33.02
2.40.03      33.03
2.44.01      36.15
2.44.02      36.16
2.44.03      36.17
2.44.04      36.18
2.44.05      36.19
2.44.06      36.20
3.12.01      35.15
3.12.02      35.15
3.20.01      35.02
3.20.02      TSO Table VI
3.24.01      TSO Table VI
3.34.04      TSO Table VI
Chapter 4.04 TSO Table I
Chapter 4.08 TSO Table I
Chapter 4.12 TSO Table I
Chapter 4.16 TSO Table I
Chapter 4.24 TSO Table I
Chapter 4.28 TSO Table I
4.32.01      114.01
4.32.02      114.02
4.32.03      114.03
4.32.04      114.04
4.32.05      114.05
4.32.06      114.06
4.32.07      114.99
4.32.09      114.07
5.04.01      90.01
5.04.02      90.01
5.04.03      90.01
5.04.04      90.01;
             90.99
5.04.05      90.01
5.04.06      90.01
5.04.07      90.01;
             90.99
5.04.08      90.01
5.04.09      90.01
5.04.10      90.01
5.05.01      90.02
5.05.02      90.02
5.06.01      90.03
5.06.02      90.03;
             90.99
5.06.03      90.03
5.06.04      90.03
5.06.05      90.03
5.06.06      90.03
5.07.01      90.04
5.07.02      90.04
5.07.03      90.04
5.07.04      90.04
5.07.05      90.04
6.04.01      91.01
6.04.02      91.02
6.04.03      91.03
6.04.04      91.04
6.04.05      91.05
6.04.06      91.06
6.04.08      91.07
6.04.09      91.08
6.04.10      91.09;
             91.99
6.04.11      91.99
7.04.01      131.01
7.04.02      131.01
7.08.01      130.01
7.08.02      130.02
7.08.03      130.03
7.08.04      130.99
7.12.01      131.02
7.12.02      131.99
7.12.03      131.02
7.20.01      112.01;
             112.99
7.20.02      112.02;
             112.99
7.20.03      112.03
7.20.04      112.04
7.20.05      112.05
7.24.01      90.30
7.24.02      90.31
7.24.03      90.99
7.24.04      90.32
7.28.01      113.01
7.28.02      113.02
7.28.03      113.99
7.28.04      113.03
7.28.05      113.04
7.28.06      113.05
7.32.01      110.01
7.32.02      110.02
7.32.03      110.03
7.32.04      110.04
7.36.01      90.16
7.36.02      90.16
7.36.03      90.99
7.36.04      90.16
7.40.01      111.01
7.40.07      111.05
7.40.08      111.06
7.40.09      111.99
8.04.01      70.01
8.12.01      71.01
8.12.02      71.02
8.12.03      71.03
8.12.04      71.99
8.16.01      Ch. 72, Schd. I
8.20.01      115.01
8.20.02      115.02
8.20.03      115.03
8.20.04      115.04
8.20.05      115.05
8.20.06      115.06
8.20.07      115.99
8.24.01      90.15
8.24.02      90.15
8.24.03      90.15
8.24.04      90.99
8.24.05      90.15
8.28.01      70.02
8.28.02      70.02
8.28.03      70.02
8.28.04      70.02
8.28.05      70.99
Chapter 8.32 TSO Table II
9.04.01      151.01
9.04.02      151.02
9.04.03      151.03
9.04.04      151.04
9.04.05      151.05
9.04.06      151.99
9.08.01      151.20
9.08.02      151.21
9.08.03      151.22
9.08.04      151.23
9.08.05      151.24
9.08.06      151.25
9.08.07      151.26
9.08.08      151.27
9.08.09      151.28
9.08.10      151.99
10.04.01     51.01
10.04.02     51.02
10.04.03     51.03
10.04.04     51.04
10.04.06     51.05
10.04.07     51.06
10.04.08     51.07
10.04.09     51.08
10.04.10     51.09
10.04.11     51.10
10.04.12     51.11
10.04.15     51.12
10.04.16     51.13
10.04.17     51.14
10.04.18     51.15
10.04.19     51.16
10.04.20     51.17
10.04.21     51.18
10.08.01     32.02
10.08.02     32.02
10.08.04     32.02
10.12.01     51.21
10.12.02     TSO Table VI
10.12.03     51.21
10.16.01     32.01
10.16.02     32.01
10.16.04     32.01
10.20.01     50.01;
             TSO Table VI
10.20.02     50.01
10.20.04     50.03
10.20.05     50.04
10.20.08     50.07
10.20.09     50.08
10.20.10     50.09
10.20.11     50.10
10.20.12     50.11
10.24.01     32.03
10.24.02     32.03
10.28.01     50.50
10.28.02     50.51
10.28.03     50.52
10.28.04     50.53
10.28.05     50.54
10.28.06     50.55
10.28.07     50.56
10.28.08     50.57
10.28.09     50.58
10.28.10     50.59
11.08.01     150.003
11.08.02     150.003
11.12.01     150.015
11.12.02     150.016
11.12.03     150.017
11.12.04     150.018
11.12.05     150.019
11.12.06     150.020
11.12.07     150.021
11.12.08     150.022
11.12.09     150.023
11.12.10     150.024
11.12.11     150.025
11.12.12     150.027
11.16.01     150.002
11.16.02     150.002
11.16.03     150.002
11.16.04     150.999
12.04.01     92.01
12.04.02     92.02
12.04.03     92.03
12.04.04     92.04
12.04.05     92.05
12.04.06     92.06
12.04.07     92.07
12.04.08     92.08
12.04.09     92.09
12.04.10     92.99
Chapter14.04 154.01
14.08.01     TSO Table V
14.08.02     TSO Table V
14.08.03     TSO Table V
14.08.04     TSO Table V
14.08.05     TSO Table V
14.08.06     TSO Table V
14.08.07     TSO Table V
14.12.01     152.01
14.12.02     152.02
14.12.03     152.03
14.12.04     152.04
14.12.05     152.05
14.12.06     152.06
14.12.07     152.07
14.12.08     152.08
14.12.09     152.09
14.12.10     152.10
14.12.11     152.10;
             152.99
14.16.01     TSO Table III
14.16.02     TSO Table IV
Chapter15.04 154.01
15.08.01     150.040
15.08.02     150.041
15.08.03     150.042
15.08.04     150.043
15.08.05     150.999
15.12.01     150.055
15.12.02     150.056
15.12.03     150.057
15.12.04     150.058
15.12.05     150.059
15.12.06     150.060
15.12.07     150.061
15.12.08     150.062
15.12.09     150.063
15.12.10     150.064
15.12.11     150.065
15.12.12     150.066
15.12.13     150.067
15.12.14     150.068
15.12.15     150.069
15.12.16     150.070
15.16.01     93.01
15.16.02     93.02
15.16.03     93.03
15.16.04     93.04
15.16.05     93.05
15.16.06     93.06
15.16.07     93.07
15.16.08     93.08
15.16.09     93.09
15.16.10     93.10
15.16.11     93.11;
             93.99
15.16.12     93.12
15.16.13     93.13
15.16.15     93.14;
             93.99
             
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed  Code Section
2019-35  7-22-2019      50.35
                       
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
63       - -         35.15
68       - -         35.02
70       - -         TSO Table II
71       - -         TSO Table II
77       - -         TSO Table II
82       - -         TSO Table II
                     151.20-
83       - -         151.28;
                     151.99
86       - -         TSO Table II
88       - -         TSO Table II
                     112.01-
91       - -         112.05;
                     112.99
92       - -         TSO Table III
94       - -         TSO Table IV
95 6     - -         TSO Table III
96       - -         150.040-
                     150.043
96-5     - -         TSO Table III
96-9     - -         TSO Table II
                     90.30-
97       - -         90.32;
                     90.99
                     151.01-
97-4     - -         151.05;
                     151.99
97-5     - -         TSO Table II
98-3     - -         TSO Table III
98-5     - -         31.05
99       - -         TSO Table I
99-4     - -         TSO Table IV
99-5     - -         TSO Table IV
99-7     - -         TSO Table II
99-8     - -         TSO Table IV
99-10    - -         TSO Table IV
99-13    - -         TSO Table III
105      - -         TSO Table II
107      - -         131.02
108      - -         TSO Table II
109      - -         TSO Table II
                     115.01-
2000-7   - -         115.06;
                     115.99
2003-3   - -         TSO Table VI
2000-11  - -         34.04
2001-8   - -         TSO Table III
2002-9   - -         TSO Table III
2002-12  - -         35.30
                     71.01-
2003-6   - -         71.03;
                     71.99
2003-7   - -         TSO Table II
                     113.01-
2003-10  - -         113.05;
                     113.99
2003-12  - -         150.003
                     130.01-
2003-13  - -         130.03;
                     130.99
2003-15  - -         90.15;
                     90.99
2004-8   - -         TSO Table IV
2004-9   - -         TSO Table II
2004-10  - -         150.003
2004-12  - -         TSO Table III
2004-14  - -         TSO Table IV
2004-15  - -         Ch. 72, Schd. I
2004-16  - -         150.002;
                     150.999
2004-19  - -         TSO Table III
2004-20  - -         TSO Table IV
2004-21  - -         TSO Table IV
2005-4   - -         TSO Table IV
2005-5   - -         TSO Table IV
2005-6   - -         TSO Table IV
2005-12  - -         TSO Table III
2005-13  - -         TSO Table IV
2005-16  - -         TSO Table II
2005-18  - -         TSO Table IV
2005-19  - -         TSO Table IV
2005-20  - -         TSO Table IV
2005-21  - -         32.02
2005-22  - -         TSO Table IV
2005-23  - -         TSO Table IV
2005-24  - -         TSO Table IV
2005-26  - -         TSO Table V
2005-27  - -         TSO Table II
2005-28  - -         TSO Table V
2006-4   - -         TSO Table II;
                     TSO Table IV
2006-5   - -         TSO Table IV
2006-6   - -         TSO Table V
2006-9   - -         TSO Table IV
2006-10  - -         TSO Table IV
2006-12  - -         TSO Table V
2006-13  - -         TSO Table V
2006-14  - -         TSO Table IV
2006-15  - -         TSO Table IV
2006-17  - -         TSO Table IV
2006-18  - -         TSO Table IV
2006-19  - -         TSO Table IV
2006-20  - -         TSO Table V
2006-21  - -         70.02;
                     70.99
2006-23  - -         TSO Table IV
2006-27  - -         TSO Table IV
2006-28  - -         32.03
2007-3   - -         32.01
2007-9   - -         TSO Table VI
2007-10  - -         TSO Table II
2007-17  - -         51.01-
                     51.18
2007-20  - -         TSO Table IV
2007-21  - -         TSO Table IV
2008-6   - -         TSO Table III
2010-5   - -         36.03
2011-2   - -         TSO Table III
2011-4   - -         TSO Table III
2011-5   - -         TSO Table III
                     152.01-
2012-4   - -         152.10;
                     152.99
2013-1   - -         TSO Table I
2013-2   - -         TSO Table II
                     91.01-
2013-3   - -         91.09;
                     91.99
2013-5   - -         110.01;
                     110.04
2013-6   - -         36.15-
                     36.20
2013-9   - -         34.20-
                     34.23
                     93.01-
2013-10  - -         93.14;
                     93.99
                     92.01-
2013-12  - -         92.09;
                     92.99
2013-13  - -         33.01
2014-01  - -         TSO Table VI
2014-3   - -         110.03
2014-02  - -         TSO Table IV
2014-05  - -         TSO Table IV
2014-07  - -         TSO Table IV
2014-08  - -         TSO Table IV
2014-09  - -         90.16;
                     90.99
2014-10  - -         TSO Table IV
                     150.015;
2014-12  - -         150.017-
                     150.027
2015-02  - -         TSO Table IV
2015-07  - -         TSO Table IV
2015-08  - -         31.02
2015-09  - -         50.03
2017-03  - -         TSO Table IV
2019-13  - -         50.30
2021-35  - -         TSO Table III
98       2-4-1991    TSO Table I
100      3-4-1991    TSO Table I
                     150.055-
126      6-6-1994    150.070;
                     150.999
97-10    10-6-1997   50.50-
                     50.59
2005-17  7-11-2004   TSO Table IV
2008-3   2-11-2008   51.21;
                     TSO Table VI
                     50.01;
2010-10  4-8-2010    50.04;
                     50.07-
                     50.11
2011-06  4-11-2011   TSO Table VI
                     34.01-
2012-5   4-9-2012    34.03;
                     34.05-
                     34.09
2012-06  5-14-2012   31.03
2012-11  12-17-2012  33.02;
                     33.03
                     114.01-
2015-01  1-26-2015   114.07;
                     114.99
2016-03  1-12-2016   TSO Table IV
2016-04  2-9-2016    110.02
2016-06  4-12-2016   110.04
2016-07  4-12-2016   35.17
2016-12  6-14-2016   32.15-
                     32.28
2016-13  6-14-2016   TSO Table IV
2016-15  7-12-2016   TSO Table IV
2016-17  8-9-2016    TSO Table IV
2016-18  8-9-2016    TSO Table IV
2016-19  8-9-2016    TSO Table IV
2016-20  8-9-2016    TSO Table IV
2016-21  8-9-2016    116.01-
                     116.16
2016-24  8-9-2016    50.12
2016-26  9-13-2016   TSO Table IV
2016-27  9-13-2016   TSO Table IV
2016-29  11-8-2016   TSO Table IV
2016-30  11-8-2016   TSO Table IV
2016-31  11-8-2016   TSO Table IV
2016-32  11-8-2016   TSO Table IV
2017-08  2-14-2017   TSO Table III
2017-09  2-14-2017   TSO Table IV
2017-10  2-14-2017   TSO Table IV
2017-11  2-14-2017   TSO Table IV
2017-12  2-14-2017   TSO Table IV
2017-13  2-14-2017   TSO Table IV
2017-14  2-14-2017   TSO Table IV
2017-15  2-14-2017   31.02
2017-16  2-14-2017   36.02
2017-17  3-14-2017   TSO Table IV
2017-18  3-14-2017   TSO Table IV
2017-19  3-14-2017   TSO Table IV
2017-22  5-9-2017    31.01
2017-25  6-13-2017   TSO Table IV
2017-26  6-13-2017   TSO Table IV
2017-27  6-13-2017   TSO Table IV
2017-28  6-13-2017   TSO Table IV
2017-29  6-13-2017   TSO Table IV
2017-30  6-13-2017   TSO Table IV
2017-31  7-14-2017   TSO Table IV
2017-32  8-9-2017    31.04
2017-33  9-12-2017   TSO Table IV
2017-34  9-12-2017   TSO Table IV
2017-35  9-12-2017   TSO Table II
2017-40  11-14-2017  150.001
2017-41  11-14-2017  TSO Table IV
2017-42  11-14-2017  TSO Table IV
2017-43  11-14-2017  TSO Table IV
2017-45  11-14-2017  TSO Table III
2017-46  11-14-2017  TSO Table III
2017-47  12-12-2017  TSO Table II
2017-48  12-12-2017  TSO Table III
2018-02  1-9-2018    11.01
2018-3   2-13-2018   31.02
2018-04  3-14-2018   TSO Table IV
2018-09  4-8-2018    TSO Table IV
2018-07  4-10-2018   36.01
2018-08  4-10-2018   TSO Table IV
2018-10  5-8-2018    TSO Table III
2018-12  5-8-2018    51.20
2018-13  5-29-2018   TSO Table IV
2018-15  7-10-2018   TSO Table IV
2018-16  8-14-2018   TSO Table IV
2018-18  9-11-2018   52.01
2018-19  10-9-2018   TSO Table III
2019-01  1-8-2019    32.02
2019-02  1-8-2019    32.01
2019-03  1-8-2019    TSO Table IV
2019-05  2-25-2019   50.06
2019-06  3-25-2019   TSO Table I
2019-07  5-28-2019   35.02
2019-08  5-28-2019   TSO Table IV
2019-09  5-28-2019   35.01
2019-10  5-28-2019   154.01
2019-13  7-22-2019   50.25-
                     50.36
2019-14  7-22-2019   TSO Table IV
                     51.35-
2019-15  8-26-2019   51.46;
                     51.99
2019-16  8-26-2019   153.01-
                     153.07
                     50.02;
2019-17  8-26-2019   50.05;
                     50.99
2019-18  9-9-2019    35.16
2019-21  9-23-2019   TSO Table IV
2019-22  9-23-2019   TSO Table IV
2019-23  10-28-2019  TSO Table IV
2019-24  12-23-2019  TSO Table IV
2020-02  1-27-2020   154.01
2020-04  1-27-2020   154.01
2020-07  1-27-2020   154.01
2020-09  3-23-2020   30.01-
                     30.08
2020-10  3-23-2020   TSO Table IV
2020-11  3-23-2020   TSO Table III
2020-12  4-9-2020    TSO Table VI
2020-13  4-27-2020   154.01
2021-01  1-25-2021   TSO Table IV
2021-02  2-22-2021   51.13;
                     51.19
2021-03  2-22-2021   TSO Table IV
2021-04  2-22-2021   TSO Table IV
2021-06  3-22-2021   TSO Table II
2021-07  3-22-2021   TSO Table IV
2021-08  3-22-2021   TSO Table IV
2021-05  4-26-2021   TSO Table III
2021-09  4-26-2021   TSO Table I
2021-10  4-26-2021   TSO Table VI
2021-11  4-26-2021   TSO Table I
2021-12  4-26-2021   TSO Table I
2021-13  4-26-2021   TSO Table IV
2021-14  5-24-2021   154.01
2021-15  5-24-2021   TSO Table IV
2021-16  5-24-2021   TSO Table IV
                     52.02-
2021-17  6-28-2021   52.08;
                     52.99
2021-18  6-28-2021   154.01
2021-20  7-26-2021   TSO Table IV
2021-21  7-26-2021   TSO Table IV
2021-24  8-23-2021   TSO Table IV
2021-25  8-23-2021   TSO Table IV
2021-27  8-23-2021   154.02
2021-28  8-23-2021   154.01
2021-29  8-23-2021   TSO Table II
2021-30  8-23-2021   TSO Table IV
2021-31  8-23-2021   TSO Table I
                     150.015-
2021-32  9-27-2021   150.018;
                     150.026;
                     150.999
                     94.01-
2021-33  9-27-2021   94.04;
                     94.99
2021-34  9-27-2021   TSO Table III
2021-36  9-27-2021   TSO Table IV
2022-01  1-11-2022   TSO Table VI
2022-02  1-24-2022   TSO Table IV
2022-03  1-24-2022   30.01-
                     30.08
2022-04  1-24-2022   Adopting Ordinance
2022-05  1-24-2022   TSO Table VI
2022-06  1-24-2022   TSO Table VI
2022-10  3-22-2022   31.02
2022-12  4-26-2022   35.02
2022-13  4-26-2022   TSO Table IV
2022-14  5-24-2022   154.01
2022-15  6-28-2022   TSO Table IV
2022-16  6-28-2022   50.03
2022-18  8-23-2022   TSO Table IV
2022-19  9-27-2022   TSO Table IV
2022-20  10-25-2022  TSO Table IV
2022-21  11-29-2022  TSO Table IV
2022-22  11-29-2022  TSO Table IV
2023-01  2-14-2023   91.01
2023-02  2-14-2023   30.07
2023-03  2-28-2023   TSO Table IV
2023-04  3-14-2023   154.01
                     111.01-
2023-05  3-28-2023   111.07,
                     111.99
2023-06  4-25-2023   TSO Table IV
2023-07  6-27-2023   90.01
2023-08  6-27-2023   TSO Table IV
2023-09  7-25-2023   150.002
2023-10  7-25-2023   150.001
2023-11  7-25-2023   150.005
2023-12  7-25-2023   150.004
2023-13  9-26-2023   TSO Table IV
2023-14  10-24-2023  TSO Table IV
2024-02  2-27-2024   30.01-
                     30.08
                    
 
 
