CODE OF ORDINANCES
SEBASTIAN COUNTY, ARKANSAS
2025 S-60 contains
Local legislation current through March 18, 2025
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
COUNTY OFFICIALS
QUORUM COURT
QUORUM COURT
Johnny Hobbs, Justice of the Peace, District 1
Jackie Davis, Justice of the Peace, District 2
Shawn Looper, Justice of the Peace, District 3
James Butler, Justice of the Peace, District 4
Vacancy in Office, District 5
Danny W. Aldridge, Justice of the Peace, District 6
Kenneth Williamson, Justice of the Peace, District 7
Valeria J. Robinson, Justice of the Peace, District 8
Rhonda Royal, Justice of the Peace, District 9
Dickie Lee Robertson, Justice of the Peace, District 10
Gerry Ward, Justice of the Peace, District 11
Tommy Camp, Justice of the Peace, District 12
Lorrie Runion, Justice of the Peace, District 13
 
COUNTY OFFICIALS
COUNTY OFFICIALS
COUNTY JUDGE               Steve Hotz
COUNTY CLERK               Sharon Brooks
COUNTY TREASURER/COLLECTOR Lora Rice
CIRCUIT COURT CLERK        Susie Hassett
COUNTY ASSESSOR            Zach Johnson
COUNTY SHERIFF             Hobe Runion
COUNTY CORONER             Kenneth Hobbs
PROSECUTING ATTORNEY       Dan Shue
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 2004-22
“BE IT ENACTED BY THE QUORUM COURT OF THE COUNTY OF SEBASTIAN, STATE OF
ARKANSAS; AN ORDINANCE TO BE ENTITLED:”
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR SEBASTIAN COUNTY, ARKANSAS,
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE COUNTY DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH CODE OF
ORDINANCES; AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES
   WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the political
subdivision are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in
form and substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the County and for the proper conduct of its
affairs; and
   WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Arkansas, according to
A.C.A. 14, empower and authorize the political subdivision to revise, amend,
restate, codify and compile any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not
heretofore adopted or published and to incorporate such ordinances into one
ordinance in book form; and
   WHEREAS, the Legislative Authority of the Political Subdivision has
authorized a general compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances
of the Political Subdivision of a general and permanent nature and publication
of such ordinance in book form; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
County and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health, safety
and general welfare of the County that this ordinance take effect at an early
date.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE QUORUM COURT OF SEBASTIAN COUNTY,
ARKANSAS:
Section 1.    The general ordinances of Sebastian County as revised, amended,
restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as and shall
constitute the "Code of Ordinances of Sebastian County, Arkansas."
Section 2.    Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following Titles:
         TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
         TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
         TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
         TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
         TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
         TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
         TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
         TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
         TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
Section 3.    All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in
part of such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
Section 4.    Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Sebastian County Quorum Court, and the County Clerk of
Sebastian County is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code
of Ordinances in the Office of the Clerk.
Section 5.    Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided by law,
and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
DATE:     9/21/04       APPROVED:    /s/ David Hudson
                        Sebastian County Judge
ATTEST:     /s/ Doris M. Tate
      Sebastian County Clerk
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for Sebastian County, Arkansas, shall
be designated as the "Code of Sebastian County" and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I, compatible with future legislation, shall apply
to ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain,
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Terms defined. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This county code, as modified
by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or sections.
      COUNTY. Sebastian County, Arkansas.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases, the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of the county unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as applied to
any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Arkansas.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of the county shall be by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
"and/or," if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the county exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state or federal laws, shall
be the official time within the county for the transaction of all county
business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   (A)   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced.
   (B)   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to the
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 1960-
10, passed 1-1-60; Am. Ord. 1970-1, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 1980-1, passed 1-1-
80; Am. Ord. 1980-6, passed 6-1-80)
   (B)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates that
the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example:
(A.C.A. § 14-55-504) (Ord. 1980-1, passed 1-1-80; Am. Ord. 1985-1, passed 1-1-
85)
   (C)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a "statutory reference" following
the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer to that
statute for further information. Example:
§ 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   The county shall make available to any person for inspection or copying all
public records unless otherwise exempted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   Inspection of public records, see A.C.A. §§ 25-19-101 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Whenever in this code or in any ordinance of the county any act is
prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful, an offense or a violation, or
whenever the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is
declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is otherwise provided,
whoever violates any provision shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $500
for any one specified offense or violation, and $1,000 for each repetition of
the offense or violation. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day
during or on which a violation continues or occurs.
   (B)   If an act prohibited or rendered unlawful is, in its nature,
continuous in respect to time, the fine or penalty for allowing the continuance
thereof in violation of this code or the ordinance shall not exceed $250 for
each day that it may be unlawfully continued.
   (C)   All fines and penalties imposed for violation of any county ordinance
shall be paid into the County General Fund.
Cross-reference:
   Reduction of sentence for various forms of good behavior, see § §
94.01
Statutory reference:
   Penalties for ordinance violations, see A.C.A. § 14-14-906
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   QUORUM COURT
      
31.   COUNTY OFFICIALS
      
32.   BOARDS, COMMITTEES AND DEPARTMENTS
      
33.   FINANCES AND TAXATION; FEES
      
34.   PERSONNEL
      
35.   COUNTY POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: QUORUM COURT
Section
   
30.01   Regular meetings
   
30.02   Special meetings
   
30.03   Preparation of agenda for regular and special meetings
   
30.04   Presiding Officer; election
   
30.05   Procedures for public participation
   
30.06   Compensation
   
30.07   Meeting formats
§ 30.01 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   (A)   The regular monthly meetings of the Sebastian County Quorum Court
shall be held at 6:00 p.m., on the third Tuesday of each month. Additionally,
any month in which a special meeting of the Quorum Court occurs, the special
meeting will be held at 6:00 p.m., thereby adjusting the start time of the
regular meeting to the time the special meeting ends.
   (B)   In the event the monthly meeting date of the Quorum Court falls on a
county holiday, the meeting shall be held the day immediately following the
holiday.
   (C)   The Quorum Court agenda shall contain a time for the public and
Justices of the Peace to present requests to the Quorum Court for items to be
included on the agenda of the next regular meeting. The Quorum Court shall
determine, by majority vote, whether items submitted by the public shall be
placed on the Quorum Court agenda. Justices shall not be bound in their
discussions to subjects on the agenda.
   (D)   The regular meetings of the Quorum Court shall be held at the Ben
Geren Safe Shelter, 7200 South Zero Street, Fort Smith, Arkansas 72901. Quorum
Court meetings shall be conducted in accordance with public participation
policy ordinances enacted by the Quorum Court. Further, rules of procedure for
transaction of business of the Sebastian County Quorum Court shall be “Robert’s
Rules of Order”, except when they are in conflict with the general laws of the
state. Provided however, the Quorum Court may at any regular meeting revise or
modify these rules or adopt new rules by majority vote of the full membership.
   (E)   It is the intent of the County Quorum Court to hold a regular monthly
meeting in the Greenwood Courthouse on a quarterly basis. The schedule of the
Greenwood Courthouse regular monthly meetings shall include the April, August,
October, and December regular monthly meetings.
(Ord. 2007-1, passed 1-1-07; Am. Res. 2007-2, passed 4-17-07; Am. Ord. 2009-1,
passed 1-1-09; Am. Res. 2009-2, passed 1-20-09; Am. Ord. 2011-1, passed 1-1-11;
Am. Ord. 2013-1, passed 1-1-13; Am. Res. 2015-6, passed 5-19-15; Am. Ord. 2019-
3, passed 1-22-19; Am. Ord. 2021-3, passed 1-26-21; Am. Ord. 2023-4, passed 1-
26-23; Am. Ord. 2024-3, passed 1-23-24; Am. Ord. 2025-3, passed 1-21-25)
§ 30.02 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   The County Judge or a majority of the elected Justices of the Peace
may call special meetings upon at least 24 hours notice.
   (B)   The notice shall include time, date and place of the special meeting.
The notice shall also include the general purpose of the meeting, however, this
does not preclude the Quorum Court from acting on, or considering other matters
which may appropriately come before the body at the special meeting. The
special meeting shall be held at the sites of the proposal, when possible.
   (C)   Notice of a special meeting given at any regular or special meeting of
the Quorum Court shall constitute due notice to the members present. The County
Clerk shall be responsible for giving timely notice to absent members, as well
as giving public notice, containing the information specified in division (B)
above.
   (D)   Notice of a special meeting of the Quorum Court called by the County
Judge at other than a meeting of the Quorum Court shall be accomplished by the
County Judge notifying the County Clerk, in writing, if time permits, who shall
be responsible for notifying each Justice of the Peace individually, in
writing, if time permits, and giving due public notice.
   (E)   Notice of a special meeting of the Quorum Court called by a majority
of the Justices of the Peace shall be accomplished by one member of the
majority notifying the County Clerk, in writing, if time permits. In addition
to the information specified in division (B) above, the notice shall also
include the name of each Justice of the Peace making up the majority calling
the meeting. The County Clerk shall be responsible for notifying the County
Judge and each Justice of the Peace individually, not included in the majority
calling the special meeting, in writing if time permits, and giving due public
notice.
   (F)   In order to protect the rights and interests of all county officials
concerned and the general public, it is the intent of the body that notice of a
call for a special meeting shall be given as far in advance as possible,
consistent with the nature and immediacy of the purpose of the special meeting.
The minimum 24 hours' notice should therefore be resorted to only under extreme
and unusual circumstances.
(Ord. 77-2, passed 1-3-77)
§ 30.03 PREPARATION OF AGENDA FOR REGULAR AND SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   The preparation of the agenda for each regular, special and committee
meeting of the Quorum Court shall be the duty of the County Judge.
   (B)   An item of business may be placed on the agenda for any regular,
special and committee meeting of the Quorum Court by the members of the Quorum
Court and the County Judge.
   (C)   Items to be included on the agenda of an upcoming regular, special or
committee meeting shall be submitted to the County Judge's office no later than
5:00 p.m. Monday two weeks preceding the week in which the Quorum Court meeting
is held. This deadline shall allow time for the preparation of any background
information, reports and memoranda pertinent to the items to be considered.
   (D)   A copy of the agenda and any reports and memoranda pertinent to the
items to be considered shall be presented, through the County Judge’s Office,
to each member of the Quorum Court and to members of the news media no later
than five working days prior to the meeting, at which time said items shall be
considered by the Quorum Court. Special Quorum Court meetings shall follow the
minimum 24-hour notice set forth in §
30.02. Quorum Court Committee meetings may be scheduled to address briefings
and review of a matter with reports and memoranda presented prior to the
Committee meeting, if possible, or handed out in the meeting. Decision-making
Committee meetings shall follow five calendar days’ notice for presentation of
reports and memoranda, with the exception of annual budget meetings which have
been preceded with distribution of the annual budget documents.
   (E)   The agenda, as prepared, can be suspended, the order of items for
consideration changed or additional items may be added to the agenda when two-
thirds of the members composing the Quorum Court shall vote to do so.
(Ord. 89-17, passed 7-19-89: Am. Ord. 2003-23, passed 10-21-03; Am. Ord. 2007-
19, passed 10-16-07)
§ 30.04 PRESIDING OFFICER; ELECTION.
   (A)   In accordance with A.C.A. § 14-14-904, the Justices of Peace shall
elect one of their number to preside, in the absence of the County Judge.
   (B)   The Presiding Officer is to be elected by a quorum of the Court,
through roll call vote.
   (C)   When serving as Presiding Officer, the Justice of Peace forfeits the
right to propose motions and to participate in debate. The elected Presiding
Officer is without the power of veto, but does retain the right to vote on
matters before the Quorum Court.
   (D)   The responsibilities of the Presiding Officer will include the
following:
      (1)   Insure that the proper order of business is carried out;
      (2)   Guard against violations of the rules of procedure;
      (3)   Protect the rights of all members;
      (4)   Insure that motions, resolutions and ordinances are worded and
phrased to carry out the intent of the Quorum Court; and
      (5)   Maintain fairness and avoid prejudicial treatment of motions or
individuals.
   (E)   In the absence of both the County Judge and the elected Presiding
Officer, the Quorum Court shall elect from its members present a person to
serve as Chairperson of the meeting.
(Res. 77-4, passed 1-10-77)
§ 30.05 PROCEDURES FOR PUBLIC PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   The County Quorum Court recognizes it is vital in a democratic society
that public business be performed in an open and public manner so that citizens
will be advised of the performance of their elected officials, and of the
decisions that are reached in public activity and in making policy. Therefore
it shall be a policy of the County Quorum Court to allow concerned citizens the
opportunity to inform their elected officials of their opinions and preferences
on important issues, and the order of business in Quorum Court meetings shall
include a time for brief comments or questions from members of the public.
   (B)   The agenda for Quorum Court meetings shall include a time for public
participation entitled "public comments" to come immediately after roll call at
the first of the meeting.
(Ord. 2013-15, passed 8-20-13)
§ 30.06 COMPENSATION.
   The compensation of members of the Quorum Court shall be as set thereby from
time to time.
§ 30.07 MEETING FORMATS.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to establish discussion meetings and
voting meetings as a meeting format for the regular monthly Quorum Court
meetings. The focus of a discussion meeting is to provide reports and discuss
pending projects and priorities without the involvement of voting for budget
amendments based on budget changes, or voting on other matters in ordinance
format.
   (B)   The focus of the meeting procedure revisions is to establish the
opportunity to improve communication between Quorum Court members and county
elected officials and to encourage public participation prior to voting on a
matter by the Quorum Court.
   (C)   By alternating meetings on discussion and voting sessions the intent
is to focus on discussion meetings at least quarterly while recognizing the
need to act on budget matters in specified months.
   (D)   Some exceptions may have to be made in scheduled discussion meetings
based upon deadlines that may arise for submittal of grants or matters that may
be deemed emergencies that need to be attended to. Generally the need to vote
to amend the budget is not an immediate or required matter on a monthly basis.
Since the budget is adopted for an annual calendar year, in most cases budget
amendments can wait.
   (E)   Briefing on proposed projects will help all concerned in addressing
the business of the county. Additional time to discuss and consider project or
program information will assist the Quorum Court and improve communications.
   (F)   Agendas will be prepared in accordance with §
30.03.
   (G)   The 2013 meeting plan is as follows:
      (1)   January - voting;
      (2)   February - voting;
      (3)   March - discussion;
      (4)   April - voting;
      (5)   May - discussion;
      (6)   June - voting;
      (7)   July - discussion;
      (8)   August - voting;
      (9)   September - discussion;
      (10)   October - discussion;
      (11)   November - voting; and
      (12)   December - voting.
(Res. 2013-1, passed 1-15-13)
CHAPTER 31: COUNTY OFFICIALS
Section
   
31.01   Collector of Taxes
   
31.02   County Comptroller
   
31.03   County Clerk
   
31.04   Collector of Fines
§ 31.01 COLLECTOR OF TAXES.
   (A)   Ark. Const., AA. 7, § 46 and A.C.A. § 14-14-1301, as amended, provides
that the duly elected Sheriff of a county shall be the Ex-officio Collector of
Taxes.
   (B)   Ark. Const., Am. 55 provides that the Quorum Court may create,
consolidate, separate, revise or abandon any elective county office or offices,
except during the term thereof. A majority of those voting on the question,
however, at a general election, may have approved the action.
   (C)   It is the finding of the Quorum Court that a need exists to create a
separate elective office of Collector of Taxes. The Collector of Taxes should
be charged with the duty to collect the taxes as prescribed by law.
   (D)   The Quorum Court shall appoint an individual to serve as County Tax
Collector to serve until the next general election when a successor shall be
elected and qualified.
   (E)   The individual appointed by the Quorum Court to serve as County Tax
Collector shall not be eligible for to succeed himself or herself.
(Ord. 87-29, passed 12-18-87)
§ 31.02 COUNTY COMPTROLLER.
   (A)   Ark. Const., Am. 55 reorganized county government, formally
establishing the Quorum Court as the county legislative body with authority to
enact ordinances. The county budget has authorized a “comptroller” by ordinance
of the Quorum Court.
   (B)   There is hereby established the County Comptroller.
(Ord. 83-21, passed 6-22-83)
§ 31.03 COUNTY CLERK.
   (A)   In addition to all other duties required by law, the County Clerk
shall be responsible for giving the public notification required by the State
Freedom of Information Act of regular and special meetings of the Quorum Court
and committees thereof.
   (B)   Committee chairpersons shall give the County Clerk notice of meetings
of their respective committees in sufficient time for public notification of
the meetings required by state law to be complied with.
(Ord. 77-3, passed 2-14-77)
§ 31.04 COLLECTOR OF FINES.
   (A)   As required by A.C.A. § 16-13-709, this section designates the
responsibility of fine collection for the collection of fines assessed upon
defendants in the Circuit Courts and District Courts.
   (B)   The Fort Smith District Court is designated as the Office who shall be
primarily responsible for the collection of fines assessed upon defendants in
the Fort Smith District Courts of Sebastian County.
   (C)   In the Greenwood District Court, the Sheriff is designated as the
County Official who shall be primarily responsible for the collection of fines
assessed upon defendants in the Greenwood District Court of Sebastian County.
   (D)   The Prosecuting Attorney is designated as the County Official who
shall be primarily responsible for the collection of fines assessed upon
defendants in the Circuit Courts of Sebastian County.
   (E)   The County Clerk shall send a copy of this section, upon adoption, to
the Administrative Office of the Courts.
(Ord. 2007-27, passed 12-18-07; Am. Ord. 2009-29, passed 12-15-09; Am. Ord.
2010-24, passed 12-21-10; Am. Ord. 2011-19, passed 12-20-11; Am. Ord. 2013-24,
passed 12-17-13; Am. Ord. 2014-20, passed 12-16-14; Am. Ord. 2015-24, passed
12-15-15; Am. Ord. 2018-21, passed 12-18-18)
CHAPTER 32: BOARDS, COMMITTEES AND DEPARTMENTS
Section
Information Systems Department
   
32.001   Establishment
   
32.002   Costs prorated; assessment records, tax books and receipts
   
32.003   Costs prorated; electronic data processing equipment
   
32.004   Procedure for prorating cost
Grievance Committee; Hearing Procedures
   
32.015   Intent
   
32.016   Pertinent documents
   
32.017   Rules of evidence; formal rules not applicable
   
32.018   Grievant; abuse prohibited
   
32.019   Spokespersons allowed
   
32.020   Identification of violation; required presence; solution
   
32.021   Duties of Committee; examination and evaluation
   
32.022   Guidelines for conducting the hearing
Residential Housing Facilities Board; By-Laws
   
32.035   Findings
   
32.036   Approval of by-laws
   
32.037   Offices
   
32.038   Meetings
   
32.039   Officers
   
32.040   Contracts, loans, checks and deposits
   
32.041   Fiscal year
   
32.042   Corporate seal
   
32.043   Amendments
   
32.044   Housing income standards
County Human Resources Department
   
32.055   Establishment
   
32.056   Judge's office; coordination responsibility
   
32.057   General functions
   
32.058   Human Resources Coordinator
County Depository Board
   
32.070   Establishment
   
32.071   Members; quarterly meetings
County Jail Board
   
32.085   Establishment
   
32.086   Intent
   
32.087   Authorization and power
   
32.088   Fee
   
32.089   Revenue bonds; funds
County Collector Department
   
32.100   Initiation of functions
   
32.101   Analysis of office organization
Library Department
   
32.115   Establishment; function
   
32.116   Administrative Board established
   
32.117   Conduct of business
   
32.118   Service as a cooperative department
   
32.119   Responsibilities; policy
   
32.120   Purchase; supplies
   
32.121   Regional Librarian
   
32.122   Contracts
   
32.123   Adoption of rules and regulations
   
32.124   Quarterly deposits
Committee of the Quorum Court as a Whole
   
32.135   Quorum Court Committee as a Whole
   
32.136   Definitions
   
32.137   Special committee appointment
   
32.138   Special Committee Chairperson; election
   
32.139   Scheduled meetings
County Parks Advisory Board
   
32.155   Establishment
   
32.156   Monthly reports
   
32.157   Composition
   
32.158   Terms of office
   
32.159   Oath of office
Public Facilities Board
   
32.175   Creation
   
32.176   Membership
   
32.177   Organization
   
32.178   General powers
   
32.179   Additional authority of the Board
   
32.180   Use of funds and revenues
   
32.181   Bonds; authority
   
32.182   Meetings
   
32.183   Records
   
32.184   Annual reports
   
32.185   Automatic amendment
Educational Facilities Board
   
32.195   Findings
   
32.196   Creation
   
32.197   Board members
   
32.198   Powers
   
32.199   Bonds
   
32.200   Additional powers
Rural Waterworks Facilities Board
   
32.210   Creation
   
32.211   Membership
   
32.212   Organization
   
32.213   General powers
   
32.214   Additional authority of the Board
   
32.215   Use of funds and revenues
   
32.216   Meetings
   
32.217   Records
   
32.218   Annual reports
Criminal Justice Coordinating Committee
   
32.230   Creation and purpose
   
32.231   Membership
   
32.232   Goals and responsibilities
   
32.233   Meetings
   
32.234   Council Chair
   
32.235   Quorum court liaison
   
32.236   Committees and subcommittees
   
32.237   Criminal Justice Coordinating Committee (CJCC) and sub-committees
staff support
   
32.238   Citizen’s Committee
Cross-reference:
   County Juvenile Detention Center; organization and management; Review
Commission, see
§ 94.03
   County Museum; Commission, see
§ 94.02
   Fees and Fines; Collection, see
§§ 33.085 et seq.
INFORMATION SYSTEMS DEPARTMENT
§ 32.001 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby established the County Information Systems Department.
   (B)   The Information Systems Department shall be responsible for day-to-day
activities involved in the operation of the computer systems serving county
offices and departments.
(Ord. 83-12, passed 4-20-83)
§ 32.002 COSTS PRORATED; ASSESSMENT RECORDS, TAX BOOKS AND RECEIPTS.
   In accordance with A.C.A. § 26-28-102, the cost of keeping the assessment
records, preparing the tax books and preparing Collector's receipts shall be
prorated among the respective taxing units in the same manner as is now,
provided by law for defraying the cost of operating the Assessor's Office.
(Ord. 83-12, passed 4-20-83)
§ 32.003 COSTS PRORATED; ELECTRONIC DATA PROCESSING EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   In accordance with A.C.A. § 26-28-102, the costs for the use of the
electronic data processing equipment for any other appropriate county purpose
shall be prorated among the various county offices in accordance with system
usage.
   (B)   System usage shall consider central processing unit and main memory
storage, disk storage, application programs and relevant program application
transaction frequency and volume.
(Ord. 83-12, passed 4-20-83)
§ 32.004 PROCEDURE FOR PRORATING COST.
   (A)   The procedure for prorating the cost of the use of the electronic data
processing equipment as set forth herein shall be based upon fund
reimbursements supporting the total Information Systems Department budget.
   (B)   Accordingly, the annual data processing budget shall set forth total
data processing system costs, as supported by various fund reimbursements based
upon system usage.
(Ord. 83-12, passed 4-20-83)
Cross-reference:
   Data processing hardware and software, see §
35.02
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE; HEARING PROCEDURES
§ 32.015 INTENT.
   (A)   In order to afford regular county employees a written and systematic
means of obtaining mutually satisfactory solutions of grievances, a grievance
procedure has been adopted as a part of the county's Personnel Policies and
Procedures Manual, which includes the formation of the Grievance Committee.
   (B)   It is the intent of this subchapter to adopt general administrative
guidelines for conducting the hearing of the Grievance Committee. Grievance
Committee guidelines, listed herein, are hereby approved and adopted.
   (C)   It is the intent of these Grievance Committee guidelines to provide a
fair and impartial hearing.
(Ord. 85-32, passed 10-22-85)
§ 32.016 PERTINENT DOCUMENTS.
   (A)   The Human Resources Department shall gather all pertinent documents
needed for the hearing at a time as set by the Grievance Committee.
   (B)   Each member of the Grievance Committee shall be provided with a copy
of the employee's personnel file, in addition to the information provided with
the report.
(Ord. 85-32, passed 10-22-85)
§ 32.017 RULES OF EVIDENCE; FORMAL RULES NOT APPLICABLE.
   The formal rules of evidence shall not apply in the hearing.
(Ord. 85-32, passed 10-22-85)
§ 32.018 GRIEVANT; ABUSE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The grievant may have present at the hearing a representative or legal
counsel at his or her own expense. The grievant and his or her representative
should be provided reasonable latitude in presenting the grievance and the
managing department likewise in responding to the grievance.
   (B)   Abuse of any individual or employee should not be tolerated. The
grievance hearing procedure does not confer the right upon anyone to make
slanderous or libelous statements.
(Ord. 85-32, passed 10-22-85)
§ 32.019 SPOKESPERSONS ALLOWED.
   Each party should have one spokesperson to expedite discussion and minimize
the possibility of misunderstanding.
(Ord. 85-32, passed 10-22-85)
§ 32.020 IDENTIFICATION OF VIOLATION; REQUIRED PRESENCE; SOLUTION.
   (A)   The grievant or his or her representative should be required to
identify the specific employment right allegedly violated. The following
questions shall be asked:
      (1)   What right is violated; and
      (2)   How did the county violate it.
   (B)   The grievant or his or her representative should be asked to prove the
claim that a violation of an employment right has occurred.
   (C)   The grievant or his or her representative should clearly state the
solution sought.
   (D)   The grievant must be present at the hearing.
   (E)   The discussion should be kept on the point. The discussion shall not
become bogged down in irrelevant side issues. The grievance at hand shall be
the only issue.
(Ord. 85-32, passed 10-22-85)
§ 32.021 DUTIES OF COMMITTEE; EXAMINATION AND EVALUATION.
   (A)   The Grievance Committee shall:
      (1)   Examine the applicable provisions of employment policies the
employee claims a violation of and which are related to the issue at hand;
      (2)   If considered relevant, visit the work area to make sure the
Committee members personally see what the conditions are;
      (3)   Organize and evaluate the following facts before taking action,
putting points down on paper if necessary:
         (a)   Which facts are pertinent; and
         (b)   Which are irrelevant.
      (4)   Try to narrow the points on which there is disagreement;
      (5)   List the points on which the members agree and then discuss the
remaining points;
      (6)   Insist on sticking to the main issue; and
      (7)   Decide whether the grievance is or is not justifiable.
   (B)   The Grievance Committee has the responsibility to interpret the
application of appropriate county policies and procedures in the case. It does
not have the prerogative to formulate or to change policies or procedures.
(Ord. 85-32, passed 10-22-85)
§ 32.022 GUIDELINES FOR CONDUCTING THE HEARING.
   (A)   The Committee Chairperson shall set the time for the hearing as soon
as practicable and all parties shall be notified by the County Judge's
administrative staff. The Committee Chairperson shall preside at the meeting
following a simplified or informal parliamentary procedure.
   (B)   A set agenda and definite rules of procedure should be established.
Committee members should be warned in advance that they should reserve their
questions until the completion of the examination and cross-examination. This
applies equally to the Presiding Officer. The hearing should rarely, if ever,
descend to a round table discussion.
   (C)   The rules should be explained to the parties at the opening of the
hearing. The parties should be told that each, if he or she desires, may make
an opening statement summarizing what he or she intends to prove; that
testimony will be taken under oath; that the burden of proof is on the
grievant; that after a witness has been examined, the opposing party shall have
the right to cross-examine; and that interruptions should not be made of either
the examination or the cross-examination unless the opposing party has some
objection to the question. If this happens, the objection should be directed to
the Presiding Officer.
   (D)   In opening the hearing, the Chairperson should briefly review the file
and obtain from the parties a stipulation that certain documents, concerning
which there is no controversy, shall be considered a part of the record.
   (E)   A court reporter or designated party shall swear witnesses.
   (F)   The conduct of the hearing shall be as follows:
      (1)   The Committee shall determine the propriety of attendance at the
hearing of persons not having a direct interest in the hearing;
      (2)   The Presiding Officer shall review hearing rules;
      (3)   The Presiding Officer shall review the file;
      (4)   The Committee may, at the beginning of the hearing, ask for
statements clarifying the issues involved, such as opening statements;
      (5)   Exhibits, when offered, may be received into evidence by the
Committee and, when so received, shall be marked and made a part of the record;
      (6)   The grievant or his or her representative shall then present his or
her claim and proofs and witnesses, who shall submit to questions or other
examination. The Committee may, at its discretion, vary this procedure but
shall afford full and equal opportunity to all parties and witnesses for
presentation of any material or relevant proofs;
      (7)   (a)   The parties may offer evidence and shall produce additional
evidence as the Committee may deem necessary to an understanding and
determination of the dispute;
         (b)   The Committee shall be the judge of relevancy and materiality of
the evidence offered. All evidence shall be taken in the presence of the
Committee and of the parties;
      (8)   The majority decision of the Committee shall be final in all its
determinations;
      (9)   The Committee Chairperson shall specifically inquire of all parties
whether they have any further proofs to offer or witnesses to be heard. Upon
receiving negative replies, the Chairperson shall declare the hearing closed;
      (10)   The hearings may be reopened by the Committee on its own motion or
upon application of a party for good cause shown at any time before the
decision is made;
      (11)   The decision shall be filed in writing by the Committee
Chairperson with the County Clerk's office and County Human Resources
Department no later than ten days after the completion of the hearing;
      (12)   Copies of the decision shall be transmitted to the elected
official and representative, the grievant and grievant's representative.
(Ord. 85-32, passed 10-22-85)
RESIDENTIAL HOUSING FACILITIES BOARD; BY-LAWS
§ 32.035 FINDINGS.
   The Quorum Court finds and determines:
   (A)   To create the Residential Housing Facilities Board, to appoint the
initial members of the Board and prescribe other matters relating thereto;
   (B)   Reserve the power to approve the by-laws to be adopted by the Board;
and
   (C)   To elect officers and adopt by-laws.
(Ord. 78-20, passed 11-17-78)
§ 32.036 APPROVAL OF BY-LAWS.
   The Court hereby approves the by-laws herein.
(Ord. 78-20, passed 11-17-78)
§ 32.037 OFFICES.
   The office of the Sebastian County Residential Housing Facilities Board
shall be located at the Courthouse in the City of Fort Smith, Arkansas.
(Ord. 78-20, passed 11-17-78)
§ 32.038 MEETINGS.
   (A)   A regular meeting of the Board shall be held at 12:00 p.m., without
other notice than the by-law at the office of the Board on July 15 each year
for the purpose of electing officers and for the transaction of other business
as may come before the meeting.
   (B)   Special meetings of the Board may be called by the Chairperson or by a
majority of its members. The person or persons authorized to call special
meetings of the Board may fix the place for holding any special meeting of the
Board called by them.
   (C)   Notice of any special meeting shall be given at least 14 days
previously thereto by written notice delivered personally or mailed to each
member at his or her post office address. If mailed, the notice shall be deemed
to be delivered when deposited in the United States mail so addressed, with
postage thereon prepaid. Any member may waive notice of any meeting. The
attendance of a member at a meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice of the
meeting, except where a member attends a meeting for the express purpose of
objecting to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not
lawfully called or convened.
   (D)   A majority of the members shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business at any meeting of the Board.
   (E)   The act of the majority of the members present at a meeting at which a
quorum is present shall be the act of the Board.
   (F)   The members of the Board shall receive no compensation for their
services to the Board as either members or officers but shall be entitled to
reimbursement of all expenses incurred in the performance of their duties. All
reimbursements shall be authorized by resolution of the Board.
(Ord. 78-20, passed 11-17-78)
§ 32.039 OFFICERS.
   (A)   The officers of the Board shall be the Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson,
Secretary and Treasurer, each of whom shall be elected by the Board.
   (B)   Only members of the Board may be officers. No member shall hold more
than one office, except that the same member may be both Secretary and
Treasurer.
   (C)   The officers shall be elected annually by the Board at the regular
meeting of the Board. If the election of officers shall not be held at the
meeting, the election shall be held as soon thereafter as conveniently may be.
Each officer shall hold office until his or her successor shall have been duly
elected and shall have qualified, until his or her death or until he or she
shall resign or shall be removed in the manner hereinafter provided.
   (D)   Any officer may be removed by the affirmative vote of a majority of
the members of the Board whenever in the judgment of the majority, the best
interests of the Board will be served thereby.
   (E)   A vacancy in any office because of death, resignation, removal,
disqualification or otherwise, shall be filled by the Board for the unexpired
portion of the term.
   (F)   The Chairperson shall be the principal executive officer of the Board
and, subject to the control of the members of the Board, shall, in general,
supervise and control all of the business and affairs of the Board. He or she
shall, when present, preside at all meetings of the Board. He or she may sign,
with the Secretary or any other proper officer of the Board thereunto
authorized by the Board, any deeds, mortgages, bonds, contracts or other
instruments which the Board has authorized to be executed, except in cases
where the signing and execution thereof shall be expressly delegated by the
Board or by these by-laws to some other officer or agent of the Board, or shall
be required by law to be otherwise signed or executed; and in general shall
perform all duties incident to the office of Chairperson and other duties as
may be prescribed by the Board from time to time.
   (G)   In the absence of the Chairperson or in event of his or her death,
inability or refusal to act, the Vice-Chairperson shall perform the duties of
the Chairperson, and when so acting, shall have all the powers of and be
subject to all the restrictions upon the Chairperson. The Vice-Chairperson
shall perform other duties as from time to time may be assigned to him or her
by the Chairperson or by the Board.
   (H)   The Secretary shall:
      (1)   Keep the minutes of the proceedings of the Board in one or more
books provided for that purpose;
      (2)   See that all notices are duly given in accordance with the
provisions of these by-laws or as required by law;
      (3)   Be custodian of the records and of the seal of the Board and see
that the seal of the Board is affixed to all documents executed by the Board
under its seal as duly authorized;
      (4)   Keep a register of the business address of each member which shall
be furnished to the Secretary by a member;
      (5)   Sign, with the Chairperson, any deeds, mortgages, bonds, contracts
or other instruments, the issuance of which shall have been authorized by
resolution of the Board; and
      (6)   In general, perform all duties incident to the office of Secretary
and other duties as from time to time may be assigned to him or her by the
Chairperson or by the Board.
   (I)   (1)   The Treasurer shall:
         (a)   Have charge and custody of and be responsible for all funds and
securities of the Board;
         (b)   Receive and give receipts for moneys due and payable to the
Board from any source whatsoever, and deposit all moneys in the name of the
Board in banks, trust companies or other depositories, as shall be selected in
accordance with the provisions hereof; and
         (c)   In general, perform all of the duties incident to the Office of
Treasurer and other duties as from time to time may be assigned to him or her
by the Chairperson or by the Board.
      (2)   If required by the Board, the Treasurer shall give a bond for the
faithful discharge of his or her duties in the sum and with the surety or
sureties as the Board shall determine.
(Ord. 78-20, passed 11-17-78)
§ 32.040 CONTRACTS, LOANS, CHECKS AND DEPOSITS.
   (A)   The Board may authorize any officer or officers, agent or agents, to
enter into any contract or execute and deliver any instrument in the name of
and on behalf of the Board, and the authority may be general or confined to
specific instances.
   (B)   No loans shall be contracted on behalf of the Board and no evidences
of indebtedness shall be issued in its name unless authorized by a resolution
of the Board. The authority shall be confined to specific instances.
   (C)   All checks, drafts or other orders for the payment of money, notes or
other evidences of indebtedness issued in the name of the Board shall be signed
by the officer or officers, agent or agents of the Board and in a manner as
shall from time to time be determined by resolution of the Board.
   (D)   All funds of the Board not otherwise employed shall be deposited from
time to time to the credit of the Board in the banks, trust companies or other
depositories as the Board may select.
(Ord. 78-20, passed 11-17-78)
§ 32.041 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the Board shall begin on January 1 and end on December 31
in each year.
(Ord. 78-20, passed 11-17-78)
§ 32.042 CORPORATE SEAL.
   The Board shall have a corporate seal which shall be circular in form and
shall have inscribed thereon the name of the Board and the word “seal.”
(Ord. 78-20, passed 11-17-78)
§ 32.043 AMENDMENTS.
   These by-laws may be altered, amended or repealed and new by-laws may be
adopted by the Board at any regular or special meeting of the Board. All
amendments of these by-laws must be approved by resolution of the Quorum Court
at the next succeeding meeting of the Court.
(Ord. 78-20, passed 11-17-78)
§ 32.044 HOUSING INCOME STANDARDS.
   The Board shall conduct no activities, except as specifically set forth
herein. The Board shall adopt, by resolution from time to time, standards for
“low- and moderate-income families” that shall be eligible for single-family
residential housing mortgage loan program. In establishing the standards, the
Board shall use as guidelines any applicable regulations of state and federal
agencies governing housing for low- and moderate-income families, including,
without limitation, the State Housing Development Agency, the Federal Housing
Administration and Farmers Home Administration. After the Board has fixed
standards by its resolution, the Quorum Court shall have the right to review,
modify, amend or veto the standards at its next succeeding meeting. If the
standards are not modified, amended or vetoed at the meeting, they shall
thereafter become effective.
(Ord. 78-20, passed 11-17-78)
COUNTY HUMAN RESOURCES DEPARTMENT
§ 32.055 ESTABLISHMENT.
   In accordance with A.C.A. §§ 14-14-101 et seq., A.C.A. §§ 14-16-101 et seq.
and other relevant state enabling legislation, the County Human Resources
Department is hereby established.
(Ord. 85-31, passed 10-22-85)
§ 32.056 JUDGE'S OFFICE; COORDINATION RESPONSIBILITY.
   The County Judge's Office shall be responsible for the coordination of the
County Human Resources Department and shall be responsible for administering
ordinances enacted by the Quorum Court concerning county personnel policies and
procedures.
(Ord. 85-31, passed 10-22-85)
§ 32.057 GENERAL FUNCTIONS.
   (A)   General functions of the County Human Resources Department include
coordinating county recruiting procedures, maintenance of official county
personnel employee files, administration of the county classification and
compensation system, job description monitoring, classification changes or
classification of new positions, administration of county health insurance and
other insurance contracts, administration of workers compensation insurance and
related claims, administration of unemployment compensation insurance,
administration of the county affirmative action plan, administration of the
county retirement system, grievance procedure administration and the
administration of standard personnel file data as a basis for payroll
processing.
   (B)   The Human Resources Department will function as a staff service to all
elected officials, offices and departments in personnel policy implementation
on a day to day basis.
(Ord. 85-31, passed 10-22-85)
§ 32.058 HUMAN RESOURCES COORDINATOR.
   (A)   The County Judge shall appoint the Human Resource Coordinator.
   (B)   The Human Resources Coordinator shall be responsible for insuring the
implementation and administration of the county employment policies and
procedures and administering related ordinances enacted by the Quorum Court.
(Ord. 85-31, passed 10-22-85)
COUNTY DEPOSITORY BOARD
§ 32.070 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established the County Depository Board, in accordance with
A.C.A. § 19-8-106.
(Ord. 98-4, passed 2-17-98)
§ 32.071 MEMBERS; QUARTERLY MEETINGS.
   The members of the Board include the County Judge, County Treasurer and
County Sheriff/Collector and the Board shall meet on a quarterly basis to
review the county's investment of funds.
(Ord. 98-4, passed 2-17-98)
COUNTY JAIL BOARD
§ 32.085 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established the County Jail Board, consisting of three
members, the County Judge, the Sheriff and the County Clerk. The County Judge
shall serve as Chairperson of the Jail Board.
(Ord. 92-14, passed 9-15-92)
§ 32.086 INTENT.
   (A)   It is the intent of this subchapter to establish the Jail Board,
pursuant to A.C.A. §§ 12-41-605 through 12-41-616.
   (B)   Jail Board authority concerning issuance of bonds and related jail
construction shall be subject to the approval, by ordinance, of the Quorum
Court.
(Ord. 92-14, passed 9-15-92)
§ 32.087 AUTHORIZATION AND POWER.
   The County Jail Board is hereby authorized and empowered to take action, not
inconsistent with law and this subchapter, as may be necessary and desirable to
carry out the power, purposes and authorities set forth in A.C.A. § 12-41-601
and to carry out the intent of the law.
(Ord. 92-14, passed 9-15-92)
§ 32.088 FEE.
   (A)   There is hereby levied a fee as a part of the cost to be paid by all
persons convicted of, or who plead guilty or nolo contendere to felonies,
misdemeanors or traffic violations for violation of state law or local
ordinance; charged with a felony or misdemeanor or traffic violation of state
law or local ordinance, any person who posts bond and forfeits it upon failure
to appear on the date set for trial; or any person committed to the County Jail
in circuit, chancery, probate, district courts, city courts, and police courts
in the county, in the amount of $10 per conviction, plea of guilty, plea of
nolo contendere, sentence or failure to appear.
   (B)   Revenues derived from the fees levied by this subchapter shall be
deposited in a county general fund account entitled the County Jail Fund, to be
used for County Jail purposes, including but not limited to furnishing, repair,
maintenance and operation or expansion of the present County Jail.
   (C)   The Quorum Court does hereby levy an additional fine of $20 from each
defendant who pleads guilty or nolo contender to, is found guilty of, or
forfeits bond for any misdemeanor traffic violation in the district courts or
city courts of the county.
      (1)   The monies collected pursuant to this division (C) shall continue
to be deposited in the fund known as the Act 1188 of 2003 Fund.
      (2)   All district courts of Sebastian County shall immediately begin
levying and collecting the fine prescribed in this division (C) and remitting
the revenues derived herein to the Sebastian County Treasurer, on a monthly
basis, for deposit in said fund, ans required by Act 209 of 2009. Remittances
shall be received by the fifth day of each month.
      (3)   The revenues generated by the levy of this fine shall be used
exclusively for the maintenance, operation, and capital expenditures of the
Sebastian County Regional Detention Facility. Pursuant to Act 209 of 2009,
these revenues are supplemental to any current funding that is being provided.
(Ord. 92-14, passed 9-15-92; Am. Ord. 2009-12, passed 5-19-09)
§ 32.089 REVENUE BONDS; FUNDS.
   (A)   Subject to the approval of the Quorum Court by ordinance, in the event
jail revenue bonds are issued by the County Jail Board, all revenues derived
from fees levied by this subchapter shall be considered cash funds and shall
not be deposited in the County Treasury, but shall be deposited in the County
Jail Revenue Bond Fund established at a bank or banks selected by the County
Jail Board as provided in A.C.A. § 12-41-602, as amended.
   (B)   The funds deposited in the County Jail Revenue Bond Fund shall be
applied solely for the payment of the principal of, premiums, if any, interest
on, trustee's and paying agent's fees in connection with the bonds at maturity
and at redemption prior to maturity.
   (C)   (1)   Jail revenue bonds issued by the County Jail Board under the
authority of this subchapter and A.C.A. § 12-41-601 shall be obligations only
of the County Jail Board, and in no event shall they constitute any
indebtedness for which the faith and credit of the county or any of its
revenues, of the state or of any of its revenues are pledged.
      (2)   The bonds shall not be secured by a mortgage or lien on any land,
buildings or property belonging to the county.
      (3)   No member of the County Jail Board shall be personally liable on
the bonds or for any damages sustained by anyone in connection with any
contracts entered into or action taken in carrying out the powers, purposes or
authority of this subchapter or of A.C.A. § 12-41-601 unless he or she shall
have acted with a corrupt intent.
(Ord. 92-14, passed 9-15-92)
COUNTY COLLECTOR DEPARTMENT
§ 32.100 INITIATION OF FUNCTIONS.
   In accordance with A.C.A. §§ 17-3701 through 17-3715, an analysis of
alternative organizational structure for performing County Collector functions
shall be initiated by the County Quorum Court.
(Ord. 87-28, passed 12-16-87)
§ 32.101 ANALYSIS OF OFFICE FUNCTION.
   (A)   The analysis of Alternative County Collector Office organization shall
be undertaken by the County Judge's Office.
   (B)   The analysis of alternative organizational structure for the County
Collector's Office shall review existing office or department organization of
the Collector's Office and the procedures established for providing collector
services, and set forth a comparative analysis of the alternative collector
office organization considering the areas of improved efficiency,
effectiveness, responsiveness and accountability to the people. The purposed
plan of organization of the Collector's Office shall establish procedures for
election or appointment of any new officers, provide for the schedule of any
necessary transfer of powers, records, documents, properties, assets, funds,
liabilities and bonding resulting from the changes in the proposed County
Collector Office organization and provide for the continuity where necessary of
existing officers and offices including elective and appointive status of
personnel and the making of interim and temporary appointments.
(Ord. 87-28, passed 12-16-87)
LIBRARY DEPARTMENT
§ 32.115 ESTABLISHMENT; FUNCTION.
   (A)   There is hereby established the County Library Department. The Library
Department shall function to serve the citizens outside the city limits of Fort
Smith as a reliable source for information, self-education, intellectual
stimulation and recreation through an effective library program of books,
materials and services.
   (B)   The Library Department shall assemble, preserve and administer
organized collections of print and non-print materials as well as providing
library services throughout the county at branch libraries and additional
deposit locations.
(Ord. 78-11, passed 6-16-78)
§ 32.116 ADMINISTRATIVE BOARD ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established the County Library Administrative Board which
shall be responsible for the County Library Department. The County Library
Administrative Board shall be composed of five qualified electors of the county
appointed and confirmed in the manner prescribed by A.C.A. § 14-14-705.
(Ord. 78-11, passed 6-16-78)
§ 32.117 CONDUCT OF BUSINESS.
   Business of the County Library Board shall be conducted in the manner
prescribed by A.C.A. § 14-14-707.
(Ord. 78-11, passed 6-16-78)
§ 32.118 SERVICE AS A COOPERATIVE DEPARTMENT.
   The body formerly known as the County Library Administrative Board is hereby
abolished and all of its functions including control of the county library
buildings, equipment and library books as the same exists or may hereafter
exist is vested in the County Library Administrative Board created by this
subchapter.
(Ord. 78-11, passed 6-16-78)
§ 32.119 RESPONSIBILITIES; POLICY.
   (A)   The County Library Department shall serve as a cooperative department
in the Scott/Sebastian County Regional Library System.
   (B)   The County Library Administrative Board shall cooperate with the
Regional Library Board, as set forth in the interlocal agreement.
(Ord. 78-11, passed 6-16-78)
§ 32.120 PURCHASE; SUPPLIES.
   (A)   The County Library Administrative Board shall have the exclusive right
and power to make purchases of all supplies and equipment and other property
required and necessary for the operation and management of the county library
system, including new construction and equipment as needed, it being the
intention of this subchapter to vest in the Board the authority to operate,
manage and control the county library system, subject to county purchasing laws
of the state.
   (B)   The Board shall not be authorized to pledge the credit of the county.
(Ord. 78-11, passed 6-16-78)
§ 32.121 REGIONAL LIBRARIAN.
   (A)   The County Library Administrative Board shall set policies of the
county library and shall be responsible for administering county funds to the
library, approving the county budget and expenditures. The employment of a
Regional Librarian, the principal library official, shall be recommended by the
County Library Administrative Board and approved by the Regional Board and the
State Library Commission. The County Library Administrative Board shall, upon
the advice of the Regional Librarian, appoint employees, fix their salaries and
retain them during its pleasure.
   (B)   The Regional Librarian shall be held responsible to the County Library
Administrative Board for the proper management of the library, for the
preservation and care of its property and for the discipline and efficiency of
its service. The Regional Librarian shall have charge of the library funds and,
with the help of the clerical staff, keep accounts of expenditures from both
state and county appropriations and tax revenue.
(Ord. 78-11, passed 6-16-78)
§ 32.122 CONTRACTS.
   The County Library Administrative Board shall have authority to enter into
contracts with persons, firms, corporations or organizations including all
levels of government and municipal corporations for any legitimate purpose in
furtherance of the operation of the county library system.
(Ord. 78-11, passed 6-16-78)
§ 32.123 ADOPTION OF RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Board shall adopt rules and regulations as it may deem necessary and
expedient for the proper operation and management of the county library, not
inconsistent with this subchapter or the laws of the state and shall have
authority to alter, change or amend the rules and regulations at its
discretion.
(Ord. 78-11, passed 6-16-78)
§ 32.124 QUARTERLY DEPOSITS.
   The Board shall submit quarterly reports beginning three months after its
organization, and each three months thereafter, reporting in full on the
operations, including an accounting of receipts and disbursements, to the
County Judge and the Quorum Court, and shall furnish other and further reports,
data and information as may be requested by the County Judge and the Quorum
Court. The quarterly report to the County Judge and the Quorum Court with
respect to receipts and disbursements shall be certified as correct by the
Board. The Board shall also submit to the County Judge and the Quorum Court an
annual audit of the operations of the county library.
(Ord. 78-11, passed 6-16-78)
COMMITTEE OF THE QUORUM COURT AS A WHOLE
§ 32.135 QUORUM COURT COMMITTEE AS A WHOLE.
   The Quorum Court will meet as a committee as a whole as necessary.
§ 32.136 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMITTEE OF A WHOLE. Entire Quorum Court sitting as a standing committee.
   SPECIAL COMMITTEE. A committee of the Quorum Court constituted to complete a
specified assignment to be dismissed upon completion of the task.
(Ord. 78-18, passed 9-12-78)
§ 32.137 SPECIAL COMMITTEE APPOINTMENT.
   In accordance with A.C.A. § 14-14-904, the County Judge shall appoint all
special committees of a Quorum Court. The County Judge may consider seniority
as a means of selecting committee members.
(Ord. 78-18, passed 9-12-78)
§ 32.138 SPECIAL COMMITTEE CHAIRPERSON; ELECTION.
   (A)   Special Committee Chairpersons shall be elected by each individual
special committee, provided that no Justice may serve as the Chairperson of
more than one standing committee. The term of Office of Chairperson shall be
one year, but the Chairperson may be selected to serve successive terms.
   (B)   Committees shall meet at the call of the Chairperson or any two
committee members.
(Ord. 78-18, passed 9-12-78)
§ 32.139 SCHEDULED MEETINGS.
   All special committee meetings shall be open and public. Special committees
are authorized and encouraged to hold public hearings, where appropriate.
Representatives of the media shall be given at least two hours notice of all
committee meetings.
(Ord. 78-18, passed 9-12-78)
COUNTY PARKS ADVISORY BOARD
§ 32.155 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Sebastian County Parks Advisory Board in
accordance with A.C.A. § 14-14-705, hereinafter referred to as the “Parks
Board”.
   (B)   The Parks Board shall be established to assist the County Judge and
the County Parks Department in oversight of county parks. The Parks Board may
furnish advice, gather information, make recommendations, and perform other
duties. The Parks Board serves in an advisory capacity regarding programs and
park operations.
(Ord. 2010-15, passed 8-24-10)
§ 32.156 MONTHLY REPORTS.
   The Parks Board shall be provided monthly reports of park operations,
revenues and activities by the Park Administrator.
(Ord. 2010-15, passed 8-24-10)
§ 32.157 COMPOSITION.
   The Parks Board shall be comprised of seven qualified electors of Sebastian
County appointed by the County Judge.
(Ord. 2010-15, passed 8-24-10; Am. Ord. 2013-18, passed 6-15-13)
§ 32.158 TERMS OF OFFICE.
   The term of all Parks Board members shall be three years. All members shall
be appointed for no more than two consecutive terms.
(Ord. 2010 S-15, passed 8-24-10)
§ 32.159 OATH OF OFFICE.
   All Parks Board members shall subscribe to the oath of office within ten
days from the date of appointment. Evidence of oath of office shall be filed
with the County Clerk. No member of the Quorum Court shall serve as a member of
the County Parks Board.
(Ord. 2010-15, passed 8-24-10)
PUBLIC FACILITIES BOARD
§ 32.175 CREATION.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Public Facilities Board pursuant to the
provisions of A.C.A. §§ 14-137-101 et seq. The Board shall be known as the
James Fork Regional Water District.
   (B)   The Board shall have the powers provided for by the statute.
(Ord. 96-9, passed 7-23-96; Am. Ord. 2005-22, passed 9-20-05)
§ 32.176 MEMBERSHIP.
   The Board shall consist of five members. Five members shall be appointed by
the County Judge. The terms of the members shall be as follows: position one,
one year; position two, two years; position three, three years; position four,
four years; and position five, five years. Successor members shall be elected
by a majority of the Board for terms of five years each. Each member shall
qualify by taking and filing with the Clerk of the County his or her oath of
office in which he or she shall swear to support the Constitution of the United
States and the Constitution of the state and to discharge faithfully his or her
duties in the manner provided by law. Each member shall serve until his or her
successor is elected and qualified. In the event of a vacancy in the
membership, however caused, a majority of the Board shall elect a successor
member to serve the unexpired term. A member shall be eligible to succeed
himself or herself.
(Ord. 96-9, passed 7-23-96)
§ 32.177 ORGANIZATION.
   The members of the Board shall meet and organize by electing one of their
members as the Chairperson, one as Vice-Chairperson, one as Secretary and one
as Treasurer and the officers shall be elected annually thereafter in like
manner. The duties of the Secretary and Treasurer may be performed by the same
member. The Board may also appoint an Executive Director who may be a member of
the Board and receive compensation as shall be fixed by the Board. The members
of the Board shall receive no compensation for their services but shall be
entitled to reimbursement of expenses incurred in the performance of their
duties.
(Ord. 96-9, passed 7-23-96)
§ 32.178 GENERAL POWERS.
   The Board is hereby specifically empowered:
   (A)   To own, acquire, construct, reconstruct, extend, equip, improve,
operate, maintain, sell, lease, contract concerning or otherwise seal in or
dispose of waterworks facilities, as defined in the state statutes, or any
interest in the facilities, including, without limitation, to provide financing
for the facilities;
   (B)   To issue bonds to obtain funds and revenues for the accomplishment of
any of the waterworks facilities projects herein authorized, either alone or
together with other available funds and revenues therefore.
(Ord. 96-9, passed 7-23-96)
§ 32.179 ADDITIONAL AUTHORITY OF THE BOARD.
   The Board is hereby additionally authorized and empowered:
   (A)   As a body politic and corporate to have perpetual succession and to
adopt bylaws, not in conflict with this subchapter or the state statutes, as
may from time to time be amended, for the regulation of its affairs and the
conduct of its business;
   (B)   To maintain an office at the place or places in the county as the
Board may designate, from time to time;
   (C)   To sue and be sued in its own name;
   (D)   To fix, charge and collect rates, fees, interest and charges for the
use of any waterworks facilities and the supplying of water;
   (E)   To employ and pay compensation to the employees and agents, including
attorneys, consulting engineers, surveyors, accountants, financial experts and
others as it may in its judgement find necessary for the accomplishment of the
purposes and objective for which it has been created and to fix their
compensation; and
   (F)   To do any and all other acts and things to accomplish the waterworks
facilities projects and all other acts and things authorized or required by the
state statutes as it may from time to time be amended, except as may be
specifically limited herein, and any and all other things necessary or
convenient to accomplish the purposes for which the Board has been created.
(Ord. 96-9, passed 7-23-96)
§ 32.180 USE OF FUNDS AND REVENUES.
   The Board is hereby authorized to use any available funds and revenues,
which it is authorized to own, acquire, construct, reconstruct, extend, equip,
improve, operate, maintain, sell, lease, contract concerning or otherwise deal
in. Bonds may be issued by the Board. Any net earnings of the Board shall not
inure to the benefit of any person other than to the Board.
(Ord. 96-9, passed 7-23-96)
§ 32.181 BONDS; AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Board shall have, with respect to the issuance of the bonds
authorized to be issued by it, the authority and power with respect thereto set
forth and contained in the state statutes, which terms and provisions are
hereby incorporated in this subchapter as though herein expressly set forth,
word for word, except to the extent of changes required for the provisions
thereof to be consistent in the context of this subchapter and additional
authority as may be granted in similar provisions by amendment of the state
statutes from time to time hereafter. All bonds of the Board shall be special
obligation revenue bonds which shall be obligations only of the Board and shall
not constitute an indebtedness for which the faith and credit of the county, or
any of its revenues are pledged, and the principal of and interest on the bonds
shall be payable from and secured by a pledge of revenues derived from the
waterworks projects financed, in whole or in part, from bond proceeds and as
authorized by, and in accordance with the provisions of the state statutes.
(Ord. 96-9, passed 7-23-96)
§ 32.182 MEETINGS.
   The Board shall meet upon the call of its Chairperson, or a majority of its
members, and at times as may be specified in the by-laws for regular meetings,
and a majority of its members shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of
business. The affirmative vote of the majority of the members present at a
meeting of the Board shall be necessary for any action taken by the Board. Any
action taken by the Board may be authorized by resolution and the resolution
shall take effect immediately unless a later effective date is specified in the
resolution. No vacancy in the membership in the Board shall impair the right of
a quorum to exercise all the rights and perform all the duties of the Board.
(Ord. 96-9, passed 7-23-96)
§ 32.183 RECORDS.
   The Secretary shall keep a record of the proceedings of the Board and shall
be custodian of all books, documents and papers filed with the Board and of the
minute book or journal of the Board and its official seal, if any, shall be
adopted. The Secretary may cause copies to be made of all minutes and other
records and documents of the Board and may give certificates of the Board to
the effect that the copies are true copies and all persons dealing with the
Board may rely upon the certificates.
(Ord. 96-9, passed 7-23-96)
§ 32.184 ANNUAL REPORTS.
   Within the first 90 days of each calendar year, the Board shall make a
written report to the county, concerning its activities for the preceding
calendar year. Each report shall set forth a complete operating and financial
statement covering its operation during the year.
(Ord. 96-9, passed 7-23-96)
§ 32.185 AUTOMATIC AMENDMENT.
   To accomplish the specific public facilities objectives set forth above, the
Board shall have additional authority and power as may, from time to time,
hereafter be authorized for the Public Facilities Board by amendments to the
Act without additional action by the Quorum Court.
(Ord. 96-9, passed 7-23-96)
EDUCATIONAL FACILITIES BOARD
§ 32.195 FINDINGS.
   The Quorum Court hereby finds and determines:
   (A)   There exists in the county, a significant community need for
additional educational facilities to which persons seeking a quality education,
might have access.
   (B)   This may be substantially met through making provision for tax exempt
financing of educational facilities under the provisions of the Public
Facilities Boards Act, A.C.A. §§ 14-137-101 et seq.
   (C)   The purpose of making available educational facilities to persons
seeking a quality education is a proper public purpose.
   (D)   The public purpose of financing eligible facilities may best be served
by establishing an Educational Facilities Board to make loans to mortgage
lenders, as defined in A.C.A. § 14-137-106(b), on condition that the mortgage
lenders use the proceeds of each loan to provide financing for eligible
facilities.
(Ord. 2001-18, passed 7-24-01)
§ 32.196 CREATION.
   In accordance with and pursuant to the authority conferred by the provisions
of the state statutes, there is hereby created and established an educational
facilities board to be named the County Educational Facilities Board, with
authority as hereinafter provided to accomplish, finance, contract and make
loans concerning and otherwise providing for eligible facilities in the county.
(Ord. 2001-18, passed 7-24-01)
§ 32.197 BOARD MEMBERS.
   The Board shall consist of five members. Successor members shall be elected
by a majority of the Board for terms of five years each. The members of the
Board shall take and file with the Clerk of the Court the oath of office
prescribed by A.C.A. § 14-137-108(a)(4).
(Ord. 2001-18, passed 7-24-01)
§ 32.198 POWERS.
   (A)   The Board is empowered, from time to tinge, to accomplish, enter into
contracts and take other appropriate action concerning educational facilities
projects in the county.
   (B)   No interest rate charged in connection with any educational facilities
project shall exceed by more than 1.5% the rate of interest paid by the Board
on any bonds issued therefor under
§ 32.199.
(Ord. 2001-18, passed 7-24-01)
§ 32.199 BONDS.
   The Board is authorized to issue revenue bonds from time to time and to use
proceeds, either alone or together with other available funding and revenues,
to provide for the financing for educational facilities projects. The revenue
bonds shall be obligations of the Board and shall not constitute an
indebtedness for which the faith and credit of the county or any of its
revenues are pledged, and the principal of and interest on the bonds shall be
payable from and secured by a pledge of revenues derived from eligible
facilities financed, in whole or in part, froze bond proceeds and as authorized
by, and in accordance with the provisions of the Act, together with other
collateral as may be pledged under the Act and as the Board in its discretion
may determine.
(Ord. 2001-18, passed 7-24-01)
§ 32.200 ADDITIONAL POWERS.
   The Board shall have all of the powers provided for in the Act, subject to
the limitations of this subchapter and shall carry out its duties in accordance
with the Act, including specifically, without limitation, the filing of the
annual report required by A.C.A. § 14-137-123. The Board shall adopt by- laws,
subject to the approval of the Court.
(Ord. 2001-18, passed 7-24-01)
RURAL WATERWORKS FACILITIES BOARD
§ 32.210 CREATION.
   There is hereby created a Rural Waterworks Facilities Board pursuant to the
provisions of A.C.A. §§ 14-238-106 et seq. (2011) (the “Act”). The Board shall
be known as the South Sebastian County and Blackstone Ranch Wastewater
Treatment Board (the “Board”). The Board shall have the powers provided for by
the Act.
(Ord. 2012-10, passed 4-17-12)
§ 32.211 MEMBERSHIP.
   The Board shall consist of five members and a majority of the members shall
own real property in Blackstone Ranch Subdivision. Five members shall be
appointed by the County Judge. The terms of the initial members of the Board
shall be as follows: position one, one year; position two, two years; position
three, three years; position four, four years; and position five, five years.
Successor members shall be elected by a majority of the Board for terms of five
years each. Each member shall qualify by taking and filing with the Clerk of
the County his or her oath of office in which he or she shall swear to support
the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the state and to
discharge faithfully his or her duties in the manner provided by law. Each
member shall serve until his or her successor is elected and qualified. In the
event of a vacancy in the membership, however caused, a majority of the Board
shall elect a successor member to serve the unexpired term. A member shall be
eligible to succeed himself or herself.
(Ord. 2012-10, passed 4-17-12)
§ 32.212 ORGANIZATION.
   The members of the Board shall meet and organize by electing one of their
members as Chairperson, and one as Vice-Chairperson, one as Secretary and one
as Treasurer, and the officers shall be elected annually thereafter in like
manner. The duties of the Secretary and Treasurer may be performed by the same
member. The members of the Board shall receive no compensation for their
services but shall be entitled to reimbursement of expenses incurred in the
performance of their duties.
(Ord. 2012-10, passed 4-17-12)
§ 32.213 GENERAL POWERS.
   The Board is hereby specifically empowered: to own, acquire, construct,
reconstruct, extend, equip, improve, operate, maintain, sell, lease, contract
concerning or otherwise deal in or dispose of waterworks facilities (as defined
in the Act) or any interest in such facilities, including, without limitation,
to provide financing for such facilities.
(Ord. 2012-10, passed 4-17-12)
§ 32.214 ADDITIONAL AUTHORITY OF THE BOARD.
   The Board is hereby additionally authorized and empowered:
   (A)   As a body politic and corporate to have perpetual succession and to
adopt bylaws, not in conflict with this subchapter or the Act, as may from time
to time be amended, for the regulation of its affairs and the conduct of its
business;
   (B)   To maintain an office at such place or places in or near the county as
the Board may designate, from time to time;
   (C)   To sue and be sued in its own name;
   (D)   To fix, charge and collect rates, fees, interest and charges for the
use of any waterworks facilities and the treatment of water;
   (E)   To employ and pay compensation to such employees and agents, including
attorneys, consulting engineers, surveyors, accountants, financial experts, and
others as it may in its judgment find necessary for the accomplishment of the
purposes and objectives for which it has been created and to fix their
compensation; and
   (F)   To do any and all other acts and things to accomplish the waterworks
facilities projects for which it is authorized by this subchapter and all other
acts and things authorized or required by the Act as it may from time to time
be amended, except as may be specifically limited herein, and any and all other
things necessary or convenient to accomplish the purposes for which the Board
has been created.
(Ord. 2012-10, passed 4-17-12)
§ 32.215 USE OF FUNDS AND REVENUES.
   This Board is hereby authorized to use any available funds and revenues for
the accomplishment of the waterworks facilities projects which it is authorized
to own, acquire, construct, reconstruct, extend, equip, improve, operate,
maintain, sell, lease, contract concerning or otherwise deal in. Any net
earnings of the Board (beyond that necessary for retirement of the indebtedness
or to implement any waterworks facilities project) shall not inure to the
benefit of any person other than to the Board.
(Ord. 2012-10, passed 4-17-12)
§ 32.216 MEETINGS.
   The Board shall meet upon the call of its Chairperson, or a majority of its
members, and at such times as may be specified in the bylaws for regular
meetings, and a majority of its members shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business. The affirmative vote of the majority of the members
present at a meeting of the Board shall be necessary for any action taken by
the Board. Any action taken by the Board may be authorized by resolution and
the resolution shall take effect immediately unless a later effective date is
specified in the resolution. No vacancy in the membership in the Board shall
impair the right of a quorum to exercise all the rights and perform all the
duties of the Board.
(Ord. 2012-10, passed 4-17-12)
§ 32.217 RECORDS.
   The Secretary shall keep a record of the proceedings of the Board and shall
be custodian of all books, documents, and papers filed with the Board and of
the minute book or journal of the Board and its official seal, if any shall be
adopted. The Secretary may cause copies to be made of all minutes and other
records and documents of the Board and may give certificates of the Board to
the effect that the copies are true copies, and all persons dealing with the
Board may rely upon such certificates.
(Ord. 2012-10, passed 4-17-12)
§ 32.218 ANNUAL REPORTS.
   Within the first 90 days of each calendar year, this Board shall make a
written report to the county concerning its activities for the preceding
calendar year. Each such report shall set forth a complete operating and
financial statement covering its operation during the year.
(Ord. 2012-10, passed 4-17-12)
CRIMINAL JUSTICE COORDINATING COMMITTEE
§ 32.230 CREATION AND PURPOSE.
    The Sebastian County Criminal Justice Coordinating Committee is hereby
created for the purpose of providing a working forum to support communications
and collaborative coordination between and among key justice system officials,
advisory bodies, agencies and departments, and community leaders, to promote
public safety, to address the root causes of criminal behavior, and to help
create a better community.
(Ord. 2021-8, passed 5-18-21)
§ 32.231 MEMBERSHIP.
    The Criminal Justice Coordinating Committee shall consist of 12 members as
follows:
      (1)   Administrative Circuit Judge;
      (2)   Circuit Judge Felony;
      (3)   Fort Smith District Judge as designated by the three Judges;
      (4)   Greenwood District Court Judge;
      (5)   Sebastian County Prosecuting Attorney;
      (6)   Sebastian County Sheriff;
      (7)   Chief Public Defender for Sebastian County;
      (8)   County Judge;
      (9)   Fort Smith Police Chief;
      (10)   Fort Smith City Prosecutor;
      (11)   Fort Smith City Administrator;
      (12)   Executive Director of Western Arkansas Counseling and Guidance
Center.
(Ord. 2021-8, passed 5-18-21)
§ 32.232 GOALS AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The goals of the Criminal Justice Coordinating Committee shall be to
maintain public safety through the creation of alternatives for long-term
offender success; to improve identification and analysis of corrections
problems; to improve communication, cooperation, and coordination among all
stakeholders; to establish clear goals, objectives, and priorities for public
safety programs and policies related to the administration of justice; and to
ensure the effective allocation of resources amongst the inter-related
programs.
   (B)   Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, it shall be the duty
of the Criminal Justice Coordinating Committee to:
      (1)   Study and evaluate the county's criminal justice system;
      (2)    Oversee the collection of criminal justice data for use by the
CJCC and, as required, the Quorum Court and/or other county officials,
agencies, departments, and operating units;
      (3)   Identify causes for past and current increases in jail populations,
analyze the flow of processes in the criminal justice system, especially those
directly impacting the county's jail population, and make recommendations for
process improvements that will directly impact the jail population;
      (4)   Identify gaps or deficiencies in the criminal justice system and
make recommendations that will eliminate duplication of services and fill
service gaps;
      (5)   Make recommendations that will help control the costs of managing
offenders;
      (6)   Evaluate and recommend crime prevention programs and early
intervention and prevention programs, or other initiatives or programs that
will reduce recidivism; and
      (7)   Increase community support for the criminal justice system,
strategies for reducing the need for jail beds, and the overall goals
established by the CJCC and Quorum Court.
(Ord. 2021-8, passed 5-18-21)
§ 32.233 MEETINGS.
    The Criminal Justice Coordinating Committee shall meet no less often than
monthly. The Criminal Justice Coordinating Committee Subcommittees shall meet
as scheduled by the Committee.
(Ord. 2021-8, passed 5-18-21)
§ 32.234 COUNCIL CHAIR.
   (A)    The Criminal Justice Coordinating Planning Committee shall select a
Chair and Vice Chair and shall designate the Chair of any other subcommittees
created by the Committee. The Chair and Vice-Chair shall serve annually,
subject to re-appointment.
   (B)   The Chair of the Criminal Justice Coordinating Committee shall perform
the following duties:
      (1)   Convene all meetings of the CJCC and preside over its proceedings,
ensuring orderly procedures in conducting business and maintaining decorum to
ensure that business is not disturbed or disrupted;
      (2)   When necessary or advisable, call special meetings of the Criminal
Justice Coordinating Committee, subject to determining a majority available to
attend, in accordance with the applicable legal requirements; (subcommittee
meetings to follow the same procedures of setting meetings, subject to a
majority available to attend.)
      (3)   In consultation with the membership, define an annual work plan for
the CJCC and provide leadership in communicating the plan and related
priorities to the key stakeholders and the general public;
      (4)   Sign documents, records, and reports, when authorized, on behalf of
the Committee; and
      (5)   Perform such other and additional duties as are incidental to or
customary for such office or which are prescribed or approved by the CJCC. The
Vice Chair shall serve in the absence or temporary disability of the Chair of
the CJCC and perform those duties prescribed for the Chair or as directed by
the membership.
(Ord. 2021-8, passed 5-18-21)
§ 32.235 QUORUM COURT LIAISON.
    A non-voting liaison to the Criminal Justice Coordinating Committee shall
be designated each year by the County Judge from the Members of the Quorum
Court.
(Ord. 2021-8, passed 5-18-21)
§ 32.236 COMMITTEES AND SUBCOMMITTEES.
    The Criminal Justice Coordinating Committee may establish and utilize
committees or subcommittees of its members to assist in the performance of its
goals and duties.
(Ord. 2021-8, passed 5-18-21)
§ 32.237 CRIMINAL JUSTICE COORDINATING COMMITTEE, (CJCC) AND SUBCOMMITTEES
STAFF SUPPORT.
   (A)    Staff support and coordination for the effective operation of the
Criminal Justice Coordinating Committee shall be provided by the Criminal
Justice Coordinator within the Office of the County Judge. Data processing
support and reports shall be provided by the County Information Technology
Director and Staff. The Criminal Justice Coordinator, as supported by the
Information Technology Director, shall prepare such reports or papers as may be
required by the Criminal Justice Coordinating Committee. Criminal Justice
Coordinating Committee Meetings and Subcommittee Meetings Minutes shall be
reported to the Quorum Court detailing CJCC activities by the Criminal Justice
Coordinator.
   (B)   Criminal Justice Coordinating Committee Agenda preparation and general
meeting administration shall be the responsibility of the Criminal Justice
Coordinator and the Sebastian County Judge's Office.
(Ord. 2021-8, passed 5-18-21)
§ 32.238 CITIZEN'S COMMITTEE. 
   (A)   A group of citizens made up of three to five people from each of the
following categories shall make up a Citizen’s Committee: media, non-profit,
business, banking and finance, legal, public sector, faith-based, health care,
education, and former judges.
   (B)   Purpose. The purpose of the Citizen’s Committee is to provide a forum
for public participation with respect to improvements of the criminal justice
system.
   (C)   The Citizen’s Committee will serve in a supporting role to the
Criminal Justice Coordinating Committee and to the Quorum Court, meeting to
review reports, recommendations, and options, to provide community input, and
support for programs, policies, and initiatives to improve the criminal justice
system.
(Ord. 2021-8, passed 5-18-21)
CHAPTER 33: FINANCES AND TAXATION; FEES
Section
Tax Collection
   
33.001   Intent
   
33.002   Modification
   
33.003   County Clerk's office; responsibilities
   
33.004   Assessor's office; duties
   
33.005   Three-part change form procedure
   
33.006   Required reports
   
33.007   Tax system processing guidelines
   
33.008   Management process; outline of records
Purchasing Procedures
   
33.020   Purpose
   
33.021   Purchases greater than $5,000; informal quotations
   
33.022   Purchases of $2,500 or greater; soliciting assistance; form
   
33.023   Purchases in the capital purchase line item of county budget; purchase
order
   
33.024   Inventory
   
33.025   Computer equipment inventory
   
33.026   Invoices
   
33.027   Application
   
33.028   Purchasing policies for procurement of Homeland Security training
Federal and State Grant Accounts for HUD, Housing Program
   
33.040   Purpose
   
33.041   County Treasurer; responsibility
Enhanced 9-1-1 Emergency Telephone System; Tariff Rates and Service Charges
   
33.055   Approval by public
   
33.056   Basis for rate
   
33.057   Service charge
   
33.058   Revenue collected; billing
Funds
   
33.070   Sheriff's Office Communications Facility and Equipment Fund
   
33.071   Radio Equipment Repair And Replacement Fund; Jail Medical Expenses
Fund
   
33.072   Prosecutor's Victim/Witness Fund
   
33.073   Fund for the Defense of Indigents
   
33.074   Jail Expenses and Support Fund
   
33.075   Court Automation Fund; installment fees
   
33.076   County Collector’s Automation Fund
   
33.077   Additional Motor Fuel Tax Fund
   
33.078   Local Assistance Tribal Consistency Fund
Fees and Fines; Collection
   
33.085   Criminal cases; filing fee and cost
   
33.086   Hot check cases; processing and prosecuting fees
   
33.087   Fines assessed upon defendants in courts
   
33.088   Allocation of expenses and costs for certain county offices and
departments
   
33.089   Ambulance service and fees
   
33.090   Housing jail detainees; rates
   
33.091   Marriage license; fee
   
33.092   Monthly adult probation administrative cost
   
33.093   Fees for Public Defender's Office
   
33.094   Fee for electronic monitoring
   
33.095   Drug Court cost
Personal and Real Estate Assessment Records; Verification Procedure
   
33.105   Responsibility
   
33.106   Intent; designation of responsibility
   
33.107   Intent; establishment of standard operating procedures
   
33.108   Verification against proof
TAX COLLECTION
§ 33.001 INTENT.
   It is the intent of this subchapter to set forth procedures addressing the
county tax system including current taxes, delinquent real estate taxes and
delinquent personal taxes, which will serve to clarify and expedite the tax
collection process.
(Ord. 87-15, passed 5-20-87)
§ 33.002 MODIFICATION.
   The county tax collection process has been modified by previous county
ordinances in order to more fully utilize electronic data processing equipment
and to assign records maintenance responsibility to the appropriate county
office controlling the tax assessment and collection record.
(Ord. 87-15, passed 5-20-87)
§ 33.003 COUNTY CLERK'S OFFICE; RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   (1)   The County Clerk's Office shall serve as the responsible
department to perform a coordinating and monitoring function for the
interoffice tax system records management process.
      (2)   Tax reports and related documentation records shall be filed for
the record and for county audit in the County Clerk's office in compliance with
statutory dates for completion of these documents.
   (B)   In addition, necessary reports produced to verify data, test runs and
sample documents produced to verify data shall be provided to the County Clerk
to assist in the tax system monitoring function. The role and function of the
County Clerk's office shall include reviewing the accuracy and validity of the
tax books and monthly reports generated in the tax collection process. The
monitoring and review function shall include reviewing monthly tax collection
and allocation reports to verify the integrity of the information. Year to date
totals shall be monitored including adjustments made to the tax records from
three part change forms, Disabled American Veterans, utilities, delinquent
property and other statutory adjustment procedures.
(Ord. 87-15, passed 5-20-87)
§ 33.004 ASSESSOR'S OFFICE; DUTIES.
   (A)   All maintenance to the real estate and personal tax book shall be done
by the Assessor's office.
   (B)   Maintenance shall be defined to include the following:
      (1)   Parcel number;
      (2)   Name;
      (3)   Address, property and billing;
      (4)   Description;
      (5)   Timber;
      (6)   Acres;
      (7)   Acreage;
      (8)   City/rural code;
      (9)   Property use code;
      (10)   Tax exemption;
      (11)   Valuations;
      (12)   Jurisdiction;
      (13)   Codes;
      (14)   Delinquent codes, real estate only; and
      (15)   Delinquent assessments, personal.
(Ord. 87-15, passed 5-20-87)
§ 33.005 THREE-PART CHANGE FORM PROCEDURE.
   Any changes made on taxes charged to the Collector must be made with a pre-
numbered three-part change form, which must originate in the Assessor's office
with only one tax record change transaction per form. The three-part change
form must be signed off by the Assessor then delivered to the Collector for
entry and edit to verify the proper change to the tax record from the
transaction. The verified three part change form is then signed by the
Collector and filed with the County Clerk for compilation in the final
settlement.
(Ord. 87-15, passed 5-20-87)
§ 33.006 REQUIRED REPORTS.
   Appropriate reports documenting the validity of the records shall be
generated by the data processing system as verified and certified by the office
responsible for producing that report or activity, with the County Clerk's role
one of monitoring the accuracy and validity of the records. Corrections or
errors shall be the responsibility of the appropriate office and official to
correct prior to filing in the County Clerk's office. After tax collection
reports are filed in the County Clerk's office and certified as correct, a
check shall be issued and presented to the Treasurer with the report.
(Ord. 87-15, passed 5-20-87)
§ 33.007 TAX SYSTEM PROCESSING GUIDELINES.
   (A)   In order to clarify critical dates essential to the efficient
operation of the tax system, the annual listing of tax system activity dates
shall be adhered to in accordance with state statutes and to meet the intent of
this subchapter.
   (B)   The following are key tax system processing guidelines:
      (1)   The cut-off date for the collection of current real estate and
personal taxes shall be the first Wednesday in November.
      (2)   The cut-off date for maintenance to the real estate and personal
tax book shall be the second Monday in January.
      (3)   Monthly turnover of taxes collected by the Collector to the
Treasurer by the fifth of the month shall be preceded by the County Clerk's
certified monthly collector report.
(Ord. 87-15, passed 5-20-87)
§ 33.008 MANAGEMENT PROCESS; OUTLINES OF RECORDS.
   In coordinating the tax system records management process, the County Clerk
shall utilize an outline of tax system records and procedures setting forth
dates for completing activities and filing or producing reports for each tax
year. This outline and checklist shall be filed annually as an index or table
of contents to document the tax system. A copy of the 1986 Tax Book table of
contents and checklist is herein adopted by reference and incorporated as if
set out in full to be used as a guideline for future tax cycles.
(Ord. 87-15, passed 5-20-87)
PURCHASING PROCEDURES
§ 33.020 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish purchasing procedures to be
followed by county offices and departments as administered through the
Sebastian County Purchasing Department and to oversee custody of county
property in accordance with A.C.A. § 14-14-1102.
(Ord. 97-7, passed 2-18-97; Am. Ord. 2003-16, passed 7-22-03; Am. Ord. 2005-21,
passed 8-16-05; Am. Ord. 2021-11, passed 6-22-21)
§ 33.021 PURCHASES GREATER THAN $5,000; INFORMAL QUOTATIONS.
   In addition to formal bid requirements by state law, county offices and
departments are to solicit informal quotations from up to three sources, if
available, as documented by the Sebastian County Purchasing Department, for
purchases greater than $5,000 but below the bid limit as set by state law. All
such purchases require a purchase order issued by the Purchasing Department
prior to the purchase. The request for the purchase order shall include all
documentation required.
(Ord. 97-7, passed 2-18-97; Am. Ord. 2003-16, passed 7-22-03; Am. Ord. 2005-21,
passed 8-16-05; Am. Ord. 2021-11, passed 6-22-21)
§ 33.022 PURCHASES OF $2,500 OR GREATER; SOLICITING ASSISTANCE; FORM.
   County offices and departments are to solicit assistance from the County
Purchasing Department for all purchases of $2,500 or greater by submitting a
form devised by the Purchasing Department reflecting a description of purchase,
proposed vendor, amount of purchase and related information.
(Ord. 97-7, passed 2-18-97; Am. Ord. 2003-16, passed 7-22-03; Am. Ord. 2005-21,
passed 8-16-05; Am. Ord. 2021-11, passed 6-22-21)
§ 33.023 PURCHASES IN THE CAPITAL PURCHASE LINE ITEM OF COUNTY BUDGET; PURCHASE
ORDER.
   County offices and departments are to solicit assistance from the County
Information Systems Department for all computer and computer-related purchases.
All computer equipment and all capital item purchases funded in the 4000 series
line items of the county budget shall require issuance of a county purchase
order prior to purchase and processing for payment by the County Finance
Department.
(Ord. 97-7, passed 2-18-97; Am. Ord. 2003-16, passed 7-22-03; Am. Ord. 2005-21,
passed 8-16-05; Am. Ord. 2021-11, passed 6-22-21)
§ 33.024 INVENTORY.
   For inventory purposes, all capital property items valued at $2,500 or above
at the time of purchase shall be placed on the county’s inventory. Purchases of
less than $2,500 may be inventoried at the discretion of the elected official
or department head for control purposes. For purchasing purposes, any one item
considered as non-consumable valued at or above $1,000 shall be considered
capital and shall be purchased out of the 4000 series line items.
(Ord. 97-7, passed 2-18-97; Am. Ord. 2003-16, passed 7-22-03; Am. Ord. 2005-21,
passed 8-16-05; Am. Ord. 2021-11, passed 6-22-21)
§ 33.025 COMPUTER EQUIPMENT INVENTORY.
   The Information Systems Department will maintain an inventory of all
computer equipment, for coordinating and record keeping purposes to support the
county fixed assets management systems.
(Ord. 2005-21, passed 8-16-05; Am. Ord. 2021-11, passed 6-22-21)
§ 33.026 INVOICES.
   All invoices shall include a description of the goods received, serial
numbers if used on the equipment, quantity of goods received, purchased date
and vendor name.
(Ord. 2005-21, passed 8-16-05; Am. Ord. 2021-11, passed 6-22-21)
§ 33.027 APPLICATION.
   This subchapter applies to all purchases from the FY 2021 Sebastian County
Budget and beyond.
(Ord. 2005-21, passed 8-16-05; Am. Ord. 2021-11, passed 6-22-21)
§33.028 PURCHASING POLICIES FOR PROCUREMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY TRAINING.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to establish purchasing policy for
Homeland Security Training including Bomb Squad, Specialized Weapons and
Tactics (SWAT), Weapons of Mass Destruction- Chemical, Biological,
Radiological, Nuclear (WMD-CBRN) and as other professional services as
administered through the Sebastian County Purchasing Department in accordance
with A.C.A. § 19-11-802(2).
   (B)   The County Judge’s office, Purchasing Department, is authorized to
procure Homeland Security Training for Emergency Management as other
professional services.
(Ord. 2018-22, passed 12-18-18)
FEDERAL AND STATE GRANT ACCOUNTS FOR HUD, HOUSING PROGRAM
§ 33.040 PURPOSE.
   (A)   In accordance with A.C.A. § 14-14-1313, all public funds coming into
the possession of any officer of the county shall be remitted to the County
Treasury in a manner prescribed by law.
   (B)   This subchapter is found necessary in order to provide financial
management procedures for the administration and control of certain federal and
state grants in county government, in compliance with state statutes and
federal regulations.
(Ord. 79-27, passed 2-18-97)
§ 33.041 COUNTY TREASURER; RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   (1)   The County Treasurer shall establish federal and state grant
fund accounts for the HUD Section 8 Housing Program, the LEAA Alternate School
and other federal and state grant program monies awarded to the county, to
record the transmittal of federal funds to the responsible administering
agency, the County Judge's Office.
      (2)   The County Treasurer shall set up individual ledger accounts to
record the remittance of the HUD Section 8 Housing Program funds, LEAA
Alternate School funds and any other federal and state grant program monies
awarded to the county for the purpose of the transmittal of funds to the
authorized administering agency.
      (3)   All accounts shall be listed on the Treasurer's monthly report
under a separate category of federal and state grant accounts, designating each
individual grant program and the amount of funds remitted to the administering
agency, the County Judge's Office. The County Judge's Office shall be
responsible for the administration of these programs, in compliance with the
specific federal and state regulations governing the grant programs.
   (B)   (1)   The County Treasurer shall transmit federal and state funds to
the administering agency upon receipt thereof.
      (2)   The County Treasurer shall record the date and amount of funds and
issue a check in full amount to the bank account established for the respective
federal grant by the administering agency.
(Ord. 79-27, passed 2-18-97)
ENHANCED 9-1-1 EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM; TARIFF RATES AND SERVICE CHARGES
§ 33.055 APPROVAL BY PUBLIC.
   On November 8, 1988, the voters of the county approved the implementation of
an enhanced 9-1-1 emergency telephone system within the county to be funded by
a charge of up to 5% of the basic telephone tariff rate approved by the Public
Service Commission.
(Ord. 89-3, passed 2-22-89)
§ 33.056 BASIS FOR RATE.
   In accordance herewith, the basic telephone tariff rate for telephone access
lines within the jurisdiction of the City of Fort Smith shall be enacted by the
County Quorum Court based on the rate set by the Fort Smith Board of Directors,
in the event this percentage rate is different from the rate enacted by the
county.
(Ord. 89-3, passed 2-22-89)
§ 33.057 SERVICE CHARGE.
   (A)   A service charge of 5% shall be levied on the basic telephone tariff
rate approved by the State Public Service Commission on all telephone access
lines of any telephone system within the corporate limits of the county for
implementation and operation of an enhanced 9-1-1 system and communications
center with public answering points (PSAPs) to be located in the emergency
communication centers of the City of Fort Smith, the County Sheriff's
Department and other locations.
   (B)   The percentage of the service charge may be modified by the Quorum
Court in cooperation with the Fort Smith Board of Directors from time to time
as necessary to fund the cooperation of the enhanced 9-1-1 system and
communications center by amendment to this subchapter or collection may be
suspended for a short period of time if it is determined that adequate revenues
are currently available.
   (C)   The service charge shall be collected by any telephone service
provider who provides telephone access service within the corporate limits of
the county the time as all service suppliers establish appropriate billing
collection procedures.
(Ord. 89-3, passed 2-22-89)
§ 33.058 REVENUE COLLECTED; BILLING.
   (A)   Revenue collected shall be remitted by the service providers to the
county within 30 days after the close of each monthly billing period. The
service suppliers shall be entitled to retain as an administrative fee an
amount equal to 1% thereof.
   (B)   The total amount collected shall be handled in accordance with the 9-
1-1 system and finance procedures.
(Ord. 89-3, passed 2-22-89)
FUNDS
§ 33.070 SHERIFF'S OFFICE COMMUNICATIONS FACILITY AND EQUIPMENT FUND.
   (A)   The Sheriff's Office Communications Facility and Equipment Fund shall
be transferred and maintained by the County Treasurer. This Fund shall be
listed as a separate and distinct fund in order to account for appropriations,
expenditures and revenues. The Sheriff's Office Communication Facility and
Equipment Fund shall be listed as separate and distinct entries on the
Treasurer's records and the Fund shall be utilized solely for the operation of
the Sheriff's Office and Adult Detention Center in compliance with applicable
state enabling legislation.
   (B)   The Sheriff's Office Communications Facility and Equipment Fund shall
be operated in accordance with A.C.A. §§ 21-6-307 and 12-41-105.
   (C)   In accordance with enabling legislation set forth in A.C.A. § 12-41-
105, the County Treasurer shall transfer 50% of the commissions received from
prisoner telephone services to the General Fund to help offset the cost of the
maintenance and operation of the County Jail.
(Ord. 98-9, passed 3-25-98)
§ 33.071 RADIO EQUIPMENT REPAIR AND REPLACEMENT FUND; JAIL MEDICAL EXPENSES
FUND.
   (A)   A.C.A. § 21-6-307(a)(15) authorizes the Sheriff of a county to collect
a fee as authorized by state statute for taking and entering every bail or
delivery of bond. The statute states that 75% of all fees collected by the
Sheriff shall be paid to the County Treasury in a manner provided by law and
that 25% of all fees collected by the Sheriff shall be used by the Sheriff to
establish a special fund to be known as the “Radio Equipment Repair and
Replacement Fund.”
   (B)   The 75% of the $10 fee which would normally be deposited to County
General Fund is hereby authorized to be earmarked and shall be accounted for as
a line item in the General Fund entitled “Jail Medical Expenses Fund.”
   (C)   It shall be the intent of this section to provide that the 75% of the
$10 fee authorized pursuant to A.C.A. § 21-6-307(a)(15) be earmarked for
appropriation to offset medical expenses incurred in the treatment of prisoners
housed in the county detention center.
(Ord. 91-12, passed 4-16-91)
§ 33.072 PROSECUTOR'S VICTIM/WITNESS FUND.
   (A)   The Victims of Crime Case Coordinator Fund shall be renamed and
replaced with Prosecutor's Victim/Witness Fund.
   (B)   In order to strictly comply with A.C.A. § 16-21-106, which mandates
that the monies be deposited in a fund with the above-listed designation, the
Court hereby renames the Fund.
(Ord. 91-24, passed 7-23-91)
§ 33.073 FUND FOR THE DEFENSE OF INDIGENTS.
   (A)   (1)   A.C.A. § 14-20-102 has been amended in regard to the Fund for
Defense of Indigents. Based on this legislation a levy of $5 has been imposed
by the state with 80% of the funds collected to remain with the County Indigent
Defense Fund and 20% to be remitted to State Treasurer Indigent Defense Fund.
      (2)   Under the provisions of A.C.A. § 14-20-102 where there are adequate
unappropriated monies in the Public Defender Indigent Defense Fund the Quorum
Court may also provide for the use of the funds for the purpose of defraying
the cost of the Juvenile Division of the Chancery Court and for the purpose of
defraying the cost of medical and dental costs incurred by the county for
indigent defendants incarcerated in the county jail.
   (B)   (1)   It is the intent of this section to recognize the state levy of
$5 for the Indigent Defense Fund established by A.C.A. § 14-20-102, $4 of which
is to be deposited into the County Indigent Defense Fund and $1, which is to be
deposited into the State Indigent Defense Fund.
      (2)   It is further the intent of this section to levy an additional $5
payable to the County Indigent Defense Fund.
   (C)   (1)   In accordance with A.C.A. § 14-20-102, in addition to all other
costs and fees provided by law, an additional fee shall be levied not to exceed
$5 to be taxed as costs in all civil cases filed, and upon a person upon
conviction, plea of guilty, pleas of nolo contendere or bond forfeiture, in
felony, misdemeanor, traffic violation cases for violation of state law or
local ordinance, and violation of city ordinances, filed in any Circuit,
Chancery, Probate, District, City or Police Court within the county. However,
no fees shall be taxed as costs in any action filed in any small claims court.
Monies collected pursuant to this section shall be deposited into the County
Fund for defense of indigent persons.
      (2)   Effective on passage and approval of this section, the Circuit
Clerk, County Clerk, Greenwood District Court Clerk, Fort Smith District Court
Clerk, and Barling Police Court Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to add
the sum of $5 to the filing fees and costs for all civil cases filed, aid upon
a person upon conviction, plea of guilty, pleas of nolo contendere or bond
forfeiture, in felony, misdemeanor, traffic violation cases for violation of
state law or local ordinance, and violation of city ordinances, filed in any
Circuit, Chancery, Probate, District, City or Police Court within the county.
      (3)   Fees so collected are to be paid to the County Treasurer by the
twenty-fifth day of the following month and the Treasurer will create and
maintain an account with these fees which will be entitled the “Indigents'
Attorney Fees, Expenses and Costs Fund.”
      (4)   All funds for the Indigents Attorney Fees, Expenses and Costs Fund
shall be applied to the County Public Defender's Office for the defense of
indigent defendants. Where there are adequate unappropriated monies in the
Public Defender Indigent Defense Fund the Quorum Court may also provide for the
use of the funds for the purpose of defraying the cost of the Juvenile Division
of the Chancery Court and the cost of medical and dental costs incurred by the
county for indigent defendants incarcerated in the County Jail. All
disbursements from the Fund shall be by general appropriation ordinance by the
County Quorum Court.
      (5)   In the event the Public Defender's Office is incapable of
representing an indigent because of a conflict of interest, then the Circuit
Court may appoint a duly licensed attorney at law to represent the indigent.
(Ord. 93-16, passed 9-21-93)
Cross-reference:
   Criminal cases; filing fee and cost, see
§ 33.085
§ 33.074 JAIL EXPENSES AND SUPPORT FUND.
   (A)   (1)   In accordance with A.C.A. §§ 12-41-505 and 16-92-109, the courts
of the county shall assess costs to cover expenses incurred in carrying a
prisoner to jail and for his or her support while he or she remains there.
      (2)   Priority for collection of restitution, fines and costs ordered or
assessed, in connection with criminal cases shall be in the following order:
         (a)   Victim restitution;
         (b)   Costs and cost assessed pursuant to A.C.A. §§ 12-41-505 and 16-
92-109; and
         (c)   Fines.
   (B)   The revenues received from county actions to collect reimbursement for
expenses and support associated with time served in jail, shall be accounted
for as a line item in the General Fund entitled “Jail Expenses and Support.”
   (C)   It shall be the intent of this section to provide all revenues
collected under the provisions of A.C.A. § 12-41-505 be ear-marked for
appropriation to offset expenses incurred in operating the County Detention
Center.
(Ord. 91-11, passed 4-16-91)
§ 33.075 COURT AUTOMATION FUND; INSTALLMENT FEES.
   (A)   In accordance with Act 1809 of 2001, the County Treasurer shall
establish a Court Automation Fund as part of the County Budgetary Accounting
System.
   (B)   In accordance with Act 1809 of 2001, one-half of the installment fees
collected each month from each person authorized to pay a fine and/or court fee
on an installment basis shall be remitted monthly to the Department of Finance
and Administration for deposit in the Judicial Fine Collection Enhancement
Fund, as established by A.C.A. § 16-13-712, and the other half of the
installment fee shall be remitted monthly to the County Treasurer to be
deposited in a fund entitled the Court Automation Fund.
   (C)   In accordance with the Act, funds in the Court Automation Fund shall
be used solely for court related technology.
(Ord. 2001-27, passed 11-20-01)
§ 33.076 COUNTY COLLECTOR’S AUTOMATION FUND.
   A)   In accordance with Act 1215 of 2001, the collector may set aside up to
10% of the gross commissions collected annually to be credited to the County
Collector’s Automation Fund. Such funds shall be used to purchase, maintain and
operate an automated record keeping system.
   (B)   In accordance with the provisions of the Act, the County Treasurer
shall establish a County Collector’s Automation Fund as a part of the County
Budgetary Accounting System.
(Ord. 2003-10, passed 4-15-03)
§ 33.077 ADDITIONAL MOTOR FUEL TAX FUND.
   (A)   In accordance with Act 416 of 2019, a sub fund of the County Road Fund
is hereby established to track the revenues and expenditures of the wholesale
tax on gasoline and diesel; to properly account for, control, and report
codified as A.C.A. § 26-64-104.
   (B)   There is hereby created on the books of the County Treasurer/County
Comptroller a fund to be known as the Additional Motor Fuel Tax Fund (Act 416
of 2019) with a fund number of 2003 as assigned by Arkansas Legislative Audit.
The Revenue Code for the county highway turnback receipted to this fund is
7002.
   (C)   In accordance with the Act, the Additional Motor Fuel Tax Fund is
subject to all the normal county budgeting, appropriation and expenditure
regulations of A.C.A. Title 14 and Title 27. The fund is subject to annual
reporting and disclosure requirements to be submitted to the Director of the
Department of Finance and Administration. The report shall detail the:
      (1)   Amount of highway revenue turnback revenues received;
      (2)   Expenditures made from the highway revenue turnback revenues
received; and
      (3)   Projects funded using the highway revenue turnback.
(Ord. 2019-10, passed 11-19-19)
§ 33.078 LOCAL ASSISTANCE TRIBAL CONSISTENCY FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created on the books of the Sebastian County Treasurer
and the books of the Sebastian County Clerk or Comptroller a County General
sub-fund to be known as the Local Assistance Tribal Consistency Fund or more
commonly referred to as the LATC Fund. The fund number is 1007 and the revenue
code is 7112 as assigned by Arkansas Legislative Audit. Any transfer codes;
office/department codes; and expenditure codes are to be assigned locally using
the County Financial Management System per the direction of Arkansas
Legislative Audit.
   (B)   The LATC Fund is subject to all the normal county budgeting,
appropriation and expenditure regulations of A.C.A. Title 14 and the County
Financial Management System. In accordance with the ARPA the LATC funds are
available for any governmental purpose other than a lobbying activity. LATC
funds can be treated like general revenue funds or PILT payments. Proper
records and documentation must be maintained on the use of these funds for the
annual Obligation and Expenditure Report until all funds are expended and for
federal audit purposes.
(Ord. 2022-24, passed 10-25-22)
FEES AND FINES; COLLECTION
§ 33.085 CRIMINAL CASES; FILING FEE AND COST.
   (A)   The Circuit Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to add the sum of
$.50 to the filing fees and costs for all criminal cases including traffic
violations filed in the District Court, provided, however, no fees shall be
required in any action filed in the Small Claims Court.
   (B)   Fees so collected are to be paid to the County Treasurer by the
twenty-fifth day of the following month and the Treasurer will create and
maintain an account with these fees which will be entitled “The Indigents'
Attorney Fees, Expenses and Costs Funds.”
   (C)   All funds for the Indigents' Attorney Fees, Expenses and Costs Funds
shall be applied to the County Public Defender's Office for the defense of
indigent defendants. All disbursements from the Fund shall be by appropriation
ordinance by the County Quorum Court.
(Ord. 88-14, passed 6-22-88)
§ 33.086 HOT CHECK CASES; PROCESSING AND PROSECUTING FEES.
   (A)   The Prosecuting Attorney's Office for the Twelfth Judicial Circuit may
collect a fee if his or her county office collects and processes a check, order
or draft if the check, order or draft has been issued and passed in a manner
which makes the issuance or passing an offense under:
      (1)   A.C.A. §§ 5-1-101 et seq.;
      (2)   A.C.A. §§ 5-37-301 through 5-37-306, as amended, the so-called
State Hot Check Law; and/or
      (3)   A.C.A. § 5-37-307.
   (B)   The Prosecuting Attorney may collect a fee from any person issuing a
bad check, as described herein. The amount of the fee shall not exceed:
      (1)   Five dollars if the face amount of the check, order, or draft does
not exceed $10;
      (2)   Ten dollars if the face amount of the check, order, or draft is
greater than $10 but does not exceed $100;
      (3)   Thirty dollars if the face amount of the check, order, or draft is
greater than $100 but does not exceed $300;
      (4)   Fifty dollars if the face amount of the check, order, or draft is
greater than $300 but does not exceed $500; and
      (5)   Seventy-five dollars if the face amount of the check, order, or
draft is greater than $500.
   (C)   (1)   Fees collected hereunder shall be deposited in a special fund
and be maintained by the County Treasurer.
      (2)   Expenditures from this fund may be used only to:
         (a)   Provide matching funds from state and federal grants for
criminal justice projects, provided however, that the grants shall not require
any expenditure from the County General Fund;
         (b)   Equipment purchases for the Office of the Prosecuting Attorney;
and
         (c)   Training of personnel in equipment justice functions and other
associated expenses, as may be appropriated by ordinance.
      (3)   In no event may the Prosecuting Attorney supplement his or her own
salary from this fund.
(Ord. 85-10, passed 5-21-85)
§ 33.087 FINES ASSESSED UPON DEFENDANTS IN COURTS.
   In accordance with A.C.A. § 16-13-709, Responsibility for Collection:
   (A)   The Fort Smith District Court is designated as the Office who shall be
primarily responsible for the collection of fines assessed upon defendants in
the Fort Smith District Courts of Sebastian County.
   (B)   The Greenwood District Court is designated as the County Office who
shall be primarily responsible for the collection of fines assessed upon
defendants in the Greenwood District Court of Sebastian County.
   (C)   The Prosecuting Attorney is designated as the County Official who
shall be primarily responsible for the collection of fines assessed upon
defendants in the Circuit Courts of Sebastian County.
(Ord. 2000-21, passed 12-19-00; Am. Ord. 2001-30, passed 12-18-01; Am. Ord.
2003-3, passed 1-21-03; Am. Ord. 2003-14, passed 6-17-03; Am. Ord. 2004-1,
passed 1-20-04; Am. Ord. 2004-34, passed 12-21-04; Am. Ord. 2005-31, passed 12-
20-05; Am. Ord. 2006-21, passed 12-19-06; Am. Ord. 2008-29, passed 12-16-08:
Am. Ord. 2012-25, passed 12-18-12; Am. Ord. 2016-23, passed 12-20-16; Am. Ord.
2017-30, passed 12-19-17; Am. Ord. 2019-13, passed 12-17-19; Am. Ord. 2020-25,
passed 12-15-20; Am. Ord. 2021-17, passed 10-19-21; Am. Ord. 2022-23, passed
10-25-22; Am. Ord. 2023-25, passed 10-17-23; Am. Ord. 2024-18, passed 10-15-24)
§ 33.088 ALLOCATION OF EXPENSES AND COSTS FOR CERTAIN COUNTY OFFICES AND
DEPARTMENTS.
   (A)   It is the intent of this section to implement adequate accounting
controls so that clear and accurate records and supporting documentation will
be available for audit to support all allocations of expenses and operating
costs among certain county offices and departments.
   (B)   Costs of administrative departments responsible for providing services
to other county offices and departments shall be prorated and allocated on a
reasonable and equitable basis. Administrative costs to be allocated shall
include, but not be limited to personnel and payroll, financial auditing,
accounts payable and purchasing, data processing and general maintenance.
   (C)   In order to facilitate cost allocation for the commission offices and
the pro rata millage funded office, the annual county budget for each of these
offices (Treasurer, Collector and Assessor) shall contain specific line items
appropriated as the anticipated estimated cost allocation. The specific costs
shall be computed in accordance with the administrative provisions of this
section on an annual basis, with the method of cost allocation the annual
reimbursement of allocated cost to the General Fund at the end of the budget
year.
   (D)   Accounting controls shall be implemented by the County Judge's Office
implementing the provisions of this section to provide clear and accurate
records and supporting documentation to support all computations and prorations
in the allocation of costs among county offices and departments. Expenses shall
be summarized by expenditure account classification at the end of the year,
with the total expense to be allocated posted to each relevant office/
department budget. Allocation bases for allocating services to benefitting
departments shall be documented for each administrative cost area, with
computations and prorations footnoted. Guideline administrative costs and bases
for allocation among county offices and departments are made a part of this
section by reference.
(Ord. 83-24, passed 7-22-88)
§ 33.089 AMBULANCE SERVICE AND FEES.
   (A)   The county’s ambulance emergency medical services area shall include
all residents in Sebastian County, excluding the City of Barling and the City
of Fort Smith. The ambulance emergency medical services to be provided the
residents of the designated area of the county shall include 24 hour, 7 day a
week ambulance service provided by state certified emergency medical
technicians. The ambulance service shall be licensed by the State Health
Department as at least 1-A service.
   (B)   There is hereby established a yearly service charge of $18 (as amended
from time to time by ordinance or resolution) in order to provide for ambulance
emergency medical services, and it shall be collected from each individual,
business, or other entity subject to assessing and paying a personal property
tax in the designated emergency medical services area of the county. All funds
derived from the levy of the service charge shall be used only to support the
furnishing of ambulance emergency medical services in the designated area of
the county, and to provide funds for the purchase of equipment, the maintenance
and operation of equipment, and the payment of personal services necessary to
provide such services. The services are to be funded by the service charge,
fees from ambulance transportation charges and related services, and available
state and federal grants.
   (C)   The service charge shall be due on the third Tuesday in February and
shall be collected by the County Collector at the same time that personal
property tax is collected for the preceding calendar year. The County Collector
shall refuse to accept payment of any personal property taxes unless the
taxpayer at the same time pays any service charges due by the taxpayer pursuant
to this section. A delinquent charge of $18, as set from time to time by
ordinance or resolution, shall be collected if the service charge prescribed
herein is tendered after the date for which the charge is due and payable.
   (D)   All funds derived from the levy of service charges to support the
furnishing of ambulance emergency medical services shall be used only for the
purposes for which levied and a separate account shall be maintained in the
county treasury in which all such funds shall be deposited. Such funds shall be
expended only upon appropriation of the Quorum Court and shall be subject to
the same accounting and disbursement procedures and requirements as other
county funds.
(Ord. 85-39, passed 12-17-85)
   (E)   The County Quorum Court approves an ambulance fee schedule as
established in Exhibit A to Resolution 88-2, and as amended from time to time.
   (F)   Discounts for Sebastian County residents.
      (1)   Sebastian County residents will receive a discount of up to 100%
for one ambulance service transport per year per household with the
understanding that a taxpayer includes a person who resides at the address of
the assessed property within Sebastian County, and is current (meaning not
delinquent) on all property taxes within the county.
      (2)   There will be a 20% discount for prompt payment within ten days, or
a 10% discount for payment within 30 days of any invoicing for subsequent
transports or transports which do not qualify for the 100% discount mentioned
above.
      (3)   All discounts related to this section apply only to charges after
any and all available insurance or third-party payments have been processed.
      (4)   The rate structure by service type is:
 
(ALS) transport           $950
(ALS) level-two transport $1,250
(BLS) transport           $850
Mileage                   $19.50 per mile
 
      (5)   The rate structure will be reviewed every other year at a minimum.
(Res. 88-2, passed 4-20-88; Am. Res. 2024-15, passed 12-17-24)
§ 33.090 HOUSING JAIL DETAINEES; RATES.
   (A)   A.C.A § 12-41-506(a) states that a county may pass an ordinance to
establish a daily fee for housing prisoners of municipalities.
   (B)   The Quorum Court of Sebastian County, Arkansas hereby determines that
the per diem fee to be charged to municipalities housing a person in the
Sebastian County Jail will be determined by utilizing the previous year's
actual jail costs, divided by 365 (days in a year, then divided by 356, number
of beds in the jail). The actual costs for the year 2024 will determine the per
diem rate for 2025, and so forth for the following years.
   (C)   For budgeting purposes, Sebastian County will provide the
municipalities an estimated per diem rate for the upcoming fiscal year no later
than October 15 of each year and follow up with the actual rate no later than
January 20 of each year.
   (D)   For billing purposes, the per diem for a municipal inmate will begin
the date of booking, and end when the inmate is released or diverted to
different court. The county will bill a municipality monthly for the number of
inmates held the previous month for the municipality.
(Ord. 2010-12, passed 7-20-10; Am. Ord. 2017-11, passed 4-18-17; Am. Ord. 2024-
17, passed 9-24-24)
§ 33.091 MARRIAGE LICENSE; FEE.
   (A)   In accordance with A.C.A. § 14-20-111, the Quorum Court of the county
may levy, in addition to fees and taxes now charged, a fee not to exceed $5 on
each application for marriage license. The fee shall be collected by the County
Clerk at the time application is made. All fees collected under the provisions
of A.C.A. § 14-20-111 shall be credited by the County Treasurer to the County
General Fund.
   (B)   The fee for the issuance of a marriage license charged by the County
Clerk shall be increased by $5.
(Ord. 90-14, passed 7-19-90)
§ 33.092 MONTHLY ADULT PROBATION ADMINISTRATIVE COST.
   (A)   County ordinance enacted a $5 administrative cost on each probationer
placed on probation by County Circuit Court and who is assessed a monthly
probation fee for the purpose of offsetting County General Fund costs for this
program.
   (B)   (1)   The $5 administrative cost was collected by the County Sheriff
on a monthly basis in the same manner as probation fees administered under the
provision of the State Adult Probation Commission.
      (2)   These funds were deposited into the County General Fund reported
under a specific revenue category of “Court Probation Administrative Cost.”
(Ord. 93-25, passed 12-21-93)
§ 33.093 FEES FOR PUBLIC DEFENDER'S OFFICE.
   (A)   The Circuit and Municipal Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to
add the sum of $4 upon each judgement of conviction, plea of guilty or nolo
contendere or bond forfeiture in felony or misdemeanor and traffic cases in
Circuit, District or City Court.
   (B)   Fees so collected are to be paid to the County Treasurer by the fifth
day of the following month.
   (C)   The revenues received from this fee shall be accounted for as a
separate line item in the General Fund entitled “Public Defender Assessment.”
(Ord. 91-26, passed 8-20-91)
§ 33.094 FEE FOR ELECTRONIC MONITORING.
   (A)   In order to promote effective administration of justice, a fee for
electronic monitoring shall be established to help offset costs of operating
this program.
   (B)   Electronic monitoring fees set by the District or Circuit Court shall
be based upon actual electronic monitoring program operating costs.
   (C)   Electronic monitoring fees shall be deposited exclusively in the
County General Fund, reported under a specific revenue category of Electronic
Monitoring Fees-Circuit County and Electronic Monitoring Fees-District Court.
   (D)   The administrative costs herein established shall be a separate and
distinct cost associated with the expense of the electronic monitoring program.
(Ord. 2004-25, passed 9-21-04)
§ 33.095 DRUG COURT COST.
   (A)   A monthly administrative cost for Drug Court services provided by
Sebastian County is hereby established.
   (B)   An administrative cost of $20 per month shall be imposed on each
participant who is placed in Drug Court by the Sebastian County Circuit Court,
as a monthly Drug Court fee.
   (C)   The amount levied under division (B) will be collected on a monthly
basis by the Prosecuting Attorney’s Office. Administrative cost collected by
the Prosecuting Attorney shall be deposited in the County General Fund,
reported under a specific revenue category of Drug Court administrative cost.
   (D)   The administrative cost herein established shall be a separate and
distinct Drug Court associated with the expense of the Drug Court, and shall be
levied as an additional $20 per month for all participants placed on supervised
Drug Court services who are assessed a monthly Drug Court fee. The
administrative fee levied herein shall not be construed to interfere with or
supersede the operation of the Drug Court or its administration by the
Sebastian County Circuit Courts.
(Ord. 2008-20, passed 9-16-08)
PERSONAL AND REAL ESTATE ASSESSMENT RECORDS; VERIFICATION PROCEDURE
§ 33.105 RESPONSIBILITY.
   Under the provisions of A.C.A. Title 26, Subtitle 3, the responsibility for
the preparation of the tax book was transferred from the County Clerk's office
to the County Assessor's Office.
(Ord. 86-7, passed 2-19-86)
§ 33.106 INTENT; DESIGNATION OF RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   It is the intent of this subchapter to designate responsibility for
the verification of the Assessor's Office real estate and personal tax system
source documents to the computer maintained record system for these records and
reports, under the enabling provisions of A.C.A. §§ 14-14-101 et seq. and 14-
16-101 et seq.
   (B)   Verification procedures set forth herein shall be performed by the
Assessor's Office, Collector Department and County Clerk's Office.
(Ord. 86-7, passed 2-19-86)
§ 33.107 INTENT; ESTABLISHMENT OF STANDARD OPERATING PROCEDURES.
   Further, it shall be the intent of this subchapter to establish standard
operating policies and procedures to be performed by the Assessor's Office,
Collector Department and County Clerk's Office in cross checking and verifying
the large number of real estate and personal tax assessment source documents
maintained by the County Assessor, with corresponding records managed through
the county computer system.
(Ord. 86-7, passed 2-19-86)
§ 33.108 VERIFICATION AGAINST PROOF.
   Real estate and personal source document records maintained by the Assessor
shall be verified against proof Real Estate and Personal Tax Books, Assessor's
August Abstract Equalization Board Abstract of Adjusted Assessment, Tax Books
Recapitulation Reports and related reports; with the first verification
procedures to be performed in the month of September and the second procedures
to be performed in the month of January. Verification shall be completed
against a statistical sample of Assessor source documents and hard copy summary
recaps of source documents to compare against the proof books generated by the
data processing system, and by comparing Tax Books Recapitulation Reports by
category against Assessor maintained source records summary categories
including individual taxing jurisdictions, subdivisions and other significant
sub-components of the total tax records. From this sample and related
verification procedures, a determination of the margin of error shall be made
with corrections input by the Assessor office as necessary. Additional
verification activities shall be performed depending upon the margin of error
and the type of errors. In the event the margin of error from the sample and
related verification procedures is greater than 10% on significant verification
criteria including valuations, jurisdiction coding, names, addresses, acreage,
status of parcels whether exempt or delinquent, a comprehensive verification of
all records shall be completed.
(Ord. 86-7, passed 2-19-86)
CHAPTER 34: PERSONNEL
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Adoption of manual; amendments
   
34.02   Salary provisions
   
34.03   Unemployment insurance; method of payment
   
34.04   Leaves of absence
   
34.05   Requests for new positions
   
34.06   Review of re-classification requests
   
34.07   Registration with selective service system
   
34.08   Section 125 Cafeteria program
Drug and Alcohol Testing Policy
   
34.20   Amendment; additional rules
   
34.21   Establishment of rules; County Judge's power
   
34.22   Payment
Classification and Compensation System
   
34.35   Job Evaluation and Salary Administration Policy
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 ADOPTION OF MANUAL; AMENDMENTS.
   The Personnel Manual, filed with the County Clerk is approved and adopted
and incorporated as if it were set forth in full herein.
(Ord. 95-17, passed 8-15-95; Am. Ord. 2007-20, passed 10-16-07; Am. Ord. 2009-
24, passed 11-17-09; Am. Ord. 2013-13, passed 6-18-13; Am. Ord. 2017-6, passed
2-21-17; Am. Ord. 2022-13, passed 6-21-22)
§ 34.02 SALARY PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The county’s personnel policies program of salary administration,
filed with the County Clerk contemporaneously with the filing hereof is
approved and adopted.
   (B)   The county’s employment policies and procedures shall be administered
to reflect the policies set forth herein.
(Ord. 98-26, passed 12-15-98; Am. Ord. 2009-14, passed 6-16-09; Am. Ord. 2009-
24, passed 11-17-09)
§ 34.03 UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE; METHOD OF PAYMENT.
   (A)   Due to the passage of P.L. 94-566 known as the Unemployment Insurance
Amendments of 1976, the county shall be responsible for unemployment insurance
benefits for county employees.
   (B)   The county shall follow A.C.A. §§ 11-10-713 and 11-10-715
extraordinary session, in meeting the requirements of P.L. 94-566.
   (C)   The county shall meet the requirements of the Unemployment Insurance
Amendments of 1976 by paying unemployment insurance benefits through the
reimbursement method.
   (D)   In order to meet the requirements of the Unemployment Insurance
Amendments, the Quorum Court shall make necessary appropriations for
unemployment insurance benefits.
   (E)   The reimbursement method shall be reconsidered as to its costs and
suitability for the county, and a report submitted to the Quorum Court by the
County Judge's Office recommending method of payment.
(Res. 77-6, passed 9-12-77)
§ 34.04 LEAVES OF ABSENCE.
   The county's provisions concerning leaves of absence are adopted by
reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
§ 34.05 REQUESTS FOR NEW POSITIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Request for preparation of a position description for a new
position should be made by the Elected Official to Human Resources Department
on a Position Analysis Questionnaire. The Human Resources Department will
facilitate, in conjunction with concerned persons, the preparation of the job
description and schedule it on the agenda for the Job Evaluation Committee. A
newly created position should not be filled until the job has been properly
described, evaluated, rated by the Job Evaluation Committee and approved by the
Quorum Court.
      (2)   Any elected official proposing that one or more new positions be
added to any department during the course of an operating fiscal year must
submit a written request for each individual position to the County Judge's
Office. Such request shall include a position analysis questionnaire with a
complete description of any offsetting revenues anticipated for the position
and why the workload of the official's office has increased enough during the
current fiscal year to warrant the position's addition outside of the Quorum
Court's Annual Budget Review cycle.
      (3)   When a request for a new position is received by the County Judge's
Office, the Human Resources staff shall coordinate the compilation of a job
description for each new position requested with the requesting elected
official. A preliminary job rating will be assigned by the Human Resources
staff for the purpose of estimating budgetary impact.
      (4)   After a job description is compiled, a copy of the elected
official's request and job description shall be forwarded to each member of the
Quorum Court.
      (5)   The County Judge will coordinate a meeting of the Quorum Court
Committee as a Whole for the consideration of the new position request. The
County Judge will compile a recap, including percentages of all revenues,
personnel appropriations, operating appropriations, and capital appropriations,
and fund balances. The County Judge will present this information for the
current budget year as well as the three previous budget years.
      (6)   The Quorum Court Committee as a Whole shall review the personnel
proposal, the percentage of personnel expenses related to the total annual
budget, the percentage of balance based on estimated revenue versus capital
budgets, capital reserve policy and other capital programming in determining
additions to the county payroll.
      (7)   The requesting elected official, or a designated representative,
shall be present at the Committee as a Whole meeting in order to present
justification and answer any questions regarding the request, specifically in
regard to why such new position(s) cannot wait until the next Annual Budget
Review cycle.
      (8)   The Quorum Court Committee as a Whole shall vote at this meeting as
to whether or not to consider the addition of this position to the current
budget. At least two-thirds of the Committee members must approve the further
consideration of the personnel proposal.
      (9)   Upon approval for further consideration, the Human Resources staff
shall coordinate a meeting of the Job Evaluation Committee to issue an official
rating for the position. This rating will be used to identify the salary range
for the position and all relevant financial data.
      (10)   Once all relevant financial data for the new position is compiled,
it shall be evaluated in context with the current year's budget and presented
to the Quorum Court for final approval during a regular meeting.
   (B)   Any elected official proposing that one or more new positions be added
to any department during the course of an operating fiscal year must submit a
written request for each individual position to the County Judge’s Office. Such
request shall include a complete description of any offsetting revenues
anticipated for the position, and why the workload of the official’s office has
increased enough during the current fiscal year to warrant the position’s
addition outside of the Quorum Court’s annual budget review cycle.
   (C)   When a request for a new position is received by the County Judge’s
Office, the Human Resources staff shall coordinate the compilation of a job
description for each new position requested with the requesting elected
official. A preliminary job rating will be assigned by the Human Resources
staff for the purpose of estimating budgetary impact.
   (D)   After a job description is compiled, a copy of the elected official’s
request and job description shall be forwarded to each member of the County
Quorum Court.
   (E)   The County Judge will coordinate a meeting of the Quorum Court
Committee as a Whole for the consideration of the new position request. The
County Judge will compile a recap, including percentages, of all revenues,
personnel appropriations, operating appropriations, and capital appropriations,
and fund balances. The County Judge will present this information for the
current budget year as well as the three previous budget years.
   (F)   The Quorum Court Committee as a Whole shall review the personnel
proposal, the percentage of personnel expenses related to the total annual
budget, the percentage of balance based on estimated revenue versus capital
budgets, capital reserve policy and other capital programming in determining
additions to the county payroll.
   (G)   The requesting elected official, or a designated representative, shall
be present at the Committee as a whole meeting in order to present
justification and answer any questions regarding the request, specifically in
regard to why such new position(s) cannot wait until the next annual budget
review cycle.
   (H)   The Quorum Court Committee as a Whole shall vote at this meeting as to
whether or not to consider the addition of this position to the current budget.
At least two-thirds of the Committee members must approve the further
consideration of the personnel proposal.
   (I)   Upon approval for further consideration, the Human Resources staff
shall coordinate a meeting of the Job Evaluation Committee to issue an official
rating for the position. This rating will be used to identify the salary range
for the position and all relevant financial data.
   (J)   Once all relevant financial data for the new position is compiled, it
shall be evaluated in context with the current year’s budget and presented to
the Quorum Court for final approval during a regular meeting.
(Ord. 2005-15, passed 6-21-05)
§ 34.06 REVIEW OF RE-CLASSIFICATION REQUESTS.
   County employee positions requested for re-classification shall be reviewed
by the Quorum Court in May and October.
(Ord. 79-26, passed 12-19-79)
§ 34.07 REGISTRATION WITH SELECTIVE SERVICE SYSTEM.
   Prospective county employees shall be required to register with the
Selective Service System and certify that they are in compliance with the
Military Selective Service Act.
(Res. 97-12, passed 7-29-97)
§ 34.08 SECTION 125 CAFETERIA PLAN.
   (A)   The implementation of Section 125 Program for county employees is
endorsed, pending completion of administrative procedures and regulations.
   (B)   The set up fee to establish the plan document and conduct the
employment enrollment is to be paid from existing appropriated funds in the
Courthouse maintenance budget. The Section 125 Program should be administered
in accordance with the program plan.
(Res. 91-10, passed 12-17-91)
DRUG AND ALCOHOL TESTING POLICY
§ 34.20 AMENDMENT; ADDITIONAL RULES.
   (A)   All personnel policies of the county are hereby revised and amended to
incorporate the 1994 DOT Final Rules. The rules are, by reference, incorporated
herein in their entirety as if restated word for word.
   (B)   This section specifically amends any personnel policy providing for
conditions of employment for employees whose duties require them to maintain a
commercial driver's license in order to lawfully carry out their duties.
(Ord. 95-27, passed 12-19-95)
§ 34.21 ESTABLISHMENT OF RULES; COUNTY JUDGE'S POWER.
   The County Judge is hereby directed to establish procedures to ensure
compliance with the rules, including the assignment of a designated
representative responsible for the execution of the procedures.
(Ord. 95-27, passed 12-19-95)
§ 34.22 PAYMENT.
   Any laboratory, medical review officer, substance abuse professional or any
other professional who receives payment for testing, evaluating, record-keeping
or other services mandated by the rules must be qualified according to the
rules and must perform the services in conformance with 49 CFR 40 and 382.
(Ord. 95-27, passed 12-19-95)
CLASSIFICATION AND COMPENSATION SYSTEM
§ 34.35 JOB EVALUATION AND SALARY ADMINISTRATION POLICY.
   The county Pay Policy, setting forth a compensation and classification
system for county employees as adopted in Ordinance 2016-14, as amended from
time to time, is incorporated by reference herein, as if set out in full.
(Ord. 2016-14, passed 9-20-16; Am. Ord. 2017-14, passed 6-20-17; Am. Ord. 2017-
23, passed 11-21-17)
CHAPTER 35: COUNTY POLICIES
Section
   
35.01   Notification of complaint
   
35.02   Data processing hardware and software
   
35.03   Disposition of county-controlled software
   
35.04   Excessive force by law enforcement; civil rights demonstrations
   
35.05   County-owned vehicles and equipment; display emblems
   
35.06   Use of force policy
   
35.07   Work release program
   
35.08   No smoking/tobacco use policy
   
35.09   Referendum petitions; filing
   
35.10   Anti-displacement plan
   
35.11   Jurors; rate of pay and reimbursement
   
35.12   Travel expense reimbursement policies and procedures
   
35.13   Interim filling of a vacancy for the office of sheriff during times of
emergency
   
35.14   Electronic warrants transfer system
   
35.15   Cell phones and other mobile devices
   
35.16   Purchase or lease of copiers
   
35.17   Exchange or transfer of property with other counties, municipalities
and institutions of higher education
 
   
35.99   Penalty
§ 35.01 NOTIFICATION OF COMPLAINT.
   The County Quorum Court determines that, upon service for any civil or
criminal complaint, the County Judge, Prosecuting Attorney or any other elected
official or employee receiving that service shall promptly notify any party or
parties named in the action. The Prosecuting Attorney, in his or her capacity,
as counsel for the county, shall provide the County Quorum Court with his or
her assessment of the cause of action and any action that may be required.
(Res. 90-10, passed 12-18-90)
§ 35.02 DATA PROCESSING HARDWARE AND SOFTWARE.
   (A)   (1)   The purpose hereof is to establish a formal policy to provide
for the review and evaluation of software and hardware proposals by the
Information Systems Department prior to submittal of those proposals to the
Quorum Court for funding.
      (2)   Proposals for hardware or software systems to be used by county
offices and departments shall include a written report reflecting the review
and analysis of the proposed system by the Information Systems Department.
      (3)   In addition, the Information Systems Administrator or staff will be
available to answer questions and provide additional information in the Quorum
Court meetings where data processing system additions are to be reviewed and
discussed.
(Res. 88-5, passed 9-21-88)
   (B)   (1)   In accordance with A.C.A. § 26-28-102, the electronic data
processing equipment, commonly referred to as a “computer,” acquired to keep
the assessment records, to prepare the tax books and to prepare the Collector's
records and receipts for property taxes, shall be authorized for use by other
county offices for any appropriate purpose. The cost of other county uses of
the equipment shall be prorated among the various county offices.
      (2)   The County Judge's office shall be responsible for the coordination
of the county electronic data processing system, including internal planning of
computer utilization programming and implementation, computer system security,
new program applications or revisions to existing programs, program breakdowns
and required service and repair, necessary planning and pricing and the
conformance of the computer system with the Fiscal Management Act passed by the
State Legislature.
(Ord. 82-36, passed 12-22-82)
§ 35.03 DISPOSITION OF COUNTY-CONTROLLED SOFTWARE.
   (A)   The County Judge is hereby authorized and directed to administer a
program relating to the rights of the county in the currently developed version
of the district court software according to the following terms set forth in
this section. The software is the version of the county's developed district
court software existing as of April 1, 1999, or the date on which the county
first distributes same to a developer under this program, whichever date is
later.
   (B)   The software shall be offered to any interested person or entity on a
non-exclusive basis according to the following terms:
      (1)   The developer shall pay a fee of $30,000 to the city. The city
shall distribute 30% of all fees received to the county in accordance with the
70/30 operating agreement between the city and the county. This fee shall be
paid in full within 24 months of the release date.
      (2)   The developer will provide to the city and the county, without
cost, a copy of the initial version of any developed software utilizing in any
respect the software. Additionally, the developer will provide all updated
versions of the developed software produced within five years from the
production of the developed software without cost to the city or the county.
      (3)   The developer will service and maintain, via access to the
developer's “help desk,” the developed software provided to the city and the
county at no cost for a period of five years from the production of the initial
version.
      (4)   The software will be received by the developer without warranty by
the county, with an agreement to hold the county harmless from any claims
arising from the developer's use of the software, and with the following
acknowledgments:
         (a)   The software shall be received on a non-exclusive basis so that
the county may provide the software on the same terms to more than one person
or entity.
         (b)   The developer will not sell or transfer the software to any
person or entity. This provision does not prohibit or limit the right to
develop and market developed software.
         (c)   The county reserves the right to release the software, on terms
determined by the county, to governmental entities in the state.
         (d)   The county reserves the right to periodically re-offer the
software in its release date form.
      (5)   The county administration and County Attorney shall prepare the
necessary documents to implement the program authorized by this section in a
reasonable manner.
(Ord. 99-15, passed 7-20-99)
§ 35.04 EXCESSIVE FORCE BY LAW ENFORCEMENT; CIVIL RIGHTS DEMONSTRATIONS.
   (A)   The county has adopted and is enforcing this policy prohibiting the
use of excessive force by law enforcement agencies within its jurisdiction
against any individuals engaged in non-violent civil rights demonstrations.
   (B)   The county will ensure that all law enforcement agencies within its
jurisdiction will enforce all applicable state and local laws against
physically barring entrance to or exit from a facility or location, which is
the subject of such non-violent civil rights demonstrations within its
jurisdiction.
   (C)   In response to non-violent civil rights demonstrations, the county
will be mindful and protective of the rights of all participants in such
demonstrations, as well as any onlookers, bystanders, or any other persons
located in the vicinity or owning property in the vicinity.
   (D)   In connection with such demonstrations, the use of force shall be
permitted only when necessary to protect the rights of individuals or to uphold
the law. In no event shall the use of force in excess of that necessary to
achieve the lawful goals of the county be permitted.
   (E)   Consistent with the goals and objectives of activities assisted under
the Act, as amended, Sebastian County will adopt and enforce the policy
contained herein.
(Res. 95-6, passed 10-17-95; Am. Res. 2007-16, passed 11-20-07; Res. 2021-11,
passed 9-21-21)
§ 35.05 COUNTY-OWNED VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT; DISPLAY EMBLEMS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      COUNTY EMPLOYEE. Any person compensated by appropriation of the Quorum
Court, either part-time employment or full-time employment, but not elected
officials.
      COUNTY-OWNED VEHICLES AND/OR EQUIPMENT.  Any vehicle and/or equipment
purchased through or supported by appropriation by the Quorum Court.
      EMERGENCIES. Any threat to the public health, safety or security, or any
threat to the maintenance of law and order, or the protection of property.
      OFF DUTY. Any time when an employee is not expected to be on duty, but
can be expected to act as if he or she were on duty if he or she is directed to
do so by an authorized person.
      ON-DUTY EMPLOYMENT. Any time when an employee is expected to be on duty
performing his or her assigned work and responsibilities, including a required
response to an off-duty emergency.
   (B)   All county employees shall use county-owned vehicles and/or equipment
to conduct official county business only.
   (C)   County vehicles may be taken to the employee’s primary residence
during off-duty hours only if the employee is required as a part of his or her
normal county employment to respond to an emergency during his or her off-duty
hours.
   (D)   Vehicles, including heavy equipment, owned by any division of the
county government must display permanently affixed emblems identifying them as
the property of the county. The permanently affixed emblems shall identify the
department to which the vehicle is assigned.
   (E)   The emblems, as required in division (C) above, shall be prominently
and conspicuously displayed on both sides of the vehicle.
   (F)   This section shall apply to vehicles owned by the county, with the
exception of any vehicle that may be used in an official undercover law
enforcement capacity.
(Ord. 2001-6, passed 3-20-01; Am. Ord. 2006-7, passed 5-16-06; Am. Ord. 2006-
12, passed 7-18-06)
§ 35.06 USE OF FORCE POLICY.
   The county's “Use of Force” policy, filed with the County Clerk
contemporaneously with the filing hereof, is approved and adopted.
(Ord. 90-5, passed 3-20-90)
§ 35.07 WORK RELEASE PROGRAM.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      INMATE. Any person convicted of a felony or misdemeanor, or who enters a
plea of guilty or nolo contendere to a felony or misdemeanor by any court of
the state and committed to the County Detention Center by virtue thereof and/or
committed in default of a payment of any fine or cost adjudged against them.
      WORK RELEASE. A program by which participating inmates may be gainfully
employed or permitted to attend school outside the confines of the County
Detention Center during the period of their commitment.
   (B)   In accordance with A.C.A. § 12-42-116, the Sheriff of County is hereby
empowered to institute a work release program whereby inmates of the County
Detention Center may be permitted to be gainfully employed or attend school
outside the confines of the County Detention Center during the period of their
incarceration pursuant to regulations adopted by the Sheriff.
   (C)   No inmate shall be permitted to participate in the work release
program unless first expressly permitted to do so in writing, by the Judge of
the Court which imposed the sentence.
   (D)   Any salaries, wages, commissions or other remuneration earned by the
inmate by his or her participation in the work release program shall be paid
directly to the Sheriff. The Sheriff shall then make the following disposition
of funds thus received:
      (1)   He or she shall deduct an amount of $10 per day which shall be paid
directly into the County General Fund for the purpose of reimbursing the county
for costs expended in the feeding and housing of the inmate.
      (2)   In any case where the Judge of the sentencing court has determined
that the inmate is responsible for the support and upkeep of other persons, he
or she may direct that a specific amount be deducted from the inmate's work
release earnings for payment thereof. The Sheriff will make these deductions
and pay them over to the proper individuals, in any case where the Judge of the
sentencing court has determined that the inmate should pay restitution and/or
reparation to any victim of his or her crime.
      (3)   He or she may direct that a specific amount be deducted from the
inmate's work release earnings for payment thereof, not to exceed 25% of his or
her net salary after any deductions under divisions (D)(1) or (2) above. The
Sheriff will make these deductions and pay them over to the proper individuals.
      (4)   At the request of the inmate and at the discretion of the Sheriff,
certain deductions may be used for the inmate's personal expenses.
      (5)   Any remainder from the inmate's work release earnings shall be
retained by the Sheriff in an escrow account for disbursal to the inmate on his
or her final discharge from the County Detention Center. The Sheriff shall
maintain a written record of all transactions made upon the inmate's account.
This record shall be available for inspecting by the participating inmate, the
Judge of the sentencing Court, the Prosecuting Attorney, and any other member
of the County Quorum Court.
(Ord. 94-2, passed 1-18-94)
§ 35.08 NO SMOKING/TOBACCO USE POLICY.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      SMOKING/TOBACCO USE. The lighting of any cigarette, cigar, pipe, or the
possession of any lighted cigarette, cigar, or pipe. It also includes all
smokeless tobacco products, e-cigarettes and vapor products.
   (B)   Smoking/Tobacco use prohibited. No person shall smoke or use any
tobacco products, e-cigarettes or vapor products in any county-owned and
operated buildings, offices, vehicles or recreational facilities, including but
not limited to:
      (1)   New Courts Facility, (Old) Sebastian County Courthouse and the
Greenwood Courthouse, including elevators, stairways, hallways, restrooms,
break rooms, concessions, courtrooms, offices and grounds;
      (2)   All county parks and recreational facilities;
      (3)   All present or future county-owned or operated buildings or offices
including elevators, stairways, hallways, restrooms, break rooms, concessions,
courtrooms and other support facilities within Sebastian County and grounds;
   (C)   Signs to be posted.
      (1)   The County Judge shall post signs in a conspicuous place in county
courthouses, office buildings and recreational facilities.
      (2)   In addition, other signs and notices shall be placed on doors and
in access areas to clearly reflect the county no smoking/tobacco use policy.
(Ord. 2015-17, passed 11-18-15) Penalty, see §
35.99
§ 35.09 REFERENDUM PETITIONS; FILING.
   (A)   All referendum petitions under Ark. Const., Am. 7 must be filed with
the County Clerk within 60 days after the passage of the ordinance.
   (B)   Whenever any referendum petition is filed the Quorum Court shall give
notice by publication of a time not less than five days after the publication
of the notice at which time they will hear all persons who wish to be heard on
the question whether the petition is signed by the requisite number of
petitioners. At the time named, the Quorum Court shall meet and hear all who
wish to be heard on the question and its decision shall be final unless suit is
brought in the Chancery Court of the county within 30 days to review its
action.
   (C)   (1)   If the Quorum Court finds that the petition is signed by the
requisite number of petitioners, it may order a special election or place the
question on the ballot at the next county general election to determine by vote
of the qualified electors whether the ordinance shall stand or be revoked.
      (2)   The date for any special election shall not be less than ten days
after the order thereof has been named by the Quorum Court and the special
election shall be held and conducted as any general county election held in the
county.
   (D)   If any ordinance referred to the people is defeated at the polls, the
Quorum Court shall make note of the fact and shall expunge the ordinance from
its files by erasing the same with red ink.
(Ord. 77-6, passed 2-14-77)
§ 35.10 ANTI-DISPLACEMENT PLAN.
   Consistent with the goals and objectives of activities assisted under state
law, as amended, the county will make every effort to minimize the displacement
of persons from homes.
(Res. 95-5, passed 10-17-95; Am. Res. 2007-18, passed 11-20-07)
§ 35.11 JURORS; RATE OF PAY AND REIMBURSEMENT.
   (A)   Legislative intent. Pursuant to the requirements of Act 1033 of 2007,
codified as A.C.A. § 16-34-101 et seq., and in order to qualify for
reimbursement from the State of Arkansas for a portion of said jury costs, the
Sebastian County Quorum Court hereby establishes the minimum requirements
necessary for compensation as jurors and corresponding rates of compensation
for service as jurors or prospective jurors in Sebastian County.
   (B)   Rates of compensation. The following rates of compensation are
established for jury service in Sebastian County:
      (1)   Persons who are selected and seated as members of the jury shall be
compensated at the rate of $50 per day;
      (2)   Persons who are summoned and appear but who are not selected and
seated as jury members shall be compensated at the rate of $15 per day; and
      (3)   Persons summoned for jury service but who fail, for any reason, to
attend court shall not be entitled to receive compensation.
   (C)   Rate of mileage reimbursement. Any person who is eligible to receive
per diem compensation under division (B) above and whose primary place of
residence is outside the city limits of the county seat (Fort Smith and
Greenwood) shall receive a mileage reimbursement payment for mileage from and
to his or her home by the most direct and practical route at the rate of $.10
per mile.
   (D)   State reimbursement procedure and responsibility assignment. Pursuant
to A.C.A. § 16-34-106, the Sebastian County Judge’s Office Finance department
shall be responsible for remitting, in a timely manner, all documentation
required by the Administrative Office of the Courts in order to receive
reimbursement for the jury cost incurred under A.C.A. § 16-34-103(b) and
division (B)(1) above. The Circuit Judge’s Court Administrator shall work
closely with the County Judge’s Office Finance Department in furnishing
documentation, in a timely manner, to process jury reimbursement.
(Ord. 2007-24, passed 11-20-07)
§ 35.12 TRAVEL EXPENSE REIMBURSEMENT POLICIES AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Sebastian County Travel Expense Reimbursement Policies and
Procedures Manual, filed with the County Clerk contemporaneously with the
filing of Ord. 2012-16, is hereby adopted as if set out fully herein.
   (B)    The Sebastian County Travel Expense Reimbursement Policies and
Procedures, as adopted herein, shall be effective beginning August 23, 2012 and
shall provide for a travel expense reimbursement system to be followed by all
county offices, departments and employees thereof.
(Am. Ord. 2007-11, passed 6-26-07; Am. Ord. 2009-4, passed 1-20-09; Am. Ord.
2012-16, passed 8-23-12)
§ 35.13 INTERIM FILLING OF A VACANCY FOR THE OFFICE OF SHERIFF DURING TIMES OF
EMERGENCY.
   (A)   It shall be the policy of the County Sheriff’s Office that during a
declaration of an emergency, or circumstances that warrant a declaration of
emergency under ACA 12-75-108, a vacancy in the office of the County Sheriff’s
Office due to death or disability to the degree of inability to perform the
duties of office, shall be temporarily filled in the following line of
succession:
      (1)   Chief Deputy Sheriff.
      (2)   Major of Operations.
      (3)   Captain of the Criminal Investigation Division.
   (B)   The vacancy in the office of the County Sheriff shall be on an interim
basis until such time as the vacancy is filled by the County Quorum Court or
the disability of the Sheriff is abated.
(Res. 2011-12, passed 9-20-11)
§ 35.14 ELECTRONIC WARRANTS TRANSFER SYSTEM.
   The Quorum Court, as authorized by A.C.A. § 14-24-121, does hereby
authorized the county to establish an electronic warrants transfer (direct
deposit) system directly into payees’ accounts in financial institutions in
payment of any account allowed against the county. The electronic payment
method to be established shall provide appropriate internal accounting controls
and documentation for audit and accounting purposes.
(Ord. 2013-8, passed 3-19-13)
§ 35.15 CELL PHONES AND OTHER MOBILE DEVICES.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to monitor costs and to ensure only key
personnel are provided with cell phones and other mobile devices.
   (B)   A Mobile Device Justification/Request Form shall be completed for such
devices for review and approval by the County Administrator prior to
implementation.
   (C)   All requests for a cell phone or other mobile device shall be based
upon completion of the form and approval before ordering/procurement of a new
cell phone or mobile device. This includes new hires, promotions, assuming new
duties or transfers into another job that might require such devices, etc. The
form will be placed on the County website in the "Downloads 85 Documentation"
area.
   (D)   The County Administrator is designated as the county employee who
shall be responsible for the approval of cell phones and all other mobile
devices. The County Administrator will confer with the employee and elected
official as needed to document the justification.
   (E)   This approval process solely deals with the employee's authorization
to have a device. It is up to the employee and the elected official to
determine the ongoing costs for their area and to budget accordingly. There are
two hurdles for an employee to have a device; a valid justification from the
County Administrator and the ramifications of adding devices to their budget.
(Ord. 2016-3, passed 1-26-17)
§ 35.16 PURCHASE OR LEASE OF COPIERS.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to monitor costs associated with the
purchase and lease of copier machines.
   (B)   A Copier Purchase or Lease Justification/Request Form shall be
completed for such devices for review and approval by the County Administrator
prior to implementation.
   (C)   All requests for the purchase or lease of a copier shall be based upon
completion of the form and approval before ordering/procurement of the copier.
This includes replacement of old copiers as well as the purchase of new
copiers. The form will be placed on the County website in the "Downloads &
Documentation" area.
   (D)   The County Administrator is designated as the county employee who
shall be responsible for the approval of all copier purchases and leases. The
County Administrator will confer with the employee and elected official as
needed to document the justification.
   (E)   This approval process solely deals with the purchase and lease of
copiers. It is the responsibility of the elected official to determine the
ongoing costs for their area and to obtain Quorum Court budget approval on an
annual basis. There are two steps to purchase or lease copiers; a valid
justification from the County Administrator and the approval of funds by the
Quorum Court.
(Ord. 2016-5, passed 3-15-16)
§ 35.17 EXCHANGE OR TRANSFER OF PROPERTY WITH OTHER COUNTIES, MUNICIPALITIES
AND INSTITUTIONS OF HIGHER EDUCATION
   (A)   The County Judge is authorized to exchange or transfer personal
property with other Arkansas counties or municipalities if the value of each
separate item of Sebastian County personal property does not exceed a value of
$5,000, said value to be determined by the Sebastian County Assessor, and the
personal property or cash received by Sebastian County is at least 75% of the
value of the Sebastian County personal property. If personal property other
than cash is tendered in exchange by the other county or municipality, then
that other property must also be appraised by the Sebastian County Assessor in
order to comply with the requirements of this division.
   (B)   The proposed exchange or transfer of any item of personal property
valued greater than $5,000 and any exchange or transfer of real property
regardless of appraised value with any Arkansas county, municipality, community
college or institution of higher education must be approved by the Sebastian
County Quorum Court in an appropriate ordinance therefore pursuant to the
requirements of Act 98 of 2015.
   (C)   This section shall only apply to implement the provisions of Act 98 of
2015 and shall have no effect with respect to the authority of the County Judge
under Amendment 55 of the Arkansas Constitution.
   (D)   The term “personal property” means every tangible thing being the
subject of ownership, whether animate or inanimate, and not forming a part of
any parcel of real property. For the purpose of this section only, the term
“personal property” shall also mean money. “Money” means the medium of exchange
authorized by the United States Government and includes cash or a check of
another Arkansas county, municipality, community college or institution of
higher education.
   (E)   The County Judge will notify the Quorum Court either in writing within
ten days of any exchange or transfer of property, or in the report of the
County Judge at the Quorum Court meeting that follows the exchange or transfer
of property, whichever is earlier.
(Ord. 2020-12, passed 8-18-20)
§ 35.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any section of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to
§ 10.99.
   (B)   Any person convicted of violating the provisions of §
35.08 shall be fined a maximum of $25 for the first offense, $50 for the second
offense, $100 for the third offense and $250 for any subsequent offense.
(Ord. 2015-17, passed 11-18-15)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE
Section
   
50.01   Management system plan adopted by reference
   
50.02   Collection and disposal rates
§ 50.01 MANAGEMENT SYSTEM PLAN ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The solid waste management system plan shall be adequate to carry out the
legislative mandate of the State Solid Waste Management Act, as amended, A.C.A.
§§ 8-6-201 et seq., as amended, and shall comply with all applicable aspects of
Chapter Two, Section III of the State Solid Waste Management Code, dated March
23, 1984. This plan shall be adopted by reference herein and incorporated fully
as if set out herein.
§ 50.02 COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL RATES.
   The rates for the collection and disposal of garbage and refuse in the
county shall be as set from time to time by the Quorum Court.
(Am. Ord. 2018-13, passed 8-28-18)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC RULES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Speed restrictions
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DRIVER. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a motor
vehicle.
   EMERGENCY VEHICLES. Vehicles of the Fire Department, police vehicles and
ambulances and emergency vehicles of municipal departments or public service
corporations as are designated or authorized by the Chief of Police of an
incorporated city.
   HEAVY TRUCKS. Every motor vehicle designed, used or maintained primarily for
the transportation of property and having a carrying or towing capacity of 1½
tons or greater.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Every officer authorized to direct or regulate
traffic or to make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled, but not operated on
rails.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICE. All signs, signals, markings and devices
placed or erected by authority of a public body, agency or official having
jurisdiction thereof for the purpose of regulating, warning or guiding the
movement of traffic.
   OWNER. A person who holds a legal title of a vehicle, or in the event a
vehicle is the subject of the agreement for the conditional sale or a lease
thereof with the right of purchase upon performance of the conditions stated in
the agreement and with an immediate vendee or lessee or mortgagor of vehicle is
entitled to possession, then the conditional vendee or lessee or mortgagor
shall be deemed the owner for the purpose of this chapter, or an association of
persons or a corporation in whose name the title is registered.
   ROADWAY. Any portion of a county road, improved or otherwise, ordinarily
used for the movement of vehicular traffic.
   SEMI-TRAILER. Every vehicle with or without motor power, designed for
carrying persons or property and for being drawn by motor vehicle and so
constructed that some part of its weight and that of its load rests upon or is
carried by another vehicle as a heavy truck.
   UNIMPROVED COUNTY ROAD. Any road which has been accepted into the county
road system for perpetual maintenance thereof and which construction consists
of either a gravel, shale or dirt road base or mixture thereof.
(Ord. 77-16, passed 6-15-77)
§ 70.02 SPEED RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle at a speed in excess of that listed
below:
      (1)   Thirty-five mph for any motor vehicle operating on any unimproved
county road.
      (2)   Thirty mph for any heavy truck or semi-trailer operating on any
unimproved county road.
   (B)   The speed restrictions set forth above shall not apply to emergency
vehicles when the vehicle is responding to an emergency call.
   (C)   It shall be a misdemeanor for any person to violate any of the
provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Where any driver shall be charged with the violation of this chapter,
the complaint and summons or notice to appear issued him or her shall specify
the speed at which he or she was alleged to have driven and the applicable
speed restriction.
   (E)   The driver of any vehicle shall obey any official traffic-control
device erected according to law.
   (F)   It shall be the duty of the County Road Department to cause to be
erected along the affected roadways of the county appropriate signs giving
notice of the rates of speed herein. No provision hereof, for which signs are
required, shall be enforced against an alleged violator, if, at the time and
place of the alleged violation, an official sign has not been erected for the
purpose of giving notice of the appropriate speed restrictions.
(Ord. 77-16, passed 6-15-77)
Penalty, see § 10.99r
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   STREETS
      
91.   FAIR HOUSING
      
92.   FIRE PREVENTION; FIREWORKS
      
93.   ANIMALS
      
94.   COUNTY FACILITIES
      
95.   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
      
96.   NOISE
CHAPTER 90: STREETS
Section
Naming Roads; Addressing Property
   
90.01   Road atlas
   
90.02   Baselines and address numbers
   
90.03   System Technical Manual
   
90.04   Address assignment
   
90.05   Address numbers
   
90.06   Applicability
Minimum Construction; Design Standards
   
90.20   Authority
   
90.21   Jurisdiction
   
90.22   Purpose
   
90.23   Regulations adopted by reference
Road System; Heavy Haul Operations
   
90.35   Authority
   
90.36   Jurisdiction
   
90.37   Purpose
   
90.38   Regulations adopted by reference
   
90.39   Signs
   
90.40   Civil liability
   
90.41   Extreme climatic conditions
   
90.99   Penalty
NAMING ROADS; ADDRESSING PROPERTY
§ 90.01 ROAD ATLAS.
   (A)   (1)   The “Official Road Atlas” shall be a part of this subchapter.
      (2)   The atlas shall identify all named roads, road numbers, numbering
baselines and block numbering grids which specify address number changes. The
Road Atlas is hereby made a part of this subchapter by reference.
   (B)   (1)   The Official Road Atlas shall be automatically updated upon any
development activity requiring the need for a road name or address assignment.
These changes will be made by the person or entity responsible for
administering the county's enhanced 9-1-1 emergency system.
      (2)   A record file of all changes to the Road Atlas shall be maintained
by the County Judge or his or her designee.
(Ord. 90-22, passed 10-23-90; Am. Ord. 2023-11, passed 4-18-23)
§ 90.02 BASELINES AND ADDRESS NUMBERS.
   (A)   Baselines. The basing systems for numbering of buildings on state,
federal and county roads and other public and private ways in the
unincorporated area of the county are as follows:
      (1)   The Cities of Fort Smith and Greenwood have an address system with
a point of reference center point and baselines upon which a grid system has
been established. These two systems shall be retained and extended to cover the
unincorporated area west and south of Fort Chaffee. A third address system
shall exist for that unincorporated area east of central and north of Fort
Chaffee in the northeast portion of the county and shall be an extension of the
City of Lavaca address system.
      (2)   The City of Fort Smith addressing system shall be extended to cover
that area west of Highway 71 and to include Bear Hollow Road to Highway 45 and
Wofford Lake Road to the Oklahoma state line. Extension east of Highway 71
shall include that area north of and including East Tennessee Ridge Road to the
Fort Chaffee border. The state line shall constitute the baseline for numbering
buildings along all easterly roads. Garrison Avenue, Rogers Avenue, Free Ferry
Road and an extension of the point east shall be the baseline for numbering
buildings along all roads running north and south. There shall be allowed 25
feet for each number with 300 feet block grids.
      (3)   The City of Greenwood addressing system will be expanded to cover
all of the county south of Fort Chaffee and that area excluded from the Fort
Smith addressing system, terminating westerly at the Oklahoma state line,
easterly at the Logan County line, and south at the Scott County line. The
center point for addressing will be Main Street at Center Street in Greenwood.
The extension of Center Street from the center point east to the county border
and west along Mt. Zion Road and Hoot Owl Hollow Road to the state line will be
the baseline for north and south address numbers. The extension of the center
point north along North Main Street to the Fort Chaffee boundary and south to
Witcherville Road, Highway 71 to Mansfield, Highway 378 to a point south along
Johnnie Cake Road to the county border will be the baseline for east and west
address numbers. There should be allowed 50 feet for each address with 500 feet
block grids. The Lavaca address system shall include all its incorporated area
and that part of unincorporated Sebastian County lying north of Fort Chaffee to
the Arkansas River and east of Central, terminating at the Franklin County
line. Main Street with extensions west along Highway 255 to Central City and
east to intersect Highway 252 and the Franklin County border shall serve as the
east- west address baseline. North Division Street extended to the Arkansas
River and South Division Street extended to the Fort Chaffee border shall serve
as the north-south addressing baseline. There shall be allowed 50 feet for each
number with 500 feet block grids.
   (B)   Assignment of address numbers.
      (1)   Within the Greenwood and Lavaca addressing systems, odd numbers
shall be assigned to the west side of the road on all north-south roads, and
even numbers on the east side. On the east-west roads, odd numbers shall be
assigned to the south side of the road, and even numbers to the north side.
Assignment of address numbers shall be in the direction of increase from the
baselines, with even numbers on the right side and odd numbers on the left side
within the Fort Smith address system. Numbers shall be assigned to each
identified grid block with the lowest number beginning at the point nearest the
grid block baseline.
      (2)   A road shall have a continuous block numbering sequence to road end
regardless of its relative location over the block grid system.
(Ord. 90-22, passed 10-23-90; Am. Ord. 2023-11, passed 4-18-23)
§ 90.03 SYSTEM TECHNICAL MANUAL.
   “The County Road Naming and Addressing System Technical Manual” is hereby
made a part of this subchapter by reference. The County Judge is authorized to
revise the forms used to implement and administer the Technical Manual, making
changes and improvements deemed necessary, without Quorum Court approval.
(Ord. 90-22, passed 10-23-90; Am. Ord. 2023-11, passed 4-18-23)
§ 90.04 ADDRESS ASSIGNMENT.
   No person, firm corporation, partnership or other entity shall authorize any
public utility company, as defined by state law, to supply any services to any
new residence or business in the county until an address for such has been
assigned or otherwise approved by the County Judge or his or her designee.
(Ord. 90-22, passed 10-23-90; Am. Ord. 2023-11, passed 4-18-23)
§ 90.05 ADDRESS NUMBERS.
   Address numbers shall be installed at the expense of the owner and shall be
maintained at his or her expense and shall likewise conform to the standards
established by the county. The address numbers shall be clearly visible from
the named road of access.
(Ord. 90-22, passed 10-23-90; Am. Ord. 2023-11, passed 4-18-23)
§ 90.06 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter shall apply to the unincorporated area of the county, except
in the growth areas of incorporated municipalities, which exercise their
addressing authority.
(Ord. 90-22, passed 10-23-90; Am. Ord. 2023-11, passed 4-18-23)
MINIMUM CONSTRUCTION; DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 90.20 AUTHORITY.
   In accordance with A.C.A. §§ 14-298-101 through 14-298-125, A.C.A. §§ 14-14-
101 et seq. and the State Constitution, the county's road plan and
specifications is adopted as set forth herein.
(Ord. 82-33, passed 12-22-82; Am. Ord. 94-19, passed 10-18-94)
§ 90.21 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   The county's road plan shall be utilized as the guide and the
administrative and legal mechanism for the construction, expansion and
improvement of all county roads outside of any municipal jurisdictional areas.
   (B)   State and/or federal highways are not subject to the intent or
administrative review of this subchapter.
(Ord. 82-33, passed 12-22-82; Am. Ord. 94-19, passed 10-18-94)
§ 90.22 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide the legal means of
assuring adequate, efficient and safe construction of all county roads and to
protect county residents from unsafe roads while protecting the county
investment in the road system.
   (B)   Further, it is the purpose of this road plan to establish the
locations of existing and future county roads and the appropriate criteria for
the construction of the county roads.
(Ord. 82-33, passed 12-22-82; Am. Ord. 94-19, passed 10-18-94)
§ 90.23 REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The county's road plan, formulated by the County Judge's Office and filed
with the County Clerk, is hereby made a part of this subchapter as if set out
in full herein.
(Ord. 82-33, passed 12-22-82; Am. Ord. 94-19, passed 10-18-94)
ROAD SYSTEM; HEAVY HAUL OPERATIONS
§ 90.35 AUTHORITY.
   In accordance with A.C.A. §§ 27-35-101 through 27-35-113, A.C.A. §§ 27-4-101
et seq., A.C.A. §§ 14-14-101 et seq., as amended, and the State Constitution,
the county permit and bond procedures for heavy haul operations occurring over
county roads are established as set forth herein.
(Ord. 82-14, passed 6-16-82)
§ 90.36 JURISDICTION.
   The permit and bond heavy haul ordinance shall be established for all county
roads, highways, structures and streets within the county, providing these
roads, highways, structures and streets do not fall under the jurisdiction of
any city within the county or state and/or federal highways.
(Ord. 82-14, passed 6-16-82)
§ 90.37 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide a legal means of protecting the
county's investment in county roads as well as protecting the county residents
from unsafe roads. Further, it is the purpose of this subchapter to provide a
financial system to repair roads damaged by heavy hauls and to protect the
taxpayers' investment in the system of county roads.
(Ord. 82-14, passed 6-16-82)
§ 90.38 REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The permit and bond administrative rule and regulation formulated by the
County Judge's Office and filed with the County Clerk contemporaneously with
the filing of this subchapter. The rules and regulations are hereby made a part
of this subchapter by reference, as fully as if herein set out word for word
and is hereby established as the county's permit and bond procedure for heavy
haul operations over county roads.
(Ord. 82-14, passed 6-16-82)
§ 90.39 SIGNS.
   The County Judge shall erect or cause to be erected and maintained signs
designating the provisions hereof and administrative rules and regulations
concerning heavy haul. At each end of the portion of any highway affected
thereby, the signs shall state, at a minimum, "No Trucks Without County Permit"
and the specified load limit.
(Ord. 82-14, passed 6-16-82)
§ 90.40 CIVIL LIABILITY.
   In addition to the penalty herein above prescribed, the person convicted of
violation of this subchapter or of the administrative rules and regulations
thereof shall be liable in a civil action for all damage occasioned or caused
by the violation. The person shall be civilly liable to the county for all
damages which he or she may occasion to the public highway over which the
movement is made.
(Ord. 82-14, passed 6-16-82)
§ 90.41 EXTREME CLIMATIC CONDITIONS.
   In cases of extreme climatic conditions concerning water and/or ice, the
County Judge may declare an emergency to exist, may restrict and/or prohibit
heavy haul operations on county roads, as specified, and accordingly, may
restrict weight limitations thereof.
(Ord. 82-14, passed 6-16-82)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to
§ 10.99.
   (B)   Any person failing to comply with the provisions of §§
90.01 through
90.06 shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not less than $25 nor more than
$50, plus prosecution costs for each offense. Each day the offense continues
shall be considered a separate offense. Enforcement of the penalty shall be by
the County Sheriff's Department.
(Ord. 90-22, passed 10-23-90)
   (C)    It shall be a misdemeanor for any person, company or business
enterprise to violate any of the provisions of
§§ 90.20 through
90.23. The fine for violation shall not be less than $100 for the first
violation and shall not be less that $250 for each day that the same may be
unlawfully continued.
(Ord. 82-33, passed 12-22-82; Am. Ord. 94-19, passed 10-18-94)
   (D)   It shall be a misdemeanor for any person, company or business
enterprise to violate any of the provisions of
§§ 90.35 through
90.41. Any person violating the provisions of
§§ 90.35 through
90.41, using, driving or operating on any road or highway any vehicle, loaded
or empty of greater weight than that described or provided for in the
administrative rules and regulations shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor
and upon conviction shall be fined not less than $100. Each day's use of a
vehicle shall constitute a separate offense and shall not be less than $250
fine for each day the same may be unlawfully continued.
(Ord. 82-14, passed 6-16-82; Am. Ord. 2023-11, passed 4-18-23)
CHAPTER 91: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
91.01   Policy; prohibited activity
   
91.02   Designated official; duties
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 POLICY; PROHIBITED ACTIVITY.
   (A)   Whereas, the U.S. Congress has declared that all citizens of the
United States shall have the same right in every state and territory thereof to
inherit, purchase, lease, sell, hold and convey real and personal property and
has, thereby, declared fair and open housing to be the law of the land, it is
hereby declared that the policy of the county is to adhere to, comply with and
enforce all laws prohibiting discriminatory policies and practices based on
race, sex, creed or natural origin in relation to both the private and public
sectors of the housing industry in the county. Specifically, it is hereby
declared to be the intention and purpose of the county to comply with and
enforce all provisions of law dealing with fair and open housing and
nondiscrimination in relation to local housing.
   (B)   The following acts are prohibited:
      (1)   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing;
      (2)   Discrimination in the financing of housing; and
      (3)   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services.
(Ord. 80-39, passed 11-7-80)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.02 DESIGNATED OFFICIAL; DUTIES.
   (A)   The designated official to whom complaints shall be made is the
Prosecuting Attorney.
   (B)   The designated official shall initiate educational activities, as in
his or her judgment, that will further the purposes of this chapter.
   (C)   The designated official will receive information concerning alleged
violations from any person. The person may file a complaint no later than 30
days after the alleged discriminatory housing practice occurred. The complaint
should contain written information sufficiently precise to identify the parties
and describe generally the action or practice complained of. Within 30 days
after a complaint is filed, the designated official shall investigate the
complaint and give notice in writing to the person aggrieved and to the
respondent.
(Ord. 80-39, passed 11-7-80)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   If possible, the designated official will proceed to eliminate or correct
the alleged discriminatory housing practice by informal methods of conference,
conciliation and persuasion. Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate
any provision of this chapter by doing any act prohibited or declared to be
unlawful thereby, or declared to be an offense or misdemeanor thereby, or who
shall fail to do any act required by any provision, or who shall fail to do any
act, the provision declares the failure to be unlawful or to be an offense or
misdemeanor shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $500, including costs. Each day, upon
which any violation continues, shall constitute a separate misdemeanor.
(Ord. 80-39, passed 11-7-80)
CHAPTER 92: FIRE PREVENTION; FIREWORKS
Section
Fireworks
   
92.01   Prohibited activity
   
92.02   Authority; seizure of fireworks
   
92.03   Exceptions
Burning Procedures
   
92.15   Declaration of ban
Fire Protection
   
92.25   Fire Protection Services Program
   
92.26   Mutual aid agreements
   
92.27   County Fire Services Coordinator
   
92.99   Penalty
FIREWORKS
§ 92.01 PROHIBITED ACTIVITY.
   It shall be unlawful for:
   (A)   Any distributor, jobber, retailer or person to sell, as defined in
A.C.A. § 20-22-701, any pyrotechnics, commonly known as "fireworks," on
property owned or otherwise being utilized by the county;
   (B)   Any person to possess, discharge or otherwise set off any fireworks
commonly known as bottle rockets on property owned or otherwise being utilized
by the county; and/or
   (C)   Any person, while on property owned or otherwise being utilized by the
county, to discharge or otherwise set off Class C fireworks not prohibited by
division (B) above in an area not designated by the County Judge as a
"fireworks discharge area."
(Ord. 85-7, passed 3-19-85)
Penalty, see § 92.99
§ 92.02 AUTHORITY; SEIZURE OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   Any duly sworn peace officer shall seize as contraband any fireworks
unlawfully being discharged, or about to be discharged, or sold.
   (B)   The County Sheriff is authorized to destroy fireworks so seized.
(Ord. 85-7, passed 3-19-85)
§ 92.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to the shipping, sale,
possession and use of fireworks for public displays by holders of a permit for
a public display to be conducted in accordance with the rules and regulations
promulgated by the Director of the State Police.
(Ord. 85-7, passed 3-19-85)
BURNING PROCEDURES
§ 92.15 DECLARATION OF BAN.
   (A)   During periods of dry weather when conditions for dangerous burning
exists, a burning ban may be declared by the County Judge.
   (B)   Burning ban declarations issued by the County Judge and released to
the public through regular news media press releases shall establish the period
of time burning in the unincorporated areas of the county is prohibited and
other pertinent information relevant to the action taken.
   (C)   The State Forestry Commission regional headquarters in Clarksville
shall also be notified of the burning ban to provide for coordination of
activities.
(Ord. 88-13, passed 6-22-88)
Penalty, see § 92.99
FIRE PROTECTION
§ 92.25 FIRE PROTECTION SERVICES PROGRAM.
   Act 833 of 1991 as amended by A.C.A. § 14-284-403, establishes funding for
Arkansas Fire Departments through additional insurance premiums assessed
against the insurers writing fire insurance and similar coverages in Arkansas;
and established the Arkansas Fire Protection Services Program.
(Ord. 92-9, passed 6-25-92; Am. Ord. 2018-17, passed 11-20-18)
§ 92.26 MUTUAL AID AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   The County Rural Fire Association in 1992 supported the appointment of
a Fire Services Coordinator as required by the Fire Protection Services
Program, to be responsible for insuring that rural fire departments comply with
standard guidelines established by the Arkansas Fire Protection Services Board.
The County Rural Fire Association met October 18, 2018 and endorsed
continuation of the service of the Fire Services Coordinator in accordance with
Arkansas Fire Protection Services Board Guidelines, working in coordination
with the County Department of Emergency Management and the County Judge’s
Office.
   (B)   The County Intergovernmental Cooperation Council met October 30, 2018
for the purpose of recommending an allocation plan for the apportionment of
funds from the State Fire Protection Revolving Fund based upon the fire
protection needs of the rural fire departments and municipal fire departments
in Sebastian County.
   (C)   It is acknowledged that any of the fire departments in Sebastian
County, may fail to certify for receipt of Act 833 funds in any given year, and
that those Act 833 funds are retained and redistributed by the Arkansas
Department of Finance and Administration for statewide use, in the absence of a
redistribution clause approved by the Intergovernmental Cooperation Council and
approved by the Quorum Court.
   (D)   It shall be County Policy that Act 833 funds earmarked for county fire
departments be redistributed to those county fire departments who do certify
during the same calendar year, and that they be distributed by the same formula
as approved in Exhibit A as attached to Ord. 2018-17.
   (E)   The County Quorum Court acknowledges execution of mutual aid
agreements by all County Municipal Aid Fire Departments and Mutual Aid
Agreements from all rural fire departments in the County Rural Fire Association
in accordance with the provisions of Act 833 of 1991, as amended.
(Ord. 92-9, passed 6-25-92; Am. Ord. 2018-17, passed 11-20-18)
§ 92.27 COUNTY FIRE SERVICES COORDINATOR.
   In accordance with the recommendation of the County Intergovernmental
Cooperation Council the plan for allocation of funds received under the Fire
Protection Services Program is approved as set forth in Exhibit A as attached
to Ord. 2018-17. Exhibit A as attached to Ord. 2018-17 is hereby made a part of
this section by reference.
(Ord. 92-9, passed 6-25-92; Am. Ord. 2018-17, passed 11-20-18)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to
§ 10.99.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be a misdemeanor for any distributor, jobber, retailer
or person, as defined in A.C.A. § 82-1707, to violate any of the provisions of
§ 92.01.
      (2)   Any distributor, jobber, retailer or person violating the
provisions of
§ 92.01 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be
fined not less than $25 nor more than $50. Repeated violations of
§ 92.01 shall constitute separate offenses and shall not be less than a $50
fine nor more than a $100 fine for each time the same may be unlawfully
continued.
(Ord. 85-7, passed 3-19-85)
   (C)   Failure to comply with the burning ban set out in
§ 92.15 shall constitute a misdemeanor offense and shall be punished by a fine
of not less than $25 nor more than $300.
(Ord. 88-13, passed 6-22-88)
CHAPTER 93: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Animal-control services; per event fees
Vicious and Exotic Animals
   
93.15   Definitions
   
93.16   Permitting animal to go at large, impoundment and restraint
   
93.17   Investigation; restraint
   
93.18   Duty of individual to use protective measures
   
93.19   Investigation; impoundment
   
93.20   Complaints, investigation, corrective measures
   
93.21   Abandonment or dumping
   
93.22   Incorporation of state law
   
93.23   Costs
   
93.24   Proof of compliance with Rabies Control Act
   
93.25   Exemptions
   
93.26   No encroachment on other official duties
Citizen-Owned Animals Within the Boundaries of County Parks
   
93.35   Permitting animals within the boundaries of county parks and required
restraint
   
93.36   Animal control and impoundment
   
93.37   Complaints, investigation and corrective measures
   
93.38   Exemptions
   
93.39   No encroachment on other official duties
 
   
93.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 ANIMAL-CONTROL SERVICES; PER EVENT FEES.
   (A)   Each municipality shall reimburse the county for expenses involved in
responding to animal-related events in the respective municipality.
   (B)   Reimbursement shall be on a per event basis. The charge per animal-
related event shall be $25.
   (C)   The County Sheriff shall keep an accurate accounting of all responses
to animal-related events in each municipality and shall bill each municipality
for the events on a quarterly basis.
   (D)   All fees due the county are for responding to the animal-related event
only. Animal storage fees to the humane societies are to be handled by separate
agreement between each municipality and the humane societies.
(Ord. 99-21, passed 9-21-99)
VICIOUS AND EXOTIC ANIMALS
§ 93.15 DEFINITIONS.
   The following terms and conditions shall apply to this subchapter as written
unless context indicates or requires a different meaning:
   ANIMAL. Any animal as set out in this section.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any person employed by a municipality, county or
state who is trained and certified to provide animal control services.
   ANIMAL OWNER. Any person having ownership or personal rights in a dog or
other animal, or any person who keeps, cares for, acts as custodian for, or
knowingly permits a dog or other animal to remain on or about any premises
occupied by him.
   EXOTIC WILD ANIMALS. Any snake or animal of a wild, ferocious, fierce, or
dangerous species likely to create harm or threat of harm in any place other
than zoological parks, aquariums, laboratories, circus, or other licensed
exhibitory shows; or those not under the direct supervision of licensed
commercial dealers, State Game and Fish Management Commissioners, Federal
Wildlife Services or U.S. Department of Agriculture.
   CANINE. A dog, any domestic canine animal, species Canis lupus familiaris.
   LIVESTOCK. Any members of the equine, bovine, ovine, porcine, and ratite
species, and confined domesticated hares, rabbits, and mink.
   POULTRY. All domesticated fowl and domesticated game birds which are kept in
captivity.
   POLICE OFFICER. Any person employed or elected by a municipality, county or
state whose duty it is to preserve peace or to make arrests or to enforce law.
   POLICE WORK DOG. A dog trained to aid law enforcement officers and used for
police work purposes, including the protection of the public, investigation of
crime and the apprehension of law violators.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL.
      (1)   Any animal that inflicts unprovoked bites or attacks human beings,
canines, livestock, or poultry shall be considered a VICIOUS ANIMAL. At the
discretion of an animal control officer or a police officer, any animal that
approaches an individual in such a way as to place that individual in
reasonable fear of unprovoked injury or attack whether it occurs upon streets,
sidewalks, public grounds, or private property may be considered a VICIOUS
ANIMAL.
      (2)   The following procedure shall be followed for classifying an animal
as vicious:
         (a)   The animal control officer shall be authorized initially to
classify an animal as vicious. The animal control officer may find and declare
an animal to be vicious or aggressive if the officer has probable cause to
believe that the animal falls within the definition set forth above. The
finding must be based upon:
            1.   The sworn written complaint of a citizen who is willing to
testify that the animal has acted in a manner which causes it to fall within
the definition: or
            2.   A report establishing probable cause filed with the animal
control officer or any law enforcement officer; or
            3.   Actions of the animal witnessed by the animal control officer
or by any law enforcement officer.
         (b)   The classifying of an animal as vicious shall be in writing and
shall be served on the owner by one of the following methods:
            1.   Certified mail to the owner's last known address; or
            2.   Personally.
      (3)   Appeal of determination. Any person who has received notice that
his or her animal has been deemed a vicious or aggressive animal may appeal
such decision to the Sebastian County Judge. The appeal must be in writing and
made within five business days of the day the notice was provided in accordance
with this division.
         (a)   The Judge shall schedule and hold a hearing, within five
business days after receiving the written appeal, to review the initial
classification. The Judge's decision shall be considered the final decision of
the county as to whether the animal is a vicious animal.
         (b)   If the initial classification is not appealed or if the right to
appeal is waived, the initial classification shall be considered the final
decision of the county as to whether the animal is a vicious animal.
         (c)   An appeal from the decision of the Sheriff may only be made to a
court of competent jurisdiction.
      (4)   During the entire appeal process, it shall be unlawful for the
owner appealing the classification of vicious animal to allow or permit the
animal to:
         (a)   Be unconfined on the premises of the owner; or
         (b)   Go beyond the premises of the owner unless such animal is
securely leashed and humanely muzzled or otherwise securely restrained.
(Ord. 2021-9, passed 5-18-21; Am. Ord. 2023-24, passed 10-17-23)
§ 93.16 PERMITTING ANIMAL TO GO AT LARGE, IMPOUNDMENT AND RESTRAINT.
   (A)   No animal owner or possessor of any animal covered by this subchapter
may at any time permit the same to be in a situation or place where it can
inflict injury or be a threat of danger to any human being, livestock, or other
domesticated animal.
   (B)   Any such animal known to have inflicted a biting injury upon one or
more persons with injury of sufficient severity to require medical treatment
shall be impounded and observed at the owner's expense in a way consistent with
Section 3 of the Rabies Control Act. (A.C.A. 20-19-301-312). It can also be
determined per the animal control officer if the severity of the situation is
low and facility space is unavailable, that a home quarantine protocol can be
used instead of impoundment. If a home quarantine protocol is used, the owner
or possessor must periodically update the animal control officer or Health
Department agent. The written guidelines shall be the same as provided from the
Arkansas Department of Health website.
   (C)   Any police officer or animal control officer, who has reasonable
grounds to believe that an animal is vicious and uncontrolled, or a threat to
human safety may impound such animal at the owner's expense. The owner shall
have 14 days to pick up said animal and pay the fees accrued therein or said
animal shall become the property of the impounding facility. Furthermore, upon
release the owner shall be required to muzzle said animal and/or restrain it in
any other manner consistent with §
93.17.
   (D)   If, in the discretion of the animal control officer or any other
police officer, capture of an animal believed to be vicious, uncontrolled and a
threat to human safety poses too great a danger to the capturing officer or
other human beings, lethal force may be used, in accordance with the agency's
firearms policy and all other relevant policies, to prevent harm to human
beings, livestock, or domesticated animals.
   (E)   Any police officer or animal control officer, who impounds an animal
by seizure subject to arrest, animal cruelty or neglect complaint shall follow
Act 33 of 2009 (Notice of Animal Seizure and Release of Liability Form).
   (F)   Any police officer or animal control officer that impounds any animal
stray animal/dogs in any other manner than division (E) above shall hold said
animal and it shall remain at the appropriate place of custody for a period of
at least 14 consecutive days from the date of impoundment, including weekends
and holidays. After the expiration of the 14 days, such impounded dog/animal
shall be adopted or humanely euthanized as hereinafter provided in this
subchapter. The police officer or animal control officer shall make diligent
efforts to locate/notify supposed owner. The notification shall be posted to a
local social media page concurrent with the animals pick up location.
(Ord. 2021-9, passed 5-18-21; Am. Ord. 2023-24, passed 10-17-23)
§ 93.17 INVESTIGATION; RESTRAINT.
   (A)   Upon a complaint that any animal covered under this subchapter is
being harbored, a police officer or animal control officer shall investigate
such and may require the keeper or owner of said animal to restrain or dispose
of such animal in a reasonable manner consistent with this chapter. Such
requirements may include chaining, posting of warning signs, enclosures,
protective barriers, muzzling, destruction of the animal, or other measures
necessary to abate nuisances, unhealthful or inhumane conditions. Failure to
comply with said measures shall be deemed a violation of this subchapter,
unless a court of law finds that such measures were unreasonable.
   (B)   Family pets, livestock working dogs and hunting dogs that are not
deemed to be aggressive or vicious in nature are specifically exempt from the
provisions in this subchapter until such time as an animal control officer or
police officer may, in his/her discretion, deem a specific animal vicious in
the interest of public safety.
(Ord. 2021-9, passed 5-18-21; Am. Ord. 2023-24, passed 10-17-23)
§ 93.18 DUTY OF INDIVIDUAL TO USE PROTECTIVE MEASURES.
   (A)   An individual who keeps any animal covered by this subchapter shall
exercise the highest degree of care to protect children and the public from
attack and danger, actual or perceived.
   (B)   Appropriate chaining, posting of warning signs, or maintenance of the
animal within enclosures shall meet the standard of care if such practice
reasonably precludes the possibility of inadvertent contact and probable injury
in all instances where a child or unsuspecting person might be put into
unintentional contact with the animal. Under the provisions of this subchapter,
any instance of inadvertent contact, injury or harm shall constitute prima
facie evidence of the animal owner's failure to exercise a sufficient degree of
protective care.
   (C)   When public safety requires additional protective measures the animal
owner shall provide a protective barrier or other means such as properly
fitted, heavy wire, nylon or leather muzzle which the animal cannot remove,
together with a strong, durable chain which the animal cannot break or remove,
or where such is appropriate, a strong cage with a padlock locked in place or a
strong high chain link fence enclosure constructed so that the animal cannot
climb, jump over, dig under or escape from the enclosure. If these measures are
deemed insufficient then said animal shall be destroyed.
(Ord. 2021-9, passed 5-18-21; Am. Ord. 2023-24, passed 10-17-23)
§ 93.19 INVESTIGATION; IMPOUNDMENT.
   A police officer or animal control officer may order an owner to keep any
animal covered by this subchapter restrained or impounded pending investigation
that such animal has attacked human beings or has harassed, wounded, or killed
livestock or poultry.
(Ord. 2021-9, passed 5-18-21; Am. Ord. 2023-24, passed 10-17-23)
§ 93.20 COMPLAINTS, INVESTIGATION, CORRECTIVE MEASURES.
   (A)   If any person or groups of persons has knowledge or reasonable grounds
to suspect that animal owners are maintaining dogs or other animals in such a
manner as to constitute a nuisance by reason of unhealthful conditions, or
maltreatment, they shall have the right to complain to local law enforcement
agencies, health officials, or humane society officials and such authorities
shall investigate the complaint.
   (B)   Such officials shall have full authority to examine complainant and
other witnesses for relevant testimony and to prescribe and counsel corrective
measures consistent with § 93.17 to the animal owner.
   (C)   If, after a period of ten days, the owner/keeper fails to comply with
the corrective measures ordered by health or government officials then such
shall be deemed a violation of this subchapter, unless a court of law finds
that such measures were unreasonable.
(Ord. 2021-9, passed 5-18-21; Am. Ord. 2023-24, passed 10-17-23)
§ 93.21 ABANDONMENT OR DUMPING.
   Dumping or abandoning any animal is prohibited and shall constitute a
violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2021-9, passed 5-18-21; Am. Ord. 2023-24, passed 10-17-23)
§ 93.22 INCORPORATION OF STATE LAW.
   The provisions of the Rabies Control Act, A.C.A. 20-19-301-312, and those
statutes regarding Cruelty to Animals, A.C.A. 5-62-101-120 are incorporated by
reference herein and made a part of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2021-9, passed 5-18-21; Am. Ord. 2023-24, passed 10-17-23)
§ 93.23 COSTS.
   (A)   In the event a law enforcement agency, health official or authorized
personnel of an animal shelter are required or requested to investigate a
violation of this subchapter and said complaint is substantiated, the
reasonable cost of the investigation of such may be assessed by the court
against the owner or possessor of the animal.
   (B)   If at any time it becomes necessary to impound or destroy an animal
pursuant to this subchapter, all costs related to such impoundment or
destruction shall be paid by the owner or possessor of said animal, and failure
to do so shall constitute a violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2021-9, passed 5-18-21; Am. Ord. 2023-24, passed 10-17-23)
§ 93.24 PROOF OF COMPLIANCE WITH RABIES CONTROL ACT.
   Any police officer or animal control officer investigating a violation of
this subchapter shall demand proof of compliance with the Rabies Control Act.
Failure to produce such proof of compliance shall be deemed a violation of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 2021-9, passed 5-18-21; Am. Ord. 2023-24, passed 10-17-2023)
§ 93.25 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Nothing in this subchapter shall apply in any manner whatsoever to the
official use of police work dogs trained to aid law enforcement officers if
such dogs are being actively used for police work purposes including protection
of the public, investigation of crime, or the apprehension of law violators.
   (B)   Nothing in this subchapter precludes an animal from "protecting his
owner" – or any other person for whom he feels loyalty – from physical attack.
An animal defending itself against injury or battery shall not be considered a
vicious animal under this subchapter. Determination of whether the animal was
acting in defense of a human being or itself is within the discretion of the
animal control officer.
   (C)   This subchapter does not apply when an individual trespasses on an
animal owner's property. However, each dog owner or other animal owner shall
exercise care to make certain that no harm results to an innocent trespasser,
such as children, misguided pedestrians, invitees, trades people, servants,
business associates, social guests, and friends.
   (D)   Pursuant to Act 393 of 1987, any person engaged in raising or owning
livestock or domesticated animals has the right to protect said animals from
dogs, including the killing of such dogs if necessary.
   (E)   All political subdivisions and municipalities which have already
enacted ordinances designed to protect citizens from attack or injury inflicted
by vicious or exotic wild animals shall be exempt from the application of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 2021-9, passed 5-18-21; Am. Ord. 2023-24, passed 10-17-23)
§ 93.26 NO ENCROACHMENT ON OTHER OFFICIAL DUTIES.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall encroach upon the official duties or
activities of the State Game and Fish Commission, the Federal Fish and Wildlife
Service, the U.S. Department of Agriculture, circuses, zoological parks,
aquariums, or other licensed exhibitory shows provided such exhibitors exercise
adequate care and have appropriate permits and licenses where such
documentation is required.
(Ord. 2021-9, passed 5-18-21; Am. Ord. 2023-24, passed 10-17-23)
CITIZEN-OWNED ANIMALS WITHIN THE BOUNDARIES OF COUNTY PARKS
§ 93.35 PERMITTING ANIMALS WITHIN THE BOUNDARIES OF COUNTY PARKS AND REQUIRED
RESTRAINT.
   (A)   No dogs, or other domesticated animals kept as pets, shall be allowed
to run free at anytime unless that animal falls under the exemptions of this
subchapter. All pets will be appropriately leashed, caged, or otherwise
restrained at all times by the owner. This includes trails and undeveloped
areas of the parks.
   (B)   No livestock, exotic wild animals, or poultry are allowed within
Sebastian County Parks, unless that animal falls under the exemptions of this
subchapter.
   (C)   No animal owner, or possessor of any animal covered by this
subchapter, may at any time permit the same to be without restraint and direct
physical control (not verbal), unless that animal is covered by the exemptions
of this subchapter.
   (D)   Any animal deemed vicious will be handled by the regulations set forth
in §§
93.15 through
93.25 .
   (E)   No animal shall be confined or left unattended by the owner to such an
extent that it may cause harm or be considered to be cruel to the animal.
   (F)   A dog leash may not be longer than 15 feet long, so as to allow a
reasonable amount of control by the owner.
   (G)   Animals are not allowed within these recreational areas: softball,
soccer, tennis, gator golf, and basketball courts during recreational events.
   (H)   Animals are not allowed within these facilities: buildings (not
including pavilions), aquatics, safe shelter, within 100 feet of playgrounds;
wanna-be-racing, and the golf course, unless the animal is exempted by this
subchapter.
(Ord. 2013-12, passed 6-18-13) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.36 ANIMAL CONTROL AND IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Any animal deemed vicious will fall under the animal control
guidelines set forth in §§
93.15 through
93.25.
   (B)   If an animal is seen running free and the owner is present, the owner
will be asked to restrain the animal and may be fined for violation of this
subchapter.
   (C)   If any animal is running free and the owner is not present, animal
control officers will be notified and the animal may be impounded.
   (D)   If any animal disturbs the usefulness of the park as that area of the
park is intended to be used, the animal must be moved to another area of the
park or removed from the grounds, unless that animal falls under the exemptions
of this subchapter.
   (E)   Park staff may ask park patrons to abide by the rules set forth in
this subchapter. If the requests are ignored, animal control officers will be
notified.
(Ord. 2013-12, passed 6-18-13) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.37 COMPLAINTS, INVESTIGATION AND CORRECTIVE MEASURES.
   (A)   Any person that witnesses or has knowledge of animal owners violating
any part of this subchapter or in relation, §§
93.15 through
93.25, shall have the right to complain to park officials, local law
enforcement and/or the humane society officials, and such authorities shall
have the right to investigate the complaint.
   (B)   Local law enforcement officials have full authority to examine a
complaint and other witnesses for relevant testimony and to prescribe and
counsel corrective measures.
   (C)   Dumping or abandoning any animal is prohibited and is in violation of
§§
93.15 through
93.25.
(Ord. 2013-12, passed 6-18-13) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.38 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Midland Park, also known as Bob Boyer Park, may be used as a day use
equine facility. Animal owners shall provide responsible supervision for all
animals. Animals and owners within the boundaries of Midland Park shall comply
with §
93.35(E) and §
93.36.
   (B)   Service animals are exempt from this subchapter. Service animals are:
police work dogs, seeing eye dogs, and any other animal prescribed by a
physician or used in duties deemed beneficial to the mission of the county.
   (C)   Special events directly related to animals have been and will be
permitted in the Sebastian County parks. These events shall be pre-approved in
writing by the Parks Administrator. All restrictions will be addressed on a
special event form and must be available for inspection by park staff and law
enforcement during the entirety of the event.
   (D)   During tornado events, animals will be allowed in the Ben Geren Safe
Shelter. Animals must be in, and remain at all times in, an airline approved
container or the animal will not be allowed in the facility.
   (E)   Nothing in this subchapter pertains to native wild fauna.
(Ord. 2013-12, passed 6-18-13)
§ 93.39 NO ENCROACHMENT ON OTHER OFFICIAL DUTIES.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall encroach upon the official duties or
activities of the Arkansas Game and Fish Commission, the Federal Fish and
Wildlife Service, or the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
(Ord. 2013-12, passed 6-18-13)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violation of §
93.01 is deemed a Class A misdemeanor. Each day that a violation exists shall
be considered a separate offense. Furthermore, the County Judge or any
individual may institute a civil action to compel compliance with this chapter
and seek injunctive relief, damages or other civil sanctions including the
award of attorney fees and costs.
   (B)   Any violation of §§
93.15 et seq. is deemed a Class A misdemeanor. Each day that a violation exists
shall be considered a separate offense. Furthermore, the County Judge or any
individual may institute a civil action to compel compliance with these
sections and seek injunctive relief, damages, or other civil sanctions
including the award of attorney fees and costs.
   (C)   Any violation of this §§
93.35 through
93.39 is deemed a Class C Misdemeanor except in the case of violent animals,
which is covered under Ordinance 99-20. Each animal in violation of §§
93.35 through
93.39 may be considered a separate offense. An individual in violation of §§
93.35 through
93.39 will be required to immediately secure the offending animal(s) or be
asked to leave the facility until the animal may be restrained properly or the
animal may be taken into custody by animal control officials. Furthermore, the
County Judge or any individual may institute a civil action to compel
compliance with this subchapter and seek injunctive relief, damages, or other
civil sanctions including the award of attorney fees and costs.
(Ord. 99-20, passed 9-21-99; Am. Ord. 2013-12, passed 6-18-13; Am. Ord. 2021-9,
passed 5-18-21)
CHAPTER 94: COUNTY FACILITIES
Section
   
94.01   County Detention Center; meritorious good time and classification
   
94.02   County Museum; Commission
   
94.03   County Juvenile Detention Center; organization and management; Review
Commission
   
94.04   Ben Geren Park Golf Pro Shop
Cross-reference:
   Relocation of county facilities, see
Table of Special Ordinances VIII
§ 94.01 COUNTY DETENTION CENTER; MERITORIOUS GOOD TIME AND CLASSIFICATION.
   (A)   (1)   Meritorious good time. A.C.A. 12-41-101 et seq. provides that an
inmate committed by any court in the state may be entitled to a reduction, to
be known as meritorious good time, to be granted to inmates as a result of good
discipline, good behavior, work practices, and job responsibilities. Pursuant
to the county detention center rules or regulations, there are three classes
for computation of time for “good time.” These are referred to as Class I,
Class II, and Class III.
         (a)   Class I. An inmate in this class will receive a total of ten
days reduction of sentence for each month served on his/her sentence as long as
he/she maintains a good conduct record with no violations of county detention
center inmate rules, an outstanding work record, and exceptional institutional
adjustment. This good time is intended for inmates who are performing any job
tasks which require the highest degree of discipline, behavior, and
responsibility.
         (b)   Class II. An inmate in this class will receive a total of five
days reduction of sentence for each month served on his/her sentence as long as
he/she maintains a good conduct record with no violations of county detention
center inmate rules, a good work record, and good institutional adjustment.
This good time is intended for inmates who cannot be considered for minimum
security type assignment outside of the detention center but, nevertheless, are
assigned a responsible job.
         (c)   Class III. An inmate in this class will receive no days
reduction of sentence for each month served on his/her sentence. This class is
generally referred to as “flat time” or “day-for-day.” These inmates are those
persons that have to work to perform, who have poor institutional adjustment,
or violate county detention center inmate rules.
      (2)   Exceptions. The foregoing shall not apply to any sentence of
imprisonment for contempt or failure to pay fine, unless the sentencing court
specifies otherwise. The sentencing court may order any inmate to be placed in
Class III because of the seriousness of the offense. Lastly, this
classification procedure shall not apply to any inmate on any work release
program.
   (B)   Classification. Upon arrival at the county detention center, all
misdemeanor inmates will be questioned with regard to his/her willingness to
work, if physically able. If the inmate has expressed a desire to work during
his/her imprisonment and a position becomes available, the inmate may be
assigned on a first come first assigned basis, with a preference given for
prior good work records.
   (C)   Forfeiture and restoration. All meritorious good time shall be
forfeited by the inmate in the event of escape, and all or part of the accrued
meritorious good time may be taken away by the Sheriff or Detention
Administrator for violation of county inmate rules or criminal offenses.
Furthermore, the Sheriff or Detention Administrator may restore all or part of
any accrued meritorious good time. If any inmate has any grievance with regard
to meritorious good time, his/her classification, or forfeiture or restoration
of accrued good time, the inmate shall follow the grievance procedure as
outlined in the county detention center inmate rules.
   (D)   Appeal. Any final decision regarding classification, forfeiture, or
restoration by the Sheriff can be appealed to the sentencing court, and any
further appeal may be made according to state law.
(Ord. 91-42, passed 12-17-91; Am. Ord. 2011-7, passed 3-15-11)
§ 94.02 COUNTY MUSEUM; COMMISSION.
   (A)   Pursuant to the provisions of A.C.A. §§ 13-5-501 et seq., there is
hereby established a County Museum, to be under the direction of the County
Museum Commission, as provided in the statutes.
   (B)   The County Museum shall be under the direct management and control of
the County Museum Commission, which shall consist of seven members to be
appointed by the County Judge, subject to confirmation and approval of the
Quorum Court. The Museum Commission shall be subject to requirements and with
authority provided by A.C.A. §§ 13-5-501 et seq.
(Ord. 77-25, passed 9-14-77)
§ 94.03 COUNTY JUVENILE DETENTION CENTER; ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT; REVIEW
COMMISSION.
   (A)   Based upon an evaluation of the present organizational structure of
the County Juvenile Detention Center in consultation and review with the
Circuit-Chancery Judge-Juvenile Division, County Sheriff, County Judge, Deputy
Prosecuting Attorney and Coordinator of the Juvenile Detention Facility Review
Commission, reorganization of the County Juvenile Detention Center is
justified.
   (B)   In accordance with A.C.A. § 14-14-701, the organizational structure
and management plan for the County Juvenile Detention Center shall be under the
management responsibility of the County Sheriff.
   (C)   Due to the service delivery requirements and shift structure of the
Juvenile Detention Center, the employees are not eligible for and do not
participate in county holidays.
   (D)   The Sheriff shall operate the facility in strict compliance with the
provisions of A.C.A. § 9-27-336.
   (E)   (1)   In recognition of the unique role and function of the County
Juvenile Detention Center, the Juvenile Detention Center Advisory Committee
shall be established for the purpose of assisting the County Sheriff monitor
overall operational policy and program objectives and goals for the County
Juvenile Detention Center. The direct responsibility for hiring employees and
day-to-day operation of the Juvenile Detention Center shall remain the
exclusive responsibility of the County Sheriff. The Juvenile Detention Center
Advisory Committee shall serve in an advisory capacity to the Sheriff for the
purposes of enhancing and improving policies and programs influencing the
Juvenile Detention Center.
      (2)   The members of the County Juvenile Detention Center Advisory
Committee shall be as follows:
         (a)   Sheriff;
         (b)   County Judge or designee;
         (c)   Prosecuting Attorney or designee;
         (d)   Public Defender;
         (e)   Probation/Intake Officer or designee; and
         (f)   Representative from the Fort Smith Public School District to be
determined by majority vote of the standing committee members.
      (3)   The Committee shall meet upon notice by the Sheriff and will meet
at least annually in January of each calendar year.
(Ord. 94-8, passed 3-15-94)
§ 94.04 BEN GEREN PARK GOLF PRO SHOP.
   (A)   (1)   Being mindful of the mandates set forth by A.C.A. § 14-14-1202
(c)(1)(a) and its authority pursuant to A.C.A. § 14-14-1202(c)(2)(a), the
County Quorum Court has determined that it is in the best interest of the
county to recognize the unusual circumstances involved in the operation of the
Golf Course and Pro Shop at Ben Geren Park.
      (2)   It is recognized that in the industry, the course golf
professional, as part of his or her compensation package, normally operates the
Course's Pro Shop. The operation of the Pro Shop by the resident professional
usually reduces operational expenses incurred by the course and provides better
service and better products to the golfing clientele of the course. The Quorum
Court recognizes these benefits to the public and desiring to reduce expenses
to the general public while providing the golfing public with a quality course
and attendant services, believes that it is in the best interest to allow the
golf course professional to operate the Pro Shop at Ben Geren Park.
      (3)   It is believed by the Quorum Court that the combination of these
two functions will stimulate public interest in the Pro Shop and will aid the
county financially in reducing the amount of money which the Quorum Court must
set aside for the operation of this facility.
   (B)   In accordance with the responsibility of the Quorum Court for fixing
the compensation of county employees, as set forth in A.C.A. § 14-14-1206, the
additional rights, privileges and responsibilities for the pro shop manager/
golf professional have been authorized.
   (C)   In accordance with the authority of the Quorum Court, under Ark.
Const., Am. 55, and related enabling legislation to enact compulsory law which
defines and establishes the permanent or temporary organization and system of
principles of a county government for the control and conduct of county
affairs, as set forth in A.C.A. § 14-14-904, the County Quorum Court authorized
the reorganization of the Ben Geren Park Golf Pro Shop.
(Ord. 91-15, passed 5-21-91)
   (D)   The golf professional shall deposit in the County Pro Shop Account on
a daily basis the total gross from Pro Shop sales receipts generated from the
retail sales of golf equipment and related items. The county shall remit 90% of
the gross sales to the golf professional with applicable sales tax, on or
before the fifteenth of the month, for the preceding month's revenue.
(Ord. 93-23, passed 12-21-93)
CHAPTER 95: HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
Section
   
95.01   Definitions
   
95.02   Service authorized
   
95.03   Special services rate
   
95.04   Collection of charges
   
95.05   Assessment of costs
   
95.06   Reports and records
§ 95.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIAL.  
      (1)   Any material that poses a threat to the health and safety of
personnel (either employees or emergency responders), the general public, and/
or the environment if it is not properly controlled during handling, storage,
manufacture, processing, packaging, use, disposal, or transportation.
      (2)   The term HAZARDOUS MATERIAL shall be used when referring to
hazardous substances including, but not limited to, substances such as
petroleum, natural gas, synthetic gas, acutely toxic chemicals, and other toxic
chemicals. Hazardous substances shall include any chemicals that could cause
serious irreversible health effects, endanger the public, and/or harm the
environment.
   SPECIAL SERVICES. Shall mean any work, labor, equipment, or services which
may be provided (either directly or by contract) by any or all emergency
services organizations which may become involved in hazardous materials
response, recovery, or clean up within the county. Such special services,
including the use of any specialized training and/or equipment, shall be
provided to the degree determined reasonable and practicable in the judgment of
the officials supervising the operation/provision of said services. Said
special services may include, but are not limited to hazardous materials
response, recovery, or clean up. Firefighting activities which do not involve
hazardous materials are expressly excluded from this chapter.
(Ord. 2002-6, passed 3-19-02)
§ 95.02 SERVICE AUTHORIZED.
   The various emergency services organizations in the county are authorized to
provide certain special services within the county relating to the clean up or
handling of hazardous materials. Fire department personnel and apparatus may be
used to perform the special services. The decision to provide these services
shall be made by the appropriate officials in charge of those personnel and
apparatus.
(Ord. 2002-6, passed 3-19-02)
§ 95.03 SPECIAL SERVICES RATE.
   (A)   The special services authorized by this chapter shall be provided at
the individual rate structure of the emergency services organization providing
such service and/or equipment. Such special services may include any contracted
services and/or equipment used by the emergency services organization during
said hazardous materials response, recovery, or clean up.
   (B)   Said rate structures shall be submitted to the County Judge's Office
within 30 days upon passage of this chapter. These rate structures shall be
periodically updated by the appropriate organization. These said rate
structures are incorporated herein and made a part of this chapter as if set
out herein word for word.
(Ord. 2002-6, passed 3-19-02)
§ 95.04 COLLECTION OF CHARGES.
   The County Judge shall collect charges due under the provision of this
chapter based on each individual provider's incurred cost. The county shall
bill those charges to and collect payment from the responsible party. Those
monies shall be deposited into the County General Fund for appropriation by the
County Quorum Court to reimburse the costs incurred by the entity that provided
the services.
(Ord. 2002-6, passed 3-19-02)
§ 95.05 ASSESSMENT OF COSTS.
   Any person and/or corporation or other entity determined to be responsible
for a hazardous materials incident which results in emergency services response
and the provision of special services within the county shall be assessed the
full cost of said response and shall be responsible for the full cost of the
recovery and/or cleanup of said incident. The County Judge is authorized to
take any necessary legal steps to enforce the collection of the above
referenced fees.
(Ord. 2002-6, passed 3-19-02)
§ 95.06 REPORTS AND RECORDS.
   Each individual emergency services provider shall:
   (A)   Prepare and issue statements to the County Judge for all costs
incurred within 30 days of providing said services or determining the cost.
   (B)   Maintain adequate records which shall include, but are not limited to
the following information:
      (1)   Date of service provided;
      (2)   Type of service provided;
      (3)   List of response personnel;
      (4)   Accounts payable and receivable;
      (5)   Such other information as may be required by County Officials.
(Ord. 2002-6, passed 3-19-02)
CHAPTER 96: NOISE
Section
Noise Regulations for Data Centers
   
96.01   Purpose and applicability
   
96.02   Definitions
   
96.03   Noise attenuation requirements
   
96.04   Procedure for measurement
   
96.05   Noise limitations
   
96.06   Violations
 
   
96.99   Penalties
NOISE REGULATIONS FOR DATA CENTERS
§ 96.01 PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY.
   All data centers constructed within this jurisdiction shall be designed and
built to incorporate external noise attenuation measures in order to minimize
the impact of noise disturbance on the residents of Sebastian County, Arkansas.
This chapter shall apply to limit the noise disturbance originating within the
unincorporated limits of Sebastian County, Arkansas.
(Ord. 2023-18, passed 7-18-23)
§ 96.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   AMBIENT NOISE. The all-encompassing noise level associated with a given
environment, being a composite of sounds from all sources, excusing the alleged
offensive noise, at the locations and approximate time at which comparison with
the alleged offensive noise is to be made.
   DATA CENTER. A facility constructed and operated that is engaged in storage,
management, processing, and transmission of digital data, including facilities
used for cryptocurrency mining, which houses networked computer systems along
with supporting equipment such as batteries, back-up power generators, HVAC,
and cooling systems.
   DECIBEL (dB). A unit for measuring the volume of a sound, equal to 20 times
to the base 10 of the ratio of the pressure of the sound measured to the
referenced pressure, which is 20 micropascals (20 micronewtons per square
meter).
   MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT. The networked computer systems along with supporting
equipment such as batteries, backup generators, and cooling systems housed on
the data center's property.
   NOISE ATTENUATION. The reduction of noise levels through the use of sound-
absorbing material, architectural design techniques, and/or any other suitable
means.
   NOISE DISTURBANCE. Is any sound which:
      (1)   Endangers or injures the safety or health of humans or animals; or
      (2)   Annoys or disturbs a reasonable person of normal sensitivities; or
      (3)   Endangers or injures person or real property.
   PERSON. An individual, association, partnership, or corporation, including
any officer, employee, department, or agency.
   PROPERTY LINE. An imaginary line along the ground surface, and its vertical
extension, which separates the real property owned by one person from that
owned by another person, but not including intra-building real property
divisions.
   SOUND. An oscillation in pressure, particle displacement, particle velocity
or other physical parameter, in a medium with internal forces that causes
compression and rarefaction of that medium. The description of sound may
include any characteristic of such sound, including duration, intensity, and
frequency.
   SOUND LEVEL. The weighted sound pressure level obtained by the use of S
sound level meter and frequency weighting network, such as A, B, or C as
specified in American National Standards Institute specifications for sound
level meters (ANSI SI. 4-1971, or the latest approved revision thereof). If the
frequency weighting employed is not indicated, the A-weighting shall apply.
   SOUND LEVEL METER. An instrument which includes a microphone, an amplifier,
RMS detector, integrator, or time averager, output meter, and weighting
networks used to measure sound pressure levels.
(Ord. 2023-18, passed 7-18-23)
§ 96.03 NOISE ATTENUATION REQUIREMENTS.
   Before a data center has commenced construction or operating within this
jurisdiction, the property owner and operator proposing to build a data center
shall comply with the following:
   (A)   Notice requirements. The property owner and operator must notify all
residents within a half-mile radius of the parcel, including any affiliated
homeowners' association operating within the half-mile radius, that the
property owner and operator intends to build and operate a data center on the
property. The notice required in this section must be mailed to all postal
addresses and homeowners' association addresses contained within a half-mile
radius extending from the property line where the proposed data center will be
built. Proof of notification shall be filed with the County Clerk's office
within 30 days of providing notice. The property owner and operator must notify
the County Judge that the property owner and operator intends to build and
operate a data center. The notification must include the location for the
proposed data center.
   (B)   Noise study requirements. The property owner of the lands upon which
the data center is to be located shall conduct a sound study performed by a
third-party acoustic engineer to document baseline sound levels in the area of
the proposed data center, including noise levels measured at the property line
in eight locations (north, south, east, west, northeast, northwest, southeast,
southwest). The report of the study must include sound mitigation
recommendations based on the results of the sound study. The property owner
must provide a copy of the report of the study to the County Judge and file
with the County Clerk within 30 days of completion of the report.
   (C)   Noise attenuation plan requirements.
      (1)   The property owner must consult with a third-party architectural or
design firm to develop a building plan that includes necessary noise
attenuation measures in order to prevent the external sound level emanating
from the data center from exceeding the sound level limitations below which
will be considered a noise disturbance. The building plan is not required to
adopt any or all of the noise attenuation recommendations so long as the plan
includes noise attenuation measures that the architectural or design firm deems
adequate to be in compliance with this chapter. Noise attenuation measures may
include but not be limited to:
         (a)   Soundproofing walls, screens, panels, fences, or enclosures;
         (b)   Buffer yards;
         (c)   Other noise attenuation measures recommended by the third-party
acoustic engineer.
      (2)   Mechanical equipment must be shown on any proposed plan and must be
fully screened on all sides. Mechanical equipment not screened by a facade of
the building must be screened by a visually solid fence, screen wall or panel,
or parapet wall and constructed with a design, materials, details, and
treatment compatible with those used on the nearest facade of the building.
      (3)   The property owner must provide a copy of the building plan to the
County Judge and file with the County Clerk within 30 days of completion of the
plan prior to construction.
      (4)   Any additions, changes, or expansions of the data center must
comply with the noise attenuation requirements of this chapter and must be
designed and submitted to the County Judge and file with the County Clerk
within 30 days of completion of the report.
   (D)   Post completion noise study requirements.
      (1)   Upon the data center's completion, the data center operator must
conduct a post-construction noise study performed by a third-party acoustic
engineer to document noise levels emanating from the data center when
mechanical equipment is running at full capacity, including all HVAC units and
generators necessary for peak operation. Noise levels are to be measured at the
property line in the original eight locations used during the baseline study.
The data center operator must provide a copy of the report to the County Judge
and file with the County Clerk within 30 days of completion of the study.
      (2)   The data center shall not begin operations until the completion of
the post-construction noise study and submission to the County Judge and County
Clerk as required above. In order for the data center to be in compliance, the
noise study results must show that its operation is in compliance with this
chapter. If the results show that the data center is not in compliance with
this chapter, the data center will be unable to commence operation until the
required noise attenuation measures and noise limitations are met.
      (3)   Furthermore, the data center operator must conduct annual noise
studies under the baseline and post-construction studies specifications in
accordance with divisions (1) and (2) above. The data center operator must
provide the results to the County Judge and file with the County Clerk within
30 days after the anniversary date of the first sound study report.
(Ord. 2023-18, passed 7-18-23)
§ 96.04 PROCEDURE FOR MEASUREMENT.
   All tests shall be conducted according to the following procedures:
   (A)   Complaint driven. When the measurement is the result of a complaint,
measurements will be taken at the property line of the receiving property.
   (B)   Normal monitoring. When the measurement procedure is in the normal
course of monitoring sound, the measurements will be taken at the real property
line of the source of the sound.
   (C)   Outdoor conditions. No outdoor measurements must be taken while winds
exceed (including gusts) 15 miles per hour; under conditions that will allow
the sound level meter to become wet; or when the ambient temperature is out of
range of tolerance on the sound meter.
   (D)   Calibration. The sound level meter must be verified and calibrated
according to the manufacturer's specifications immediately prior to taking the
measurements.
   (E)   Meter placement. The sound level meter must be placed a minimum of
four feet above the ground or from any reflective surface. The microphone must
be pointed at the sound source.
   (F)   Measurements. Measurements must include “high”, “average”, and “low”
readings. If the sound level meter does not provide these multiple readings, a
minimum of three separate measurements must be taken at a single location at
varying time intervals. The average sound level reading shall be used to
determine whether there has been a violation of this chapter.
   (G)   Monitoring report. The report for each measurement session must
include:
      (1)   The day, date, and time of the measurements;
      (2)   Date and time of recent calibration;
      (3)   Temperature and wind speed at the time of measurement;
      (4)   Identification of the monitoring equipment;
      (5)   Location, land use, and description of the source;
      (6)   Location and land use of the listener; and
      (7)   Sound level measurements.
   (H)   Extraneous sounds. If there are extraneous sound sources that are
unrelated to the measurements and increase the monitored sound level, the
measurement shall be postponed until these noises subside.
(Ord. 2023-18, passed 7-18-23)
§ 96.05 NOISE LIMITATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any data center to make or continue to cause or
permit to be made or continued, noise levels constituting a noise disturbance.
For the purposes of this section, the external noise level emanating from data
centers shall be deemed disturbing to a person, reasonably calculated to
disturb the peace and unreasonably offensive and injurious to the public, or
their property, if the sound level is:
   (A)   65 dBa or higher during the hours of 8:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. or 55 dBa
or higher during the hours of 10:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m. (as determined by a
third-party acoustic engineer) measured at the property line of the receiving
property.
   (B)   The standard which may be considered in determining whether a
violation of this chapter exists includes but is not limited to the following:
      (1)   The level or volume of the noise;
      (2)   The time of day or night the noise occurs;
      (3)   The duration of the noise;
      (4)   Whether the noise is recurrent, intermittent or constant;
      (5)   Whether proper and reasonable noise attenuation methods were
followed and maintained.
(Ord. 2023-18, passed 7-18-23)
§ 96.06 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any or all of the following persons may be held responsible for noise
violations:
      (1)   The person operating the equipment or creating the noise;
      (2)   The person who employs the person operating the equipment or
creating the noise at the time of the violation;
      (3)   The person who owns or rents the property where the violation
occurs.
   (B)   The following acts, and the causing thereof, are declared to be in
violation of this chapter:
      (1)   The sound level emanating from the data center exceeds 65 dBa or
higher during the hours of 8:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. or 55 dBa or higher during
the hours of 10:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m. measured at the property line of the
receiving property.
      (2)   The noise attenuation measures provided in the design plan to the
County Judge are not incorporated in the construction of the data center.
      (3)   Any of the required sound study results are not filed with the
County Judge and the County Clerk within 30 days of completion of the report.
      (4)   The building plan is not filed with the County Judge and the County
Clerk within 30 days of completion of the plan prior to construction.
      (5)   Failure to act in accordance with any other provision of this
chapter.
   (C)   All data centers shall be in compliance with the requirements of this
chapter before commencing operation; failure to do so will be deemed in
violation of this chapter and result in an injunction and/or a stay in
commencing operation.
(Ord. 2023-18, passed 7-18-23)
§ 96.99 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any person(s), firm, corporation, partnership, association, owner,
occupant, agent, or anyone having ownership in the subject property or
supervision or control over the data center that violates or fails to comply
with any provision of this chapter, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Upon conviction of such violation, any offending party shall be
punished by fine of $1,000 for any one specified offense or violation, or
double that sum for repetition of the offense or violation. If the act
prohibited is continuous in time, the fine or penalty for allowing the
continuance thereof, in violation of §§
96.01 et seq., shall be $500 for each day that it may unlawfully continue. If
the prohibited act continues after conviction of violation, an injunction in
court of proper jurisdiction to abate the nuisance and violation of §§
96.01 et seq. may be sought and awarded.
   (C)   The county or any citizen shall be entitled to pursue all legal and
equitable remedies available under the law in order to abate the nuisance and
compel compliance with §§
96.01 et seq., including injunctive relief and any civil damages the court
deems appropriate.
   (D)   Until the data center is in compliance with §§
96.01 et seq. and required noise attenuation measures are implemented and noise
limitations met, the data center shall cease operations.
(Ord. 2023-18, passed 7-18-23)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   SALVAGE YARDS, JUNKYARDS AND THE LIKE
      
APPENDIX: CERTIFICATE OF OPERATION
      
111.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
CHAPTER 110: SALVAGE YARDS, JUNKYARDS AND THE LIKE
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Applicability
   
110.03   General regulations; burnings, expansions and the like
   
110.04   Administration of regulations
   
110.05   Existing establishments
   
110.06   Inspection and certification procedures
   
110.99   Penalty
   
Appendix: Certificate of Operation
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTOMOBILE GRAVEYARD. Any establishment or place of business which is
maintained, used or operated for storing, keeping, buying or selling, of five
or more wrecked, scrapped, ruined or dismantled motor vehicles.
   ESTABLISHMENT. A place of business or residence and everything connected
with it.
   EXPANSION. Any increase in the land area of an existing junkyard or
automobile graveyard beyond the physical boundaries in use at the effective
date of this chapter.
   JUNK. Old or scrapped copper, brass, rope, rags, batteries, paper, trash,
rubber debris and waste, or junked, dismantled or wrecked automobiles, or parts
thereof, or iron, steel and other old or scrapped ferrous or non-ferrous
materials.
   JUNKYARD. An establishment or place of business which is maintained, used or
operated for storing, keeping, buying or selling junk, or for the maintenance
or operation of an automobile graveyard.
   SALVAGE YARD. Any establishment maintained, used or operated for the
storing, keeping, dismantling, salvaging, buying or selling of scraps or
discarded pieces of metal, paper, rags, tires, bottles and other materials;
inoperable, wrecked, scrapped, ruined or discarded automobiles, automobile
parts, machinery or appliances. If junked or wrecked automobiles remain outside
a building for more than 30 days as inoperable, partially dismantled, wrecked
or junked automobiles, the area shall be deemed, for the purpose of this
chapter, a SALVAGE YARD.
(Ord. 90-8, passed 5-15-90)
§ 110.02 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall apply to:
   (A)   Automobile or equipment salvage yard;
   (B)   Building material salvage yard;
   (C)   Junk or salvage yard of any kind; and
   (D)   Scrap metal storage yard.
(Ord. 90-8, passed 5-15-90)
§ 110.03 GENERAL REGULATIONS; BURNINGS, EXPANSIONS AND THE LIKE.
   All salvage yard, junkyard or automobile graveyard uses shall conform to the
following general regulations:
   (A)   The burning of wrecked or discarded automobiles or any parts thereof
is prohibited.
   (B)   Whenever an owner or representative of a nonconforming salvage yard,
junkyard or automobile graveyard under this section is notified by the County
Judge's Office to come into compliance, he or she shall have a period not to
exceed 30 days in which to bring the property into complete compliance with the
provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   All areas unoccupied by buildings, parking lots or used as traffic
ways shall be maintained in a safe and orderly condition.
   (D)   Areas used for outdoor storage or display shall be maintained so that
excessive dust, fumes or odors will not be produced by continued use.
   (E)   No salvage yard, junkyard or automobile graveyard shall be established
or expanded after the effective date of this chapter unless the salvage yard,
junkyard or automobile graveyard shall be screened, as provided for in this
chapter, or other appropriate means so as not to be visible from the main
travel way of any state secondary highway, county road or other public road.
   (F)   Any rules and regulations adopted by the State Highway Commission
governing the location, planning, construction and maintenance of the screening
and fencing of salvage yards junkyards and automobile graveyards on primary or
other state highways are hereby adopted by reference and shall apply to
junkyards and automobile graveyards governed by this chapter.
   (G)   No salvage yard, junkyard or automobile graveyard shall be established
or expanded after the effective date of this chapter unless the owner or
operator of the salvage yard, junkyard or automobile graveyard shall first
obtain a certificate of operation from the County Judge's Office which shall
certify that the salvage yard, junkyard or automobile graveyard is in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter or of applicable state law.
   (H)   The County Judge is hereby authorized to administer the provisions of
this chapter including procedures governing the inspection and certification of
salvage yards, junkyards and automobile graveyards, set forth in
§ 110.06.
   (I)   The County Judge's Office is authorized and empowered to deny a
certificate of operation to any proposed establishment or expansion of a
salvage yard junkyard or automobile graveyard which cannot be adequately
screened due to the topography of the land.
   (J)   Salvage yards, junkyards or automobile graveyards which are not
screened as required by this chapter or by applicable state law shall be deemed
a public nuisance.
(Ord. 90-8, passed 5-15-90)
Penalty, see § 110.99
§ 110.04 ADMINISTRATION OF REGULATIONS.
   The prosecution, collection of fine and penalties shall be accomplished with
the assistance of the County Sheriff's Office in cooperation with the County
Prosecuting Attorney's Office. Administration of the salvage yard regulations
shall be the responsibility of the County Judge or designated representative.
(Ord. 90-8, passed 5-15-90)
§ 110.05 EXISTING ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   Existing salvage yards, junkyards or automobile graveyards that are
currently in operation as a viable business concern shall be exempted from the
provisions of this chapter. In order to qualify for exemption, the businesses
shall notify the County Judge's Office of its existence and acquire a
certificate of operation by providing all necessary information for issuance of
the certificate.
   (B)   Existing salvage yard, junkyard or automobile graveyard businesses
shall obtain a certificate of operation.
   (C)   Public notification of the provisions of this chapter shall be
published not only in the legal section, as required by law, immediately after
adoption, but also as general advertising in county newspapers upon adoption
and thereafter in the months of August and November.
   (D)   Existing salvage yards, junkyards or automobile graveyards shall cease
to fall within the grand-fathering provisions of this chapter upon the transfer
of the business to another owner or closing of the business.
(Ord. 90-8, passed 5-15-90)
§ 110.06 INSPECTION AND CERTIFICATION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to govern the inspection and
certification of salvage yards, junkyards and automobile graveyards as set
forth hereunder.
   (B)   These procedures shall apply to any establishment or expansion of any
salvage yard, junkyard or automobile graveyard.
   (C)   (1)   All salvage yards, junkyards and automobile graveyards shall be
recorded and plotted on the county map upon their registration. A copy of the
map shall be maintained in the County Judge's Office.
      (2)   A certificate of operation form shall be completed on all existing
salvage yards, junkyards and automobile graveyards in the county. The
information recorded on this form shall serve as the basis for compliance or
noncompliance with the provisions of these regulations.
      (3)   The county shall periodically monitor state secondary highways,
county roads or other public roads for the establishment of new and/or
expansion of salvage yards, junkyards and automobile graveyards.
   (D)   (1)   Individuals who wish to establish or expand a new and/or
existing salvage yard, junkyard or automobile graveyard shall request a
certificate of operation from the county. Applicants for a certificate of
operation shall be informed of and receive a copy of this chapter. Particular
attention shall be focused on divisions (E) and (H) below.
      (2)   Property owners operating in violation hereof shall be informed by
certified letter that a request in person must be made to the County Judge's
Office for a certificate of operation. The owner shall have 30 days from
receipt of certified letter to bring the property into compliance.
   (E)   (1)   It shall be the responsibility of the owner or operator of the
salvage yard, junkyard or automobile graveyard to ensure that the screening is
erected and maintained.
      (2)   Prior to screening, the owner shall review with the designated
county representative plans showing the location of the proposed screen and a
description of the materials to be used.
      (3)   In no case may the highway right-of-way be utilized for the storage
of junk or junked vehicles. If the storage of junk or junked vehicles occurs in
front of an erected screen, the yard shall be considered unscreened, and in
violation of the provisions of these regulations. If, after due notice, the
operator fails to bring the facility into compliance, the county may remove the
junk material and charge the associated cost of removal to the operator.
   (F)   (1)   Subsequent to the 30-day period from receipt of certified
letter, an on-site inspection shall be conducted to determine compliance. If
the property has been brought into compliance, a certificate of operation shall
be sent to the owner and periodic inspections shall be performed to ensure
continued compliance.
      (2)   If the on-site inspection reveals a lack of compliance, a certified
letter shall be sent to the owner outlining the deficiencies and actions needed
for compliance. The owner shall be given 15 days from receipt of certified
letter to reach compliance. The owner shall be informed of possible court
actions for non-compliance.
      (3)   The certificate of operation shall be renewed in January, every two
years. The renewal process shall include verification of ownership and an
updated plot or drawing showing physical dimensions designated.
   (G)   If compliance or a good faith effort to reach compliance is not made
at the conclusion of the 15-day period, court action shall be initiated as
provided herein.
   (H)   (1)   Fences.
         (a)   All salvage yards, junkyards or automobile graveyards shall be
completely enclosed by an eight-foot high opaque screen. The height of the
fence may be reduced to six feet when the use is conducted at an elevation of
two feet or more above the crown of the adjacent roadway. A steel mesh fence
may be substituted for an opaque fence on the rear and side of the site when
the portion may not be seen from a state secondary highway, county road or
other public road. The determination shall be made by the County Judge or
designated representative.
         (b)   Fences adjacent to the road right-of-ways shall be erected under
the following guidelines:
            1.   Entrances to fenced areas which are adjacent to a state
secondary highway, county road or other public road where entrance is provided
from the road must be set back 60 feet from the right-of-way.
            2.   Fences adjacent to a state secondary highway, county road or
other public road where no entrance is provided from the road may be located on
the property line adjacent to the right-of-way.
            3.   No fence or screening device shall be erected so as to
obstruct the vision of motorists at road or driveway intersections.
            4.   The storage or display of goods or merchandise outside the
confines of the fenced area is expressly prohibited.
            5.   No junk, parts, disabled autos or salvage material of any kind
shall be stored outside or above the fence.
         (c)   The fence shall be of permanent materials and constructed so
that it will be capable of remaining erect for at least ten years.
         (d)   The fence shall be high enough to screen all junk and junked
cars from view of the traveled way of the highway or roads by occupants of a
standard sized automobile. Should the junk pile(s) be increased in height, the
fence must also be increased.
         (e)   The fence shall extend along the frontage of the junkyard
parallel to the highway and perpendicular to the highway along the sides of the
junkyard to a distance so that all junk wrecked cars will be screened from view
of the traveled way of the highway. It must be located on the right-of-way line
of the highway in front of the junkyard unless permission is obtained from the
county to locate it elsewhere.
         (f)   The fence must be neat in appearance and of a uniform color and
height. Steel signs will not be acceptable as a fencing material. Used or
recycled corrugated iron or aluminum sheeting will not be acceptable unless
painted a uniform color. If the fence is to be painted, it shall be of a
uniform color or neatly trimmed in another color. Bright, loud colors will not
be acceptable.
         (g)   It is not necessary that the fence be solid. However, the open
spaces must be small enough that the junk material is substantially screened.
         (h)   The fence shall be maintained by the owner and/or operator of
the salvage yard, junkyard or automobile graveyard. Should the fence become
damaged or destroyed, it must be repaired within 30 days.
      (2)   Plantings.
         (a)   If plantings are used for screening, they must be large enough
and placed close enough to screen the junk and junked cars immediately after
planting.
         (b)   All plants used must be of evergreen varieties.
         (c)   Plants must be located with the same stipulations as fences.
         (d)   In no case will the planting of young plants or sparse plants
with the purpose that in time the screening will be accomplished be acceptable.
         (e)   Should the plants become diseased, die or be damaged in any way
so as to cause the junk not to be screened, they must be replaced within 30
days.
      (3)   Natural objects.
         (a)   Natural occurring rock outcrops, woods, earth mounds and the
like may be utilized for screening if they are of a size such that the junk
cannot be seen from the traveled way of the highway.
         (b)   Natural objects may be used in conjunction with plantings,
fences or other appropriate objects to screen junkyards.
      (4)   Other appropriate objects for screening.
         (a)   Subject to prior approval by the County Judge's Office, other
objects for screening such as buildings, houses and occupied house trailers may
be used entirely or in part to screen junkyards provided the objects are neat
in appearance and properly maintained so as not to mar the natural beauty of
the highway and its facilities.
         (b)   All screening other than that which is listed herein must have
prior approval by the County Judge's Office.
(Ord. 90-8, passed 5-15-90)
Penalty, see § 110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   The penalty for violation of this chapter shall be a fine of $250. Failure
to comply with the provisions of this chapter within five days thereafter shall
constitute a continuous violation hereof with a penalty of $50 for each day
that it may be unlawfully continued.
(Ord. 90-8, passed 5-15-90)
APPENDIX: CERTIFICATE OF OPERATION
Date:
                                                                                                                 
Name of Property Owner or Operator:
                                                            
Address and Telephone Number:
                                                                     
Type of Operation:
Salvage Yard          Junkyard          Automobile Graveyard       
Type of Business:
Sole Proprietor          Partnership         Corporation         Other
(Specify)       
State Sales Tax No.:
                                                                                     
Brief Description of Operation:
                                                                   
Location:
                                                                                                        
Physical Boundaries of Operation: Attach a plot or drawing with physical
dimensions designated.
Method of Screening:
Fence        Planting        Natural Objects          Other Appropriate Objects
      
"I Certify that the above described establishment or expansion is in compliance
with the provisions of Chapter 110 of the code of ordinances for the county and
the rules and regulations governing screening of salvage yards, junkyards and
automobile graveyards. This certificate does not imply approval or permission
to acquire, handle, store, dispose of or deal in toxic or hazardous wastes."
Sebastian County Judge or Representative:
                                                   
Certification Denied:
                                                                                        
Denied; Pending Further Action:
                                                                    
CHAPTER 111: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
   
111.01   Purpose and intent
   
111.02   Definitions
   
111.03   Classification
   
111.04   Location
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate sexually oriented businesses
to promote the health, safety and general welfare of the citizens of Sebastian
County and to establish reasonable and uniform regulations to prevent the
concentration of sexually oriented businesses within unincorporated areas of
the county. The provisions of this chapter have neither the purpose nor effect
of imposing a limitation or restriction on the content of any communicative
materials, including sexually oriented materials. Similarly, it is not the
intent nor effect of this chapter to restrict or deny access by adults to
sexually oriented materials protected by the First Amendment, or to deny access
by the distributors and exhibitors of sexually oriented entertainment to their
intended market, unless otherwise restricted by law.
(Ord. 2004-26, passed 10-19-04)
§ 111.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.

   ADULT ARCADE. Any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein
coin-operated or slug-operated or electronically, electrically, or mechanically
controlled image producing devices are maintained to show images to five or
fewer viewers at one time, and where the images so displayed are distinguished
or characterized by the depicting or describing of SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES
or SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS .

   ADULT BOOKSTORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE. A commercial establishment whose
principal business purposes is to offer for sale or rental for any form of
consideration any one or more of the following: Books, magazines, periodicals
or other printed matter, or photographs, films, motion pictures, video
cassettes, or video reproductions, slides or other visual representations which
depict or describe SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES or SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS .

   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, restaurant, or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features:

      (1)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity; or

      (2)   Live performances which are characterized by the exposing of
SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES or SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS .

      (3)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other
photographic reproductions which are characterized by the depiction of
SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES or SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS .

   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment where, for any form
of consideration, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or similar
photographic reproductions are regularly shown, excluding those which are rated
by the Motion Picture Association of America, which emphasize SPECIFIED SEXUAL
ACTIVITIES .

   ADULT THEATERS.  A theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar commercial
establishment, which regularly features persons who appear in a state of nudity
or live performances which are characterized by the exposure of SPECIFIED
SEXUAL ACTIVITIES or SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS .

   NUDITY or STATE OF NUDITY.

      (1)   The appearance of the bare human buttock, anus, male genitals,
female genitals, or areola of the female breast.

      (2)   A state of dress which fails to opaquely cover a human buttock,
anus, male genitals, female genitals, or areola of the female breast.

   PERSON.  An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation,
association, or other legal entity.

   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS.  An adult arcade, adult bookstore or adult video
store, adult cabaret, adult motion picture theater, or adult theater as the
same are defined herein.

   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.

      (1)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal.

      (2)   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse, or sodomy.

      (3)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks or female breasts.

   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.

      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttock, and female breasts below a point immediately above the top of
the areola; and

      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernible turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
(Ord. 2004-26, passed 10-19-04)
§ 111.03 CLASSIFICATION.
   Sexually oriented businesses are classified as follows:

   (A)   Adult arcade;

   (B)   Adult bookstores and adult video stores;

   (C)   Adult motion picture theaters; and

   (D)   Adult theaters.
(Ord. 2004-26, passed 10-19-04)
§ 111.04 LOCATION.
   (A)   Sexually oriented businesses may be allowed subject to the following:

      (1)   No sexually oriented business may be operated within 500 feet of:

         (a)   A church;

         (b)   A public or private elementary, secondary or post-secondary
school, pre-school, or child care facility;

         (c)   A public park.

      (2)   No sexually oriented business may be operated:

         (a)   Within 200 feet of a boundary of a residential area of any
residential use, public hotel or motel; or

         (b)   Within 400 feet of a residential area or any residential use as
measured by automobile travel distance from the exit of a sexually oriented
business property to the property line of the residential area or use.

      (3)   No sexually oriented business may be operated within 1,000 feet of
another sexually oriented business or within 200 feet of any room, building,
premises, place or establishment that sells or dispenses alcohol or beer.

      (4)   For the purposes of subsection (1), measurement shall be made in a
straight line, without regard to intervening structures or objects, from the
nearest portion of the building or structure used as part of the premises of a
church or public or private elementary or secondary school, or to the nearest
boundary of an affected public park, residential district or residential lot.

   (B)   A lawfully operating sexually oriented business shall not be rendered
illegal by the subsequent location of a church, a public or private school, a
pre-school, a child care facility, a public park, residential area, or
residential uses.
(Ord. 2004-26, passed 10-19-04)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person operating or causing to be operated any sexually oriented
business in violation of any part of this chapter, upon conviction, is
punishable by a fine not to exceed $500.

   (B)   If the violation is, in nature, continuous in respect to time, the
penalty for allowing the continuance thereof is a fine not to exceed $250 for
each day that the same is unlawfully continued.

   (C)   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented
business in violation of this chapter shall be subject to a suit for injunction
as well as prosecution for criminal violations.
(Ord. 2004-26, passed 10-19-04)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
Firearms
   
130.01   Definition
   
130.02   Prohibited activity
   
130.03   Exceptions
   
130.04   Enforcement
Drugs
   
130.15   Sale of synthetic cannabinoid
 
   
130.99   Penalty
FIREARMS
§ 130.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIREARM. Any device designed, made, or adapted to expel a projectile by the
action of an explosive or any device readily convertible to that use; this
includes any revolver, pistol, rifle, shotgun, or any similar mechanism by
whatever name known.
(Ord. 2009-13, passed 5-19-09)
§ 130.02 PROHIBITED ACTIVITY.
   No person shall discharge a firearm within any of the following designated
areas owned by the county:
   (A)   Ben Geren Regional Park;
   (B)   Lavaca Park; and
   (C)   Midland Park.
(Ord. 2009-13, passed 5-19-09) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   The prohibitions set forth in §
130.02 shall not apply to a person lawfully defending life or property or
performing official duties regarding the discharge of firearms.
(Ord. 2009-13, passed 5-19-09)
§ 130.04 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty and responsibility of all law enforcement officials
within the county to enforce this subchapter and all related state laws.
(Ord. 2009-13, passed 5-19-09)
DRUGS
§ 130.15 SALE OF SYNTHETIC CANNABINOID.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use, possess, purchase, attempt
to purchase, sell, publicly display for sale or attempt to sell, give, or
barter any one or more of the following substances within the boundaries of
Sebastian County, Arkansas:
      (1)   Salvia divinorum or salvinorum A. All parts of the plant presently
classified botanically as salvia divinorum, whether growing or not, the seeds
thereof, any extract from any part of such plant, and every compound,
manufacture, salts derivative, mixture, or preparation of such plant, its
seeds, or extracts;
      (2)   (6aR, 10aR)-9-(hydroxymethyl)-6, 6dimethyl-3-(2-methyloctan-2yl)-
6a, 7, 10, 10a- tetrahydrobenzo{'{'}c{'}'} chromen-1-ol some other trade names:
HU-210;
      (3)   1-Pentyl-3-(1-naphthoyl)indole - some trade or other names: JWH-01
8\spice;
      (4)   1-Butyl-3-(1-naphthoyl)indole - some trade or other names: JWH-073;
      (5)   1-(3-[trifluoremethylphenyl]) piperazine - some trade or other
names: TFMPP;
      (6)   Or any similar structural analogs.
   (B)   It is not an offense under division (A) above of this section if the
person was acting at the direction of an authorized agent of law enforcement to
enforce or ensure compliance with this law prohibiting the sale of the
aforementioned substances.
   (C)   That this section does not apply to any person who commits any act
described in this section pursuant to the direction or prescription of a
licensed physician or dentist authorized to direct or prescribe such act. This
section likewise does not apply to the inhalation of anesthesia for a medical
purpose or dental purpose.
   (D)   Any person found to be in violation of this section will be guilty of
a misdemeanor and subject to a fine not to exceed $1,000.
(Ord. 2010-9, passed 5-18-10)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of a violation of §§
130.01 through
130.04 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction, shall be fined
not more than $500 for the first offense, and not more than $1,000 for each
subsequent violation of §§
130.01 through
130.04.
(Ord. 2009-13, passed 5-19-09)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
   
150.01   Minimum setbacks for all buildings
Cross-reference:
   Salvage Yards, Junk Yards and the Like, see
Ch. 110
   Streets; Minimum Construction and Design Standards, see
§§ 90.20 through
90.23
§ 150.01 MINIMUM SETBACKS FOR ALL BUILDINGS.
   (A)   The minimum setback from the county road right-of-way shall be 25 feet
for the construction of any building.
   (B)   Any exceptions to a minimum 25-foot building setback must be approved
by the Setback Appeals Committee, consisting of the Road Superintendent, two
Quorum Court members and the County Judge.
(Ord. 98-17, passed 8-18-98)
Penalty, see § 10.99r
CHAPTER 151: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Definitions
Administration
   
151.10   Designation of the Floodplain Administrator
   
151.11   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
   
151.12   Establishment of development permit
   
151.13   Permit procedures
   
151.14   Procedures for variance from the requirements of this code
   
151.15   Appeal Board
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
151.20   General standards
   
151.21   Risk zone specific standards
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this code have
their common usage meaning to give the most reasonable application to this
code. Additional definitions for floodplain management terms can be found at
Part § 59.1 of 44 CFR.
   44 CFR (EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AND ASSISTANCE-NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM
REGULATIONS). Parts 59-75 contain federal regulations upon which local
floodplain managements are based.
   44 CFR § 65.12. Contains the section of the federal regulations which
involves revision of flood insurance rate maps to reflect base flood elevations
caused by proposed encroachments.
   100-YEAR FLOOD. Any flood with a 1% chance of occurring in any given year.
The term is misleading, because of its statistical derivation. A 100-YEAR FLOOD
may occur many times in any given 100-year period, or it may not occur at all
in 100 years.
   500-YEAR FLOOD. Any flood with a 0.2% chance of occurring in any given year.
As with the 100- year flood, this term is also misleading, because of its
statistical derivation. A 500-YEAR FLOOD may occur many times in any given 500-
year period, or it may not occur at all in 500 years.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURES. Structures which are on the same parcel of property as
the principal structure and the use of which is incidental to the use of the
principal structure (such as garages and storage sheds).
   ADVERSE IMPACT. Any negative or harmful effect.
   AE OR A1-30 RISK ZONES. Special flood hazard areas where detailed studies
have determined base flood elevations. AE has replaced Al-30 in newer flood
maps.
   AH RISK ZONES. Special flood hazard areas characterized by shallow flooding
with ponding effects (where floodwaters accumulate in depressions and linger
until absorbed or evaporated).
   AO RISK ZONES. Special flood hazard areas characterized by shallow flooding
with sheet flow (where floodwaters flow in a broad, shallow sheet rather than
through a narrow channel).
   A RISK ZONES. Special flood hazard areas without detailed studies, where
base flood elevations have not been determined.
   APPEAL BOARD. A person or persons specifically designated to render
decisions on variance applications and floodplain management complaints.
   AUTOMATIC ENTRY AND EXIT OF FLOODWATERS. Water that must be able to enter
and exit with no intervening action from a person.
   BASEFLOOD. The flood profile used as the basis for the NFIP regulations. The
federal government has selected the 1% chance of flooding as the base flood.
   BASE LEVEL ENGINEERING. Flood risk datasets that meet the technical mapping
standards outlined in FEMA Policy 204-078-1. Standards for flood risk analysis
and mapping and include estimated floodplain extents (10%, 1% and 0.2% annual
chance events), water surface elevation grids (1% and 0.2% annual chance
events), flood depth grids (1 % and 0.2% annual chance events), and hazus flood
risk assessment.
   BASEMENT. Any enclosed area that is below grade on all sides.
   BFE. The acronym for base flood elevation.
   BLE. The acronym for base level engineering.
   BUOYANCY. The upward force exerted by water. BUOYANCY can cause underground
tanks to float free and can lift structures off foundations.
     CERTIFICATES OF COMPLIANCE. Formal documents issued by Floodplain
Administrators certifying that completed projects comply with the requirements
of the local code.
   CFR. The acronym for the Code of Federal Regulations. The Code of Federal
Regulations is the codification of the general and permanent rules published in
the Federal Register by the executive departments and agencies of the federal
government. It is divided into 50 titles that represent broad areas subject to
federal regulation. The federal regulations pertaining to the National Flood
Insurance Program are found in Title 44, Emergency Management and Assistance.
   CLEARING. The act of cutting timber or shrubs from an area.
   COMMERCIAL BUSINESS PARK. Typically an area of offices or light industrial
usage, although retail, service, or industrial usage is sometimes included in
supporting roles. For example, a COMMERCIAL BUSINESS PARK of office complexes
may also include restaurants which service these offices.
   CONCRETE DEADMAN ANCHORS. Heavy steel rods embedded in buried sections of
concrete, used to secure items in place under tension.
   COVENANT. A clause in a contract that requires one party to do, or refrain
from doing, certain things. A COVENANT frequently appears as a restriction that
a lender imposes on a borrower.
   CRAWLSPACE. A type of structural foundation where the space beneath the
lowest floor is typically not deep enough to allow a person to stand and not
all four walls are below grade.
   CRITICAL FACILITIES. Includes governmental facilities that are considered
essential for the delivery of critical services and crisis management (such as
data and communication centers and key governmental complexes); facilities that
are essential for the health and welfare of the whole population (such as
hospitals, prisons, police and fire stations, emergency operations centers,
evacuation shelters and schools); mass transportation facilities (such as
airports, bus terminals, train terminals); lifeline utility systems (including
potable water, wastewater, oil, natural gas, electric power and communications
systems); high potential loss facilities (such as nuclear power plants or
military installations); hazardous material facilities (such as industrial
facilities housing or manufacturing or disposing of corrosives, explosives,
flammable materials, radioactive materials and toxins).
   D ZONES. Areas in which the flood hazard has not been determined but may be
possible.
   DEED RESTRICTION. A clause in a deed that limits the future uses of the
property in some respect. DEED RESTRICTIONS may impose a vast variety of
limitations and conditions, for example, they may limit the density of
buildings, dictate the types of structures that can be erected, prevent
buildings from being used for specific purposes or even from being used at all.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate. It
includes, but is not limited to, construction, reconstruction, or placement of
a building, or any addition or substantial improvements to a building.
DEVELOPMENT also includes the installation of a manufactured home on a site,
preparing a site for a manufactured home, or installing/parking a travel
trailer. The installation of utilities, construction of roads, bridges,
culverts or similar projects are also DEVELOPMENTS. Construction or erection of
levees, dams, walls, or fences; drilling, mining, filling, dredging, grading,
excavating, paving, or other alterations of the ground surface are
DEVELOPMENTS. Storage of materials including the placement of gas and liquid
storage tanks are DEVELOPMENTS, as are channel modifications or any other
activity that might change the direction, height, or velocity of flood or
surface waters. DEVELOPMENT will normally not include maintenance of existing
drainage ditches, gardening, plowing, planting, harvesting of crops, or similar
practices that do not involve filling, grading, or construction of levees.
   DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. The permit required for placing a “development” in the
floodplain.
   EASEMENTS. Rights or permissions held by one person to make specific,
limited use of land owned by another person.
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. FEMA form 81-31, which for the purposes of this code
must be properly completed by a professional engineer, surveyor or architect
licensed to practice in the State of Arkansas.
   EROSION. The process of soil removal by moving water.
   EXISTING STRUCTURE. For floodplain management purposes, a structure which is
in place before any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
improvement takes place.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (FEMA). The federal agency responsible
for administering the National Flood Insurance Program.
   FEMA. The acronym for the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FILL. The placement of natural sand, dirt, soil, rock, concrete, cement,
brick or similar material at a specified location to bring the ground surface
up to a desired elevation.
   FIRM. The acronym for flood insurance rate map.
   FLOOD FRINGE. The portion of the 100-year floodplain which is outside the
floodway. (See definition of floodway below).
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). The official flood map of a community on
which FEMA has categorized special flood hazard areas into risk premium zones.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official report provided by FEMA. It
contains flood profiles, floodway tables, engineering methods, and other
descriptive and technical data.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including but not limited to
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management
regulations.
   FLOODING EVENTS. General or temporary conditions of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from the overflow of inland or tidal
waters, or from the unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters
from any source.
   FLOODPLAIN. Any land area susceptible to inundation by floodwaters from any
source. For the purposes of this code, FLOODPLAIN refers to the land area
susceptible to being inundated by the base flood.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The community official designated in the local
flood damage prevention code as responsible for the code's administration.
   FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. A permit issued by the local Floodplain
Administrator and is required before beginning any development in an area
designated as a special flood hazard area on the community's FIRM.
   FLOODPROOFING. A combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures that reduce or eliminate the risk of
flood damage.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. FEMA form 81-65, which for the purposes of this
code must be properly completed by a professional engineer or architect
licensed to practice in the State of Arkansas.
2024 S-57
10   Sebastian County - Land Usage
   FLOODWAY or REGULATORY FLOODWAY. A stream channel and the land to either
side of the stream channel that must remain undeveloped and open in order to
allow floodwaters to pass without increasing the base flood elevation more than
a designated height. For the purposes of this code, the height is one foot.
Severe restrictions or prohibitions are imposed on development within the
FLOODWAY.
   FLOW-THROUGH OPENINGS. Openings specifically designed to allow floodwaters
to flow into and out of enclosed spaces, minimizing the danger of foundation or
wall collapse from lateral hydrostatic pressure.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE. A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long-term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
   GRADE. The surface of the ground.
   GRADING. To smooth the surface of the ground, typically with heavy
construction equipment.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE (HAG). The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORICAL STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register.
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district.
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory or historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   HYDRODYNAMIC FORCES. The forces and stresses associated with moving water,
including impacts from objects carried in the water.
   HYDROSTATIC FLOOD FORCES. The forces and stresses associated with standing
floodwaters.
   LACUSTRINE FLOODING. Flooding associated with a lake.
   LATERAL FORCES. The horizontal hydrostatic forces associated with standing
water. Water exerts an equal force in all directions, and as little as three
feet of standing water can generate sufficient lateral force to collapse a
foundation or wall.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). For a typical slab-on-grade construction, the LOWEST FLOOR is the
top of the first floor of the structure. For a typical basement foundation
construction, the elevation of the lowest floor is the top of the basement
floor. For a typical crawlspace foundation construction, the elevation of the
lowest floor is the top of the first floor of the structure. For a typical
split-level construction, the elevation of the lowest floor is the top of the
first living area floor. For a manufactured home installation, the elevation of
the lowest floor will be the bottom of the lowest I-Beam. The garage floor and
crawlspaces are not the LOWEST FLOOR as long as there are no living areas in
the garage and it is used solely for storage, parking vehicle and entry to the
structure, provided that such enclosure is not built so as to render the
structure in violation of the applicable non-elevation design requirements of §
60.3 of the National Flood Insurance Regulations.
   MANUFACTURED HOMES or STRUCTURES. A structure, transportable in one or more
sections, which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or
without a permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The
term MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a “recreational vehicle.”
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land subdivided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL (MSL). For the purposes of the NFIP, the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum, to which base flood elevations
shown on a community's FIRM are referenced.
   MIXED USE STRUCTURES. Structures with both a business and a residential
component, but where the area used for business is less than 50% of the total
floor area of the structure.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For floodplain management purposes, structures for which
the “start of construction” commenced on or after the date of a floodplain
management regulation adopted by a community and includes any subsequent
improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   NO ADVERSE IMPACT PRINCIPLE. A principle of restricting or prohibiting land
development that does harm or “adversely affects” someone else's property or
land.
   NONRESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES. Structures used only for commercial or public
purposes, such as businesses, schools, churches, etc.
   NO-RISE CERTIFICATES. Formal certifications signed and stamped by a
professional engineer licensed to practice in the State of Arkansas,
demonstrating through hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance
with standard engineering practice that a proposed development will not result
in any increase in flood levels within the community during the occurrence of a
base flood event.
   PIERS. Columns of masonry or other structural material (commonly cement
blocks stacked up to support a manufactured home), usually rectangular, used to
support other structural members. For the purpose of this chapter, piers must
be permanent in nature.
   PILINGS. Steel tubes driven to rock or a suitable soil bearing layer and
connected to the foundation of a structure.
   PONDING. A flooding effect where floodwaters accumulate in shallow
depressions and linger until absorbed or evaporated.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal
projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   RISK ZONES. Categorize special flood hazard areas into groupings by the
specific risk of flooding. Zones A, AE or Al-30, AO, and AH are special flood
hazard areas. See “X Risk Zones” definition.
   RIVERINE FLOODING. Flooding associated with a river or stream channel.
   RV. The acronym for recreational vehicle.
   SCREW AUGERS. Any type of anchor that twists into the soil, typically to a
depth of four feet or more. They are not suitable for securing manufactured
homes against floodwaters because saturated grounds often soften and fail to
hold the anchor in place.
   SECTION 404 WETLANDS PERMIT. A permit required under Section 404 of the
Clean Water Act for the discharge of dredged and fill material into any surface
water of the United States. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers issues Section 404
permits.
   SFHA. The acronym for special flood hazard area.
   SHALLOW FLOODING. A depth of less than three feet.
   SLAB ANCHORS. Anchors where the hook of the anchor is wrapped around a
horizontal rebar in the slab before the concrete is poured.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS. Geographical areas identified on FEMA flood maps
as being at-risk for flooding. The maps further categorize these areas into
various flood risk zones A, AE or A1-30, AH, and AO.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement, or other
improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start means
either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site,
such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading, and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual START
OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the
external dimensions of the building.
   STATE COORDINATING AGENCY. The agency that acts as a liaison between FEMA
and a community for the purposes of floodplain management. The Arkansas Natural
Resources Commission is the STATE COORDINATING AGENCY for Arkansas.
   STREAM CHANNELS. Depressed natural pathways through which water of any
quantity routinely flows.
   STRUCTURAL DEVELOPMENT. A development that includes the placement or
construction of a structure.
   STRUCTURE. For floodplain management purposes, a walled and roofed building,
including a gas or liquid storage tank that is principally above ground, as
well as a manufactured home.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin where the cost to restore a
structure to its original undamaged state would equal or exceed 50% of the
market value of the structure before any damage occurred. In determining
whether SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE has occurred, estimators must use standard
contractor and materials costs. There are no exceptions for homeowners who make
their own repairs or for discounted or free raw materials.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, remodeling, addition, or
improvement to a structure with a cost equaling or exceeding 50% of the market
value of the structure before any improvement. Improvements to correct
identified violations of local health, sanitary or safety codes are not
substantial improvements, regardless of the cost, as long as they are the
minimum improvement necessary to bring the structure up to code. Alterations to
historical structures are also exempted, as long as the improvement does not
affect the structure's official status of “historical structure.”
   USES VULNERABLE TO FLOODS. Any land or structural uses that may be
negatively affected by a flood.
   VARIANCE. A formal, written permission from the Appeals Board to construct
or develop in a way that is inconsistent with the requirements of this code.
The variance only deals with this code, the Appeals Board has no authority to
waive any other governmental requirement and has no say in the cost of flood
insurance.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in this code is presumed to be in
violation until such time as that documentation is provided.
   WATERCOURSE ALTERATION. Any change that occurs within the banks of a
watercourse.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 (or other datum, where specified), of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
   X RISK ZONES. A special group of insurance risk zones. One type, shown as
nonshaded areas on FEMA issued flood maps, indicates a zone where flooding is
not expected to occur. The second type, shown as shaded areas of FEMA flood
maps, indicates a flood hazard area that is expected to be affected by the 500-
year flood, but not by the 100-year base flood.
(Ord. 2023-27, passed 11-21-23; Am. Ord. 2023-32, passed 12-19-23; Am. Ord.
2024-11, passed 6-18-24)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 151.10 DESIGNATION OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The County Judge of Sebastian County, or his or her designee, is hereby
appointed the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 2023-27, passed 11-21-23; Am. Ord. 2023-32, passed 12-19-23; Am. Ord.
2024-11, passed 6-18-24)
§ 151.11 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   It is the duty and responsibility of the Floodplain Administrator or his
designee to:
   (A)   Obtain accreditation each year as required by A.C.A. § 14-268-106
through the state coordinating agency, which is the Arkansas Natural Resources
Commission.
   (B)   Administer and implement the provisions of this code and other
appropriate sections of 44 CFR (Emergency Management and Assistance-National
Flood Insurance Program Regulations) as they pertain to floodplain management.
   (C)   Review applications for floodplain development permits to:
      (1)   Evaluate proposed projects for reasonable safety from flooding.
      (2)   Evaluate proposed projects for conformance with no adverse impact
principles.
      (3)   Ensure that all other permits necessary (including Section 404
Wetlands Permits as required by the Federal Water Pollution Control Act
Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. 1334) for proposed projects are obtained from the
appropriate government agency prior to issuing a floodplain development permit;
and
      (4)   Ensure that proposed projects conform to the applicable provisions
of this code.
   (D)   Approve or deny applications for floodplain development permits based
on:
      (1)   The proposed development's compliance or non-compliance with the
provisions of this code.
      (2)   The expected flood elevation, flood water velocity, flood duration,
rate of rise and sediment transport of the floodwaters expected at the proposed
development site.
      (3)   The proposed development's potential to adversely impact life and
property by changing flooding patterns, changing erosion rates, or being swept
onto other lands by flood waters.
      (4)   The proposed development's susceptibility to flood damage.
      (5)   The proposed development's compatibility with existing and planned
community development.
      (6)   The proposed development's accessibility by ordinary and emergency
vehicles during flooding events.
      (7)   The anticipated costs of providing governmental services to the
proposed development during and after flooding events, including maintenance
and repair of streets, bridges, facilities, and public utilities such as sewer,
gas, electrical and water systems.
      (8)   The proposed development's functionally dependent use.
      (9)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed development; and
      (10)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan for
that area.
   (E)   Interpret, where needed, the exact location of the boundaries of
special flood hazard areas whenever a mapped boundary appears to be different
from actual field conditions. (The sole purpose of this interpretation is to
determinate the applicability of the provisions of this code to the proposed
project.)
   (F)   Notify adjacent communities and the state coordinating agency, which
is the Arkansas Natural Resources Commission, a minimum of 60 days prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse and submit evidence of all such
notifications to FEMA.
   (G)   Ensure that the flood carrying capacity within an altered or relocated
portion of a watercourse is not diminished, and that the alteration or
relocation does not adversely impact any other lands.
   (H)   Obtain, review, and reasonably utilize, whenever the current flood
insurance study or current flood insurance rate map does not provide base flood
elevation data, any base flood elevation data and floodway data available from
any federal, state or other source. The Floodplain Administrator may obtain
such data by requiring the applicant to submit it in conjunction with a
floodplain development permit application. (The sole use of this data is the
administration of the provisions of this code.)
   (I)   Inspect floodplain developments as necessary to ensure construction is
in accordance with the application data that formed the basis for the decision
to issue the floodplain development permit.
   (J)   Issue certificates of compliance.
   (K)   Maintain all records and documents pertaining to this code for public
inspection.
(Ord. 2023-27, passed 11-21-23; Am. Ord. 2023-32, passed 12-19-23; Am. Ord.
2024-11, passed 6-18-24)
§ 151.12 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit is required for all structural development,
placement of manufactured structures, clearing, grading, mining, drilling,
dredging, placement of fill, excavating, watercourse alteration, drainage
improvements, roadway or bridge construction, individual water or sewer
installations or any other development in a special flood hazard area to ensure
conformance with the provisions of this code.
(Ord. 2023-27, passed 11-21-23; Am. Ord. 2023-32, passed 12-19-23; Am. Ord.
2024-11, passed 6-18-24)
§ 151.13 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Application for a floodplain development permit shall be presented to
the Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him/her and may include, but
not be limited to, plans in duplicate, drawn to scale showing the location,
dimensions, and elevation of proposed landscape alterations, existing and
proposed structures, including the placement of manufactured homes, and the
location of the foregoing in relation to areas of special flood hazard.
   (B)   The documentation required with each application for a floodplain
development permit, and the specific provisions of this code applicable to the
proposed development, are dependent upon the type of development proposed and
the risk zone of the proposed development site. Section 151.20 contains
standards for all developments in all risk zones. Section
151.21 contains standards for specific development types in specific risk
zones.
   (C)   The decision of the Floodplain Administrator to approve or deny
issuance of a floodplain development permit is subject to appeal to the
designated Appeal Board. Within Sebastian County, Arkansas the designated
Appeal Board is the County Judge, County Assessor, and a member of the Board of
Directors of the Western River Valley Board of Realtors.
(Ord. 2023-27, passed 11-21-23; Am. Ord. 2023-32, passed 12-19-23; Am. Ord.
2024-11, passed 6-18-24)
§ 151.14 PROCEDURES FOR VARIANCE FROM THE REQUIREMENTS OF THIS CODE.
   (A)   Applicants must submit petitions for variances directly to the Appeal
Board (§
151.15)
   (B)   Variances may only be issued:
      (1)   If showing a good and sufficient cause;
      (2)   Granting of the variance will not result in any adverse impact upon
other lands;
      (3)   If granting of the variance will not result in any additional
threats to public safety;
      (4)   If granting of the variance will not result in extraordinary public
expense;
      (5)   If granting of the variance does not create a nuisance, cause fraud
or victimization of the public, or conflict with existing laws or ordinances;
      (6)   If granting of the variance will not result in increased flood
heights or an increase in expected flood velocities;
      (7)   If the requested variance is the minimum necessary, considering the
flood hazards, to afford the necessary relief; and
      (8)   Upon determination that the requested variance is necessary to
avoid an extraordinary hardship to the applicant.
   (C)   Variances may not be issued for developments inside a regulatory
floodway unless:
      (1)   All requirements of 44 CFR § 65.12 are first met; or
      (2)   The following requirements are met:
         (a)   A no-rise certificate signed and sealed by a professional
engineer licensed to practice in the State of Arkansas is submitted to document
that no increase in the base flood elevation would result from granting a
variance for the proposed development.
         (b)   Protective measures are employed to minimize damages during
flooding events; and
         (c)   The variance does not result in any adverse impact to other
lands.
   (D)   Examples of developments for which variance petitions may be
appropriate include but are not limited to:
      (1)   The construction of, or substantial improvement to, a structure on
a lot of 1/2 acre or less in size that is surrounded by contiguous lots with
existing structures constructed below the base flood elevation.
      (2)   For the reconstruction, rehabilitation, or restoration of a
historical structure, provided that:
         (a)   The proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the
structure's continued designation as a historic structure; and
         (b)   The variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic
character and design of the structure.
      (3)   The new construction of substantial improvement to, or other
development necessary to conduct a functionally dependent use, provided that:
         (a)   The criteria outlined in §
151.14(C) and (D) and §
151.15 are met; and
         (b)   The structure or other development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damage during the base flood and create no additional threats to
public safety.
(Ord. 2023-27, passed 11-21-23; Am. Ord. 2023-32, passed 12-19-23; Am. Ord.
2024-11, passed 6-18-24)
§ 151.15 APPEAL BOARD.
   (A)   Within Sebastian County, Arkansas, the County Judge, County Assessor,
and a member from the Board of Directors of the Western River Valley Board of
Realtors is the designated Appeal Board.
   (B)   The Appeal Board will consider an appeal only with allegations of an
error in any requirement, decision, or determination made by the Floodplain
Administrator in the enforcement or administration of this code.
   (C)   Upon consideration of the factors noted in §§
151.14 and
151.15, and the intent of this chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such
conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the
purpose and objectives of this chapter.
   (D)   Appeal Board decisions are binding only upon the requirements of this
code and have no bearing on the decision of any lending institution to require
the purchase of flood insurance or on the rate determination of such insurance.
   (E)   Any time the Appeal Board issues a variance, it must provide the
applicant with a formal written warning of an increased risk of flood damage
due to removal of restrictions designed to lessen such risks. The notice must
also warn of a corresponding increase in the cost of flood insurance since the
cost of such insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk.
   (F)   Aggrieved parties may appeal any decision of the Appeal Board to a
court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2023-27, passed 11-21-23; Am. Ord. 2023-32, passed 12-19-23; Am. Ord.
2024-11, passed 6-18-24)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 151.20 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   The following standards apply to all developments in special flood hazard
areas and other high-risk areas, regardless of the type of proposed development
or the risk zone of the proposed site.
   (A)   All new and substantial construction or substantial improvements shall
be designed (or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse or lateral movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and
hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
   (B)   All new constructions or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials resistant to flood damage.
   (D)   All critical facilities constructed or substantially improved in
special flood hazard areas (SFHA) or other high-risk areas must be constructed
or modified to exceed 500-year flood protection standards or located outside
the SFHA.
   (E)   The placement or construction of all new structures must be in full
compliance with the provisions of this code.
   (F)   For the purposes of this code, all mixed-use structures are subject to
the more stringent requirements of residential structures.
   (G)   A substantial improvement or substantial damage to an existing
structure triggers a requirement to bring the entire structure into full
compliance with the provisions of this code. The existing structure, as well as
any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other improvement, must meet
the standards of new construction in this code.
   (H)   Any improvement to an existing structure that is less than a
substantial improvement requires the improvement, but not the existing
structure, to be in full compliance with the provisions of this code.
   (I)   All manufactured homes to be placed within a special flood hazard area
on a community's FIRM shall be installed using methods and practices which
minimize flood damage. For the purposes of this requirement, manufactured homes
must be elevated and anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of
over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in addition
to applicable state and local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
Screw augers or expanding anchors will not satisfy the requirement of this
provision.
   (J)   The design or location of electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing,
and air conditioning equipment for new structures, or for any improvements to
an existing structure, must prevent water from entering or accumulating within
the components during base flood events.
   (K)   The design of all new and replacement water supply systems must
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwater into the system during base
flood events.
   (L)   The design of all new and replacement sanitary sewage systems must
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system during
flooding events and must prevent sewage discharge from the systems into
floodwaters.
   (M)   The placement of on-site waste disposal systems must avoid impairment
to, or contamination from, the disposal system during base flood events.
   (N)   Construction of basement foundations in any special flood hazard area
or other high-risk area is prohibited.
   (O)   New construction and substantial improvements, with fully enclosed
areas (such as garages and crawlspaces) below the lowest floor that are usable
solely for parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other
than a basement and which are below the base flood elevation shall be designed
to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by
allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this
requirement must either be certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect or meet or exceed the following minimum criteria:
      (1)   A minimum of two openings on separate walls having a total net area
of not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject
to flooding shall be provided.
      (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above
grade.
      (3)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices if they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
   (P)   The placement of recreational vehicles (RV) in special flood hazard
areas must either:
      (1)   Be temporary, as demonstrated by the RV being fully licensed, being
on wheels or a jacking system, attached to the site only by quick disconnect
type utilities and security devices, having no permanently attached additions,
and being immobile for no more than 180 consecutive days; or
      (2)   Meet all provisions of this code applicable to manufactured home
structures.
      (3)   Be in a working mechanical and physical condition to ensure quick
removal from the special flood hazard area during a flood event.
   (Q)   All proposals for the development of a residential subdivision,
commercial business park or manufactured home park/subdivision must have public
utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems
located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage.
   (R)   All proposals for the development of a residential subdivision,
commercial business park or a manufactured home park/subdivision must include
an adequate drainage plan to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (S)   All proposals for the development of a commercial business park or a
manufactured home park/subdivision must include an adequate evacuation plan for
the escape of citizens from affected nonresidential structures during flooding
events.
   (T)   All development proposals in the 100-year or 500-year special flood
hazard area or other high- risk areas shall require a floodplain development
permit prior to construction.
(Ord. 2023-27, passed 11-21-23; Am. Ord. 2023-32, passed 12-19-23; Am. Ord.
2024-11, passed 6-18-24)
§ 151.21 RISK ZONE SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In addition to the general standards, the following standards apply to
specific development types in specific risk zones. Risk zones listed in this
code that do not appear on the current FIRM are not applicable.
   (A)   In AE or A1-30 Risk Zones: special flood hazard areas with base floods
determined.
      (1)   For residential structures in Zone AE or A1-30:
         (a)   For all new residential structures, the top surface of the
lowest floor must have an elevation one foot above the published BFE. This
elevation must be documented on an elevation certificate properly completed by
a professional engineer, surveyor or architect licensed to practice in the
State of Arkansas.
         (b)   For all substantial improvements or substantial damage to
existing residential structures, the entire structure becomes subject to the
requirements of a new residential structure.
         (c)   For any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
improvement to an existing residential structure that is less than a
substantial improvement, only the improved area, but not the entire structure,
becomes subject to the requirements of a new residential structure.
      (2)   For nonresidential structures in Zone AE or A1-30:
         (a)   All new commercial, industrial, or other nonresidential
structures must either:
            1.   Have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated one foot
above the base flood level; or
            2.   Be floodproofed such that, together with attendant utility and
sanitary facilities, be designed so that below an elevation of three feet above
the base flood level the structure is watertight with walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water and with structural components having the
capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of
buoyancy.
            3.   A registered professional engineer or architect shall develop
and/or review structural design, specifications, and plans for the
construction, and shall certify on a floodproofing certificate that the design
and methods of construction is in accordance with accepted standards of
practice as outlined in this subsection. A record of such certification which
includes the specific elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which such
structures are floodproofed shall be maintained by the Floodplain
Administrator.
         (b)   For all substantial improvements or substantial damage to
existing commercial, industrial, or other nonresidential structures the entire
structure becomes subject to the requirements of a new nonresidential
structure.
         (c)   For any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
improvement to an existing nonresidential structure that is less than a
substantial improvement, only the improved area, but not the entire structure,
becomes subject to the requirements of a new nonresidential structure.
      (3)   For manufactured homes in Zone AE or A1-30:
         (a)   All manufactured homes that are placed or substantially improved
on sites:
            1.   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision;
            2.   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
            3.   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
            4.   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which
a manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage” as a result of a flood,
be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the
manufactured home is elevated one foot above the base flood elevation and be
securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
         (b)   Require that manufactured homes be placed or substantially
improved on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on the
community's FIRM that are not subject to the provisions of division (A)(3)(a)
of this section be elevated so that either:
            1.   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is one foot above
the base flood elevation; or
            2.   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less
than 36 inches in height above grade and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
         (c)   For all substantial improvements or substantial damage to an
existing manufactured home, the entire structure becomes subject to the
requirements of a new manufactured home.
         (d)   For any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
improvement to an existing manufactured home that is less than a substantial
improvement, only the improved area, but not the entire structure, becomes
subject to the requirements of a newly manufactured home.
      (4)   When a regulatory floodway has not been designated, the Floodplain
Administrator must require that no new construction, substantial improvements,
or other development (including fill) shall be permitted within Zones A1-30 and
AE on the community's FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative
effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and
anticipated development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the
base flood more than one foot at any point within the community.
   (B)   Floodways: high risk areas of stream channel and adjacent floodplain.
      (1)   Developments in regulatory floodways are prohibited, unless:
         (a)   A no-rise certificate, signed and stamped by a professional
engineer licensed to practice in the State of Arkansas, is submitted to
demonstrate through hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance
with standard engineering practice that the proposed development would not
result in any increase in flood levels within the community during the
occurrence of a base flood event; or
         (b)   All requirements of 44 CFR § 65.12 are first met.
      (2)   No manufactured home may be placed in a regulatory floodway,
regardless of elevation height, anchoring methods, or no-rise certification.
   (C)   In AH or AO Risk Zones: special flood hazard areas of shallow
flooding.
      (1)   For residential structures in Zones AH or AO:
         (a)   All new residential structures must be constructed with the top
surface of the lowest floor elevated one foot above the published BFE, or two
feet above the highest adjacent grade in addition to the depth number specified
(at least two feet if no depth number is specified) on the community's FIRM.
This elevation must be documented on an elevation certificate properly
completed by a professional engineer, surveyor or architect licensed to
practice in the State of Arkansas.
         (b)   For all substantial improvements or substantial damage to
existing residential structures the entire structure becomes subject to the
requirements of a new residential structure.
         (c)   For any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
improvement to an existing residential structure that is less than a
substantial improvement, only the improved area, but not the entire structure,
becomes subject to the requirements of a new residential structure.
      (2)   For nonresidential structures in Zones AH or AO:
         (a)   All new commercial, industrial, or other nonresidential
structure must either:
            1.   Have the top surface of the lowest floor elevated one foot
above the published BFE, or two feet above the highest adjacent grade in
addition to the depth number specified (at least two feet if no depth number is
specified) on the community's FIRM, with documentation on an elevation
certificate properly completed by a professional engineer, surveyor or
architect licensed to practice in the State of Arkansas; or
            2.   Be floodproofed such that the structure, together with
attendant utility and sanitary facilities be designed two feet or more above
the published BFE in Zone AH, or two feet above the base specified flood depth
in an AO Zone, the structure is watertight with walls substantially impermeable
to the passage of water and with structural components having the capability of
resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads of effects of buoyancy.
         (b)   For all substantial improvements or substantial damage to
existing commercial, industrial, or other nonresidential structures the entire
structure becomes subject to the requirements of a new nonresidential
structure.
         (c)   For any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
improvement to an existing nonresidential structure that is less than a
substantial improvement, only the improved area, but not the entire structure,
becomes subject to the requirements of a new nonresidential structure.
      (3)   For manufactured homes in AH or AO:
         (a)   All manufactured homes that are placed or substantially improved
on sites:
            1.   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision;
            2.   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
            3.   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
            4.   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which
a manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage” as a result of a flood,
be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the
manufactured home is elevated one foot above the published BFE, or two feet
above the highest adjacent grade in addition to the depth number specified (at
least two feet if no depth number is specified) on the community's FIRM, and be
securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
         (b)   Require that manufactured homes be placed or substantially
improved on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on the
community's FIRM that are not subject to the provisions of division (C)(3)(a)
of this section be elevated so that either:
            1.   The lowest floor of the manufactured home meets the elevation
standard of division (C)(2)(a)1.; or
            2.   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less
than 36 inches in height above grade and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
         (c)   For all substantial improvements or substantial damage to
existing manufactured home, the entire structure becomes subject to the
requirements of a new manufactured home.
         (d)   For any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
improvement to an existing manufactured home that is less than a substantial
improvement, only the improved area, but not the entire structure, becomes
subject to the requirements of a new manufactured home.
      (4)   Where FEMA has not established a regulatory floodway in Zones AH or
AO, no floodplain development permit may be issued unless a detailed
engineering analysis is submitted along with the application that demonstrates
the increase in base floodwater elevation due to the proposed development and
all cumulative developments since the publication of the current FIRM will be
less than one foot.
      (5)   Require adequate drainage paths around structures on slopes, to
guide flood waters around and away from proposed structures.
   (D)   In A Risk Zones: special flood hazard areas with no base flood
elevations determined and other high-risk areas.
      (1)   In Zone A and other high-risk areas, the applicant or the
applicant's agent must determine a base flood elevation prior to construction.
The BFE will be based on a source or method approved by the local Floodplain
Administrator including but not limited to the FEMA BLE viewer.
      (2)   For residential structures in Zone A:
         (a)   For all new residential structures, the top surface of the
lowest floor must have an elevation one foot above the BFE. This elevation must
be documented on an elevation certificate properly completed by a professional
engineer, surveyor or architect licensed to practice in the State of Arkansas.
         (b)   For all substantial improvements or substantial damage to
existing residential structures, the entire structure becomes subject to the
requirements of a new residential structure.
         (c)   For any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
improvement to an existing residential structure that is less than a
substantial improvement, only the improved area, but not the entire structure,
becomes subject to the requirements of a new residential structure.
      (3)   For nonresidential structures in Zone A:
         (a)   All new commercial, industrial, or other nonresidential
structures must either:
            1.   Have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated one foot
above the base flood level; or
            2.   Be floodproofed such that, together with attendant utility and
sanitary facilities, be designed so that below an elevation of three feet above
the base flood level, the structure is watertight with walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water and with structural components having the
capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of
buoyancy.
            3.   A registered professional engineer or architect shall develop
and/or review structural design, specifications, and plans for the
construction, and shall certify on a floodproofing certificate that the design
and methods of construction are in accordance with accepted standards of
practice as outlined in this subsection. A record of such certification which
includes the specific elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which such
structures are floodproofed shall be maintained by the Floodplain
Administrator.
         (b)   For all substantial improvements or substantial damage to
existing commercial, industrial, or other nonresidential structures the entire
structure becomes subject to the requirements of a new nonresidential
structure.
         (c)   For any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
improvement to an existing nonresidential structure that is less than a
substantial improvement, only the improved area, but not the entire structure,
becomes subject to the requirements of a new nonresidential structure.
      (4)   For manufactured homes in Zone A:
         (a)   All manufactured homes that are placed or substantially improved
on sites:
            1.   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision;
            2.   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
            3.   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
            4.   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which
a manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage” as a result of a flood,
be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the
manufactured home is elevated one foot above the base flood elevation and be
securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
         (b)   Require that manufactured homes be placed or substantially
improved on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on the
community's FIRM that are not subject to the provisions of division (D)(4)(a)
of this section be elevated so that either:
            1.   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is one foot above
the base flood elevation; or
            2.   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less
than 36 inches in height above grade and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
         (c)   For all substantial improvements or substantial damage to an
existing manufactured home, the entire structure becomes subject to the
requirements of a new manufactured home.
         (d)   For any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
improvement to an existing manufactured home that is less than a substantial
improvement, only the improved area, but not the entire structure, becomes
subject to the requirements of a new manufactured home.
      (5)   For subdivision proposals and other proposed development including
the placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions which is greater than
50 lots or five acres, whichever is lesser:
         (a)   Generate base flood elevation data and a regulatory floodway,
utilizing accepted engineering practices, if not otherwise provided.
         (b)   For all residential structures included within the proposed
development, comply with the requirements outlined in division (D)(2) above.
         (c)   For all non-residential structures included within the proposed
development, comply with the requirements outlined in division (D)(3) above.
         (d)   For all manufactured homes included within the proposed
development, comply with the requirements outlined in division (D)(4) above.
   (E)   In "X" Risk Zones (shaded):
      (1)   In Zone X (shaded) the applicant or the applicant's agent must
determine a base flood elevation prior to construction. The BFE will be based
on a source or method approved by the local Floodplain Administrator including
but not limited to the FEMA BLE viewer.
      (2)   For residential structures in Zone X (shaded):
         (a)   For all new residential structures, the top surface of the
lowest floor must have an elevation one foot above the BFE. This elevation must
be documented on an elevation certificate properly completed by a professional
engineer, surveyor or architect licensed to practice in the State of Arkansas.
         (b)   For all substantial improvements or substantial damage to
existing residential structures, the entire structure becomes subject to the
requirements of a new residential structure.
         (c)   For any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
improvement to an existing residential structure that is less than a
substantial improvement, only the improved area, but not the entire structure,
becomes subject to the requirements of a new residential structure.
      (3)   For nonresidential structures in Zone X (shaded):
         (a)   All new commercial, industrial, or other nonresidential
structures must either:
            1.   Have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated one foot
above the base flood level; or
            2.   Be floodproofed such that, together with attendant utility and
sanitary facilities, be designed so that below an elevation of two feet above
the base flood level, the structure is watertight with walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water and with structural components having the
capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of
buoyancy.
            3.   A registered professional engineer or architect shall develop
and/or review structural design, specifications, and plans for the
construction, and shall certify on a floodproofing certificate that the design
and methods of construction are in accordance with accepted standards of
practice as outlined in this subsection. A record of such certification which
includes the specific elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which such
structures are floodproofed shall be maintained by the Floodplain
Administrator.
         (b)   For all substantial improvements or substantial damage to
existing commercial, industrial, or other nonresidential structures the entire
structure becomes subject to the requirements of a new nonresidential
structure.
         (c)   For any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
improvement to an existing nonresidential structure that is less than a
substantial improvement, only the improved area, but not the entire structure,
becomes subject to the requirements of a new nonresidential structure.
      (4)   For manufactured homes in Zone X (shaded):
         (a)   All manufactured homes that are placed or substantially improved
on sites:
            1.   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision;
            2.   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
            3.   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
            4.   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which
a manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage” as a result of a flood,
be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the
manufactured home is elevated one foot above the base flood elevation and be
securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
         (b)   Require that manufactured homes be placed or substantially
improved on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on the
community's FIRM that are not subject to the provisions of division (E)(4)(a)
above be elevated so that either:
            1.   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is one foot above
the base flood elevation; or
            2.   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less
than 24 inches in height above grade and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
         (c)   For all substantial improvements or substantial damage to an
existing manufactured home, the entire structure becomes subject to the
requirements of a new manufactured home.
         (d)   For any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
improvement to an existing manufactured home that is less than a substantial
improvement, only the improved area, but not the entire structure, becomes
subject to the requirements of a new manufactured home.
(Ord. 2023-27, passed 11-21-23; Am. Ord. 2023-32, passed 12-19-23; Am. Ord.
2024-11, passed 6-18-24)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
TABLE I: CONTRACTS; INTERLOCAL AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.   Date Passed Description
                       Memorandum of agreement between the county and the
-          --          University of Arkansas to appropriate funds for the
                       Cooperative Extension Service program in the county
                       Authorization and approval of an agreement between the
78-12      6-16-78     county and Scott County concerning the Sebastian/Scott
                       County Regional Library
                       Authorization of the entrance into an agreement between
79-8       6-19-79     the county and the Fort Smith Housing Authority
                       concerning the utilization of funds voluntarily payable
                       in lieu of taxes
                       Authorization of entrance into an agreement between the
79-10      7-17-79     county and the City of Fort Smith to acquire additional
                       land adjacent to the Fort Smith landfill
                       Authorization of entrance into an agreement between the
79-17      10-18-79    county and the City of Fort Smith concerning the 50/50
                       payment of the County Health Center expenses by the
                       county and city
                       Authorization of entrance into an agreement between the
79-24      11-21-79    county and the City of Fort Smith to acquire land or
                       leasehold interests for the Fort Smith landfill
81-12      5-6-81      Authorization of the entrance into equipment maintenance
                       contracts
                       Authorization to amend the agreement between the county
82-6       3-22-82     and the City of Fort Smith concerning the County Health
                       Center
                       Authorization of entrance into an agreement between the
83-37      10-20-83    county and the City of Fort Smith concerning reciprocal
                       fire-fighting assistance
                       Authorization of entrance into an agreement between the
                       county and the Milltown-Washburn Water Association
84-14      7-19-84     concerning application for funds from the State Soil and
                       Water Conservation Commission for the installation of a
                       water system
                       Authorization of entrance into an agreement between the
84-19      7-19-84     county and Crawford County concerning the Chancery
                       Court; agreement that all expenses of the Court shall be
                       paid 72% by Sebastian County and 28 by Crawford County
                       Authorization of entrance into an agreement between the
                       county and the Northeast Sebastian Water Users
85-9       5-21-85     Association concerning the application for funds from
                       the State Soil and Water Conservation Commission for the
                       installation of a water system
                       Authorization of entrance into an agreement between the
85-22      8-20-85     county and the City of Fort Smith concerning the Fort
                       Smith Municipal Court and that all expenses shall be
                       paid 70% by the City of Fort Smith and 30% by the county
                       Authorization of entrance into an agreement between the
                       county and the City of Fort Smith concerning the
88-12      6-22-88     implementation and operation of an enhanced 9-1-
                       1 telephone system, the procedure to set basic telephone
                       tariff rate and prescribing other matters
                       Adoption of an agreement between the county and the City
89-9       6-21-89     of Fort Smith concerning the planning, implementation
                       and management of the enhanced 9-1-1 emergency telephone
                       system
                       Adoption of an agreement between the county and the City
53-89      7-5-89      of Fort Smith concerning the planning, implementation
                       and management of the enhanced 9-1-1 emergency telephone
                       system
                       Adoption of an agreement between the county and the City
                       of Greenwood concerning the enactment and disposition of
89-25      10-18-89    court cost for state cases of $3 for the administration
                       of justice purposes and $5 for criminal justice to
                       exclusively support the operations of the Greenwood
                       Municipal Court
R. 91-9    8-20-91     Authorization of the execution of an agreement creating
                       the County Regional Solid Waste Management Board
91-19      6-18-91     Amendment; Chancery Court budget and operations
                       agreement
                       Authorization of the entrance into an agreement between
R. 92-4    5-19-92     the county and the Western Arkansas Planning and
                       Development District for the purpose of administering
                       the county's ACEDP grant
                       Authorization of the entrance into an agreement for
R. 92-5    5-19-92     engineering services and the inspection of the proposed
                       West Hartford Water Extension Project
92-21      11-17-92    Authorization to award a bid for an upgraded computer
                       system for the county
                       Authorization of entrance into an agreement between the
92-22      11-17-92    county and the City of Fort Smith concerning Sebastian
                       County Municipal Court/Fort Smith Municipal Court data
                       processing operations
R. 93-01   1-19-93     Authorization of the participation in an agreement
                       concerning cooperative purchasing in contracts
                       Authorization of the entrance into an agreement for the
R. 93-04   9-21-93     provision of food services for the county's Adult
                       Detention Center and Juvenile Detention Center
                       Authorization of the entrance into an agreement
R. 93-8    11-16-93    engineering services, design and inspection of the
                       proposed Sugarloaf/Slaytonville/Arkoal water extension
                       project
                       Authorization of the entrance into an agreement between
R. 93-9    11-16-93    the county and Western Arkansas Planning and Development
                       District for the purpose of administering the county's
                       ACEDP grant
                       Authorization of the entrance into an agreement between
93-19      11-16-93    the county and the City of Fort Smith concerning
                       reimbursement for city prisoners held in the County Jail
                       Removal of the County Public Housing Agency as a
94-7       3-15-94     department of the government; the authorization of the
                       merge of the county and the Fort Smith Housing Authority
                       Assignation of the rights, title and interest of the
94-12      4-28-94     county in and to HUD Public Housing Agency annual
                       contributions to Fort Smith Housing Authority
                       Authorization of entrance into an agreement between the
95-19      10-17-95    county and Fort Smith Emergency Medical Services
                       concerning the operation of an enhanced 9-1-1 telephone
                       system serving county citizens
R. 99-2    2-16-99     Authorization of entrance into a lease agreement for the
                       purpose of procuring voter tabulation equipment
                       Authorization of entrance into an agreement between the
99-14      7-20-99     county and the City of Fort Smith concerning Fort Smith
                       Municipal Court AS400 programs
                       Authorization of entrance into an agreement granting the
R. 2000-11 9-19-00     first right of refusal on any sale of the county's
                       Parker Annex Building to the Fort Smith Museum of
                       History
                       Adoption of an interlocal agreement between the county
2001-13    5-15-01     and the City of Hartford for the provision of fire
                       protection services for the Hartford Fire Protection
                       District
                       Authorization of an interlocal agreement among the
                       county, the City of Fort Smith, and each of the other
2001-32    12-18-01    municipal governments in the county concerning the
                       operation and maintenance of a hazardous materials
                       response program
                       Authorizing the County Judge to enter into an agreement
2004-6     2-17-04     with Gila Corporation, d/b/a Municipal Services Bureau
                       for District Court collections in the Fort Smith
                       District Court
                       Authorizing the County Judge to enter into an agreement
2004-27    10-19-04    with the City of Fort Smith regarding operating costs
                       and ownership concerning the Sebastian Courthouse
                       Authorizing the County Judge to enter into an agreement
2005-17    7-19-05     on behalf of the county with the City of Fort Smith
                       regarding construction of a justice complex, which will
                       include Fort Smith District Court Courtrooms and offices
                       Authorizing the County Judge to enter into agreements to
R. - -     9-19-06     implement the installation of a new phone system for
                       county offices
                       Authorizing agreement for completion of a new Third
R. 2007-8  6-26-07     District Court courtroom In Sebastian County Justice
                       Complex
                       Adopting an intergovernment agreement between Sebastian
2007-15    8-21-07     County and the cities of Barling, Central City and
                       Greenwood
                       Authorizing the County Judge to execute a memorandum of
                       understanding by and between Mars Petcare U.S., Inc.,
                       the City of Fort Smith, Arkansas, the County of
R. 2007-12 11-13-07    Sebastian, Arkansas, the Fort Chaffee Redevelopment
                       Authority Public Trust (FCRA), the Arkansas Economic
                       Development Commission and the Fort Smith Regional
                       Chamber of Commerce
                       Authorizing the execution of a memorandum of
R. 2008-6  7-21-08     understanding regarding Umarex expansion, an economic
                       development project at Chaffee Crossing
                       Authorizing the County Judge to execute a memorandum of
R. 2008-7  7-21-08     understanding regarding a new manufacturing facility for
                       Plastic Research and Development Corporation (Pradco) at
                       Chaffee Crossing
                       Authorizing the County Judge to enter into an agreement
                       on behalf fo Sebastian County with the City of Fort
2009-6     3-17-09     Smith concerning the Fort Smith District Court; agreeing
                       that the county will fund a position for collection of
                       state division fines for the county
                       Authorizing the Sebastian County Judge to enter into a
R. 2009-7  6-16-09     memorandum of agreement for funding the JAG Grant
                       Program with the City of Fort Smith
                       Stating the intent of Sebastian County Government to
R. 2009-8  6-16-09     enter into an agreement wit the City of Fort Smith for
                       the joint operation of facilities dedicated to emergency
                       operations and response
                       Authorizing the County Judge to enter into an agreement
                       on behalf of Sebastian County with the City of Fort
2009-16    7-21-09     Smith concerning reimbursement for city prisoners held
                       in the county jail; setting forth reimbursement
                       procedures
                       Authorizing the formation of a regional intermodal
2009-18    7-21-09     facilities authority; authorizing an agreement between
                       the cities of Fort Smith and Van Buren and Sebastian and
                       Crawford Counties
                       Authorizing the County Judge to enter into an agreement
                       on behalf of Sebastian County with the City of Fort
2009-26    12-15-09    Smith concerning reimbursement for city prisoners held
                       in the county jail; setting forth reimbursement
                       procedures
                       Authorizing the County Judge to enter into an agreement
                       on behalf of Sebastian County with the City of Fort
2010-3     1-26-10     Smith concerning the Fort Smith District Court; agreeing
                       that the county will fund a position for collection of
                       state division fines for the county
                       Authorizing the County Judge to sign a definitive
                       agreement by and between Sebastian County, Mitsubishi
                       Power Systems Americas Inc., the City of Fort Smith,
R. 2010-6  6-15-10     Arkansas, the Fort Chaffee Redevelopment Authority
                       Public Trust and the Fort Smith Regional Chamber of
                       Commerce to locate and operate a turbine assembly and
                       manufacturing facility
                       Authorizing the County Judge to enter into a memorandum
R. 2010-11 8-24-10     of understanding for funding the JAG Grant Program with
                       the City of Fort Smith
                       Authorizing withdrawal from the Bi-State Metropolitan
R. 2010-18 12-21-10    Planning Organization; authorizing participation in the
                       dissolution of the organization
                       Authorizing the formation of a Metropolitan Planning
                       Organization; authorizing an agreement between Sebastian
2010-21    12-21-10    County and other cities and counties and other entities
                       within the State of Arkansas and within the State of
                       Oklahoma
R. 2011-1  2-15-11     Authorizing the County Judge to enter into a contract
                       for the provision of pictometry services
                       Authorizing the County Judge to enter into an agreement
2011-11    7-26-11     on behalf of the county with the City of Fort Smith
                       regarding the operation and maintenance of the County
                       Emergency Management and Public Safety Facility
                       Authorizing the County Judge to enter into a memorandum
R. 2011-13 9-20-11     of understanding for funding the JAG Grant Program with
                       the City of Fort Smith
                       Authorizing an amendment to the memorandum of
R. 2011-17 12-20-11    understanding regarding Mars Petcare, an economic
                       development project at Chaffee Crossing
                       Authorizing an amendment to the memorandum of
R. 2011-18 12-20-11    understanding regarding Umarex, an economic development
                       project at Chaffee Crossing
                       Authorizing the County Judge to enter into a memorandum
R. 2012-4  6-19-12     of understanding for funding the JAG Grant Program with
                       the City of Fort Smith
                       Authorizing the County Judge to enter into a contract
2012-15    8-23-12     with Arvest Bank to implement a purchasing/travel cards
                       system; adopting policies and procedures
                       Authorizing the project delivery method of Construction
R. 2013-4  5-21-13     Manager at risk for the Ben Geren Regional Park Aquatic
                       Center project
                       Authorizing the County Judge to enter into a Memorandum
R. 2013-7  7-16-13     of Understanding for funding in cooperation with the
                       City of Fort Smith for the 2013 JAG Grant Program
                       Authorizing the County Judge to sign a contract with
R. 2013-8  9-3-13      Flintco, LLC jointly with the City of Fort Smith for
                       construction manager for the Ben Geren Aquatics Center
                       project
                       Authorizing the County Judge to enter into a memorandum
R. 2014-6  6-17-14     of understanding for funding the 2014 JAG Grant Program
                       with the City of Fort Smith
                       Authorizing the County Judge to enter into a contract
                       with the city of Fort Smith for an aquatics facility
R. 2014-12 10-21-14    pre-opening agreement to be provided by American Resort
                       Management, LLC, for the Ben Geren Regional Park Aquatic
                       Center
                       Authorizing the County Judge to enter into a joint
                       contract with the city of Fort Smith for an aquatics
R. 2014-12 12-17-14    facility management agreement to be provided by American
                       Resort Management, LLC, for the Ben Geren Regional Park
                       Aquatic Center
                       Authorizing the County Judge to enter into a memorandum
R. 2015-13 10-20-15    of understanding for funding the 2015 JAG Grant Program
                       with the City of Fort Smith
                       Entering into an annual agreement to provide fire
2017-8     3-21-17     fighting services by designating eight rural fire
                       fighting districts
                       Entering into an annual agreement to provide fire
2017-10    4-18-17     fighting services by designating eight rural fire
                       fighting districts
                       Authorizing the County Judge to execute all appropriate
R. 2017-2  5-16-17     agreements with the Arkansas State Highway and
                       Transportation Department to widen Highway 45
R. 2017-5  6-20-17     Establishing a crisis stabilization unit
                       Authorizing the County Judge to enter an investment
R. 2017-7  7-18-17     grade audit and project development contract for the
                       Arkansas Performance Contracting Program
                       Authorizing the County Judge to enter into a memorandum
R. 2017-8  9-19-17     of understanding for funding the 2017 JAG Grant Program
                       with the City of Fort Smith
                       Authorizing the County Judge to enter into a joint
                       contract with the City of Fort Smith for the five-year
R. 2017-9  10-17-17    renewal of an aquatics facility management agreement to
                       be provided by American Resort Management, LLC for the
                       Ben Geren Regional Park Aquatic Center (Parrot Island)
2017-24    11-21-17    Authorizing the county to complete an energy efficiency
                       project
                       Authorizing the funding of the Arkansas Energy
2017-25    11-21-17    Performance Contract Program for the county under the
                       authority of Amendment 89 to the Arkansas Constitution,
                       Act 554 of 2013 and Act 1275 of 2015
                       Authorizing the County Judge to apply for an 80/20
R. 2019-3  6-18-19     matching grant from the Department of Justice, Bureau of
                       Justice Assistance, Justice and Mental Health
                       Collaboration Program
                       Authorizing the County Judge to enter into a memorandum
R. 2019-7  8-20-19     of understanding for funding the 2019 JAG Grant Program
                       with the City of Fort Smith
                       Authorizing the county judge to execute a change order
R. 2019-8  9-17-19     to an investment grade audit and project development
                       plan for solar energy for county properties
                       Agreement between Sebastian County and the other
2020-4     3-18-20     municipal governments in Sebastian County, excluding the
                       City of Fort Smith, regarding Radio Dispatch Services
                       Authorizing financing agreement for purchase of certain
2020-8     6-16-20     energy efficiency equipment, including solar equipment
                       and related equipment and improvements
                       Authorizing the County Judge to enter into a memorandum
R. 2020-4  8-18-20     of understanding for funding the 2020 JAG Grant Program
                       with the City of Fort Smith
2020-13    8-18-20     Authorizing an exchange of county property with the City
                       of Greenwood, Arkansas
                       Authorizing the conversion of four rural fire
2020-14    9-22-20     departments from a 501(c)(3) non- profit organization to
                       a fire protection district
                       Authorizing the County Judge to issue a purchase order
R. 2020-8  10-20-20    for a new ambulance under a cooperative purchasing
                       agreement
                       Authorizing the County Judge to enter into a memorandum
R. 2021-7  7-20-21     of understanding for funding the JAG Grant Program with
                       the City of Fort Smith
                       Authorizing the renewing and extending the contract/
                       agreement with Cards River Valley, Inc. for the
2022-6     3-15-22     exclusive right to provide residential solid waste
                       collection and disposal services in the unincorporated
                       areas of Sebastian County, for a five-year term; 4/1/
                       2022 - 3/31/2027
                       Authorizing the execution of a memorandum of
                       understanding between the City of Fort Smith, Arkansas,
R-108-22   7-12-22     and Sebastian County, Arkansas, regarding the 2022
                       Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant (JAG)
                       Program
                       Authorizing the Sebastian County Judge to enter into a
R. 2022-4  7-19-22     memorandum of understanding for funding the JAG Grant
                       Program with the City of Fort Smith
                       Authorizing a rate increase for residential solid waste
2023-8     4-18-23     collection and disposal within the unincorporated areas
                       of Sebastian County
                       Authorizing the Sebastian County Judge to enter into a
R. 2023-7  7-18-23     memorandum of understanding for funding the JAG Grant
                       Program with the City of Fort Smith
2023-19    8-15-23     Authorizing Sebastian County Judge to enter into a
                       contract between the county and Tex-Ark Kennels, LLC
                       Authorizing a rate increase for residential solid waste
2024-6     3-19-24     collection and disposal within the unincorporated areas
                       of Sebastian County
                       Authorizing the Sebastian County Judge to enter into a
R. 2024-13 9-24-24     memorandum of understanding for funding the JAG Grant
                       Program with the City of Fort Smith
                       Authorizing the Sebastian County Judge to enter into an
2024-21    11-19-24    agreement concerning the Public Safety Answering Points
                       Center (PSAP) with the City of Fort Smith
                      
 
TABLE II: SPECIAL ELECTIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
81-14     5-20-81     Setting an election date for the adoption of a 1% county-
                      wide sales tax
81-20     6-16-81     Amendment; setting an election date for the adoption of a
                      1% county-wide sales tax
85-17     6-18-85     Setting an election date for the adoption of a 1% county-
                      wide sales tax
                      Setting an election date for the adoption of Ord. 85-39,
86-9      4-22-86     establishing a service charge for the provision of
                      ambulance emergency medical services
93-6      4-20-93     Setting an election date for the question of levying a 1%
                      county-wide sales and use tax
94-10     4-19-94     Setting an election date for the question of levying a 1%
                      county-wide sales and use tax
                      Setting an election date for the question of issuing
95-11     5-16-95     bonds to finance capital improvements for public
                      libraries
                      Amendment; setting an election date for the question of
95-13     5-26-96     issuing bonds to finance capital improvements for public
                      libraries
2003-7    3-18-03     Setting an election date for the question of levying a 1%
                      county-wide sales and use tax
                      Setting an election date for the question of the
2013-4    2-19-13     continuation of the levy of a county-wide 1% sales and
                      use tax
R. 2016-4 5-17-16     Setting an election date for adoption of increase in
                      service charge for ambulance emergency medical services
R. 2016-9 8-23-16     Choosing voting equipment per state statute
                      Adopting and interlocal agreement between the counties
                      and cities in the Sebastian County Mental Health
2018-11   7-17-18     Catchment Area concerning the operations of the Sebastian
                      County regional crisis stabilization unit serving
                      Sebastian, Crawford, Franklin, Logan, Scott and Polk
                      Counties
2020-6    5-26-20     Setting an election date for the question of the
                      extension of an existing .25% sales and use tax
2023-12   4-18-23     Setting an election date for the question of levying a 1%
                      county-wide sales and use tax
                     
 
TABLE III: FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
81-9     4-21-81     Grant of an exclusive refuse collection franchise
R. 86-6  9-16-86     Grant of a non-exclusive cable television franchise
                     agreement to Tempo Cable, Inc.
R. 89-1  2-22-89     Grant of a non-exclusive permit agreement to Cable Media
                     Group, Inc.
                     Grant of a non-exclusive cable television franchise to
91-381   1-19-91     Halcyon Communications Limited Partnership, an Oklahoma
                     limited partnership, doing business as Westark
                     Cablesystems
                     Grant of a non-exclusive cable television franchise to
96-4     3-19-96     Halcyon Communications Limited Partnership, an Oklahoma
                     limited partnership, doing business as Westark Cable
                     Amendment; grant of a transfer of a cable television
R. 97-15 11-18-97    franchise from Halcyon Communication Limited Partnership
                     to Peak Cablevision, LLC
                     Amendment; grant of a transfer of a cable television
R. 97-16 11-18-97    franchise from Halcyon Communication Limited Partnership
                     to Peak Cablevision, LLC
                     Amendment; grant of a cable television franchise agreement
R. 99-9  9-21-99     change in control from Peak Cablevision, LLC, to Cox
                     Teleport Partners, Inc.
2004-10  3-16-04     Amendment; cable television franchise fee for Cox
                     Communications
                     Authorizing a rate increase for residential solid waste
2006-10  6-20-06     collection and disposal within the unincorporated areas of
                     the county
                     Amending ordinance 2008-15 concerning residential solid
2009-20  9-15-09     waste collection and disposal within the unincorporated
                     areas of the county [replaced by ordinance 2010-20]
                     Replacing ordinances 2008-15 and 2009-20 concerning
2010-20  12-21-10    residential solid waste collection and disposal within the
                     unincorporated areas of the county
 
TABLE IV: CONSTRUCTION; IMPROVEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.   Date Passed Description
77-17      6-15-77     Authorization of preparation and submission of
                       application for construction of rural fire stations
                       Construction of a new health center, contingent upon the
R. 78-5    8-17-78     construction grant from the Department of Health,
                       Education and Welfare to the county
                       Endorsement of the Jail Working Committee recommendation
R. 92-2    1-21-92     for the construction of the new County Adult Detention
                       Center, minimum security dormitory, Juvenile Detention
                       Facility and Sheriff's offices
R. 93-6    11-16-93    Adoption of a plan to construct an additional nine holes
                       of golf at Ben Geren Park
95-7       3-21-95     Authorization of construction of expansions and
                       improvements to the Ben Geren Park Golf Course
R. 97-2    1-28-97     Utilization of federal funds and aid monies for the
                       signalization of Highways 71 and 10
                       Intent of county to utilize federal-aid monies for the
R. 2003-2  1-21-03     installation of a traffic signal at the intersection of
                       Arkansas Highway 45 and Planters Road
                       Request by the Quorum Court to Arkansas Highways and
R. 2003-15 8-19-03     Transportation Department for improvement of State
                       Highway 22 east of Fort Smith
                       Requesting the abandonment of public right-of-way or
                       public easement for Fort Smith city street, south "A,"
R. 2004-4  8-17-04     running between the Sebastian County Jail and the
                       Sebastian County Sheriff's Office in order to allow for
                       the planning and implementation of expansion of the
                       Adult Detention Center
                       Authorizing County Judge to submit an application of
                       formal request to the Arkansas Rural Development
                       Commission for purposes of securing state grand funds to
R. 2013-10 9-17-13     aid and assist the Witcherville Community (for
                       improvements in Buckner Park) in executing the proposed
                       project and the County Judge is further authorized to
                       administer the grant program for the project
                       Approving of the water amenities to be included in the
R. 2014-1  1-7-14      design of the aquatics facility to be built at Ben Geren
                       Regional Park
                       Agreement between Fort Smith, Sebastian County, and
R. 2020-1  1-21-20     Arkansas Department of Transportation to fund widening
                       and other improvements to Highway 45
                       Authorizing County Judge to execute all appropriate
                       agreements and contracts necessary to expedite
R. 2022-3  5-17-22     construction on the Ben Geren trails system and
                       authorizing the Arkansas Department of Transportation to
                       initiate action to implement the project
                      
 
TABLE V: COUNTY RECORDS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.        Date Passed Description
89-27           11-21-89    Approval of the destruction of county records
91-13           4-16-91     Approval of destruction of county records
93-11           5-18-93     Approval of the destruction of county records
R. 2023-6       9-28-23     Approval of the destruction of county records
R. 2023-05      10-9-23     Approval of the destruction of county records
R. 04-2023      10-23-23    Approval of the destruction of county records
R. 2023-10-23-A 10-23-23    Approval of the destruction of county records
R. 101023       10-23-23    Approval of the destruction of county records
R. 2023-02      10-26-23    Approval of the destruction of county records
R. 2023-9       11-21-23    Approval of the destruction of county records
 
TABLE VI: REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
R. 78-7   12-18-78    Vestment of ownership of the Lavaca Senior Citizens
                      Center in the county's name
R. 90-9   12-18-90    Request for the disposition of county real property at
                      809 North 6th Street
97-8      4-15-97     Authorization to purchase services directly from the
                      County Coroner
R. 98-12  11-17-98    Authorization of the purchase of certain tracts of land
R. 2000-4 3-21-00     Approval of the sale of 49.8 acres of county real
                      property to First Tee, Inc.
R. 2001-9 11-20-01    Approval of the sale of 40 acres of county real property
                      to Westark College
R. 2023-8 9-19-23     Approval of the sale of Deer Trails Golf Course
                     
 
TABLE VII: REDEVELOPMENT; PUBLIC TRUSTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
97-2      1-28-97     Adoption of an indenture of trust between the county and
                      the Fort Chaffee Implementation Redevelopment Authority
                      Amendment; adoption of an indenture of trust between the
97-5      2-19-97     county and the Fort Chaffee Implementation Redevelopment
                      Authority
                      Acceptance of beneficial interest awarded to the county
R. 97-3   3-25-97     under the Fort Chaffee Redevelopment Authority trust
                      indenture
                      Acceptance of beneficial interest awarded to the county
R. 97-4   5-20-97     under the Fort Chaffee Redevelopment Authority trust
                      indenture
                      Adopting an agreement between the Fort Chaffee
2004-17   7-22-04     Redevelopment Authority and the county in support of the
                      Graphic Packaging International Inc. project
                      Amendment; adoption of an indenture of trust between the
2005-20   8-16-05     county and the Fort Chaffee Implementation Redevelopment
                      Authority
                      Recommendation of the dissolution of trust between the
R. 2024-7 5-21-24     county and the Fort Chaffee Implementation Redevelopment
                      Authority
 
TABLE VIII: RELOCATION OF COUNTY FACILITIES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
R. 97-10 6-17-97     Action to relocate the Juvenile Corrections Facility being
                     conducted in the county
 
TABLE IX: DESIGNATION OF SPECIAL COUNTY DAYS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
R. 89-11 9-22-89     Declaration of October 22-29, 1989, as Red Ribbon Week in
                     the county
R. 90-5  4-17-90     Declaration of April 22, 1990, as Earth Day in the county
R. 95-3  9-19-95     Declaration of October 28, 1995, as Make a Difference Day
                     in the county
 
TABLE X: REQUESTS FOR STATE OR FEDERAL ASSISTANCE
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
R.    2-21-  Request for a passage of an act pertaining to salaries and operating expenses
85-1  85     of the Prosecuting Attorney's Office for the Twelfth Judicial District
R.    1-21-  Request and recommendation of the appropriation of county aid be increased to
91-03 91     an amount adequate and necessary for various counties of the state
R.    11-16- Request for additional state patrol officers to be assigned to the county to
93-7  93     help patrol unincorporated areas of the county
R.    2-18-  Request that Little Rock District Corps of Engineers, under authority of
2003- 03     section 107 of the River and Harbor Act of 1960 initiate a study for a port
3            facility on the Arkansas River on lands adjacent and contiguous to Fort Chaffee
R.    5-20-  Authorizing the Sebastian County Judge to submit a grant application to the
2003- 03     U.S. Department of Justice to support implementation of the County Drug Court
10
R.    7-22-  Authorizing the Sebastian County Sheriff and the Sebastian County Judge to
2003- 03     apply for a Local Law Enforcement Block Grant
12
R.    8-19-  Authorizing the Sebastian County Judge to apply for a grant on behalf of the
2003- 03     Excelsior Mt. Palestine Rural Volunteer Fire Department for construction of a
13           fire station
R.    8-19-  Authorizing the Sebastian County Judge to apply for a grant from the Arkansas
2003- 03     Department of Parks and Tourism for assistance in developing softball complex
14           facilities located at Ben Geren County Park
R.    7-22-  Authorizing the Sebastian County Judge to apply for a grant on behalf of the
2004- 04     Milltown/Washburn Rural Volunteer Fire Department for purchase of a fire truck
3
R.    3-15-  Authorizing the Sebastian County Judge to submit a grant application to the
2005- 05     U.S. Department of Justice to support enhancement of the county drug court
4
R.    4-19-  Authorizing the Sebastian County Judge to apply for a grant on behalf of
2005- 05     Sebastian County EMS and Rescue for the purchase of a new ambulance
6
R.    2-21-  Authorizing the Sebastian County Sheriff and Sebastian County Judge to apply
2006- 06     for a local law enforcement block grant
1
R.    5-16-  Authorizing the Sebastian County Judge to apply for a grant on behalf of
2006- 06     Sebastian County EMS and Rescue for training and equipment
2
R.    6-20-  Authorizing the Sebastian County Judge to request authorization of referendum
2006- 06     to extend to part-time county positions the opportunity to participate in full
3            Social Security
R.    1-16-  Authorizing the Sebastian County Judge to apply for a grant on behalf of
2007- 07     Sebastian County Emergency Management and Rural Fire Departments
1
R.    4-17-  Authorizing the Sebastian County Judge to apply for a grant on behalf of
2007- 07     Sebastian County Emergency Management and Rural Fire Departments
3
R.    4-17-  Authorizing the Sebastian County Judge to apply for a grant on behalf of
2007- 07     Sebastian County Volunteer Fire Departments for interoperable radio equipment
4
R.    4-17-  Authorizing the Sebastian County Judge to apply for funding through the
2007- 07     Juvenile Accountability Block Grant
5
R.           Authorizing the Sebastian County Judge to apply for funding through the JAG
2007- 6-5-07 Grant Program
6
R.           Authorizing the Sebastian County Judge to apply for funding through the federal
2007- 6-5-07 Byrne Grant Program
7
R.    8-21-  Expressing Sebastian County’s willingness to utilize federal-aid monies for
2007- 07     recreational trails improvements
9
R.           Authorizing the Sebastian County Judge to apply for a grant on behalf of
2007- 10-16- Sebastian County’s participation in interoperable radio equipment in the
10    07     county-wide AWIN Project in coordination with the Department of Homeland
             Security
R.    10-16- Authorizing the Sebastian County Judge to apply for a grant through the
2007- 07     Arkansas Citizens First Responder Safety Enhancement Fund
11
R.    11-20- Authorizing the Sebastian County Judge to apply for a grant on behalf of the
2007- 07     Sebastian County Senior Center
14
R.    11-20- Authorizing the Sebastian County Judge to apply to the Arkansas Economic
2007- 07     Development Commission for an ACEDP Grant
17
R.    3-18-  Authorizing the Sebastian County Judge to apply for a grant on behalf of the
2008- 08     Sebastian County Volunteer Fire Departments for a new county- wide fire/medical
2            first responder paging system
R.    3-18-  Authorizing the Sebastian County Judge to apply for drug court funding through
2008- 08     the Department of Health and Human Services
3
R.    4-15-  Authorizing the Sebastian County Judge to apply for a juvenile accountability
2008- 08     block grant to the Office of Juvenile Delinquency and Prevention Unit, Division
4            of Youth Services
R.    3-17-  Authorizing the Sebastian County Judge to accept emergency operations center
2009- 09     grant from FEMA requiring a 25% local match
3
R.    4-21-  Authorizing the Sebastian County Judge to apply for a juvenile accountability
2009- 09     block grant to the Office of Juvenile Delinquency and Prevention Unit, Division
5            of Youth Services
R.    5-19-  Authorizing the Sebastian County Judge to apply for a grant on behalf of
2009- 09     Sebastian County EMS and Rescue for the purchase of new equipment
6
R.    3-16-  Authorizing the Sebastian County Judge to apply for an Energy Efficiency and
2010- 10     Conservation Block Grant from the Arkansas Energy Office
4
R.    4-20-  Authorizing the County Judge to submit an application for grant funding to the
2010- 10     Arkansas Department of Parks and Tourism to develop Buckner Park
5
R.    6-15-  Authorizing the County Judge to submit an application of formal request to the
2010- 10     Arkansas Rural Development Commission to secure state grant funds for
8            improvements to the grounds of the County Courthouse
R.    6-15-  Authorizing the County Judge to submit an application of formal request to the
2010- 10     Arkansas Rural Development Commission to secure state grant funds for the
9            purchase of sports equipment for the Fort Smith Boys and Girls Club Community
R.    7-20-  Authorizing the County Judge to apply for a 50/50 matching grant from the
2010- 10     Arkansas Department of Parks and Tourism’s Outdoor Recreation Grant Program to
10           improve recreation facilities at Ben Geren Park
R.    9-21-  Authorizing the County Judge to seek assistance from Western Arkansas Planning
2010- 10     and Development District to obtain a grant from the State of Arkansas for
12           community and economic development
R.    9-21-  Authorizing the County Judge to apply for a grant from the State of Arkansas
2010- 10     for an Arkansas Community and Economic Development Grant to replace a bridge on
13           Slaytonville Road
R.    10-19- Authorizing the Sebastian County Judge to apply for a Juvenile Accountability
2010- 10     Block Grant to support services for Sebastian County delinquent youth
17
R.    6-21-  Urging Congress to continue Metropolitan Planning Organizations for Urbanized
2011- 11     areas under 200,000 population
6
R-    8-16-  Authorizing the County Judge to submit an application for 50/50 matching grant
2011- 11     funding to the Arkansas Department of Parks and Tourism for Ben Geren Park
9
R.    8-16-  Authorizing the County Judge to apply for a grant through the Arkansas
2011- 11     Ambulance Association EMS Development Grant Program
11
R.    10-18- Authorizing the County Judge to submit an application for a wildlife
2011- 11     observation trails grant to the Arkansas Department of Parks and Tourism
14
R.    10-18- Authorizing the County Judge to apply for an Arkansas Department of Rural
2011- 11     Services grant for the Ben Geren Soccer Complex at Ben Geren Park
15
R.    11-3-  Authorizing the County Judge to apply for a juvenile accountability block grant
2011- 11     to support services for county delinquent youth
16
2012- 2-16-  Authorizing the County Judge to enter into an agreement with the City of Fort
4     12     Smith concerning Ben Geren Regional Park
R.    2-21-  Authorizing the County Judge to apply for a grant on behalf of the Big Creek
2012- 12     Rural Volunteer Fire Department under the Arkansas Rural Community Grant
2            Programs
R.    2-21-  Urging the Department of the Air Force and the Department of Defense to retain
2012- 12     the 188th Fighter Wing, Arkansas Air National Guard, in Fort Smith, Arkansas
3
R.    7-24-  Urging the Department of Defense, the Air Force, and the National Guard Bureau
2012- 12     to assign F-35A fighters to the 188th Fighter Wing
5
R.    7-24-  Authorizing the County Judge to apply for a grant to the Arkansas Highway and
2012- 12     Transportation Department for federal-aid recreational funds to improve trails
6            at Ben Geren Park
R.    7-24-  Authorizing the County Judge to apply for a grant through the Arkansas
2012- 12     Ambulance Association EMS Development Grant Program
7
R.    6-18-  Authorizing the County Judge to apply for a grant on behalf of the Milltown/
2013- 13     Washburn Rural Volunteer Fire Department for replacement of an aging brush
5            truck
             Authorizing County Judge to submit an application of formal request to the
R.    9-17-  Arkansas Rural Development Commission for purposes of securing state grand
2013- 13     funds to aid and assist the Witcherville Community (for improvements in Buckner
10           Park) in executing the proposed project and the County Judge is further
             authorized to administer the grant program for the project
2013- 12-17- Amending ordinance 2012-4, regarding capital projects and operations of
23    13     specific facilities at Ben Geren Regional Park
R.    2-18-  Authorizing the County Judge to apply for an Arkansas GIF Fire Protection Grant
2014- 14     in support of the Huntington Rural Fire and Milltown/Washburn Rural Fire
2            Departments for the construction of a jointly occupied fire sub-station
R.    6-17-  Authorizing the County Judge to apply for a GIF Fire Protection Grant on behalf
2014- 14     of the Jenny Lind Rural Volunteer Fire Department to purchase a new pumper
5            truck
R.           Supporting the Arkansas Sheriffs Association request for the Governor to add
2014- 6-17-  county jail overcrowding to his call for a special session and for the General
7     14     Assembly to provide adequate funding for immediate relief from the
             unprecedented prison and jail overcrowding crisis
R.    4-21-  Authorizing the County Judge to apply for the 2015 Court Security Grant to
2015- 15     support the Sebastian County Court security operations
4
R.    4-21-  Authorizing the County Judge to apply for a Juvenile Accountability Block Grant
2015- 15     to support services for Sebastian County delinquent youth
5
R.    7-21-  Authorizing the County Judge to apply for a Hazard Mitigation Grant to update
2015- 15     the Hazard Mitigation Plan in 2016
10
R.    9-15-  Authorizing the County Judge to apply for an Arkansas GIF Fire Protection Grant
2015- 15     in support of the Sugarloaf/Slaytonville Rural Fire Department for the
12           construction of a jointly occupied fire sub-station
R.    11-18- Authorizing the County Judge to apply for an Arkansas GIF Fire Protection Grant
2015- 15     in support of the White Bluff/Rye Hill Rural Fire Department for the purchase
14           of structural firefighting equipment
R.    3-15-  Certifying endorsement of Arkansas College of Health Education to participate
2016- 16     in Tax Back Program
2
R.    3-15-  Certifying endorsement of Glatfelter Advanced Materials, N.S., Inc. to
2016- 16     participate in Tax Back Program
3
R.    5-17-  Authorizing participation in project to utilize federal-aid recreational trail
2016- 16     funds
6
R.    6-21-
2016- 16     Certifying endorsement of Colinx, LLC to participate in Tax Back Program
7
R.    7-19-
2016- 16     Supporting law enforcement locally, statewide and nationally
8
R.    8-23-  Certifying endorsement of Elite Comfort Solutions to participate in Tax Back
2016- 16     Program
10
R.    5-15-  Authorizing the County Judge to apply for a 50/50 matching grant from the
2018- 18     Arkansas Department of Parks and Tourism’s Outdoor Recreation Grant Program
2
R.    5-15-  Certifying local government endorsement of Silgan Plastic Food Containers
2018- 18     Corporation to participate in the Tax Back Program
3
R.    5-15-  Certifying local government endorsement of Applied Process For Smith, LLC to
2018- 18     participate in the Tax Back Program
4
R.    5-15-  Authorizing the County Judge to apply for an 80/20 matching grant from the
2018- 18     Department of Justice, Bureau of Justice Assistance, Justice and Mental Health
5            Collaboration Program
R.    7-17-  Certifying local government endorsement of Midwest Automation and Fabrication,
2018- 18     Inc. to participate in the Tax Back Program
6
2018- 6-19-  Approving L and L Fire Apparatus for purchase of fire truck for the Huntington
9     18     Rural Fire District and Milltown/Washburn Rural Fire District
R.           Requesting state action for equitable reimbursement from the state to county
2019- 3-19-  jails for holding Arkansas Department of Correction inmates and Arkansas prison
1     19     parolees; and requesting a study of the Arkansas prison and parolee system and
             its impact on county jail inmate populations and jail overcrowding
R.    4-16-  Authorizing the County Judge to apply for the 2019 Court Security Grant through
2019- 19     the Arkansas Administrative Office of the Courts
2
R.    8-20-  Certifying local government endorsement of ArcBest Corporation to participate
2019- 19     in the Tax Back Program
6
R.    11-19- Certifying local government endorsement of Twin Rivers Foods to participate in
2019- 19     the Tax Back Program
11
R.    11-19- Certifying local government endorsement of Nidec Motor Corporation to
2019- 19     participate in the Tax Back Program
12
R.    8-18-  Certifying local government endorsement of Covia ISP, Inc. to participate in
2020- 20     the Tax Back Program
2
R.    8-19-  Certifying local government endorsement of United Parcel Service, Inc. (Ohio)
2020- 20     to participate in the Tax Back Program
3
R.    3-16-  Certifying local government endorsement of Owens Corning Company to participate
2021- 21     in the Tax Back Program
1
R.    3-16-  Certifying local government endorsement of Hytrol Conveyer Company to
2021- 21     participate in the Tax Back Program
2
R.    4-20-  Authorizing the County Judge to apply for the 2021 Court Security Grant through
2021- 21     the Arkansas Administrative Office of the Courts
3
R.    5-18-  Authorizing participation in project to utilize federal-aid recreational trail
2021- 21     funds
5
R.    7-20-  Certifying local government endorsement of Mars Petcare US, Inc. Company to
2021- 21     participate in the Tax Back Program
6
R.    8-17-  Authorizing the County Judge to apply for an Outdoor Recreation Matching Grant
2021- 21     from the Arkansas Department of Parks, Heritage and Tourism
8
R.    8-17-  Authorizing the County Judge to apply for FUN Park grant funds from the
2021- 21     Arkansas Department of Parks, Heritage and Tourism to develop a public park in
9            Witcherville, AR; namely, Buckner Park
R.    9-21-  Authorizing the County Judge to apply for ACEDP grant funds from the State of
2021- 21     Arkansas
10
             Requesting state support for the Sebastian County Mental Health Court through
             the provision of additional state funded probation officers dedicated to this
R.    2-22-  court, and to encourage the state through leadership of the governor and staff
2022- 22     working with Arkansas Department of Corrections and Community Corrections staff
1            and the legislature to support implementation of alternative sentencing and
             diversion programs and specialty courts in the respective judicial districts
             throughout the state
R.    4-18-  Authorizing the County Judge to apply for the 2023 Court Security Grant to
2023- 23     support County Court security operations
2
R.    5-16-  Authorizing the County Judge to apply for an Arkansas Hazard Mitigation Grant
2023- 23     to assist local jurisdictions that have suffered repetitive disaster losses
4
R.    2-20-  Authorizing the County Judge to apply for the Arkansas Historic Preservation
2024- 24     Restoration grant on behalf of the Sebastian County Historical Society
3
R.    2-20-  Authorizing the County Judge to apply to the Assistance to Firefighters
2024- 24     Programs on behalf of the Sebastian County Volunteer Fire Department
4
R.    2-20-  Authorizing the County Judge to apply to the Assistance to Firefighters
2024- 24     Programs on behalf of the Sebastian County Volunteer Fire Department
4
R.    4-16-  Authorizing the County Judge to apply for an Arkansas Department of
2024- 24     Transportation Grant on behalf of the transportation alternatives program (TAP)
5            or recreational trails program (RTP)
R.    4-16-  Authorizing the County Judge to apply for an Arkansas Department of
2024- 24     Transportation Grant on behalf of the transportation alternatives program (TAP)
6            or recreational trails program (RTP)
R.    5-21-  Authorizing the County Judge to apply for an Arkansas Department of Emergency
2024- 24     Management Grant on behalf of the Arkansas State Hazard Mitigation Grant
8            Program
R.    5-21-  Authorizing the County Judge to apply for an Arkansas Department of Emergency
2024- 24     Management Grant on behalf of the Arkansas State Hazard Mitigation Grant
9            Program
R.    5-21-  Authorizing the County Judge to apply for a U.S. Department of Transportation
2024- 24     (DOT) and Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) grant on behalf of the Active
10           Transportation Infrastructure Investment Program (ATIIP)
R.    7-16-  Authorizing the County Judge to apply for an Outdoor Recreation Matching Grant
2024- 24     through the Arkansas Department of Parks, Heritage, and Tourism to develop
11           recreational facilities
R.    7-16-  Authorizing the County Judge to apply for a FUN Park Grant through the Arkansas
2024- 24     Department of Parks, Heritage, and Tourism to develop a public park
12
R.    12-17- Authorizing the Sebastian County Judge to authorize White Bluff/Rye Hill
2024- 24     Volunteer Rural Fire Department to apply for an Arkansas Rural Community
14           Matching Grant in support of the purchase of structural firefighting equipment
R.    2-25-  Authorizing the Sebastian County Judge to apply for an Arkansas Unpaved Roads
2025- 25     Grant on behalf of the Arkansas Department of Agriculture – Natural Resources
2            Division
R.    2-25-  Authorizing the Sebastian County Judge to apply for an Arkansas Rural Community
2025- 25     Grant on behalf of the Arkansas Economic Development Commission, Division of
3            Rural Services and the Arkansas Rural Development Commission
            
 
TABLE XI: ENTERPRISE ZONES
 
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
R. 91-6   6-18-91     Endorsement of an enterprise zone in Enumeration District
                      1055 for the City of Greenwood in the county
R. 97-11  7-29-97     Certification and participation in the State Enterprise
                      Zone Program of 1993
                      Endorsement of Mid-America Mining and Development of
R. 2003-4 2-18-03     Hartford, Arkansas to participate in the Advantage
                      Arkansas Program, also known as the Arkansas Enterprise
                      Zone Program
 
TABLE XII: ADOPTION OF CERTAIN PLANS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.     Date Passed Description
R. 84-6      10-17-84    Adoption of a grievance procedure to comply with
                         Section 504 of the Federal Rehabilitation Act of 1973
R. 84-7      10-17-84    Adoption of transition plan to comply with Section 504
                         of the Federal Rehabilitation Act of 1973
90-9         3-15-90     Adoption of Ambulance Vehicle Replacement Plan
91-9         4-16-91     Adoption of the reorganization plan for the Ben Geren
                         Park Golf Pro Shop
R. 93-05     10-28-93    Adoption of the 1993 revision of the administrative
                         plan of the county's Public Housing Agency
                         Adoption of the National Incident Management System
R. 2005-5    4-19-05     (NIMS) established by the United States Department of
                         Homeland Security for all emergency response by all
                         departments and agencies of Sebastian County, Arkansas
R. 2005-8    6-21-05     Adoption of the Hazard Mitigation Plan for Sebastian
                         County, Arkansas
2006-3       2-21-06     Amending Ordinance 91-9 concerning the Ben Geren Park
                         Pro Shop manager/golf professional
                         Authorizing the reorganization of the Ben Geren Park
2008-24      12-16-08    Golf Pro shop, approving the operation of a retail
                         golf merchandise pro shop by the pro shop manager/golf
                         professional
                         Authorizing the County Judge to enter into an anti-
R. 2010-14   9-21-10     displacement plan for low and moderate income
                         households
2011-10      8-16-11     Adopting the County Hazard Mitigation Plan updates
                         (version 2) for the county
Res. 2018-7  7-17-18     Adopting the County Hazard Mitigation Plan for the
                         county
Res. 2021-12 9-21-21     Adopting the Citizen Participation Plan for the county
Res. 2023-10 12-19-23    Adopting the County Hazard Mitigation Plan for the
                         county
                        
 
TABLE XIII: DEDICATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.   Date Passed Description
R. 78-4    6-26-78     Naming of the departments located in the county building
                       under construction
R. 79-9    4-18-79     Naming of the Sebastian County Senior Citizens Center
R. 82-9    12-22-82    Naming of the City-County Health Center after Dr. L.A.
                       Whittaker
R. 97-9    5-20-97     Donation and dedication of Lake Spur as a public fishing
                       facility
2000-4     2-15-00     Dedication of 49.8 acres of county real property to the
                       benefit of First Tee, Inc.
2001-24    11-20-01    Dedication of 40 acres of county real property to the
                       benefit of Westark College
R. 2007-15 11-20-07    Dedication of the Sebastian County Seniors Center
R. 2016-11 10-25-16    Proclaiming Sebastian County a Purple Heart County
R. 2021-13 10-19-21    Proclaiming Sebastian County a Pro Life County
                      
 
TABLE XIV: BUDGET; APPROPRIATIONS AND TAX LEVIES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.    Date   Description
No.     Passed
R. 77-2 1-3-77 Ratification of resolutions extending the 1976 budget
77-7    1-10-  Appropriation amendment; 1977 budget; appropriation of $800 from the General
        77     Fund
               Appropriation amendment; 1977 budget; appropriation of $1,929,960 from the
        3-18-  General Fund, $1,030,500 from the Road Fund, $234,466 from the Assessor Fund,
77-8    77     $117,740 from the Collector's Commission Fund, $60,720 from the Treasurer's
               Commission Fund and $720,167 from the Revenue Sharing Fund; repealer; salary
               increase; authorized expenditures
77-10   4-12-  Amendment to Ord. 77-8; additional language
        77
77-11   4-12-  Appropriation amendment; 1977 budget; additional appropriation of $5,561 from
        77     the Revenue Sharing Fund; salary appropriations
77-13   5-13-  Appropriation amendment; 1977 budget; appropriation of $15,622 from the
        77     General Fund; salary appropriations and expenditures
               Appropriation amendment; 1977 budget; appropriation of $32,234 from the
        7-13-  General Fund, $27,050 from the Road Fund, $550 from the Collector's
77-19   77     Commission Fund, $1,158 from the Assessor's Fund, $1,158 from the Treasurer's
               Commission Fund and $10,353 from the Revenue Sharing Fund; increase of line
               item appropriations; correction publication dated 7-16-77
77-20   8-10-  Appropriation amendment; 1977 budget; appropriation of $250 from the General
        77     Fund
77-21   9-14-  Appropriation amendment; 1977 budget; appropriation of $4,440 from the
        77     General Fund
77-26   9-14-  Appropriation amendment; 1977 budget; appropriation of $97,000 to the Anti-
        77     Recession Fiscal Aid Funds; repealer
77-27   9-14-  Appropriation amendment; 1977 budget; appropriation of $2,720 from the
        77     General Fund
77-28   9-14-  Appropriation amendment; 1977 budget; appropriation of $14,218.09 from the
        77     General Fund
77-31   10-28- Appropriation amendment; 1977 budget; appropriation of $2,000 from the
        77     General Fund
77-32   10-28- Appropriation amendment; 1977 budget; appropriation of $29,119 from the Road
        77     Fund
77-33   10-28- Appropriation amendment; 1977 budget; appropriation of $2,535 from the
        77     Commission Fund; Appropriation No. 002-01 increased appropriations
77-34   10-28- Appropriation amendment; 1997 budget; transfer of funds for the Ben Geren
        77     Park
77-35   11-14- Levying of county, municipal and school taxes for 1977
        77
77-36   11-14- 1978 annual budget
        77
77-37   11-14- Appropriation amendment; 1977 budget; appropriation of $8,500 from the
        77     General Fund; estimated increases and decreases of line item appropriations
        12-14- Appropriation amendment; 1977 budget; appropriation of $20,054 from the
77-38   77     General Fund and $1,205 from the Revenue Sharing Fund; estimated increases
               and decreases of line item appropriations
        12-14- Appropriation amendment; 1977 budget; appropriation of $4,000 from the
77-39   77     General Fund, $1,000 from the Road Fund and $1,000 from the Assessor's
               Commission Fund
77-40   12-14- Appropriation amendment; 1977 budget; transfer of $205,432.10 from the
        77     General Fund to all county offices and departments
78-1    1-10-  Amendment of Ord. 77-38; clerical error
        78
        1-10-  Appropriation amendment; 1978 budget; appropriation of $1,536 from the
78-2    78     General Fund and $58 from the Treasurer's Commission Fund; line item
               appropriations increased
        2-15-  Appropriation amendment; 1978 budget; appropriation of $1,550 from the
78-4    78     Revenue Sharing Fund for emergency expenditures to maintain operations for
               the Greenwood's sanitation offices
        2-15-  Appropriation amendment; 1978 budget; appropriation of $10,000 from the
78-5    78     General Fund for emergency expenditures to maintain operations for the
               Greenwood's sanitation offices
78-63   -1-78  1979 annual budget
78-7    3-15-  Appropriation amendment; 1978 budget; appropriation of $1,100 from the
        78     General Fund
78-8    4-12-  Appropriation amendment; 1978 budget; appropriation of $94,019 from the
        78     General Fund; increase of Appropriation No. 003
78-10   4-12-  Appropriation amendment; 1978 budget; appropriation of $509 from the General
        78     Fund
78-15   7-11-  Appropriation amendment; 1978 budget; salary increases
        78
78-16   8-11-  Appropriation amendment; 1978 budget; appropriation of $147,026 from the Road
        78     Fund
78-17   8-17-  Appropriation amendment; 1978 budget; appropriation of $34,401 from the Road
        78     Fund
        10-16- Appropriation amendment; 1978 budget; appropriation $3,655 from the General
78-19   78     Fund and $2,266 from the Assessor Fund; transfers and increases of line item
               appropriations
78-21   11-17- Appropriation amendment; 1978 budget; appropriation of $500 from the General
        78     Fund
78-22   11-17- Levying of county, municipal and school taxes for 1978
        78
78-24   11-17- 1979 annual budget
        78
78-25   12-18- Appropriation amendment; 1978 budget; appropriation of $5,031 from the
        78     General Fund and $496 from the Revenue Sharing Fund
        12-18- Appropriation amendment; 1978 budget; correction of clerical errors;
78-26   78     appropriation of $9,900 from the General Fund, $1,847 from the Revenue
               Sharing Fund and $15 from the Road Fund; transfer of funds
        2-23-  Appropriation amendment; 1979 budget; appropriation of $10,193 from the
79-3    79     General Fund and $4,672 from the Road Fund; increase of line item
               appropriations
               Appropriation amendment; 1979 budget; appropriation of $7,736 from the
79-4    3-19-  General Fund, $4,140 from the Revenue Sharing Fund, $2,267 from the Collector
        79     Commission Fund and $47,856 from the Road Fund; increase of line item
               appropriations
        3-19-  Appropriation amendment; 1979 budget; appropriation of $15,100 from the
79-5    79     General Fund and $11,145 from the Revenue Sharing Fund; amendment of salary
               appropriations
        4-19-  Appropriation amendment; 1979 budget; appropriation of $172,770.27 from the
79-6    79     Special Road Fund and $1,316 from the General Fund; increase of line item
               appropriation; amendment of salary appropriations
               Appropriation amendment; 1979 budget; establishment of Capital Projects Road
79-7    5-23-  Fund; transfer of $50,000 from the General Fund to the Capital Projects Road
        79     Fund; appropriation of $39,004 from the General Fund and $950 from the
               Revenue Sharing Fund; increase of line item appropriations
               Appropriation amendment; 1979 budget; establishment of Sheriff's Department
79-9    6-19-  LEAA Federal Grant Fund and line item appropriations; appropriation of
        79     $14,588 from the Sheriff's Department LEAA Grant Fund, $8,627 from the Road
               Fund and $10,270 from the General Fund
        7-17-  Appropriation amendment; 1979 budget; appropriation of $11,244 from the
79-11   79     General Fund; establishment of Appropriation No. 075; increase to line item
               appropriations
               Appropriation amendment; 1979 budget; transfer of $20,000 from the General
79-12   8-22-  Fund to the Road Fund; appropriation of $20,000 from the Road Fund, $500 from
        79     the General Fund and $1,800 from the Assessor Fund; increase and decrease of
               line item appropriations
               Appropriation amendment; 1979 budget; appropriation of $11,000 from the
79-13   9-19-  General Fund, $11,000 from the Assessor Fund, $11,000 from the Collector Fund
        79     and $57,000 from the Treasurer Commission Fund; increase of line item
               appropriations
        9-19-  Appropriation amendment; 1979 budget; appropriation of $983 from the General
79-14   79     Fund and $35,000 from the Road Fund; transfer of $35,000 from the General
               Fund to the Road Fund
79-16   9-19-  Appropriation amendment; 1979 budget; appropriation of $5,000 from the
        79     General Fund; increase in line item appropriations
79-19   10-18- Appropriation amendment; 1979 budget; appropriation of $2,000 from the
        79     General Fund; increase in line item appropriations
               Appropriation amendment; 1979 budget; appropriation of $810 from the General
79-20   10-18- Fund, $350 from the Collector Commission Fund, $200 from the Road Fund and
        79     $200 from the Treasurer Commission; establishment of certain line item
               appropriations
79-21   10-18- Appropriation amendment; 1979 budget; appropriation of $655,875 from the HEW
        79     Federal Grant Fund
79-23   11-21- Levying county, municipal and school taxes for 1979
        79
79-25   11-21- Appropriation amendment; 1979 budget; appropriation of $7,000 from the
        79     General Fund; increase of line item appropriations
79-28   12-19- Appropriation amendment; 1979 budget; appropriation of $90 from the General
        79     Fund; increase of line item appropriation
79-29   12-19- Appropriation amendment; 1979 budget; transfer of funds to increase and
        79     decrease line item appropriations
79-30   12-19- Appropriation amendment; 1979 budget; appropriation of $4,200 from the
        79     General Fund
79-31   12-19- 1980 annual budget
        79
80-1    1-25-  Appropriation amendment; 1980 budget; appropriation of $3,500 from the
        80     General Fund; increase and decrease of line item appropriations
80-2    2-21-  Appropriation amendment; 1980 budget; authorization of transfer of funds for
        80     the increase and decrease of line item appropriations
80-3    2-21-  Appropriation amendment; 1980 budget; appropriation for Ben Geren employees'
        80     salaries
80-4    2-21-  Appropriation amendment; 1980 budget; appropriation of $72,953 from the Road
        80     Fund
80-6    3-7-80 Appropriation amendment; 1980 budget; appropriation of $2,338 from the
               General Fund; increase of line item appropriation
80-8    3-7-80 Appropriation amendment; 1980 budget; appropriation of $75,000 from the
               General Fund; increase of line item appropriation
80-10   3-20-  Appropriation amendment; 1980 budget; appropriation of $8,797 from the
        80     General Fund; increase of line item appropriation
80-12   4-23-  Appropriation amendment; 1980 budget; appropriation of $2,000 from the
        80     General Fund; establishment of line item appropriations
80-13   5-9-80 Appropriation amendment; 1980 budget; appropriation of $25,000 from the Road
               Fund; establishment of line item appropriation
80-14   5-23-  Appropriation amendment; 1980 budget; appropriation of $1,092 from the
        80     General Fund; increase of line item appropriation
80-15   6-10-  Appropriation amendment; 1980 budget; appropriation of $400 from the General
        80     Fund; establishment of line item appropriation
        6-17-  Appropriation amendment; 1980 budget; appropriation of $795 from the General
80-16   80     Fund and $3,205.66 from the Anti-Recession Fund; establishment of line item
               appropriations
80-17   6-17-  Appropriation amendment; 1980 budget; appropriation $1,500 from the General
        80     Fund; establishment of line item appropriation
80-19   7-23-  Appropriation amendment; 1980 budget; appropriation of $4,648.80 from the
        80     General Fund; establishment of line item appropriation
80-20   7-23-  Appropriation amendment; 1980 budget; transfer of funds within the
        80     appropriation of the Road Department
80-21   8-7-80 Appropriation amendment; 1980 budget; appropriation of $12,270 from the
               General Fund; increase in line item appropriations
80-22   8-7-80 Appropriation amendment; 1980 budget; appropriation of $831.39 from the
               General Fund; establishment of line item appropriation
80-23   8-7-80 Appropriation amendment; 1980 budget; appropriation of $7,500 from the
               General Fund; establishment of line item appropriation
        8-20-  Appropriation amendment; 1980 budget; appropriation of $35,100 from the Road
80-24   80     Fund and $33,000 from the General Fund; increase of line item appropriations;
               transfer of funds from line item appropriations
               Appropriation amendment; 1980 budget; appropriation of $50,558 from the
80-25   9-3-80 General Fund, $9,000 from the Road Fund and $250 from the Collector
               Commission
80-27   9-3-80 Appropriation amendment; 1980 budget; appropriation of $12,500 from the
               General Fund; establishment of line item appropriation
        9-16-  Appropriation amendment; 1980 budget; appropriation of $4,679 from the
80-29   80     General Fund; establishment of line item appropriations; creation of Fort
               Chaffee Contractual Services Fund
80-30   10-9-  Appropriation amendment; 1980 budget; appropriation of $350 from the General
        80     Fund; increase in line item appropriation
80-31   10-21- Appropriation amendment; 1980 budget; appropriation of $2,000 from the
        80     General Fund; establishment of line item appropriation
        10-21- Appropriation amendment; 1980 budget; appropriation of $4,936 from the
80-32   80     General Fund and $1,105 from the Revenue Sharing Fund; increase in line item
               appropriations
        10-21- Appropriation amendment; 1980 budget; appropriation of $523 from the General
80-33   80     Fund; increase of line item appropriation; transfer of funds within the
               Prosecuting Attorney's Office budget
        10-21- Appropriation amendment; 1980 budget; appropriation of $7,092 from the
80-34   80     Revenue Sharing Fund and $2,238 from the General Fund; establishment and
               increase of line item appropriations
        11-7-  Appropriation amendment; 1980 budget; appropriation of $571 from the General
80-36   80     Fund, $1,438 from the Road Fund and $805 from the Assessor Commission
               Account; increase of line item appropriations
        11-7-  Appropriation amendment; 1980 budget; appropriation of $196,339 of the
80-37   80     General Fund and $50,000 from the Road Fund; establishment of line item
               appropriations
80-38   11-7-  Appropriation amendment; 1980 budget; transfer of funds within the total
        80     Treasurer's Office budget and the total Assessor's Office budget
80-40   11-18- Levying county, municipal and school taxes for 1980
        80
80-41   11-18- Appropriation amendment; 1980 budget; appropriation of $500 from the General
        80     Fund; increase and decrease of line item appropriations
80-42   12-3-  Amendment of Ord. 80-40; millage rates for 1980
        80
80-44   12-3-  Appropriation amendment; 1980 budget; transfer of funds within the total
        80     appropriation of the Chancery Court
        12-17- Appropriation amendment; 1980 budget; appropriation of $896 from the General
80-45   80     Fund; increase of line item appropriations; transfer of funds within the
               Quorum Court appropriations
80-46   12-17- 1981 annual budget
        80
        2-21-  Appropriation amendment; 1981 budget; appropriation of $43,473 from the
81-1    81     General Fund and $12,700 from the Road Fund; increase and establishment of
               line item appropriations
               Appropriation amendment; 1981 budget; appropriation of $1,161 from the
81-2    2-4-81 General Fund and $1,024 from the Revenue Sharing Fund; increase of line item
               appropriations
81-3    2-4-81 Appropriation amendment; 1981 budget; appropriation of $1,975 from the
               General Fund; increase of line item appropriations
81-4    2-18-  Appropriation amendment; 1981 budget; appropriation of $800 from the General
        81     Fund; increase of line item appropriations
81-6    3-17-  Appropriation amendment; 1981 budget; transfer of funds within the total
        81     budget of the Juvenile Intake Center
               Appropriation amendment; 1981 budget; appropriation of $1,125.58 from the
               Assessor Fund, $1,156.49 from the Collector Commission, $1,156.49 from the
81-7    4-9-81 Treasurer Commission, $693.89 from the Child Support Fund and $4,564.55 from
               the General Fund; increase and establishment of certain line item
               appropriations
81-8    4-9-81 Appropriation amendment; 1981 budget; appropriation of $4,994.96 from the
               General Fund; increase of line item appropriation
81-10   4-21-  Appropriation amendment; 1981 budget; appropriation of $13,445 from the Road
        81     Fund; increase of line item appropriation
        4-21-  Appropriation amendment; 1981 budget; appropriation of $10,568 from the
81-11   81     Revenue Sharing Fund; increase of line item appropriations; transfer of funds
               within the total appropriation for the Park Operations budget
81-13   5-5-81 Appropriation amendment; 1981 budget; appropriation of $4,000 from the
               General Fund; establishment of line item appropriation
81-15   5-20-  Appropriation amendment; 1981 budget; appropriation of $1,440 from the
        81     General Fund; increase of line item appropriation
81-18   6-3-81 Appropriation amendment; 1981 budget; transfer of funds within the total
               budget for the Road Department
81-19   6-3-81 Appropriation amendment; 1981 budget; transfer of funds within the total
               budget for the Public Defender's appropriation
81-21   6-16-  Appropriation amendment; 1981 budget; transfer of funds within the total
        81     budget of the Assessor's Office
81-22   7-8-81 Appropriation amendment; 1981 budget; capital outlay line item expenditures
81-23   7-8-81 Appropriation amendment; 1981 budget; appropriation of $3,200 from the
               General Fund; increase of line item appropriation
               Appropriation amendment; 1981 budget; appropriation of $90,027 from the
81-24   9-2-81 General Fund, $21,339 from the Road Fund and $2,000 from the Collector
               Commission
81-25   9-2-81 Appropriation amendment; 1981 budget; appropriation of $615 from the General
               Fund; increase of line item appropriation
81-27   10-8-  Appropriation amendment; 1981 budget; appropriation of $74,405.70 from the
        81     Road Fund; increase of line item appropriation
        10-20- Appropriation amendment; 1981 budget; transfer of funds within the total
81-28   81     budget for Ben Geren Park; appropriation of $7,388.59 from the General Fund;
               increase and decrease of line item appropriations
        11-5-  Appropriation amendment; 1981 budget; transfer of funds within the total
81-29   81     budget for the Road Department; increase and decrease of line item
               appropriations
               Appropriation amendment; 1981 budget; appropriation of $1,010 from the
81-30   11-5-  General Fund, $350 from the Collector Commission Fund, $200 from the Road
        81     Fund and $400 from the Treasurer Commission Fund; establishment of line item
               appropriations
81-31   11-5-  Appropriation amendment; 1981 budget; establishment of Petty Cash Fund
        81
81-32   11-17- Appropriation amendment; 1981 budget; transfer of funds within the total
        81     budget for the Park Operations Appropriation
81-33   11-17- Levying county, municipal and school taxes for 1981
        81
81-34   11-17- 1982 annual budget
        81
81-35   12-2-  Appropriation amendment; 1981 budget; appropriation of $500 from the General
        81     Fund; establishment of line item appropriation
        12-2-  Appropriation amendment; 1981 budget; transfer of funds within the total
81-36   81     budget for the Farm and Home Fund; appropriation of $2,000 from the General
               Fund and $10,000 from the Road Fund; increase of line item appropriation
81-37   12-22- Appropriation amendment; 1981 budget; appropriation of $225,000 from the
        81     Collector Fund; establishment of the Capital Computer Fund
        12-22- Appropriation amendment; 1981 budget; transfer of funds within the total
81-38   81     budget of the Chancery Court; decrease and increase of line item
               appropriations
81-39   12-22- Appropriation amendment; 1981 budget; appropriation of $3,000 from the
        81     General Fund; increase of line item appropriation
81-40   12-22- Appropriation amendment; 1981 budget; appropriation of $721 from the General
        81     Fund; establishment of line item appropriation
               Appropriation amendment; 1982 budget; appropriation of $1,757 from the
82-1    1-7-82 Collector Fund and $1,878 from the Assessor Fund; increase of line item
               appropriation
82-2    2-2-82 Appropriation amendment; 1982 budget; transfer of funds within the total
               budget for the Circuit Clerk; decrease of line item appropriation
82-3    2-2-82 Appropriation amendment; 1982 budget; appropriation of $225,000 from the
               Collector Fund; establishment of Capital Computer Fund
82-4    2-2-82 Appropriation amendment; 1982 budget; appropriation of $827 from the Assessor
               Fund; increase of line item appropriation
               Appropriation amendment; 1982 budget; transfer of funds within the total
82-5    3-8-82 budget for the Prosecuting Attorney; decrease and increase of line item
               appropriations
               Appropriation amendment; 1982 budget; transfer of funds within the total
82-7    4-7-82 budget for the County Court; decrease and establishment of line item
               appropriations
82-9    4-7-82 Appropriation amendment; 1982 budget; appropriation of $3,525 from the
               General Fund; increase of line item appropriation
82-13   5-18-  Appropriation amendment; 1982 budget; establishment of Capital Improvement
        82     Reserve Road Fund
82-15   6-16-  Appropriation amendment; 1982 budget; appropriation of $16,711 from the
        82     General Fund; establishment of line item appropriations
        7-21-  Appropriation amendment; 1982 budget; appropriation of $27,700 from the
82-16   82     General Fund, $94,335 from the Road Fund, $15,000 from the Assessor Account,
               $10,000 from the Collector Account and $12,000 from the Treasurer Account
82-17   7-21-  Appropriation amendment; 1982 budget; appropriation of $12,431 from the
        82     General Fund; increase of line item appropriations
82-18   7-21-  Appropriation amendment; 1982 budget; appropriation of $6,070 from the
        82     General Fund; increase of line item appropriations
82-19   7-21-  Appropriation amendment; 1982 budget; appropriation of $2,000 from the
        82     General Fund; increase of line item appropriation
82-20   8-18-  Appropriation amendment; 1982 budget; appropriation of $2,000 from the
        82     General Fund; establishment of line item appropriations
82-21   8-18-  Appropriation amendment; 1982 budget; appropriation of $20,300 from the
        82     General Fund; increase of line item appropriation
82-22   8-18-  Appropriation amendment; 1982 budget; appropriation of $17,500 from the
        82     Revenue Sharing Fund; establishment of line item appropriation
82-24   10-20- Appropriation amendment; 1982 budget; appropriation of $7,015 from the
        82     General Fund
82-25   10-20- Appropriation amendment; 1982 budget; appropriation of $12,000 from the
        82     General Fund; transfer of funds; increase of line item appropriation
        11-24- Appropriation amendment; 1982 budget; appropriation of $243,900 from the Road
82-26   82     Fund; transfer from the Capital Improvement Reserve Road Fund; establishment
               of line item appropriation
        11-24- Appropriation amendment; 1982 budget; transfer of funds within the Sheriff's
82-27   82     Vehicle appropriation; appropriation of $13,941 from the General Fund;
               establishment and increase of line item appropriations
82-28   11-24- Levying county, municipal and school taxes for 1982
        82
82-30   12-22- 1983 annual budget
        82
82-34   12-22- Appropriation amendment; 1982 budget; appropriation of $66,693 from the
        82     Collector Fund; increase of line item appropriation
82-37   12-22- Appropriation amendment; 1982 budget; appropriation of $11,535 from the Road
        82     Fund; increase of line item appropriation
83-1    1-22-  Appropriation amendment; 1983 budget; appropriation of $243,900 from the Road
        83     Fund and $17,013 from the General Fund; increase of line item appropriations
83-2    2-18-  Appropriation amendment; 1983 budget; appropriation of $1,242 from the
        83     General Fund; increase and decrease of line item appropriations
83-3    2-18-  Appropriation amendment; 1983 budget; appropriation of $1,265 from the Road
        83     Fund and $1,170 from the General Fund; increase of line item appropriations
83-4    2-18-  Appropriation amendment; 1983 budget; appropriation of $10,000 from the
        83     General Fund; increase of line item appropriations
        3-18-  Appropriation amendment; 1983 budget; appropriation of $8,766 from the
83-5    83     General Fund, $3,183 from the Road Fund and $3,183 from the Revenue Sharing
               Fund
83-6    3-18-  Appropriation amendment; 1983 budget; appropriation of $2,000 from the
        83     General Fund; increase of line item appropriations
        3-18-  Appropriation amendment; 1983 budget; appropriation of $8,000 from the
83-7    83     General Fund and $10,000 from the Road Fund; increase of line item
               appropriations
83-8    4-20-  Appropriation amendment; 1983 budget; appropriation of $8,173 from the
        83     General Fund; salary appropriations
83-9    4-20-  Appropriation amendment; 1983 budget; appropriation of $1,540 from the
        83     General Fund; increase of line item appropriations
        4-20-  Appropriation amendment; 1983 budget; appropriation of $2,724 from the
83-10   83     General Fund, $1,500 from the Road Fund and $571 from the Revenue Sharing
               Fund
83-11   4-20-  Appropriation amendment; 1983 budget; appropriation of $1,292 from the
        83     Revenue Sharing Fund; increase of line item appropriation
83-13   4-20-  Appropriation amendment; 1983 budget; appropriation of $230,684 from the
        83     General Fund
83-14   4-20-  Appropriation amendment; 1983 budget; appropriation of $9,753 from the
        83     General Fund; increase of line item appropriation
83-15   5-18-  Appropriation amendment; 1983 budget; appropriation of $21,340 from the
        83     General Fund; increase of line item appropriation
83-16   5-18-  Appropriation amendment; 1983 budget; appropriation of $2,500 from the
        83     Revenue Sharing Fund; increase of line item appropriation
83-18   5-18-  Appropriation amendment; 1983 budget; appropriation of $10,262 from the
        83     General Fund; increase of line item appropriation
83-19   5-18-  Appropriation amendment; 1983 budget; appropriation of $1,000 from the
        83     General Fund; establishment of line item appropriations
83-20   6-22-  Appropriation amendment; 1983 budget; appropriation of $3,000 from the
        83     General Fund; increase of line item appropriations
83-22   6-22-  Appropriation amendment; 1983 budget; appropriation of $36,745.50 from the
        83     General Fund; establishment and increase of certain line item appropriations
83-23   7-22-  Appropriation amendment; 1983 budget; appropriation of $7,203 from the
        83     General Fund
83-26   8-17-  Appropriation amendment; 1983 budget; appropriation of $4,750 from the
        83     General Fund; establishment of line item appropriation
        8-17-  Appropriation amendment; 1983 budget; appropriation of $$3,000 from the
83-27   83     General Fund; increase and decrease of line item appropriations; transfer of
               funds within the total budget of the Ben Geren Park appropriation
83-28   8-17-  Appropriation amendment; 1983 budget; appropriation of $1,768 from the
        83     General Fund; increase of line item appropriation
        8-17-  Appropriation amendment; 1983 budget; appropriation of $1,204 from the Road
83-29   83     Fund and $13,513 from the General Fund; salary increase; increase of certain
               line item appropriations
83-30   9-23-  Appropriation amendment; 1983 budget; appropriation of $41,000 from the Road
        83     Fund; increase of line item appropriations
83-31   9-23-  Appropriation amendment; 1983 budget; appropriation of $500 from the General
        83     Fund; increase of line item appropriation
83-32   9-23-  Appropriation amendment; 1983 budget; appropriation of $7,600 from the
        83     General Fund; increase of line item appropriation
83-33   9-23-  Appropriation amendment; 1983 budget; appropriation of $500 from the General
        83     Fund; increase of line item appropriation
83-34   10-20- Appropriation amendment; 1983 budget; appropriation of $15,049 from the
        83     General Fund; increase and decrease of line item appropriations
83-35   10-20- Appropriation amendment; 1983 budget; establishment of Public Housing Grant;
        83     appropriation of $1,731,976 from the Public Housing Agency Fund
        10-20- Appropriation amendment; 1983 budget; appropriation of $9,100 from the
83-36   83     General Fund, $3,000 from the Road Fund and $423 from the Revenue Sharing
               Fund; increase of line item appropriations
83-38   11-17- Appropriation amendment; 1983 budget; appropriation of $11,000 from the
        83     General Fund; increase and decrease of line item appropriations
83-39   11-17- Levying of county, municipal and school taxes for 1983
        83
83-42   12-22- Appropriation amendment; 1983 budget; appropriation of $540 from the General
        83     Fund; increase of line item appropriation
83-43   12-22- 1984 budget
        83
        1-20-  Appropriation amendment; 1984 budget; appropriation of $46,582 from the
84-1    84     General Fund and $21,420 from the Road Fund; increase in line item
               appropriations; salary amendments
        2-23-  Appropriation amendment; 1984 budget; appropriation of $19,504 from the
84-2    84     General Fund and $100,000 from the Road Fund; establishment of line item
               appropriations
84-3    2-23-  Appropriation amendment; 1984 budget; appropriation of $12,463 from the
        84     General Fund; salary increases
        2-23-  Appropriation amendment; 1984 budget; appropriation of $10,651 from the
84-4    84     General Fund; transfer of funds within the Municipal Court budget; increase
               of line item appropriations; salary amendments
84-5    3-22-  Appropriation amendment; 1984 budget; appropriation of $43,591 from the
        84     General Fund; decrease of Revenue Sharing Fund appropriation by $43,591
84-6    3-22-  Appropriation amendment; 1984 budget; establishment of the Adult Probation
        84     Fund
84-7    3-22-  Appropriation amendment; 1984 budget; appropriation of $29,337 from the Adult
        84     Probation Fund; establishment of line item appropriations
               Appropriation amendment; 1984 budget; appropriation of $7,701 from the
84-8    3-22-  Revenue Sharing Fund and $5,107 from the General Fund; transfer of funds
        84     within the total Sheriff's Law Enforcement budget; increase of certain line
               item appropriations
               Appropriation amendment; 1984 budget; appropriation of $42,568 from the
84-9    4-18-  General Fund and $5,903 from the Road Fund; $5,000 increase of General Fund
        84     Assessor revenue and $4,000 increase of General Fund Treasurer revenue;
               increase and decrease of line item appropriations
84-10   5-16-  Appropriation amendment; 1984 budget; appropriation of $745 from the General
        84     Fund; increase of line item appropriation
84-11   6-21-  Appropriation amendment; 1984 budget; appropriation of $833 from the General
        84     Fund; establishment of line item appropriation
84-12   6-21-  Appropriation amendment; 1984 budget; appropriation of $4,288 from the
        84     General Fund; increase of line item appropriations
84-13   6-21-  Appropriation amendment; 1984 budget; appropriation of $3,734 of the General
        84     Fund; increase of line item appropriation
84-15   7-19-  Appropriation amendment; 1984 budget; appropriation of $1,207 from the
        84     General Fund; increase of line item appropriations
84-16   7-19-  Appropriation amendment; 1984 budget; appropriation of $3,111 from the Road
        84     Fund; increase of increase of line item appropriation
        7-19-  Appropriation amendment; 1984 budget; transfer of funds within the total
84-17   84     budget of the Treasurer's Office; salary increases; increase and decrease of
               line item appropriations
        7-19-  Appropriation amendment; 1984 budget; appropriation of $4,600 from the Adult
84-18   84     Probation Fund; reimbursement required; increase and decrease of line item
               appropriations
84-20   8-24-  Appropriation amendment; 1984 budget; appropriation of $15,155 from the
        84     General Fund; establishment of line item increases
84-21   8-24-  Appropriation amendment; 1984 budget; appropriation of $1,200 from the
        84     General Fund; increase of line item appropriation
84-22   8-24-  Appropriation amendment; 1984 budget; transfer of funds within the total
        84     budget of the Farm and Home Office; increase in line item appropriation
84-24   9-19-  Appropriation amendment; 1984 budget; appropriation of $11,006 from the
        84     General Fund; increase and decrease of line item appropriations
84-25   10-17- Appropriation amendment; 1984 budget; transfer of funds within the budget for
        84     the Road Department
84-26   10-17- Appropriation amendment; 1984 budget; appropriation of $400 from the General
        84     Fund; increase of line item appropriation
84-27   10-17- Appropriation amendment; 1984 budget; appropriation of $10,000 from the
        84     General Fund; increase of line item appropriation
84-28   11-21- Appropriation amendment; 1984 budget; appropriation of $1,000 from the
        84     General Fund; increase and decrease of line item appropriations
84-29   12-20- 1985 annual budget
        84
84-30   12-20- Levying county, municipal and school taxes for 1984
        84
        12-20- Appropriation amendment; 1985 budget; appropriation of $12,992 from the
84-31   84     General Fund; increase, decrease and establishment of line item
               appropriations
85-2    1-22-  Appropriation amendment; 1985 budget; salary increase
        85
85-3    1-22-  Appropriation amendment; 1985 budget; appropriation of $3,500 from the
        85     General Fund; increase of line item appropriation
        3-19-  Appropriation amendment; 1985 budget; transfer of funds within the total
85-4    85     appropriation of the Assessor's Office; decrease and increase of line item
               appropriation
85-5    2-20-  Appropriation amendment; 1985 budget; salary increases and decreases
        85
        4-16-  Appropriation amendment; 1985 budget; appropriation of $314 from the General
85-8    85     Fund and $284,352 from the Public Housing Fund; salary appropriations;
               increase and decrease of line item appropriations
85-11   5-21-  Appropriation amendment; 1985 budget; appropriation of $1,645 from the
        85     General Fund; increase of salary appropriations
        5-21-  Appropriation amendment; 1985 budget; appropriation of $8,630 from the
85-12   85     General Fund, $20,000 from the Assessor Account and $1,500 from the Collector
               Account; increase and establishment of line item appropriations
               Appropriation amendment; 1985 budget; appropriation of $3,326 from the
85-13   5-21-  General Fund, $5,682 from the Assessor Account, $554 from the Treasurer
        85     Account, $554 from the Road Account and $3,741 from the Collector Account;
               increase of salaries
85-14   5-21-  Appropriation amendment; 1985 budget; Appropriation amendment; 1985 budget;
        85     seasonal and part-time personnel appropriations
85-15   5-21-  Appropriation amendment; 1985 budget; establishment of the Prosecuting
        85     Attorney's Hot Check Fund
        5-21-  Appropriation amendment; 1985 budget; appropriation of $25,000 from the
85-16   85     Prosecuting Attorney's Hot Check Fund; establishment of line item
               appropriations
85-18   6-18-  Appropriation amendment; 1985 budget; purchasing procedure; fixed asset
        85     appropriation
        6-18-  Appropriation amendment; 1985 budget; appropriation of $61,588 from the
85-19   85     General Fund, $32,542 from the Assessor's Fund, $1,674 from the Treasurer's
               Fund and $248 from the Road Fund
85-21   7-23-  Appropriation amendment; 1985 budget; appropriation of $12,000 from the Road
        85     Fund; establishment of line item appropriation
               Appropriation amendment; 1985 budget; appropriation of $1,365 from the
85-24   8-20-  Assessor's Fund, $128 from the Treasurer's Fund, $1,082 from the Collector's
        85     Fund, $1,302 from the Revenue Sharing Fund and $32,736 from the Road Fund;
               decrease of General Fund
85-25   8-20-  Appropriation amendment; 1985 budget; appropriation of $800 from the General
        85     Fund; increase of line items in Appropriation No. 30 from the General Fund
85-26   8-20-  Appropriation amendment; 1985 budget; transfer of funds from within the
        85     Treasurer's office
85-27   9-24-  Appropriation amendment; 1985 budget; appropriation of $36,357 from the
        85     General Fund and $581 from the Revenue Sharing Fund
        9-24-  Appropriation amendment; 1985 budget; appropriation of $16,936 from the
85-28   85     General Fund, $2,484 from the Assessor Fund, $1,643 from the Collector Fund,
               $2,723 from the Revenue Sharing Fund and $40,396 from the Road Fund
85-29   9-24-  Appropriation amendment; 1985 budget; appropriation of $9,700 from the
        85     General Fund and $1,354 from the Road Fund
85-34   10-22- Appropriation amendment; 1985 budget; appropriation of $45,778 from the
        85     General Fund
85-35   12-4-  Levying county, municipal and school taxes for 1985
        85
85-36   12-4-  Appropriation amendment; 1985 budget; appropriation of $8,300 from the
        85     General Fund and $552 from the Collector Commission Account
85-37   12-11- Appropriation amendment; 1985 budget; approval of additional expenditures for
        85     the Circuit Clerk's Office and the Farm and Home Department
        12-17- Appropriation amendment; 1985 budget; appropriation of $17,122 from the
85-38   85     General Fund, $720 from the Assessor Account, $360 from the Road Fund and
               $291,647 from the Public Housing Agency Fund
85-40   12-17- Appropriation amendment; 1985 budget; transfer of funds within the total
        85     appropriation for the Circuit Clerk's Office, Appropriation No. 30
85-42   12-17- 1986 annual budget
        85
85-43   12-17- Appropriation amendment; 1986 budget; approval of expenditures
        85
86-1    1-22-  Appropriation amendment; 1986 budget; salary appropriations
        86
86-2    1-22-  Appropriation amendment; 1986 budget; salary appropriations
        86
86-3    1-22-  Appropriation amendment; 1986 budget; salary appropriations
        86
        1-22-  Appropriation amendment; 1986 budget; appropriation of $12,000 from the
86-5    86     General Fund; increase of line items in Appropriation No. 330; revision of
               funds to different divisions of the Chancery Court
86-6    2-19-  Appropriation amendment; 1986 budget; appropriation of $52,911 from the
        86     General Fund
               Appropriation amendment; 1986 budget; appropriation of $66,648 from the
86-8    3-18-  General Fund, $7,133 from the Revenue Sharing Fund, $50,000 from the Road
        86     Capital Projects Reserve Fund, $689 from the Adult Probation Fund and $50,000
               from the Assessor Commission Account
86-10   4-22-  Appropriation amendment; 1986 budget; appropriation of $2,370 from the
        86     General Fund
86-11   5-20-  Appropriation amendment; 1986 budget; salary appropriations
        86
86-12   5-20-  Appropriation amendment; 1986 budget; appropriation of $1,295 from the
        86     General Fund
        6-17-  Appropriation amendment; 1986 budget; appropriation of $15,137 from the
86-13   86     General Fund and $11,840 from the Assessor Commission Fund; estimated $11,840
               increase of Assessor Commission Fund Account revenue
86-14   6-17-  Appropriation amendment; 1986 budget; appropriation of $750 from the General
        86     Fund and $16,000 from the Road Capital Reserve Fund
               Appropriation amendment; 1986 budget; appropriation of $23,658 from the
86-15   7-22-  General Fund, $2,167 from the Revenue Sharing Fund, $1,430 from the Assessor
        86     Commission Account, $4 from the Treasurer Commission Account, $290 from the
               Adult Probation Fund and $51,400 from the Road Fund
86-16   8-21-  Appropriation amendment; 1986 budget; appropriation of $58,098 from the
        86     Computer Reserve Account
86-18   8-19-  Appropriation amendment; 1986 budget; appropriation of $37,000 from the
        86     Capital Reserve Fund
        9-16-  Appropriation amendment; 1986 budget; appropriation of $11,674 from the
86-20   86     General Fund and $21,088 from the Revenue Sharing Fund; $3,334 increase of
               General Fund revenue
86-21   9-16-  Appropriation amendment; 1986 budget; approval of delinquency charges
        86
               Appropriation amendment; 1986 budget; appropriation of $64,057 from the
        10-21- General Fund, $9,190 from the Revenue Sharing Fund, $5,647 from the
86-22   86     Commission Account, $37 from the Adult Probation Fund and $1,540 from the
               Road Fund; $5,647 increase of Commission revenue and $44,000 increase of the
               General Fund from jail fees
               Appropriation amendment; 1986 budget; appropriation of $46,019 from the
86-23   10-21- General Fund; estimated $46,019 increase from a Criminal Justice Block Grant
        86     to General Fund revenue; reduction of previous General Fund appropriation
               from $58,098 to $46,019
86-25   11-18- Levying county, municipal and school taxes for 1986
        86
86-26   11-18- Appropriation amendment; 1986 budget; appropriation of $20,410 from the
        86     General Fund; $814.25 increase of the General Fund revenue
86-27   12-18- 1987 annual budget
        86
86-28   12-18- Appropriation amendment; 1986 budget; appropriation of $83,629 from the
        86     Operating Fund and $4,232 from the Retirement Fund
               Appropriation amendment; 1986 budget; appropriation of $6,660 from the
86-29   12-18- General Fund, $15,000 from the Collector Commission Account, $1,332 from the
        86     Revenue Sharing Fund and $2,506 from the Road Fund; $15,000 increase of the
               Collector Commission Account
        1-21-  Appropriation amendment; 1987 budget; appropriation of $7,742 from the
87-2    87     General Fund and $9,423 from the Collector Commission Account; $9,423
               increase of Collector Commission Account revenue
87-3    1-21-  Appropriation amendment; 1987 budget; appropriation of $8,163 from the
        87     Greenwood Municipal Court Operating Fund
        2-19-  Appropriation amendment; 1987 budget; appropriation of $5,500 from the
87-4    87     General Fund; coordination of telephone system; increase of line items in
               Appropriation No. 230
        1-19-  Appropriation amendment; 1987 budget; appropriation of $15,024 from the
87-5    87     General Fund, with $6,500 to be transferred from the Computer Account to the
               General Fund for expenditures
87-6    2-19-  Appropriation amendment; 1987 budget; appropriation of $5,732 from the
        87     General Fund; increase of line items in Appropriation No. 190
               Appropriation amendment; 1987 budget; appropriation of $188,292 from the
        3-20-  General Fund, $39,657 from the Revenue Sharing Fund, $15,924 from the Road
87-9    87     Fund, $11,765 from the Assessor Account, $13,773 from the Collector Account,
               $3,561 from the Treasurer Account, $1,329 from the Adult Probation Fund and
               $600 from the Greenwood Municipal Court Operating Fund; increase of revenue
        4-21-  Appropriation amendment; 1987 budget; appropriation of $10,800 from the
87-10   87     General Fund, $17,634 from the Assessor Account and $74,686 from the Capital
               Computer Fund
87-13   4-21-  Amendment; procedure form line item adjustments
        87
87-14   5-20-  Appropriation amendment; 1987 budget; appropriation of $1,650 from the
        87     General Fund and $3,000 from the Road Fund
        7-21-  Appropriation amendment; 1987 budget; appropriation of $4,464 from the
87-16   87     General Fund, $351,164 from the Road Fund and $2,732 from the Collector
               Commission; $2,732 increase of Collector Commission revenue
               Appropriation amendment; 1987 budget; appropriation of $31,317 from the
        7-21-  General Fund, $2,112 from the Greenwood Municipal Court Fund, $22,244 from
87-17   87     the Road Fund and $8,816 from the Assessor Commission Account; General Fund
               total appropriation decrease by $20,669 from a transfer of funding; $8,816
               increase of Assessor Commission Account revenue
        8-18-  Appropriation amendment; 1987 budget; appropriation of $30,000 from the Act
87-18   87     986 Solid Waste Fund; establishment of Solid Waste Act 986 Account
               Appropriation No. 540
87-19   8-18-  Appropriation amendment; 1987 budget; appropriation of $5,746 from the
        87     General Fund
87-20   9-15-  Appropriation amendment; 1987 budget; appropriation of funds
        87
        10-20- Appropriation amendment; 1987 budget; appropriation of $10,148 from the
87-21   87     General Fund; $2,842 increase of revenue from reimbursement by Crawford
               County
        10-10- Appropriation amendment; 1987 budget; appropriation of $8,514 from the
87-22   87     General Fund, $280 from the Collector Commission Account and $99 from the
               Road Fund; $280 increase of Collector Commission Account
        11-17- Appropriation amendment; 1987 budget; appropriation of $25,013 from the
87-23   87     General Fund, $6,000 from the Road Fund and $245 from the Treasurer
               Commission Account; increase of estimated revenue
87-24   11-17- Levying county, municipal and school taxes for 1987
        87
87-25   12-16- 1988 annual budget
        87
87-26   12-16- Appropriation amendment; 1988 budget; appropriation of $100,966 from the
        87     Operating Fund to the Greenwood Municipal Court budget
               Appropriation amendment; 1987 budget; appropriation of $10,932 from the
87-27   12-16- General Fund, $2,390 from the Collector Commission Account and $513 from the
        87     Treasurer Commission Account; $2,390 increase of the Collector Commission
               revenue and $513 increase of the Treasurer Commission revenue
               Appropriation amendment; 1988 budget; appropriation of $9,936 from the
87-30   12-18- General Fund, $418 from the Collector Commission Account, $221 from the
        87     Treasurer Commission Account, $899 from the Assessor Commission Account,
               $2,654 from the Road Fund and $130 from the Adult Probation Fund
        1-21-  Appropriation amendment; 1988 budget; appropriation of $33,358 from the
88-1    88     General Fund, $17,695 from the Road Fund and $25,875 from the Solid Waste
               Fund
        2-18-  Appropriation amendment; 1988 budget; appropriation of $1,368 from the Adult
88-2    88     Probation Fund and $9,500 from the General Fund; administrative costs
               imposed; repealer
        3-16-  Appropriation amendment; 1988 budget; appropriation of $107,996 from the
88-3    88     General Fund and $650 from the Collector Account; $650 increase of Collector
               Commission Account revenue
        4-20-  Appropriation amendment; 1988 budget; appropriation of $56,021 from the
88-6    88     General Fund, $6,258 from the Road Fund and $1,256 from the Greenwood
               Municipal Court Operating Fund
88-7    4-20-  Appropriation amendment; 1988 budget; appropriation of $3,142 from the
        88     General Fund
        4-20-  Appropriation amendment; 1988 budget; appropriation of $6,853 from the
88-8    88     General Fund, $140,000 from the Road Fund and $3,226 from the Greenwood
               Municipal Court Operating Fund
               Appropriation amendment; 1988 budget; appropriation of $2,504 from the
88-9    5-18-  Revenue Sharing Fund, $1,096 from the General Fund, $500 from the Road Fund,
        88     $200 from the Treasurer Account, $400 from the Collector Account and $300
               from the Assessor Account; increased revenue
        5-18-  Appropriation amendment; 1988 budget; appropriation of $1,266 from the
88-10   88     General Fund and $2,171 from the Adult Probation Fund; revenues increased to
               reflect use of monies
88-15   6-22-  Appropriation amendment; 1988 budget; appropriation of funds
        88
        7-21-  Appropriation amendment; 1988 budget; appropriation of $4,113 from the
88-16   88     General Fund and $8,797 from the Assessor Account; $8,797 increase of
               Assessor Account revenue
               Appropriation amendment; 1988 budget; appropriation of $18,316 from the
        9-21-  General Fund, $5 from the Treasurer Account, $37 from the Collector Account,
88-17   88     $1,848 from the Assessor Account and $4,518 from the Road Fund; $6,286.75
               increase of General Fund revenue, $4,518 increase of Road Fund revenue and
               the Commission accounts by the amount of appropriation
88-19   10-19- Appropriation amendment; 1988 budget; appropriation of $3,531 from the
        88     General Fund; $3,531 increase of General Fund revenue
               Appropriation amendment; 1988 budget; appropriation of $885 from the General
88-22   11-16- Fund, $15,500 from the Solid Waste Fund, $1,721 from the Collector Account
        88     and $159,500 from the Road Capital Reserve Fund; $29,500 increase of Road
               Capital Reserve Fund and estimated increase of Collector Commission Accounts
88-23   11-16- Levying county, municipal and school taxes for 1988
        88
        12-21- Appropriation amendment; 1988 budget; appropriation of $11,831 from the
88-24   88     General Fund, $5,500 from the Solid Waste Account, $59 from the Collector
               Account, $742 from the Assessor Account and $951 from the Road Fund
88-25   12-21- 1989 annual budget
        88
88-26   12-21- Appropriation amendment; 1988 budget; appropriation of funds and approving
        88     the 1989 Greenwood Municipal Court budget
89-2    1-18-  Appropriation amendment; 1989 budget; appropriation of $7,453 from the
        89     General Fund and $5,790 from the Road Fund
               Appropriation amendment; 1989 budget; appropriation of $16,087 from the
89-4    2-22-  General Fund, $51,164 from the Commission Fund, $1,707 from the Adult
        89     Probation Fund with revenues of $1,327 and $500 from county fees for
               expenditures
        5-23-  Appropriation amendment; 1989 budget; appropriation of $20,000 from the
89-6    89     General Fund and $1,187 from the Commission Fund; $1,187 increase in
               Collector Revenue
        5-17-  Appropriation amendment; 1989 budget; appropriation of $6,939 from the
89-7    89     Greenwood Municipal Court Retirement Fund; reduction of Greenwood Municipal
               Court budget from $106,430 to $91,583; estimated $80,000 increase in revenue
89-8    5-17-  Appropriation amendment; 1989 budget; appropriation of $8,512 from the
        89     General Fund; $31,628 increase of General Fund revenue
               Appropriation amendment; 1989 budget; appropriation of $25,067 from the
89-10   6-21-  General Fund, $1,122 from the Assessor Fund, $771 from the Collector Fund,
        89     $563 from the Greenwood Municipal Court Fund and $21,520 from the Road Fund;
               $6,000 increase of the General Fund revenue
        7-19-  Appropriation amendment; 1989 budget; establishment of Detention Center
89-11   89     Planning Fund No. 103; transfer of $10,000 from the Criminal Study Committee
               budget to the Detention Center Planning Fund
89-12   7-19-  Appropriation amendment; 1989 budget; transfer of $275,000 from the General
        89     Fund to the Capital Projects General Fund
89-13   7-19-  Appropriation amendment; 1989 budget; appropriation of $35,284 from the
        89     General Fund
89-14   7-19-  Appropriation amendment; 1989 budget; appropriation of $13,495 from the
        89     General Fund
89-15   7-19-  Appropriation amendment; 1989 budget; appropriation of $8,494 from the
        89     General Fund
               Appropriation amendment; 1989 budget; appropriation of $23,688 from the
89-16   7-19-  General Fund, $119 from the Assessor Fund, $21,660 from the Collector Fund,
        89     $60 from the Greenwood Municipal Court Fund, $1,985 from the Adult Probation
               Fund and $138 from the Road Fund; increase of Collector and Assessor revenue
89-18   8-15-  Appropriation amendment; 1989 budget; appropriation of $20,691 from the 9-1-
        89     1 Telephone System Fund, 115, Department 245
89-19   8-16-  Appropriation amendment; 1989 budget; lifeguard positions established and
        89     expenditures adjusted
89-20   8-16-  Appropriation amendment; 1989 budget; appropriation of $17,000 from the Road
        89     Capital Fund, 203, Department 441
89-22   9-22-  Appropriation amendment; 1989 budget; appropriation of $5,711 from the
        89     General Fund
89-23   9-22-  Appropriation amendment; 1989 budget; appropriation of $139,914 from the
        89     Detention Center Planning Fund; increase in line item Appropriation No. 235
89-24   10-18- Appropriation amendment; 1989 budget; appropriation of $39,558 from the
        89     General Fund
89-26   11-21- Levying county, municipal and school taxes for 1989
        89
               Appropriation amendment; 1989 budget; appropriation of $17,340 from the
89-28   11-21- General Fund, $2,216 from the Road Fund, $14,193 from the Assessor Fund,
        89     $9,349 from the Collector Fund, $2,084 from the Treasurer Fund and $57,000
               from the 9-1-1 Fund; $50,000 increase of the General Fund revenue
89-30   12-20- Appropriation amendment; 1989 budget; appropriation of $3,820 from the
        89     General Fund
89-31   12-20- Appropriation amendment; increase of filing fees and costs for county Circuit
        89     and Municipal Courts added to budget
89-32   12-20- 1990 annual budget
        89
        1-16-  Appropriation amendment; 1990 budget; appropriation of $59,539 from the
90-1    90     General Fund and $1,679 from the Adult Probation Fund; estimated $25,000
               increase of General Fund revenue from the Probation Grant Program
90-2    2-20-  Appropriation amendment; 1990 budget; appropriation of $41,164 from the
        90     General Fund; transfer of $37,184 from the Computer Fund to the General Fund
        3-20-  Appropriation amendment; 1990 budget; appropriation of $10,000 from the
90-4    90     General Fund and $735,127 from the 9-1-1 Fund; estimated increase of 9-1-
               1 revenue from $480,000 to $522,000
90-7    4-17-  Appropriation amendment; 1990 budget; appropriation of $136,972 from the
        90     General Fund
90-10   5-15-  Appropriation amendment; 1990 budget; appropriation of $31,933 from the
        90     General Fund
        6-20-  Appropriation amendment; 1990 budget; appropriation $8,000 from the General
90-11   90     Fund; estimated $6,000 increase of General Fund revenue; establishment of
               Appropriation Nos. 397.00 and 398.00
        7-19-  Appropriation amendment; 1990 budget; appropriation of $86,547 from the
90-13   90     General Fund, $5,683 from the Road Fund and $30,000 from the Road Capital
               Reserve Fund
90-16   8-21-  Appropriation amendment; 1990 budget; appropriation of $72,288 from the
        90     General Fund and $400 from the Adult Probation Fund
        9-18-  Appropriation amendment; 1990 budget; appropriation of $1,292 from the
90-17   90     Collector Account; estimated $1,292 increase of Collector revenues from line
               items in Appropriation No. 60
90-18   9-18-  Appropriation amendment; 1990 budget; appropriation of $5,336 from the
        90     General Fund
90-19   10-16- Appropriation amendment; 1990 budget; appropriation of $12,414 from the
        90     General Fund
90-21   10-23- Appropriation amendment; 1990 budget; appropriation of $91,259 from the 9-1-
        90     1 Fund and $7,000 from the General Fund
90-23   11-20- Levying county, municipality and school taxes for 1990
        90
        11-20- Appropriation amendment; 1990 budget; transfer of $1,300 from the part-time
90-24   90     secretary position to the Deputy Coroner extra help category, making the 1990
               allocation of funds for Deputy Coroner extra help a total of $3,800
        12-18- Appropriation amendment; 1990 budget; appropriation of $12,363 from the
90-27   90     General Fund, $1,082 from the Road Fund, $670 from the Adult Probation Fund
               and $7,457 from the Public Housing Fund
90-28   12-18- 1991 annual budget
        90
90-29   12-18- Appropriation amendment; 1990 budget; appropriation of $5,000 from the
        90     General Fund
91-02   1-22-  Appropriation amendment; 1991 budget; appropriation of $67,339 from the
        91     General Fund and $4,893 from the Road Capital Reserve Fund
91-03   1-22-  Appropriation amendment; 1991 budget; approval of various petty cash funds
        91
91-4    2-19-  Appropriation amendment; 1991 budget; appropriation of $2,500 from the
        91     Assessor Account; estimated $2,500 increase of Assessor Commission revenue
               Appropriation amendment; 1991 budget; appropriation of $337,959 from the 9-1-
               1 Fund, $27,933 from the Adult Probation Grant Fund, $2,210 from the Adult
91-5    3-19-  Probation County Fee Account, $110,000 from the Road Fund and $400 from the
        91     General Fund; estimated $41,500 increase from $80,531 of Adult Probation
               Grant revenue and estimated $10 fee increase to $21,087 from Adult Probation
               revenue
91-6    3-19-  Appropriation amendment; 1991 budget; appropriation of $233,100 from the
        91     General Fund
91-7    3-19-  Appropriation amendment; 1991 budget; increase of $251,104 of the Capital
        91     Projects General Fund
               Appropriation amendment; 1991 budget; appropriation of $222,479 from the
               General Fund, $4,679 from the Greenwood Municipal Court Fund, $5,943 from the
91-10   4-16-  Adult Probation County Fee Account, $19,000 from the Collector Commission
        91     Account and $100,000 from the Road Fund; estimated $30,000 increase for
               Public Defender assessment and estimated $22,500 increase for 75% of the
               Sheriff's bail bond fee
91-16   5-21-  Appropriation amendment; 1991 budget; establishment of Emergency Rescue Fund,
        91     Appropriation No. 246
91-17   5-21-  Appropriation amendment; 1991 budget; appropriation of $15,836 from the
        91     Rescue Fund and $6,000 from the General Fund
91-20   6-18-  Appropriation amendment; 1991 budget; transfer of $40,843 from the General
        91     Fund to Department 103, Chancery Court III
91-21   6-18-  Appropriation amendment; 1991 budget; transfer of $52,300 from the General
        91     Fund to Department 099, Leased Judicial Offices
91-22   6-18-  Appropriation amendment; 1991 budget; appropriation of $1,100 from the
        91     General Fund
               Appropriation amendment; 1991 budget; appropriation of $66,777 from the
91-23   7-23-  General Fund, $92,739 from the Assessor Fund, $14,775 from the Road Fund and
        91     $5,355 from the 9-1-1 Fund; estimated $92,739 increase of Assessor revenues
               and estimated $51,355 increase of General Fund revenues
91-25   8-20-  Appropriation amendment; 1991 budget; appropriation of $10,436 from the
        91     General Fund and $1,200 from the Greenwood Municipal Court Fund
91-31   9-19-  Appropriation amendment; 1991 budget; appropriation of $12,665 from the
        91     General Fund and $284,000 from the Road Fund
        10-22- Appropriation amendment; 1991 budget; appropriation of $84,367 from the
91-33   91     General Fund, $40,551 from the Road Fund and $1,000 from the Greenwood
               Municipal Court Operating Fund
91-36   11-19- Appropriation amendment; 1991 budget; appropriation of $592 from the General
        91     Fund and $4,000 from the Copier Reserve Fund
91-37   11-19- Levying county, municipal and school taxes for 1991
        91
               Appropriation amendment; 1991 budget; appropriation of $68,472 from the
91-40   12-17- General Fund, $5,065 from the Greenwood Municipal Court Fund, $1,950 from the
        91     Treasurer Commission Fund, $5,680 from the Collector Commission Fund and
               $19,048 from the Road Fund; estimated increase to Commission accounts
        1-21-  Appropriation amendment; 1992 budget; appropriation of $167,510 from the
92-1    92     General Fund, $16,000 from the Assessor Commission Account and $10,518 from
               the Road Fund; estimated $16,000 increase of Assessor Commission revenue
               Appropriation amendment; 1992 budget; appropriation of $12,862 from the
92-2    2-19-  General Fund, $387,348 from the General Capital Reserve Fund, $3,192 from the
        92     Greenwood Municipal Court Operating Fund, $134 from the Assessor Commission
               Account and $14,166 from the Adult Probation Fund
               Appropriation amendment; 1992 budget; appropriation of $35,920 from the
92-04   3-23-  General Fund, $10,497 from the Emergency Rescue Fund and $2,500 from
        92     Commission Accounts; estimated $15,000 increase of the General Fund by the
               Prosecuting Attorney's Hot Check Fund
92-5    4-21-  Appropriation amendment; 1992 budget; appropriation of $30,580 from the
        92     General Fund
               Appropriation amendment; 1992 budget; appropriation of $129,697 from the
92-6    4-21-  General Fund, $6,500 from Commission accounts, $147,647 from the Road Fund,
        92     $1,625 from the Greenwood Municipal Court Fund and $202,580 from the
               Greenwood Capital Reserve Account
92-7    5-19-  Appropriation amendment; 1992 budget; appropriation of $10,715 from the
        92     General Fund and $15,000 from the 9-1-1 Fund
               Appropriation amendment; 1992 budget; appropriation of $86,563 from the
        6-16-  General Fund, $17,048 from the Road Fund, $1,363 from the Adult Probation
92-8    92     County Fund, $16,300 from the Capital Reserve Fund and $155,981 from the
               Public Housing Fund; estimated $155,981 increase of the General Fund and
               estimated $8,081 increase of insurance check reimbursement
               Appropriation amendment; 1992 budget; appropriation of $26,601 from the
        7-21-  General Fund, $700,917 from the Road Fund, $740 from the Greenwood Municipal
92-10   92     Court Operating Fund, $56 from Collector Commission and $550 from the
               Assessor Commission; estimated $20,275 increase of the General Fund revenue
               from the Juvenile Grant and $550 from the Assessor
92-12   8-18-  Appropriation amendment; 1992 budget; appropriation of $13,800 from the
        92     General Fund
92-15   9-15-  Appropriation amendment; 1992 budget; appropriation of $45,573 from the
        92     General Fund
        10-10- Appropriation amendment; 1992 budget; appropriation of $6,949,000 from the
92-16   92     Capital Projects General Fund; increase of line item 891.00 in Appropriation
               No. 445
               Appropriation amendment; 1992 budget; appropriation of $47,164 from the
        10-20- General Fund, $22, 058 from the Road Fund, $788 from the Adult Probation
92-17   92     Fund, $1,443 from the Greenwood Municipal Court Operating Fund; estimated
               $23,674 increase from the transfer from the Prosecuting Attorney Restitution
               Account
92-18   11-17- Levying of county, municipal and school taxes for 1992
        92
        11-17- Appropriation amendment; 1992 budget; appropriation of $485,336 from the
92-19   92     Community and Rural Development Fund; estimated increase of revenues to
               offset the appropriation from grant funds
        11-17- Appropriation amendment; 1992 budget; appropriation of $19,300 from the
92-20   92     General Fund, $950 from the Assessor Fund, $1,900 from the Collector Account
               and $250 from the Treasurer Account
92-23   11-17- Appropriation amendment; 1992 budget; appropriation of $26,500 from the
        92     General Fund; estimated $26,500 increase of General Fund revenue
        12-15- Appropriation amendment; 1992 budget; appropriation of $12,331 from the
92-24   92     General Fund, $6,253 from the Juvenile Court Indigent Fund, $75,000 from the
               Road Fund and $180,000 from HUD funds
               1993 budget; appropriation of the General Fund, $8,741,216; General Fund
               Capital Reserve Fund, $6,119,738; Road Fund, $2,623,321; Road Capital Reserve
92-27   12-15- Fund, $637,000; Public Housing Fund, $4,087,139; Adult Probation Fund,
        92     $165,931; Commission Fund, $1,592,925; Greenwood Municipal Court Fund,
               $127,810; Greenwood Municipal Retirement Fund, $9,252; 9-1-1 Fund, $724,262;
               Rescue Fund, $3,500; total, $24,832,094
               Appropriation amendment; 1993 budget; appropriation of $42,345 from the
               General Fund, $104,440 from the Road Capital Reserve Fund, $585 from the
93-2    1-19-  Assessor Commission Fund, $8,100 from the Rescue Fund, $1,800 from the Adult
        93     Probation Fund and $533 from the Greenwood Municipal Court Operating Fund;
               transfer of $300,000 from the General Fund to the General Capital Reserve
               Fund; increase of revenues
               Appropriation amendment; 1993 budget; appropriation of $23,957 from the
93-3    2-16-  General Fund and $4,555 from the Copier Reserve General Fund; transfer of
        93     $3,650 from the Copier Reserve to the General Fund; increase of Assessor and
               Collector revenues
               Appropriation amendment; 1993 budget; appropriation of $56,605 from the
93-4    3-16-  Community and Rural Development Fund and $40,313 from the General Fund;
        93     transfer of $4,375 from the Copier Reserve Fund to the General Fund;
               reimbursement of $16,173 by the Prosecuting Attorney
               Appropriation amendment; 1993 budget; appropriation of $112,673 from the
        4-20-  General Fund, $2,951 from the Assessor Commission, $1,335,600 from the Road
93-8    93     Fund, $414,304 from the Community and Rural Development Fund and $1,981 from
               the Greenwood Municipal Court Operating Fund; transfer of $8,708 from the
               Copier Reserve to the General Fund; increase of General Fund revenues
R. 93-3 5-20-  Authorization the allocation of funds for the Fire Protection Services Board
        93
        5-18-  Appropriation amendment; 1993 budget; appropriation of $17,084 from the
93-10   93     General Fund, $261 from the County Adult Probation Fund and $8,399 from the
               Public Housing Funds
        6-22-  Appropriation amendment; 1993 budget; appropriation of $18,226 from the
93-12   93     General Fund and $20,000 from the Treasurer Commission; transfer of $3,695
               from the Copier Reserve Fund to the General Fund
93-13   7-20-  Appropriation amendment; 1993 budget; appropriation of $53,512 from the
        93     General Fund; increase of General Fund revenue
        8-17-  Appropriation amendment; 1993 budget; appropriation of $51,634 from the
93-14   93     General Fund and $8,687 from the Assessor Commission Fund; increase of
               General Fund revenue
        9-21-  Appropriation amendment; 1993 budget; appropriation of $15,522 from the
93-15   93     General Fund and $29,000 from the Capital Reserve General Fund; transfer of
               $7,908 from the Ambulance Capital Reserve Fund to the General Fund
               Appropriation amendment; 1993 budget; appropriation of $91,146 from the
        10-19- General Fund, $9,770 from the Adult Probation State Grant and Fee Fund and
93-17   93     $1,025,098 from the Capital Reserve General Fund; transfer of $16,500 from
               Ambulance Reserve Account to the General Fund and $45,000 from the Capital
               Reserve Fund to the General Fund
        11-16- Appropriation amendment; 1993 budget; appropriation of $6,100 from the
93-18   93     General Fund, $81,803 from the Capital Reserve General Fund, $194 from the
               Adult Probation Fund and $68,092 from the HUD Section 8 Housing Fund
93-21   11-16- Levying county, municipal and school taxes for 1993
        93
        12-21- Appropriation amendment; 1993 budget; appropriation of $12,505 from the
93-22   93     General Fund, $816 from the Road Fund and $497 from the Greenwood Municipal
               Court Fund
93-24   12-21- 1994 annual budget
        93
        1-18-  Appropriation amendment; 1994 budget; appropriation of $19,970 from the
94-1    94     General Fund, $65,093 from the Capital Reserve Fund, $11,596 from the Adult
               Probation Fund and $225 from the Greenwood Municipal Court Operating Fund
94-3    2-15-  Appropriation amendment; 1994 budget; appropriation of $6,500 from the
        94     Greenwood Municipal Court Operating Fund
        3-15-  Appropriation amendment; 1994 budget; appropriation of $21,104 from the
94-5    94     General Fund, $219,661 from the Community and Rural Development Fund and
               $2,000 from the Treasurer Commission
               Appropriation amendment; 1994 budget; appropriation of $101,041 from the
               General Fund, $75,000 from the Capital Reserve General Fund, $620,424 from
        4-19-  the Road Fund, $980,000 from the Road Capital Reserve Fund and $102,973 from
94-9    94     the Assessor Commission Account; transfer of $29,994 from the Prosecuting
               Attorney's Restitution Account to the General Fund and $4,932 from the Copier
               Reserve Fund to the General Fund; increase of Assessor Commission Account and
               the General Fund
94-13   5-17-  Appropriation amendment; 1994 budget; appropriation of $50,642 from the
        94     General Fund; increase of General Fund revenue
94-14   6-21-  Appropriation amendment; 1994 budget; appropriation of $8,774 from the
        94     General Fund and $494 from the Collector Commission Account
               Appropriation amendment; 1994 budget; appropriation of $372,043 from the
94-15   7-19-  General Fund, $25,000 from the Capital Reserve General Fund, $21,490 from the
        94     Assessor Commission and $242 from the Greenwood Municipal Court Operating
               Fund
94-16   8-16-  Appropriation amendment; 1994 budget; appropriation of $35,810 from the
        94     General Fund and $529,446 from the Community and Rural Development Grant Fund
94-17   9-20-  Appropriation amendment; 1994 budget; appropriation of $9,800 from the
        94     General Fund
94-18   10-18- Appropriation amendment; 1994 budget; appropriation of $60,900 from the
        94     General Fund; increase of Jail Commissary revenue
94-20   11-22- Appropriation amendment; 1994 budget; appropriation of $39,900 of the General
        94     Fund
94-21   11-22- Levying county, municipal and school taxes for 1994
        94
94-22   12-20- Appropriation amendment; 1994 budget; appropriation of $42,727 from the
        94     General Fund
94-23   12-20- 1995 annual budget
        94
        1-17-  Appropriation amendment; 1995 budget; appropriation of $139,912 from the
95-2    95     General Fund, $124,502 from the Capital Reserve General Fund and $1,116 from
               the Commission Funds
95-3    1-17-  Appropriation amendment; 1995 budget; establishment of the Federal Forfeiture
        95     Fund
95-5    2-21-  Appropriation amendment; 1995 budget; appropriation of $6,321 from the
        95     General Fund and $17,649 from the Road Capital Reserve Fund
95-8    3-21-  Appropriation amendment; 1995 budget; appropriation of $6,692 from the
        95     General Fund
               Appropriation amendment; 1995 budget; appropriation of $78,348 from the
95-9    4-18-  General Funds, $5,820 from the Commission Funds, $1,041 from the Road Fund,
        95     $80 from the Greenwood Municipal Court Funds, $85,121 from Capital Reserve
               General Fund and $506,079 from the Community and Rural Development Grant Fund
95-10   4-26-  Appropriation amendment; 1995 budget; appropriation of $156,600 from the
        95     Capital Reserve General Fund
95-12   5-16-  Appropriation amendment; 1995 budget; appropriation of $21,142 from the
        95     General Fund and $18,719 from the Commission Funds
95-14   6-20-  Appropriation amendment; 1995 budget; appropriation of $4,038 from the
        95     Greenwood Municipal Court Operating Fund
95-15   7-18-  Appropriation amendment; 1995 budget; appropriation of $50,000 from the
        95     General Fund; increase of General Fund revenue
95-16   8-15-  Appropriation amendment; 1995 budget; appropriation of $176,534 from the
        95     General Fund and $1,650 from the Greenwood Municipal Court Operating Fund
               Appropriation amendment; 1995 budget; appropriation of $329,687 from the
95-18   9-19-  General Fund, $7,817 from the County Recorder Fund and $4,000 from the
        95     Assessor Commission; transfer of $103,033 from the Capital Projects General
               Fund to the General Fund
95-20   10-17- Appropriation amendment; 1995 budget; appropriation of $3,560 from the
        95     General Fund
95-22   11-21- Appropriation amendment; 1995 budget; appropriation of $1,443 from the
        95     General Fund
95-23   11-21- Levying the county, municipal and school taxes for 1995
        95
               Appropriation amendment; 1995 budget; appropriation of $20,000 from the
95-24   12-19- General Fund and $690 from Community and Rural Development Fund; estimated
        95     $690 increase of Community and Rural Development Fund revenue and estimated
               $19,000 increase of Sales Tax General Fund revenue
95-25   12-19- 1996 annual budget
        95
               Appropriation amendment; 1996 budget; appropriation of $117,725 from the
               General Fund, $64,000 from the Treasurer Commission, $11,310 from the Federal
96-1    1-17-  Forfeiture Fund, $84,089 from the Community and Rural Redevelopment Fund and
        96     $6,402 from the County Recorder Fund; estimated $30,500 of General Fund
               revenue, estimated $4,232 increase of Assessor Commission revenue and
               estimated $64,000 increase of Treasurer Commission Fund revenue
               Appropriation amendment; 1996 budget; appropriation of $6,300 from the
               General Fund, $7,220 from Assessor Commission Fund and $125,070 from the
               Community and Rural Development Fund; estimated $7,220 increase of Assessor
96-3    2-20-  Commission Fund revenue and estimated $125,070 increase of Community and
        96     Rural Development Fund revenue; transfer of $540,235 from the General Fund to
               General Capital Reserve Account, $43,140 from the General Fund to Ambulance
               Reserve Account, $470,032 from the General Fund to Courthouse improvements
               and $500,000 from Road Fund to Road Capital Reserve
96-5    4-16-  Appropriation amendment; 1996 budget; appropriation of $32,856 from the
        96     General Fund and $8,449 from the Recycling Grant Fund
96-6    5-22-  Appropriation amendment; 1996 budget; appropriation of $41,042 from the
        96     General Fund
96-7    6-18-  Appropriation amendment; 1996 budget; appropriation of $1,432 from the
        96     General Fund
96-8    7-23-  Appropriation amendment; 1996 budget; appropriation of $257,368 from the
        96     General Fund; estimated $206,527 increase of revenues
96-10   8-20-  Appropriation amendment; 1996 budget; appropriation of $13,341 from the
        96     General Fund and $4,918 from Assessor Commission Account
96-11   9-17-  Appropriation amendment; 1996 budget; appropriation of $43,059 from the
        96     General Fund and $5,161 from the Greenwood Municipal Court Operating Fund
96-13   10-15- Appropriation amendment; 1996 budget; appropriation of $38,459 from the
        96     General Fund and $15,582 from the Capital Reserve Account
96-15   11-19- Appropriation amendment; 1996 budget; appropriation of $15,640 from the
        96     General Fund and $4,262 from the Capital Reserve Account
96-16   12-17- Levying county, municipal and school taxes for 1996
        96
               Appropriation amendment; 1996 budget; appropriation of $95,197 from the
        12-17- General Fund, $638 from the Collector Commission, $2,583 from the Assessor
96-18   96     Commission and $734 from the Road Fund; estimated $2,600 increase in General
               Fund revenue, estimated $2,587 increase of the Collector Fund revenue and
               estimated $734 increase of the Assessor Fund revenue
        12-17- Appropriation amendment; 1996 budget; appropriation of $4,121 from the
96-19   96     Treasurer Commission, $3,738 from the Collector Commission and $4,219 from
               the Greenwood Municipal Court Operating Fund
96-20   12-17- 1997 annual budget
        96
               Appropriation amendment; 1997 budget; appropriation of $45,710 from the
97-3    1-28-  General Fund, $11,212 from the Federal Forfeiture Fund and $4,500 from the
        97     Community and Rural Development Fund; $21,475 increase of General Fund
               revenue
               Appropriation amendment; 1997 budget; appropriation of $96,073 from the
97-6    2-18-  General Fund and $20,229 from the Assessor Commission; estimated $25,545
        97     increase of General Fund revenue and estimated $20,229 increase of the
               Commission revenue
97-9    4-15-  Appropriation amendment; 1997 budget; appropriation of $63,315 from the
        97     General Fund; estimated $9,342 increase of General Fund revenue
97-11   5-20-  Appropriation amendment; 1997 budget; appropriation of $28,815 from the
        97     General Fund and $315 from the Road Fund
R. 97-8 5-20-  Allocation of disaster assistance funds
        97
97-12   6-17-  Appropriation amendment; 1997 budget; appropriation of $863 from the General
        97     Fund; estimated $9,223 increase of General Fund revenue from grant funds
               Appropriation amendment; 1997 budget; appropriation of $36,521 from the
        7-29-  General Fund, $131,952 from the Recorder Cost Fund, $5,089 from the Greenwood
97-13   97     Municipal Court Operating Fund, $8,299 from the Road Fund, $240,522 from the
               Assessor Commission and $42,343 from the 9-1-1 Fund; estimated $255,000
               increase of the County Recorder Fund revenue
        8-18-  Appropriation amendment; 1997 budget; appropriation of $63,493 from the
97-14   97     General Fund; estimated $41,379 increase of the General Fund by 1997-1998
               juvenile grants
97-15   9-16-  Appropriation amendment; 1997 budget; appropriation of $10,081 from the
        97     General Fund
97-16   9-16-  Appropriation amendment; 1997 budget; appropriation of $10,437 from the
        97     General Fund and $5,383 from the Road Fund
        10-3-  Appropriation amendment; 1997 budget; appropriation of $265,000 from the
97-17   97     General Fund; transfer of $265,000 from the Ambulance Reserve Account to the
               General Fund
        10-21- Appropriation amendment; 1997 budget; appropriation of $114,909 from the
97-18   97     General Fund and $114,000 from the Road Fund; estimated $48,536 increase of
               General Fund revenue and estimated $109,511 increase of Road Fund revenue
        11-18- Appropriation amendment; 1997 budget; appropriation of $90,673 from the
97-19   97     General Fund and $50,000 from the Road Fund; estimated $60,000 increase of
               General Fund revenue; transfer of $9,532 to Act. 1256 Funds
        12-16- Appropriation amendment; 1997 budget; appropriation of $96,613 from the
97-22   97     General Fund and $177,433 from the County Recorder Cost Fund; estimated
               $177,433 increase of General Fund revenue
97-23   12-24- Appropriation amendment; 1997 budget; appropriation of $13,683 from the
        97     General Fund
97-24   12-24- 1998 annual budget
        97
98-2    1-20-  Appropriation amendment; 1998 budget; appropriation of $145,212 from the
        98     General Fund and $3,957 from the Federal Forfeiture Fund
               Appropriation amendment; 1998 budget; appropriation of $764 from the General
98-5    2-17-  Fund and $24,500 from the Commission Fund, 102; estimated $4,500 increase of
        98     Assessor Commission and estimated $20,000 increase from the Treasurer
               Commission
98-6    2-17-  Appropriation amendment; 1998 budget; appropriation of $182,218 from the
        98     General Fund
        3-25-  Appropriation amendment; 1998 budget; appropriation of $7,000 from the
98-10   98     General Fund and $22,000 from the Rescue Fund; estimated $7,000 increase of
               the General Fund revenue
               Appropriation amendment; 1998 budget; appropriation of $15,091 from the
        4-21-  General Fund and $58,572 from the Sheriff's Communication and Facility Fund;
98-11   98     estimated $2,500 of General Fund revenue, estimated $103,000 increase of
               Sheriff's Communication Facility and Equipment Funds and estimated $65,410
               increase of Capital Reserve Fund revenue
98-12   4-21-  Appropriation amendment; 1998 budget; appropriation of $80,000 from the
        98     General Fund
               Appropriation amendment; 1998 budget; appropriation of $29,310 from the
        5-21-  General Fund and $100,000 from the Road Fund; estimated $9,000 increase in
98-13   98     General Fund revenue from earmarked Imaging Funds, estimated $75,000 increase
               from sales tax and estimated $6,500 increase from Capital Reserve General
               Fund
98-14   6-16-  Appropriation amendment; 1998 budget; approval of salary policies and
        98     expenditures
               Appropriation amendment; 1998 budget; appropriation of $146,509 from the
98-15   6-16-  General Fund, $60,000 from the Road Fund and $28,224 from the 9-1-1 Fund;
        98     $26,509 increase in General Fund revenue from the Rural Fire Grant, $120,000
               election reimbursements and $30,000 road bridge grant
               Appropriation amendment; 1998 budget; appropriation of $65,478 from the
        7-22-  General Fund, $842 from the Treasurer Fund, $12,000 from Assessor Fund and
98-16   98     $31,378 from the Federal Forfeiture Fund; $1,317 increase of General Fund
               revenue, $842 increase of Treasurer Commission Fund, $12,000 increase of
               Assessor Commission Fund and $31,908 increase of Federal Forfeiture Fund
        8-18-  Appropriation amendment; 1998 budget; appropriation of $158 from the
98-18   98     Collector Commission Fund; estimated $158 increase of Collector Commission
               Fund revenue
               Appropriation amendment; 1998 budget; appropriation of $26,073 from the
98-19   9-15-  General Fund, $100,000 from the Road Fund and $475,000 from the Capital
        98     Projects General Fund; $7,558 increase of General Fund revenue from the
               Prosecuting Attorney grant
        10-20- Appropriation amendment; 1998 budget; appropriation of $33,150 from the
98-20   98     General Fund and $14,114 from the Road Fund; estimated $9,386 increase of
               General Fund revenue
98-21   11-17- Levying of county, municipal and school taxes for 1998
        98
98-22   11-17- Appropriation amendment; 1998 budget; appropriation of $14,308 from the
        98     General Fund; estimated $14,308 increase in General Fund revenue
98-23   12-15- Appropriation amendment; 1998 budget; appropriation of $10,000 from the
        98     General Fund
               Appropriation amendment; 1998 budget; appropriation of $43,893 from the
        12-15- General Fund, $4,363 from the Collector Commission Fund, $5,024 from the
98-24   98     Assessor Commission Fund and $9,577 from the Road Fund; estimated $3,410
               increase in General Fund revenue, $4,363 in Collector Commission Fund revenue
               and $5,024 in Assessor Commission Fund
98-25   12-15- Appropriation amendment; 1998 budget; appropriation of $1,612,628 from the
        98     General Fund; estimated $1,612,628 increase in General Fund revenue
98-29   12-15- 1999 annual budget
        98
98-30   12-15- Appropriation amendment; 1998 budget; appropriation of $9,200 from the
        98     General Fund
99-2    1-27-  Appropriation amendment; 1999 budget; appropriation of $48,080 from the
        99     General Fund and $705,500 from the General Capital Reserve Fund
               Appropriation amendment; 1999 budget; appropriation of $81,585 from the
               General Fund, $2,500 from the Collector Fund, $2,500 from the Assessor Fund,
99-3    1-27-  $4,000 from the Road Fund and $56,503 from Road Fund Capital Reserve;
        99     estimated $21,000 increase of the General Fund revenue and estimated $2,500
               increase of Collector Commission and estimated $2,500 increase of Assessor
               Commission
               Appropriation amendment; 1999 budget; appropriation of $74,710 from the
99-4    1-27-  General Fund, $41,349 from the Sheriff's Communication Facility and Equipment
        99     Fund and $17,280 from the Federal Forfeiture Fund; estimated $7,020 increase
               in General Fund revenue
99-5    2-16-  Appropriation amendment; 1999 budget; appropriation of $4,249 from the
        99     General Fund; estimated $2,263 increase in General Fund revenue
99-6    3-16-  Appropriation amendment; 1999 budget; appropriation of $99,587 from the
        99     General Fund; increase of $95,471 of the General Fund revenue
               Appropriation amendment; 1999 budget; appropriation of $196,114 from the
        4-20-  General Fund, $6,635 from the Federal Forfeiture Fund, $5,392 from the
99-7    99     Commission Account, $21,504 from the 9-1-1 Fund and $2,996 from Road Fund;
               $6,635 increase of Federal Forfeiture revenue and $5,392 increase of
               Commission revenue
99-8    4-20-  Appropriation amendment; 1999 budget; appropriation of $240,000 from the
        99     General Fund
               Appropriation amendment; 1999 budget; appropriation of $84,389 from the
        5-18-  General Fund, $2,128 from Commission Account, $1,084 from the County Recorder
99-10   99     Fund, $522 from the Greenwood Municipal Court Fund and $1,795 from the Road
               Fund; $35,385 increase of General Fund revenue, $1,948 increase of Assessor
               Fund revenue and $180 increase of Collector Fund revenue
               Appropriation amendment; 1999 budget; appropriation of $26,000 from the
99-12   6-15-  General Fund, $131,831 from the General Capital Reserve Fund, $4,600 from the
        99     Assessor Commission Fund and $40,000 from the Road Fund; $40,000 increase of
               the Road Fund revenue and $4,600 increase of the Assessor Fund revenue
        7-20-  Appropriation amendment; 1999 budget; appropriation of $65,325 from the
99-13   99     General Fund, 101; $60,325 increase to General Fund revenue and $616 increase
               to the County Recorder Cost Fund
99-16   8-17-  Appropriation amendment; 1999 budget; appropriation of $44,500 from the
        99     General Fund
99-17   8-17-  Appropriation amendment; 1999 budget; appropriation of $46,993 from the
        99     General Fund; $46,993 increase of General Fund revenue
99-18   8-17-  Appropriation amendment; 1999 budget; appropriation of $28,269 from the
        99     General Fund
99-19   9-21-  Appropriation amendment; 1999 budget; appropriation of $21,142 from the
        99     General Fund
        9-21-  Appropriation amendment; 1999 budget; appropriation of $100,074 from the
99-22   99     General Fund and $20,500 from the General Fund Capital Reserve Fund; $178,279
               increase from the General Reserve revenue
        9-21-  Appropriation amendment; 1999 budget; appropriation of $85,000 from the
99-23   99     Treasurer's Commission; estimated $85,000 increase of the Treasurer's
               Automation Fund revenue
               Appropriation amendment; 1999 budget; appropriation of $38,545 from the
        10-19- General Fund, $15,500 from the SCSO Communication Facility and Equipment
99-24   99     Fund, $43,076 from the Road Fund Capital Reserve and $13,781 from the 9-1-
               1 Fund; transfer of $5,995 from the Copier Reserve Fund to the General Fund;
               $10,000 increase of General Fund revenue
99-25   10-19- Appropriation amendment; 1999 budget; appropriation of $79,250 from the
        99     General Fund
        11-16- Appropriation amendment; 1999 budget; appropriation of $7,300 from the
99-26   99     General Fund, $7,037 from the Capital Reserve Fund and $9,100 from the Road
               Fund
99-27   11-16- Appropriation amendment; 1999 budget; appropriation of $7,568 from the
        99     General Fund
99-28   12-21- Levying of county, municipal and school taxes for 2000
        99
99-29   12-21- 2000 annual budget
        99
99-30   12-21- Amendment; 2000 annual budget
        99
               Appropriation amendment; 2000 budget; appropriation of $205,681 from the
2000-2  1-18-  General Fund, $10,452 from the Assessor Fund, $9,986 from the Sheriff's
        00     Communication Facility and Equipment Fund and $181,046 from the General Fund
               Capital Reserve Fund; $10,452 increase of Assessor Commission revenue
               Appropriation amendment; 2000 budget; appropriation of $9,148 from the
        2-15-  General Fund and $12,259 from the Federal Forfeiture Fund; transfer of
2000-3  00     $200,000 from the General Fund to the General Fund Capital Reserve; $200,000
               increase of General Fund Capital Reserve and estimated $400 increase of
               General Fund
2000-5  3-21-  Appropriation amendment; 2000 budget; appropriation of $107,810 from the
        00     General Fund; $10,388 increase of the Assessor Commission Fund
               Appropriation amendment; 2000 budget; appropriation of $31,646 from the
               General Fund, 101, $13,016 from Assessor's Commission Fund, 102, $89 from
2000-7  4-18-  Collector's Commission Fund, 102, $2,089 from Sheriff's Federal Forfeiture
        00     Fund, 103, $5,370 from Road Fund, 202; estimated $2,089 increase of Federal
               Forfeiture Fund revenue, estimated $89 increase of Collector Expenses Fund
               revenue and estimated $13,016 increase of Assessor Expenses revenue
2000-8  5-24-  Appropriation amendment; 2000 budget; appropriation of $5,434 from the
        00     Greenwood Municipal Court Fund
               Appropriation amendment; 2000 budget; appropriation of $24,000 from Treasurer
        6-20-  Commission Fund, 102, $45,000 from Treasurer Automation Fund, 109, and
2000-10 00     $64,545 from the General Fund, 101; estimated $24,000 increase of Treasurer
               Commission Fund revenue, estimated $45,000 from Treasurer Automation Fund
               revenue and estimated $64,095 increase of General Fund revenue
               Appropriation amendment; 2000 budget; appropriation if $1,374 from the
2000-11 7-18-  General Fund, 101, $10,768 from the Assessor Commission Fund, 102, and
        00     $1,232,000 from the General Fund Capital Reserve, 114; estimated $10,768
               increase of Assessor Fund revenue
               Appropriation amendment; 2000 budget; transfer of $20,190 from salaries and
               overtime within Appropriation No. 40, Adult Detention Center, in order to
               reduce the SDADC comp time liability to zero, transfer of $2,464 from
2000-12 8-15-  Appropriation No. 240, Adult Detention Center, to Appropriation No. 200,
        00     Juvenile Intake, in order to reduce the Juvenile Detention Center comp time
               liability to zero, and transfer of $18,354 from Appropriation No. 240, Adult
               Detention Center, to Appropriation No. 52, Law Enforcement, to use in paying
               for reserve officers for the remainder of 2000 budget year
        8-15-  Appropriation amendment; 2000 budget; appropriation of $77,048 from the
2000-13 00     General Fund, 101, and $4,172 from the Solid Waste Grant Fund, 113; estimated
               $8,753 increase of General Fund revenue
               Appropriation amendment; 2000 budget; appropriation of $150,000 from the Road
2000-14 9-9-00 Fund, 202, $18,082 from the General Fund, 101 and $3,760 from the Federal
               Forfeiture Fund, 103; estimated $6,250 increase of General Fund revenue and
               estimated $3,760 increase of Federal Forfeiture Fund revenue
               Appropriation amendment; 2000 budget; appropriation of $7,237 from the
2000-15 10-17- General Fund, 101; transfer of $32,000 from operating/services expenditures
        00     to capital purchase expenditures with the County Recorder Fund, 119;
               estimated $7,237 increase of General Fund revenue
               Appropriation amendment; 2000 budget; transfer of $165,950 among specific
00-16   10-27- line items in Appropriation No. 231, Courthouse Renovations, within the
        00     General Fund Capital Reserve Fund, 114; appropriation of $433,907 from the
               General Fund Capital Reserve Fund, 114
               Appropriation amendment; 2000 budget; appropriation of $27,687 from the
               General Fund, 101, $100,000 from the General Fund Capital Reserve, 114,
               $30,000 from the Treasurer's Commission, 102, and an appropriation decrease
               of $30,000 from the Treasurer Automation Fund, 109; transfer of $621 from
2000-17 11-21- capital to operating line items in the Greenwood Municipal Court Fund, 108,
        00     and $9,100 from capital to operating line items within the General Fund, 101;
               estimated $17,963 increase of General Fund revenue, estimated $30,000
               increase of Treasurer Commission revenue and estimated $80,000 increase of
               General Fund Capital Reserve revenue; estimated $30,000 decrease from
               Treasurer Commission Fund revenue
               Appropriation amendment; 2000 budget; appropriation of $12,608 from the
               General Fund, 101, $20,381 for inter-fund transfer from the Collector
               Commission, 102, $7,176 for inter-fund transfer from the Treasurer
               Commission, 102, $4,494 for inter-fund transfer from the Greenwood Municipal
        12-19- Court Fund, 108, $15,022 for inter- fund transfer from the Road Fund, 202,
2000-18 00     and $228 from the County Recorder Fund, 119; transfer of $44,564 among
               specific line items within the General Fund, 101, $63,857 among specific line
               items within the Assessor Commission, 102 and $1,601 among specific line
               items within the County Rescue Fund, 116; estimated $20,381 increase of
               Collector Commission revenue and estimated $7,176 increase of Treasurer
               Commission revenue
2000-19 12-19- 2001 annual budget
        00
        12-19- Appropriation amendment; 2001 budget; appropriation of $1,551 from the
2000-20 00     General Fund, 101 and $539 from the Collector Commission; estimated $539
               increase of Collector Commission revenue
2001-2  1-16-  Levying the county, municipal and school taxes for 2001, complying with Act
        01     848 of 1981 regarding the county-wide reappraisal
               Appropriation amendment; 2001 budget; appropriation of $127,518 from the
        1-16-  General Fund, 101, and $2,838 from the Collector Commission; transfer of
2001-3  01     $10,366 among specific line items within the County Recorder Fund, 119;
               estimated $21,752 increase of General Fund revenue and estimated $2,838
               increase of Collector Commission revenue
2001-4  1-16-  Appropriation amendment; 2001 budget; creation of County Law Library-Fort
        01     Smith Fund, 117, with an estimated revenue of $19,240
               Appropriation amendment; 2001 budget; appropriation of $99,610 from the
               General Fund, 101, $330 from the Treasurer Commission, 102, $1,153 from the
               Collector Commission, 102, $8,075 from the Assessor Commission, 102, $2,985
               from the Greenwood Municipal Court Fund, $26 from the Law Library Fund, 117,
        2-20-  $206 from the County Recorder Fund, 119, $122 from the Scott-Sebastian
2001-05 01     Library Fund, 122, $85,000 from the General Fund Capital Reserve, 114, and
               $35,853 from the Road Fund, 202; transfer of $75,000 from the General Fund,
               101, to the General Fund Capital Reserve, 114; estimated $8,075 increase of
               Assessor revenue, estimated $1,153 increase of the Collector revenue,
               estimated $330 increase of Treasurer revenue and estimated $13,941 increase
               of General Fund revenue
               Appropriation amendment; 2001 budget; appropriation of $107, 646 from the
        3-20-  General Fund, 101, $17,800 from the Collector Commission, 102 and $50 from
2001-7  01     the Assessor Commission, 102; estimated $82,373 increase of General Fund
               revenue, estimated $17,800 increase of Collector Commission revenue and
               estimated $50 increase of Assessor Commission revenue
        3-20-  Appropriation amendment; distribution of severance taxes to local public
2001-8  01     school districts for the first and second quarters of the 2000-2001 school
               year
               Appropriation amendment; 2001 budget; appropriation of $28,702 from the
               General Fund, 101, $13,560 from the Sheriff's Communication Fund, 110, $5,200
2001-9  4-17-  from the County Rescue Fund and $1,250 from the Greenwood Municipal Court
        01     Fund; transfer of $15,000 from a specific line item to the General Fund
               unobligated balance; estimated $3,560 increase of Sheriff's Communication
               Fund revenue
2001-11 5-15-  Appropriation amendment; 2001 budget; appropriation of $27,000 from the
        01     General Fund Capital Reserve, 114, and transfer from the General Fund, 101
               Appropriation amendment; 2001 budget; appropriation of $15,592 from the
               General Fund, 101, and $52,000 from the General Fund Capital Reserve, 114;
2001-14 5-15-  transfer of $52,000 from unobligated general funds to the General Fund
        01     Capital Reserve, 114, and $2,000 among specific line items within the General
               Fund, 101; allocation of 4% merit pool to the specific positions in the 2001
               budget; estimated $15,000 increase of General Fund revenue
        5-15-  Appropriation amendment; 2001 budget; appropriation of $3,863 from the
2001-15 01     Assessor Commission, 102; estimated $3,863 increase of Assessor Commission
               revenue
               Appropriation amendment; 2001 budget; appropriation of $70,348 from the
        6-19-  General Fund, 101, $1,034 from the County Rescue Fund, 116, $4,048 from the
2001-16 01     Law Library Fund, 117, and $514,247 from the Road Fund, 202; estimated
               $21,742 increase of General Fund revenue and estimated $513,197 increase of
               the Road Fund revenue
               Appropriation amendment; 2001 budget; appropriation of $156,250 from the
               General Fund, 101, $4,305 from the Collector Commission Fund, 102, $4,724
        7-24-  from the Assessor Commission Fund, 102, and $111,673 from the Sheriff's
2001-17 01     Communications and Facility Fund, 110; estimated $180,350 increase of General
               Fund revenue, estimated $4,305 increase of the Collector Commission revenue,
               estimated $4,724 increase of the Assessor Commission revenue and estimated
               $99,498 increase of Sheriff's Communications and Facility Fund revenue
2001-19 7-24-  Appropriation amendment; 2001 budget; distribution of federal mineral leasing
        01     funds to local public school districts
               Appropriation amendment; 2001 budget; appropriation of $35,703 from the
2001-20 8-21-  General Fund, $692 from the County Rescue Fund, and $114,549 from the
        01     Assessor Commission; increase General Fund estimated revenue by $423,385,
               increase the Assessor Commission estimated revenue by $114,549
               Appropriation amendment; 2001 budget; appropriate $80,282 from the General
               Fund, $3,500 from the Collector Commission; transfer $9,893 from the General
2001-21 9-18-  Fund Copier Reserve to the General Fund Balance; transfer $7,958 among
        01     specific line items in the County Recorder Fund; increase the General Fund
               Estimated Revenue by $70,389; increase the Collector Commission Estimated
               Revenue by $3,500
               Appropriation amendment; 2001 budget; appropriation of $149,553 from the
               General Fund, $6,646 from the Collector Commission, $628 from the Greenwood
2001-22 10-16- District Court Fund; transfer $7,000 among specific line items in the General
        01     Fund; transfer $36,823 among specific line items in the County Recorder Fund;
               increase General Fund estimated revenue by $65,096; increase the Collector
               Commission Fund estimated revenue by $6,646
2001-23 10-23- Appropriation ordinance; 2001 budget; appropriation of $16,413 from the
        01     General Fund; increase General Fund estimated revenue by $16,413
               Appropriation ordinance; 2001 budget; appropriation of $16,543 from the
        11-20- General Fund and $220,403 from the Sheriff Radio Equipment Fund; increase the
2001-25 01     General Fund estimated revenue $16,543; transfer funds among specific line
               items within the General Fund; increase the Sheriff Radio Equipment Fund
               estimated revenue by $167,144
        12-18- Appropriation ordinance; 2001 budget; appropriation of $76,712 from the
2001-28 01     General Fund; transfer $5,581 among specific departments and line items
               within the General Fund; increase General Fund estimated revenue by $18,000
2001-29 12-18- Approval of 2002 budget
        01
2002-1  1-15-  Appropriation ordinance; levying county, municipal and school taxes for 2002
        02     and complying with Act 848 of 1981 regarding the countywide reappraisal
               Appropriation ordinance; 2002 budget; appropriated $544,141 from the General
               Fund, $330,956 from the Sheriff Radio and Communication Equipment Fund,
               $567,200 from the General Fund Capital Reserve Fund, $1,626 from the 9-1-
2002-2  1-29-  1 Fund, and $7,547 from the County Recorder Fund; transfer $5,900 from the
        02     General Fund Copier Reserve to the General Fund unobligated balance; increase
               the General Fund estimated revenue by $118,155, increase General Fund Capital
               Reserve estimated revenue by $80,000, and increase 9-1-1 Fund estimated
               revenue by $50,000
               Appropriation ordinance; 2002 budget; appropriation of $167,855 from the
               General Fund, $1,243 from the Collector Commission, $1,888 from the Assessor
2002-3  2-20-  Commission, $30,000 from the General Fund Capital Reserve, and $8,650 from
        02     the Road Fund; increase General Fund estimated revenue by $95,455, the
               Collector Commission estimated revenue by $1,243, the Assessor Commission
               estimated revenue by $1,888 and the Road Fund estimated revenue by $8,650
               Appropriation ordinance; 2002 budget; appropriation of $56,552 from the
               General Fund, $979 from the Federal Forfeiture Fund; increase the General
        3-19-  Fund estimated revenue by $56,552 and the Federal Forfeiture Fund estimated
2002-5  02     revenue by $979; transfer funds among specific department and line items in
               the 2002 budget; adjust the salaries for full-time positions to allow for
               merit pay increases to the individual positions as authorized in the 2002
               budget
               Appropriation ordinance; 2002 budget; appropriation of $54,921 from the
               General Fund, $4,235 from the Assessor Commission, $20,000 from the Treasurer
               Commission, $2,700 from the Greenwood District Court Fund, $20,000 from the
2002-7  4-16-  Recorder Fund, $9,342 from the Sebastian County Library Fund, $1,350 from the
        02     Road Fund; transfer $5,327 from the General Fund Copier Reserve to the
               General Fund unobligated balance; increase the Assessor Commission estimated
               revenue by $4,235, the Treasurer Commission estimated revenue by $20,000 and
               the Road fund estimated revenue by $1,350
        5-21-  Appropriation ordinance; 2002 budget; appropriation of $42,976 from the
2002-8  02     General Fund; transfer $8,700 between specific line items within the General
               Fund; increase General Fund estimated revenue $22,399
               Appropriation ordinance; 2002 budget; appropriation of $339,959 from the
               General Fund, $25,000 from the General Fund Capital Reserve; transfer $23,808
2002-10 6-18-  among specific line items in the General Fund, $167,137 from the General Fund
        02     Capital Reserve to the General Fund unobligated balance; increase General
               Fund estimated revenue $112,822, the General Fund Capital Reserve estimated
               revenue $20,000
        7-23-  Appropriation ordinance; 2002 budget; appropriation of $67,429 from the
2002-11 02     General Fund; transfer $20,881 among specific line items within the General
               Fund; increase General Fund estimated revenue $57,429
               Appropriation ordinance; 2002 budget; $17,924 from the General Fund;
               appropriation of $999 from the Federal Forfeiture Fund; appropriation of
        8-20-  $33,591 from the Sheriff Communications Facility and Equipment Fund; transfer
2002-12 02     $537 among specific line items within the General Fund; transfer $4,000 among
               specific line items within the Treasurer Commission Fund; increase the
               General Fund estimated revenue $65,465; increase the Federal Forfeiture Fund
               estimated revenue $999
               Appropriation ordinance; 2002 budget; appropriation of $217,424 from the
               General Fund; appropriation of $2,793 from the Federal Forfeiture Fund;
        9-17-  appropriation of $41,476 from the Sheriff Radio Facility and Equipment Fund;
2002-13 02     transfer $8,981 among specific line items within the General Fund; transfer
               $5,327 from the General Fund Copier Reserve to the General Fund unobligated
               balance; transfer $17,200 among specific line items within the General Fund
               Capital Reserve; increase General Fund estimated revenue $209,297
               Appropriation ordinance; 2002 budget; appropriation of $11,976 from the
2002-15 10-15- General Fund; appropriation of $5,106 from the County Library Fund; increase
        02     General Fund estimated revenue $11,976; increase County Library Fund
               estimated revenue $5,106
               Appropriation ordinance; 2002 budget; appropriation of $7,828 from the
2002-16 11-19- General Fund; transfer of $600 among specific positions within the General
        02     Fund; transfer of $5,000 among specific line items within the General Fund;
               increase General Fund estimated revenue $428
2002-17 11-19- Levying the county, municipal and school taxes for 2003, complying with Act
        02     848 of 1981 regarding the countywide reappraisal
               Appropriation ordinance; 2002 budget; appropriation of $71,855 from the
               General Fund; appropriation of $2,850 from the Collector Commission; transfer
2002-19 12-17- $23,078 among specific line items within the General Fund; transfer $8,749
        02     among specific line items within the Assessor Commission; increase General
               Fund estimated revenue $17,953; increase the Collector Commission estimated
               revenue $2,850
        12-17- Appropriation ordinance; establishing county salaries and positions, adopting
2002-20 02     a classification system and salary schedule for county employees and
               approving the 2003 budget
               Appropriation ordinance; 2003 budget; appropriation of $513,171 from the
               General Fund; appropriation of $2,896 from the Assessor s Commission;
               appropriation of $38,827 from the Federal Forfeiture Fund; unappropriation to
               reduce a departmental budget of $23,200 within the Sheriff Communications and
        1-21-  Facility Fund; appropriation of $18,118 from the General Fund Capital
2003-2  03     Reserve; appropriation of $108 from the Sebastian County Law Library Fund;
               increase General Fund estimated revenue by $252,723; increase the Assessor
               Commission estimated revenue by $2,896; increase Federal Forfeiture Fund
               estimated revenue by $38,827; increase General Fund Capital Reserve estimated
               revenue by $19,391; increase Sebastian County Law Library estimated revenue
               by $108
               Appropriation ordinance; 2003 budget; appropriation of $9,130 from the
2003-5  2-18-  General Fund; transfer $6,830 among specific items within the General Fund;
        03     transfer $699 from the Treasurer Commission to the Treasurer Automation Fund;
               transfer $200,000 from the General Fund to the General Fund Capital Reserve
        3-18-  Appropriation ordinance; 2003 budget; appropriation of $135,219 from the
2003-6  03     General Fund; transfer $2,100 among specific line items in the Recorder Fund;
               increase General Fund estimated revenue by $111,245
2003-8  3-18-  Levying the Booneville School District taxes for 2003, complying with Act 848
        03     of 1981 regarding the countywide reappraisal
               Appropriation ordinance; 2003 budget; appropriation of $159,902 from the
               general fund, $28,599 from the Treasurer Commission, $9,671 from the Assessor
2003-9  4-15-  Commission; increase General Fund estimated revenue by $28,599, increase the
        03     Assessor Commission estimated revenue by $9,671; revise the Treasurer
               Automation Fund estimated revenue $68,000; transfer $700 within specific line
               items in the General Fund
               Appropriation ordinance; 2003 budget; appropriation of $159,902 from the
               General Fund, $28,599 from the Treasurer Commission, $9,671 from the Assessor
2003-9  4-15-  Commission; increase General Fund estimated revenue by $28,599, increase the
        03     Assessor Commission estimated revenue by $9,671; revise the Treasurer
               Automation Fund estimated revenue $68,000; transfer $700 within specific line
               items in the General Fund
               Appropriation amendment; 2003 budget; appropriation of $2,716 from General
2003-12 5-20-  Fund; appropriation of $200 from Assessor Commission; transfer of $32,000
        03     among specific line items within Recorder Fund; increase Assessor Commission
               estimated revenue by $200; other changes as set forth in Exhibit A
        7-22-  Appropriation amendment; 2003 budget; appropriating additional funds and
2003-15 03     approving additional expenditures for county offices and departments; set
               salaries for specific positions
2003-18 7-22-  Distributing severance tax funds to the local public school districts in
        03     accordance with state law
               Appropriation amendment; 2003 budget; appropriation of $93,665 from the
               General Fund; appropriation of $5,828 from the Sheriff Communication Facility
2003-19 8-19-  and Equipment Fund; appropriation of $365,000 form the General Fund sales tax
        03     revenue; transfer $2,943 among specific line items within general fund;
               reorganization fo specific positions within the Assessor Commission; increase
               General Funds estimated revenue by $90,250
               8-19-03Appropriation amendment; 2003 budget; appropriation of $50 from
      2003-  General Fund, $886 from Federal Forfeiture Fund and $2,069 from County
        20     Recorder Fund; increase General Fund estimated revenue by $50 and Federal
               Forfeiture Fund by $886
        9-16-  Appropriation amendment; 2003 budget; appropriation of $20,784 from General
2003-21 03     Fund and $49,366 from the Sheriff's Radio Fund; increase General Fund
               estimated revenue by $809 and Sheriff's Communication Fund by $43,514
               Appropriation amendment; 2003 budget; appropriation of $10,850 from the
               Assessor Commission, $15,561 from the Collector Commission; $4,500 from the
               Collector Automation Fund No. 120 and $100 from the General Fund; increase
2003-22 10-21- the estimated revenue by $10.850 for Assessor Commission, $15,561 for
        03     Collector Commission, $4,500 for Collector Automation Fund and $100 for
               General Fund; transfer $6,800 among specific line items within the Assessor
               Commission Fund; authorizing a reorganization of specific employee positions
               with the Assessor Commission
2003-24 10-21- Distributing severance tax to the local public school districts in accordance
        03     with state law
2003-26 11-18- Levying county, municipal, school taxes for 2004
        03
               Appropriation amendment; 2003 budget; appropriating $594,294 from the General
2003-27 11-18- Fund, $2,027 from the Assessor Commission Fund, $30,000 from the Solid Waste
        03     Fund and $104,000 from th General Capital Reserve; increase General Fund
               estimated revenue by $585,288
               Appropriation amendment; 2003 budget; appropriating $177,202 from General
        12-16- Fund, $605,285 from General Fund Capital Reserve, and $3,290 from District
2003-28 03     Court Greenwood Division No. 108; transfer $200,000 from General Fund to the
               General Fund Capital Reserve; increase General Fund estimated revenue by
               $100,037
2003-29 12-16- Approving 2004 budget
        03
2003-30 12-16- Appropriation amendment; 2003 budget; appropriating $31,137 from General Fund
        03
               Appropriation amendment; 2004 budget; appropriating $828,283 from General
               Fund; $34,667 from Commission Fund, $45,236 from Sheriff Communications &
               Equipment Fund, $19,562 from Solid Waste Management Fund; $373,517 from
               General Fund Capital Reserve; $10,684 from 911 Fund, $365,000 from General
2004-2  1-20-  Fund 25% Sales Tax and $400,000 from Road Capital Reserve Fund;
        04     unappropriated $1,747 from Federal Forfeiture Fund; increase General Fund
               estimated revenue by $493,240, Collector Commission Fund estimated revenue by
               $34,667 and General Fund Capital Reserve by $125,000; transfer $425,000 from
               General Fund to General Fund Capital Reserve and $500,000 from Road Fund to
               Road Capital Reserve Fund
               Appropriation amendment; 2004 budget; appropriating $203,134 from General
               Fund, $101,868 from 911 Fund, $101 from Treasurer's Commission Fund, $2,267
2004-3  1-20-  from Assessor's Commission Fund; decrease $70,000 Treasurer's Commission
        04     Fund; increase General Fund estimated revenue by $88,147, Treasurer's
               Estimated Revenue by $101, Assessor's Estimated Revenue by $2,267 and
               decrease Treasurer's Estimated Revenue by $70,000
               Appropriation amendment; 2004 budget; appropriating $50 from General Fund,
2004-4  2-17-  $4,107 from Commission Fund, $1,100 from Collector Automation Fund, and
        04     $2,731 from Juvenile Indigent Fund; increase general fund estimated revenue
               by $50 and Collector Commission Fund by $4,107
2004-5  2-17-  Distributing severance tax to local public school districts in accordance
        04     with state law
2004-7  3-16-  Appropriation amendment; 2004 budget; appropriating $120,000 from Collector
        04     Automation Fund
               Appropriation amendment; 2004 budget; appropriating $89,527 from General
2004-8  3-16-  Fund, $6,954 from Circuit Automation Fund and $440 from Drug Asset Forfeiture
        04     Fund; increase General Fund revenue by $87,116 and Drug Asset Forfeiture Fund
               by $440
        3-16-  Appropriation amendment; 2004 budget; granting authority to proceed with
2004-9  04     construction of a court complex at a projected budget of $8.7 million and
               jail expansion at a projected budget of $3.5 million
2004-10 3-16-  Establishing Court Automation Fund and District Court Automation Fund
        04
               Appropriation amendment; 2004 budget; appropriating $159,277 from General
        4-20-  Fund, $26,505 from County Recorder Cost Fund, $5,955 from Federal Forfeiture
2004-12 04     Fund, $722 from Drug Asset Forfeiture Fund and $175,000 from Capital Reserve
               General Fund; increase General Fund estimated revenue by $24,000 and increase
               Capital Reserve General Fund $75,000
2004-13 4-20-  Authorizing issuance and sale of General Revenue Promissory Notes (County
        04     Justice Facilities Project), Series 2004
2004-14 5-18-  Appropriation amendment; 2004 budget; appropriating $10,055 from General Fund
        04     and $12,753 from County Recorder Cost Fund
        6-15-  Appropriation amendment; 2004 budget; appropriating $44,519 from General Fund
2004-15 04     and $2,316 from Assessor Fund; increase estimated general fund revenue by
               $34,719 and Assessor Commission by $2,136
2004-16 6-15-  Distributing federal mining lease funds to local public school districts in
        04     ratio to the leased territory in accordance with state law
        7-22-  Appropriation amendment; 2004 budget; appropriation of $5,857 Federal
2004-18 04     Forefeiture; $11,509 from County Recorder Cost Fund; $150 from Collector
               Commission Fund
2004-19 7-22-  Distributing federal mining lease funds to local public school districts in
        04     ratio to the leased territory in accordance with state law
2004-20 7-22-  Distributing severance tax to the local public school districts in accordance
        04     with state law
        8-17-  Appropriation amendment; 2004 budget; appropriation of $45,062 from General
2004-21 04     Fund; $2,257 from Drug Assist Forfeiture Fund; increase Asset Forfeiture Fund
               $2,257
               Appropriation amendment; 2004 budget; appropriation of $222,076 from General
2004-23 9-21-  Fund; $1,748 from Collector Fund; $470 from Federal Forfeiture Fund; increase
        04     General Fund Revenue $57,500 from General Fund, Collector Fund Revenue $1,748
               and Federal Forfeiture Fund Revenue $470
2004-24 9-21-  Distributing severance tax to the local public school districts in accordance
        04     with state law
2004-28 10-19- Appropriation amendment; 2004 budget; appropriation of $30,344 from General
        04     Fund; increase General Fund Revenue $300
2004-29 11-16- Distributing severance tax to the local public school districts in accordance
        04     with state law
               Appropriation amendment; 2004 budget; appropriation of $25,580 from General
2004-30 11-16- Fund; $12,296 from Federal Forfeiture Fund; $210 from the Radio Equipment
        04     Fund; increase General Fund Revenue $27,383, Federal Forfeiture Fund Revenue
               $12,296, and Radio Equipment Fund $210
2004-31 11-16- Levying the county, municipal and school taxes for 2005, complying with Act
        04     848 of 1981 regarding the countywide reaappraisal
               Appropriation amendment; 2004 budget; appropriation of $113,957 from General
               Fund; $19,897 from Federal Forfeiture Fund; $33,588 General Fund 25% Sales
2004-32 12-21- Tax, $6,975 from Tax Assessor Commission Fund, and $2,050 from the Tax
        04     Collector Commission Fund; increase General Fund Revenue $34,235, Federal
               Forfeiture Fund Revenue $19,897, Tax Collector Commission Fund $2,050, and
               Tax Assessor Commission Fund $6,975
        12-21- Appropriating funds, establishing County salaries and positions, adopting a
2004-33 04     classification system and salary schedule for county employees, and approving
               the 2005 budget for Sebastian County
               Appropriation amendment; 2005 budget; appropriation of $206,820 from the
               General Fund; $55,368 Commission Fund; $30,765 Federal Forfeiture Fund;
               $10,237 Solid Waste Management Fund; $682,074 General Fund Capital Reserve;
        1-25-  $47,650 911 Fund; $7,597 Collector Automation Fund; $132,717 Road Capital
2005-2  05     Reserve Fund; increase General Fund Estimated Revenue by $27,750; increase
               the General Fund Capital Reserve by $75,000; increase Commission Fund Revenue
               by $55,368; transfer from the General Fund $250,000 to the General Fund
               Capital Reserve Fund; transfer $1,000,000 from the Road Fund to the Road
               Capital Reserve Fund
               Appropriation amendment; 2005 budget; appropriation of $15,048 from the
2005-3  1-25-  General Fund; $7,324 Greenwood District Court; $3,086 General Fund Capital
        05     Reserve; increase General Fund Estimated Revenue by $4,717; transfer $2,739
               from 101-242-5349.01 to 101-242-5493.04
2005-4  1-25-  Distributing severance tax to the local public school districts in accordance
        05     with state law
        2-15-  Appropriation amendment; 2005 budget; appropriation of $16,250 from the
2005-5  05     General Fund; $1,270 from Federal Forfeiture Fund; increase General Fund
               Revenue by $16,250; Federal Forfeiture Fund Revenue by $1,270
2005-6  2-15-  Amending millage ordinance 2004-31 levying the county, municipal and school
        05     taxes for 2005, regarding the Booneville School District millage
        2-15-  Distributing federal mineral leasing funds to the local public school
2005-7  05     districts in ratio to the leased territory within the district in accordance
               with state law
        3-15-  Amending budget ordinance 2004-33 in order to appropriate additional funds
2005-8  05     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2005 budget
        3-15-  Distributing federal mineral leasing funds to the public school districts in
2005-9  05     ratio to the leased territory within the district in accordance with Act 921
               of 1983 and Act 752 of 1979
2005-10 4-19-  Amending budget ordinance 2004-33 in order to appropriate funds and approve
        05     additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the 2005 budget
2005-12 4-19-  Distributing severance tax to the local public school districts in accordance
        05     with Act 1078 of 1999
        5-17-  Amending budget ordinance 2004-33 in order to appropriate additional funds
2005-13 05     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2005 budget
        6-21-  Amending budget ordinance 2004-33 in order to appropriate additional funds
2005-16 05     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2005 budget
        7-19-  Amending budget ordinance 2004-33 in order to appropriate additional funds
2005-18 05     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2005 budget
2005-19 7-19-  Distributing severance tax to the local public school districts in accordance
        05     with Acts 761 and 136
        9-20-  Amending budget ordinance 2004-33 in order to appropriate additional funds
2005-24 05     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2005 budget
        10-18- Amending budget ordinance 2004-33 in order to appropriate additional funds
2005-25 05     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2005 budget
R.      10-18- Certifying endorsement of Weatherford Williams Manufacturing for benefits
2005-10 05     from sales & use tax refunds
        11-15- Amending budget ordinance 2004-33 in order to appropriate additional funds
2005-26 05     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2005 budget
2005-27 11-15- Levying the county, municipal and school taxes for 2006, complying with Act
        05     848 of 1981 regarding the countywide reaappraisal
        12-20- Amending budget ordinance 2004-33 in order to appropriate additional funds
2005-28 05     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2005 budget
        12-20- Appropriating funds, establishing county salaries and positions, adopting a
2005-29 05     classification system and salary schedule for county employees, and approving
               the 2006 budget
        12-20- Amending budget ordinance 2005-29 in order to appropriate additional funds
2005-30 2005   and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2006 budget
        1-17-  Amending budget ordinance 2005-29 in order to appropriate additional funds
2006-1  06     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2006 budget
        1-17-  Amending budget ordinance 2005-29 in order to appropriate additional funds
2006-2  06     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2006 budget
        2-21-  Amending budget ordinance 2005-29 in order to appropriate additional funds
2006-4  06     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2006 budget
        3-21-  Amending budget ordinance 2005-29 in order to appropriate additional funds
2006-5  06     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2006 budget
        4-18-  Amending budget ordinance 2005-29 in order to appropriate additional funds
2006-6  06     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2006 budget
        5-16-  Amending budget ordinance 2005-29 in order to appropriate additional funds
2006-8  06     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2006 budget
        6-20-  Amending budget ordinance 2005-29 in order to appropriate additional funds
2006-9  06     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2006 budget
        7-18-  Amending budget ordinance 2005-29 in order to appropriate additional funds
2006-11 06     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2006 budget
        8-15-  Amending budget ordinance 2005-29 in order to appropriate additional funds
2006-13 06     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2006 budget
        9-19-  Amending budget ordinance 2005-29 in order to appropriate additional funds
2006-14 06     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2006 budget
        10-17- Amending budget ordinance 2005-29 in order to appropriate additional funds
2006-15 06     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2006 budget
        11-21- Amending budget ordinance 2005-29 in order to appropriate additional funds
2006-16 06     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2006 budget
2006-17 11-21- Levying the county, municipal and school taxes for 2007, complying with Act
        06     848 of 1981 regarding the countywide reappraisal
        12-19- Amending budget ordinance 2005-29 in order to appropriate additional funds
2006-18 06     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2006 budget
        12-19- Appropriating funds, establishing county salaries and positions, adopting a
2006-19 06     classification system and salary schedule for county employees, and approving
               the 2007 budget for the county
        12-19- Amending budget ordinance 2006-19 in order to appropriate additional funds
2006-20 06     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2007 budget
        1-16-  Amending budget ordinance 2006-19 in order to appropriate additional funds
2007-2  07     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2007 budget
        1-16-  Amending budget ordinance 2006-19 in order to appropriate additional funds
2007-3  07     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2007 budget
        2-20-  Amending budget ordinance 2006-19 in order to appropriate additional funds
2007-4  07     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2007 budget
        3-20-  Amending budget ordinance 2006-19 in order to appropriate additional funds
2007-5  07     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2007 budget
        4-17-  Amending budget ordinance 2006-19 in order to appropriate additional funds
2007-6  07     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2007 budget
        5-15-  Amending budget ordinance 2006-19 in order to appropriate additional funds
2007-7  07     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2007 budget
        6-26-  Amending budget ordinance 2006-19 in order to appropriate additional funds
2007-8  07     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2007 budget
        6-26-  Amending budget ordinance 2006-19 in order to appropriate additional funds
2007-9  07     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2007 budget
        6-26-  Amending budget ordinance 2006-19 in order to appropriate additional funds
2007-10 07     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2007 budget
        7-24-  Amending budget ordinance 2006-19 in order to appropriate additional funds
2007-12 07     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2007 budget
        8-21-  Amending budget ordinance 2006-19 in order to appropriate additional funds
2007-13 07     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2007 budget
        8-21-  Amending budget ordinance 2006-19 in order to appropriate additional funds
2007-14 07     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2007 budget
        9-18-  Amending budget ordinance 2006-19 in order to appropriate additional funds
2007-16 07     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2007 budget
        9-18-  Amending budget ordinance 2006-19 in order to appropriate additional funds
2007-17 07     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2007 budget
        10-16- Amending budget ordinance 2006-19 in order to appropriate additional funds
2007-18 07     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2007 budget
        10-16- Amending budget ordinance 2006-19 in order to appropriate additional funds
2007-21 07     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2007 budget
2007-22 11-20- Levying the county, municipal and school taxes for 2008, complying with Act
        07     848 of 1981 regarding the countywide reaappraisal
        11-20- Amending budget ordinance 2006-19 in order to appropriate additional funds
2007-23 07     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2007 budget
        12-18- Amending budget ordinance 2006-19 in order to appropriate additional funds
2007-25 07     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2007 budget
        12-18- Appropriating funds, establishing county salaries and positions, adopting a
2007-26 07     classification system and salary schedule for county employees, and approving
               the 2008 budget
2008-1  1-22-  Amending ordinance 2007-22 by levying the county, municipal and school taxes
        08     for 2008
        1-22-  Amending budget ordinance 2007-26 in order to appropriate additional funds
2008-2  08     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2008 budget
        1-22-  Amending budget ordinance 2007-26 in order to appropriate additional funds
2008-3  08     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2008 budget
2008-4  1-22-  Amending ordinance 91-3 in order to approve petty cash funds
        08
        1-22-  Establishing the policy to allocate 15% of federal forfeiture funds received
2008-5  08     to support the drug court and 85% to support the Sheriff s Office Law
               Enforcement Department
        2-19-  Amending budget ordinance 2007-26 in order to appropriate additional funds
2008-6  08     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2008 budget
        2-19-  Amending budget ordinance 2007-26 in order to appropriate additional funds
2008-7  08     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2008 budget
        3-18-  Amending budget ordinance 2007-26 in order to appropriate additional funds
2008-8  08     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2008 budget
        4-15-  Amending budget ordinance 2007-26 in order to appropriate additional funds
2008-9  08     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2008 budget
        5-20-  Amending budget ordinance 2007-26 in order to appropriate additional funds
2008-10 08     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2008 budget
        5-20-  Amending budget ordinance 2007-26 in order to appropriate additional funds
2008-11 08     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2008 budget
        6-18-  Amending budget ordinance 2007-26 in order to appropriate additional funds
2008-12 08     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2008 budget
        6-17-  Amending budget ordinance 2007-26 in order to appropriate additional funds
2008-13 08     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2008 budget
        7-22-  Amending budget ordinance 2007-26 in order to appropriate additional funds
2008-14 08     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2008 budget
        8-19-  Amending budget ordinance 2007-26 in order to appropriate additional funds
2008-16 08     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2008 budget
              
        8-19-  Amending budget ordinance 2007-26 in order to appropriate additional funds
2008-17 08     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2008 budget
        8-28-  Amending budget ordinance 2007-26 in order to appropriate additional funds
2008-18 08     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2008 budget
        9-16-  Amending budget ordinance 2007-26 in order to appropriate additional funds
2008-19 08     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2008 budget
        10-21- Amending budget ordinance 2007-26 in order to appropriate additional funds
2008-21 08     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2008 budget
        11-18- Amending budget ordinance 2007-26 in order to appropriate additional funds
2008-22 08     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2008 budget
2008-23 11-18- Levying the county, municipal and school taxes for 2009, complying with Act
        08     848 of 1981 regarding the countywide reaappraisal
        12-16- Amending budget ordinance 2007-26 in order to appropriate additional funds
2008-25 08     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2008 budget
        12-16- Appropriating funds, establishing county salaries and positions, adopting
2008-26 08     classification system and salary schedule for county employees, and approving
               2009 budget for the county
        12-16- Amending budget ordinance 2007-26 in order to appropriate additional funds
2008-27 08     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2008 budget
        12-16- Amending budget ordinance 2008-26 in order to appropriate additional funds
2008-28 08     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2009 budget
        1-20-  Amending budget ordinance 2008-26 in order to appropriate additional funds
2009-2  09     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2009 budget
        1-20-  Amending budget ordinance 2008-26 in order to appropriate additional funds
2009-3  09     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2009 budget
        2-17-  Amending budget ordinance 2008-26 in order to appropriate additional funds
2009-5  09     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2009 budget
        3-17-  Amending budget ordinance 2008-26 in order to appropriate additional funds
2009-7  09     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2009 budget
        4-21-  Amending budget ordinance 2008-26 in order to appropriate additional funds
2009-8  09     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2009 budget
R.      4-21-  Authorizing an increase in the amount and percentage of the county General
2009-4  09     Fund contribution as matching funds for the 2008-2009 juvenile accountability
               block grant
2009-10 5-19-  Establishing the assessor s amendment 79 fund in accordance with Act 1892 of
        09     2005
        5-19-  Amending budget ordinance 2008-26 in order to appropriate additional funds
2009-11 09     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2009 budget
        6-16-  Amending budget ordinance 2008-26 in order to appropriate additional funds
2009-15 09     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2009 budget
        7-21-  Amending budget ordinance 2008-26 in order to appropriate additional funds
2009-17 09     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2009 budget
        8-18-  Amending budget ordinance 2008-26 in order to appropriate additional funds
2009-19 09     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2009 budget
        9-15-  Amending budget ordinance 2008-26 in order to appropriate additional funds
2009-21 09     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2009 budget
        10-20- Amending budget ordinance 2008-26 in order to appropriate additional funds
2009-22 09     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2009 budget
2009-23 11-17- Levying the county, municipal and school taxes for 2010, complying with Act
        09     848 of 1981 regarding the countywide reaappraisal
        11-17- Amending budget ordinance 2008-26 in order to appropriate additional funds
2009-25 09     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2009 budget
        12-15- Amending budget ordinance 2008-26 in order to appropriate additional funds
2009-27 09     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2009 budget
        12-15- Appropriating funds, establishing county salaries and positions, adopting a
2009-28 09     classification system and salary schedule for county employees, and approving
               the 2010 budget
        12-15- Amending budget ordinance 2009-28 in order to appropriate additional funds
2009-30 09     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2010 budget
        1-26-  Amending budget ordinance 2009-28 in order to appropriate additional funds
2010-1  10     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2010 budget
        1-26-  Amending budget ordinance 2009-28 in order to appropriate additional funds
2010-2  10     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2010 budget
        2-16-  Amending budget ordinance 2009-28 in order to appropriate additional funds
2010-5  10     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2010 budget
        3-16-  Amending budget ordinance 2009-28 in order to appropriate additional funds
2010-6  10     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2010 budget
        4-20-  Amending budget ordinance 2009-28 in order to appropriate additional funds
2010-8  10     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2010 budget
        5-18-  Amending budget ordinance 2009-28 in order to appropriate additional funds
2010-10 10     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2010 budget
        6-15-  Amending budget ordinance 2009-28 in order to appropriate additional funds
2010-11 10     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2010 budget
        7-20-  Amending budget ordinance 2009-28 in order to appropriate additional funds
2010-13 10     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2010 budget
        8-24-  Amending budget ordinance 2009-28 in order to appropriate additional funds
2010-14 10     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2010 budget
        9-21-  Amending budget ordinance 2009-28 in order to appropriate additional funds
2010-16 10     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2010 budget
        10-19- Amending budget ordinance 2009-28 in order to appropriate additional funds
2010-17 10     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2010 budget
2010-18 11-16- Levying the county, municipal and school taxes for 2011, complying with Act
        10     848 of 1981 regarding the countywide reappraisal
        11-16- Amending budget ordinance 2009-28 in order to appropriate additional funds
2010-19 10     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2010 budget
        12-21- Amending budget ordinance 2009-28 in order to appropriate additional funds
2010-22 10     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2010 budget
        12-21- Appropriating funds, establishing county salaries and positions, adopting a
2010-23 10     classification system and salary schedule for county employees, and approving
               the 2011 budget
2011-2  1-18-  Amending budget ordinance 2009-28 to appropriate additional funds and approve
        11     additional expenditures related to jurors in the 2011 budget
        1-18-  Amending budget ordinance 2010-23 to appropriate additional funds and approve
2011-3  11     additional expenditures for equipment, services, supplies, and systems in the
               2011 budget
        2-15-  Amending budget ordinance 2010-23 to appropriate additional funds and approve
2011-4  11     additional expenditures related to salaries, training, equipment, expenses,
               and the like in the 2011 budget
        2-15-  Amending budget ordinance 2010-23 to appropriate additional funds and approve
2011-5  11     additional expenditures related to vehicles, building improvements,
               computers, and other equipment in the 2011 budget
        3-15-  Amending budget ordinance 2010-23 to appropriate additional funds and approve
2011-6  11     additional expenditures related to salaries, equipment, postage, and drug lab
               cleanup in the 2011 budget
        4-19-  Amending budget ordinance 2010-23 to appropriate additional funds and approve
2011-8  11     additional expenditures related to professional services, computer equipment,
               machinery, equipment, and building improvements in the 2011 budget
        5-17-  Amending budget ordinance 2010-23 to appropriate additional funds and approve
2011-9  11     additional expenditures related to fire departments, salaries, and building
               rental and lease in the 2011 budget
        6-21-  Amending budget ordinance 2010-23 in order to appropriate additional funds
2011-10 11     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2011 budget
        8-16-  Amending budget ordinance 2010-23 in order to appropriate additional funds
2011-12 11     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2011 budget
        10-18- Amending budget ordinance 2010-23 in order to appropriate additional funds
2011-13 11     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2011 budget
        10-18- Amending budget ordinance 2010-23 in order to appropriate additional funds
2011-14 11     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2011 budget
        11-15- Amending budget ordinance 2010-23 in order to appropriate additional funds
2011-15 11     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2011 budget
2011-16 11-15- Levying the county, municipal and school taxes for 2012, complying with Act
        11     848 of 1981 regarding the countywide reappraisal
        12-20- Amending budget ordinance 2010-23 in order to appropriate additional funds
2011-17 11     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2011 budget
        12-20- Appropriating funds, establishing county salaries and positions, adopting a
2011-18 11     classification system and salary schedule for county employees, and approving
               the 2012 budget
        1-24-  Amending budget ordinance 2011-18 in order to appropriate additional funds
2012-1  12     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2012 budget
        1-24-  Amending budget ordinance 2011-18 in order to appropriate additional funds
2012-2  12     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2012 budget
        2-16-  Amending budget ordinance 2011-18 in order to appropriate additional funds
2012-5  12     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2012 budget
        2-21-  Amending budget ordinance 2011-18 in order to appropriate additional funds
2012-6  12     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2012 budget
        2-21-  Amending budget ordinance 2011-18 in order to appropriate additional funds
2012-7  12     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2012 budget
        3-20-  Amending budget ordinance 2011-18 in order to appropriate additional funds
2012-9  12     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2012 budget
        4-17-  Amending budget ordinance 2011-18 in order to appropriate additional funds
2012-11 12     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2012 budget
        6-19-  Amending budget ordinance 2011-18 in order to appropriate additional funds
2012-12 12     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2012 budget
        6-19-  Amending budget ordinance 2011-18 in order to appropriate additional funds
2012-13 12     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2012 budget
        8-23-  Amending budget ordinance 2011-18 in order to appropriate additional funds
2012-14 12     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2012 budget
        10-16- Amending budget ordinance 2011-18 in order to appropriate additional funds
2012-17 12     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2012 budget
        11-20- Amending budget ordinance 2011-18 in order to appropriate additional funds
2012-18 12     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2012 budget
2012-19 11-20- Levying the county, municipal and school taxes for 2013, complying with Act
        12     848 of 1981 regarding the countywide reappraisal
        11-20- Amending budget ordinance 2011-18 in order to appropriate additional funds
2012-20 12     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2012 budget
        12-18- Amending budget ordinance 2011-18 in order to appropriate additional funds
2012-21 12     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2012 budget
        12-18- Appropriating funds, establishing county salaries and positions, adopting a
2012-22 12     classification system and salary schedule for county employees, and approving
               the 2013 budget
        12-18- Amending budget ordinance 2012-22 in order to appropriate additional funds
2012-23 12     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2013 budget
        1-15-  Amending budget ordinance 2012-22 in order to appropriate additional funds
2013-2  13     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2013 budget
        2-19-  Amending budget ordinance 2012-22 in order to appropriate additional funds
2013-5  13     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2013 budget
        2-19-  Amending budget ordinance 2012-22 in order to appropriate additional funds
2013-6  13     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2013 budget
        3-12-  Amending budget ordinance 2012-22 in order to appropriate additional funds
2013-7  13     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2013 budget
2013-   4-16-  Amending budget ordinance 2012-22 in order to appropriate additional funds
9    13     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and department in the
               2013 budget
        4-16-  Amending budget ordinance 2012-22 in order to appropriate additional funds
2013-10 13     and approve additional expenditures for county office and department in the
               2013 budget
        5-21-  Amending budget ordinance 2012-22 in order to appropriate additional funds
2013-11 13     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2013 budget
        6-18-  Amending budget ordinance 2012-22 in order to appropriate additional funds
2013-14 13     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2013 budget
        8-20-  Amending budget ordinance 2012-22 in order to appropriate additional funds
2013-16 13     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2013 budget
               Certifying local government endorsement of Health Management & Associates to
R.      9-17-  participate in the tax back program and the Department of Finance and
2013-9  13     Administration is authorized to refund local sales and use taxes to Health
               Management & Associates
        10-15- Amending budget ordinance 2012-22 in order to appropriate additional funds
2013-17 13     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2013 budget
        11-19- Amending budget ordinance 2012-22 in order to appropriate additional funds
2013-19 13     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2013 budget
2013-20 11-19- Levying the county, municipal, and school taxes for 2014, complying with Act
        13     848 of 1981 regarding the countywide reappraisal
        12-17- Amending budget ordinance 2012-22 in order to appropriate additional funds
2013-21 13     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2013 budget
        12-17- Appropriating funds, establishing county salaries and positions, adopting a
2013-22 13     classification system and salary schedule for county employees, and approving
               the 2014 budget
        1-21-  Amending budget ordinance 2013-22 in order to appropriate additional funds
2014-1  14     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2014 budget
        2-18-  Amending budget ordinance 2013-22 in order to appropriate additional funds
2014-2  14     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2014 budget
        2-18-  Amending budget ordinance 2013-22 in order to appropriate additional funds
2014-3  14     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2014 budget
        2-18-  Approving the 2014 budget by amending budget ordinance 2013-22 and adopting
2014-4  14     the revised Chart of Accounts for use by county governments implemented
               through the Arkansas State Legislative Audit Division
        4-15-  Amending budget ordinance 2014-4 in order to appropriate additional funds and
2014-5  14     approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2014 budget
        4-15-  Amending budget ordinance 2014-4 in order to appropriate additional funds and
2014-6  14     approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2014 budget
        6-17-  Amending budget ordinance 2014-4 in order to appropriate additional funds and
2014-7  14     approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2014 budget
2014-8  7-15-  Appropriating funds and authorizing the lease purchase of golf carts
        14
        7-15-  Amending budget ordinance 2014-4 in order to appropriate additional funds and
2014-9  14     approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2014 budget
        8-19-  Amending budget ordinance 2014-4 in order to appropriate additional funds and
2014-10 14     approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2014 budget
2014-12 9-16-  Amending budget ordinance 2014-4, transferring funds, and establishing the
        14     Drug Court Emergency and Contingency Fund.
        9-16-  Amending budget ordinance 2014-4 in order to appropriate additional funds and
2014-13 14     approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2014 budget
        10-21- Amending budget ordinance 2014-4 in order to appropriate additional funds and
2014-14 14     approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2014 budget
        11-10- Amending budget ordinance 2014-4 in order to appropriate additional funds and
2014-15 14     approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2014 budget
R.      10-21- Certifying local government endorsement of Dixie Consumer Products, LLC., to
2014-13 14     participate in the tax back program (as authorized by section 15-4-2706(d) of
               the Consolidated Incentive Act of 2003)
2014-16 11-18- Levying the county, municipal, and school taxes for 2015, complying with Act
        14     848 of 1981 regarding the county wide reappraisal
        11-18- Amending budget ordinance 2014-4 in order to appropriate additional funds and
2014-17 14     approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2014 budget
        12-16- Amending budget ordinance 2014-4 in order to appropriate additional funds and
2014-18 14     approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2014 budget
        12-16- Appropriating funds, establishing county salaries and positions, adopting a
2014-19 14     classification system and salary schedule for county employees, and approving
               the 2015 budget for the county
R.      12-16- Certifying local government endorsement of Propak Logistics, Inc., to
2014-19 14     participate in the tax back program (as authorized by section 15-4-2706(d) of
               the Consolidated Incentive Act of 2003)
        1-27-  Amending budget ordinance 2014-19 in order to appropriate additional funds
2015-2  15     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2015 budget
        1-27-  Amending budget ordinance 2014-19 in order to appropriate additional funds
2015-3  15     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2015 budget
R.      1-27-  Certifying local government endorsement of ArcBest Corporation to participate
2015-1  15     in the tax back program (as authorized by section 15-4-2706(d) of the
               Consolidated Incentive Act of 2003)
        2-17-  Amending budget ordinance 2014-19 in order to appropriate additional funds
2015-5  15     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2015 budget
        3-17-  Amending budget ordinance 2014-19 in order to appropriate additional funds
2015-6  15     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2015 budget
R.      3-17-  Certifying local government endorsement of Mars Petcare US, Inc. to
2015-3  15     participate in the tax back program (as authorized by section 15-4-2706(d) of
               the Consolidated Incentive Act of 2003)
        4-21-  Amending budget ordinance 2014-19 in order to appropriate additional funds
2015-7  15     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2015 budget
        4-21-  Amending budget ordinance 2014-19 in order to appropriate additional funds
2015-8  15     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2015 budget
        5-19-  Amending budget ordinance 2014-19 in order to appropriate additional funds
2015-9  15     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2015 budget
        6-16-  Amending budget ordinance 2014-19 in order to appropriate additional funds
2015-10 15     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2015 budget
        7-21-  Amending budget ordinance 2014-19 in order to appropriate additional funds
2015-12 15     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2015 budget
        10-20- Amending budget ordinance 2014-19 in order to appropriate additional funds
2015-16 15     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2015 budget
2015-18 11-18- Levying the county, municipal, and school taxes for 2016, complying with Act
        15     848 of 1981 regarding the countywide reappraisal
        11-18- Amending budget ordinance 2014-19 in order to appropriate additional funds
2015-19 15     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2015 budget
        11-18- Amending budget ordinance 2014-19 in order to appropriate additional funds
2015-20 15     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2015 budget
        12-15- Amending budget ordinance 2014-19 in order to appropriate additional funds
2015-21 15     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2015 budget
        12-15- Appropriating funds, establishing county salaries and positions, adopting a
2015-22 15     classification system and salary schedule for county employees, and approving
               the 2016 budget for the county
        12-15- Amending budget ordinance 2015-22 in order to appropriate additional funds
2015-23 15     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2016 budget
        1-26-  Amending budget ordinance 2015-22 in order to appropriate additional funds
2016-1  16     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2016 budget
        1-26-  Amending budget ordinance 2015-22 in order to appropriate additional funds
2016-2  16     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2016 budget
        2-16-  Amending budget ordinance 2015-22 in order to appropriate additional funds
2016-4  16     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2016 budget
        3-15-  Amending budget ordinance 2015-22 in order to appropriate additional funds
2016-6  16     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2016 budget
        4-26-  Amending budget ordinance 2015-22 in order to appropriate additional funds
2016-7  16     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2016 budget
        5-17-  Amending budget ordinance 2015-22 in order to appropriate additional funds
2016-9  16     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2016 budget
        6-21-  Amending budget ordinance 2015-22 in order to appropriate additional funds
2016-11 16     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2016 budget
        7-19-  Amending budget ordinance 2015-22 in order to appropriate additional funds
2016-12 16     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2016 budget
        8-23-  Amending budget ordinance 2015-22 in order to appropriate additional funds
2016-13 16     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2016 budget
        9-20-  Amending budget ordinance 2015-22 in order to appropriate additional funds
2016-15 16     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2016 budget
        10-18- Amending budget ordinance 2015-22 in order to appropriate additional funds
2016-16 16     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2016 budget
2016-17 11-15- Levying the county, municipal, and school taxes for 2017, complying with Act
        16     848 of 1981 regarding the countywide reappraisal
        11-25- Amending budget ordinance 2015-22 in order to appropriate additional funds
2016-18 16     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2016 budget
        11-25- Amending budget ordinance 2015-22 in order to appropriate additional funds
2016-19 16     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2016 budget
        12-20- Amending budget ordinance 2015-22 in order to appropriate additional funds
2016-21 16     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2016 budget
        12-20- Appropriating funds, establishing county salaries and positions, adopting a
2016-22 16     classification system and salary schedule for county employees, and approving
               the 2017 budget for the county
        1-24-  Amending budget ordinance 2015-22 in order to appropriate additional funds
2017-1  17     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2017 budget
        1-24-  Amending budget ordinance 2015-22 in order to appropriate additional funds
2017-2  17     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2017 budget
        2-21-  Amending budget ordinance 2016-22 in order to appropriate additional funds
2017-4  17     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2017 budget
        2-21-  Amending budget ordinance 2016-22 in order to appropriate additional funds
2017-5  17     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2017 budget
        2-21-  Amending budget ordinance 2016-22 in order to appropriate additional funds
2017-7  17     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2017 budget
        3-21-  Amending budget ordinance 2016-22 in order to appropriate additional funds
2017-9  17     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2017 budget
R.      3-21-  Certifying local government endorsement of Mars Petcare US, Inc. to
2017-1  17     participate in the tax back program
        4-18-  Amending budget ordinance 2016-22 in order to appropriate additional funds
2017-12 17     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2017 budget
        5-16-  Amending budget ordinance 2016-22 in order to appropriate additional funds
2017-13 17     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2017 budget
        6-20-  Amending budget ordinance 2016-22 in order to appropriate additional funds
2017-16 17     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2017 budget
        6-20-  Amending budget ordinance 2016-22 in order to appropriate additional funds
2017-17 17     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2017 budget
        7-18-  Amending budget ordinance 2016-22 in order to appropriate additional funds
2017-18 17     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2017 budget
        8-15-  Amending budget ordinance 2016-22 in order to appropriate additional funds
2017-20 17     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2017 budget
        9-19-  Amending budget ordinance 2016-22 in order to appropriate additional funds
2017-21 17     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2017 budget
        10-17- Amending budget ordinance 2016-22 in order to appropriate additional funds
2017-22 17     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2017 budget
2017-26 11-21- Levying the county, municipal, and school taxes for 2017, complying with Act
        17     848 of 1981 regarding the countywide reappraisal
        11-21- Amending budget ordinance 2016-22 in order to appropriate additional funds
2017-27 17     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2017 budget
        12-19- Amending budget ordinance 2016-22 in order to appropriate additional funds
2017-28 17     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2017 budget
        12-19- Appropriatio n ordinance; establishing county salaries and positions,
2017-29 17     adopting a classification system and salary schedule for county employees and
               approving the 2018 budget
        1-23-  Amending budget ordinance 2017-29 in order to appropriate additional funds
2018-1  18     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2018 budget
        1-23-  Amending budget ordinance 2017-29 in order to appropriate additional funds
2018-2  18     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2018 budget
        2-20-  Amending budget ordinance 2017-29 in order to appropriate additional funds
2018-3  18     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2018 budget
        3-20-  Amending budget ordinance 2017-29 in order to appropriate additional funds
2018-4  18     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2018 budget
        4-17-  Amending budget ordinance 2017-29 in order to appropriate additional funds
2018-5  18     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2018 budget
2018-   5-15-  Amending budget ordinance 2017-29 in order to appropriate additional funds
6    18     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2018 budget
        5-15-  Amending budget ordinance 2017-29 in order to appropriate additional funds
2018-7  18     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2018 budget
        6-19-  Amending budget ordinance 2017-29 in order to appropriate additional funds
2018-8  18     and approve additional expenditures of county offices and departments in the
               2018 budget
        7-17-  Amending budget ordinance 2017-29 in order to appropriate additional funds
2018-12 18     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2018 budget
Res.    8-28-  Authorizing the County Judge to enter into a memorandum of understanding for
2018-8  18     funding the 2018 JAG Grant Program with the City of Fort Smith
        8-28-  Amending budget ordinance 2017-29 in order to appropriate additional funds
2018-14 18     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2018 budget
        10-16- Amending budget ordinance 2017-29 in order to appropriate additional funds
2018-15 18     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2018 budget
2018-16 11-20- Levying the county, municipal and school taxes for 2019, complying with Act
        18     848 of 1981 regarding the countywide reappraisal
        11-20- Amending budget ordinance 2017-29 in order to appropriate additional funds
2018-18 18     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2018 budget
        12-18- Amending budget ordinance 2017-29 in order to appropriate additional funds
2018-19 18     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2018 budget
        12-18- Appropriating funds, establishing county salaries and positions, adopting a
2018-20 18     classification system and salary schedule for county employees, and approving
               the 2019 budget for Sebastian County
        1-22-  Amending budget ordinance 2018-20 in order to appropriate additional funds
2019-1  19     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2019 budget
        1-22-  Amending budget ordinance 2018-20 in order to appropriate additional funds
2019-2  19     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2019 budget
        2-19-  Amending budget ordinance 2018-20 in order to appropriate additional funds
2019-4  19     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2019 budget
        4-16-  Amending budget ordinance 2018-20 in order to appropriate additional funds
2019-5  19     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2019 budget
        6-18-  Amending budget ordinance 2018-20 in order to appropriate additional funds
2019-6  19     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2019 budget
        8-20-  Amending budget ordinance 2018-20 in order to appropriate additional funds
2019-7  19     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2019 budget
2019-8  11-19- Levying the county, municipal and school taxes for 2019, complying with Act
        19     848 of 1981 regarding the countywide reappraisal
        11-19- Amending budget ordinance 2018-20 in order to appropriate additional funds
2019-9  19     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2019 budget
        12-17- Amending budget ordinance 2018-20 in order to appropriate additional funds
2019-11 19     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2019 budget
        12-17- Appropriation ordinance; establishing county salaries and positions, adopting
2019-12 19     a classification system and salary schedule for county employees and
               approving the 2020 budget
2020-1  1-21-  Amending budget ordinance 2019-12 to appropriate additional funds and approve
        20     additional expenditures to county offices and departments in the 2020 budget
2020-2  1-21-  Amending budget ordinance 2019-12 to appropriate additional funds and approve
        20     additional expenditures to county offices and departments in the 2020 budget
2020-3  2-18-  Amending budget ordinance 2019-12 to appropriate additional funds and approve
        20     additional expenditures to county offices and departments in the 2020 budget
2020-5  3-18-  Amending budget ordinance 2019-12 to appropriate additional funds and approve
        20     additional expenditures to county offices and departments in the 2020 budget
2020-7  5-26-  Amending budget ordinance 2019-12 to appropriate additional funds and approve
        20     additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the 2020 budget
2020-9  6-16-  Amending budget ordinance 2019-12 to appropriate additional funds and approve
        20     additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the 2020 budget
2020-10 7-21-  Amending budget ordinance 2019-12 to appropriate additional funds and approve
        20     additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the 2020 budget
2020-11 8-18-  Amending budget ordinance 2019-12 to appropriate additional funds and approve
        20     additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the 2020 budget
R.      9-22-  Proposing to continue a levy of a one-half percent sales and use tax
2020-5  20
R.      9-22-  Certifying local government endorsement of Gerber Products Company to
2020-6  20     participate in the tax back program
2020-15 9-22-  Amending budget ordinance 2019-12 to appropriate additional funds and approve
        20     additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the 2020 budget
R.      10-20- Supporting approval by the Sebastian County voters to extend the existing
2020-7  20     one-quarter of one-percent sales tax for an additional ten years
2020-18 10-20- Establishing the Coronavirus Relief Fund as a sub-fund of the County General
        20     Fund
2020-19 10-20- Amending budget ordinance 2019-12 to appropriate additional funds and approve
        20     additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the 2020 budget
2020-20 11-17- Levying the county, municipal and school taxes for 2020, complying with Act
        20     848 of 1981 regarding the countywide reappraisal
2020-21 11-17- Amending budget ordinance 2019-12 to appropriate additional funds and approve
        20     additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the 2020 budget
2020-23 12-15- Amending budget ordinance 2019-12 to appropriate additional funds and approve
        20     additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the 2020 budget
        12-15- Appropriation ordinance; establishing county salaries and positions, adopting
2020-24 20     a classification system and salary schedule for county employees and
               approving the 2021 budget
        1-26-  Amending budget ordinance 2020-24 in order to appropriate additional funds
2021-1  21     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2021 budget
        1-26-  Amending budget ordinance 2020-24 in order to appropriate additional funds
2021-2  21     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2021 budget
        3-16-  Amending budget ordinance 2020-24 in order to appropriate additional funds
2021-4  21     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2021 budget
        3-16-  Amending budget ordinance 2020-24 in order to appropriate additional funds
2021-5  21     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2021 budget
        4-20-  Amending budget ordinance 2020-24 in order to appropriate additional funds
2021-6  21     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2021 budget
        5-18-  Amending budget ordinance 2020-24 in order to appropriate additional funds
2021-7  21     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2021 budget
2021-10 6-22-  Establishing a special revenue fund to be named the American Rescue Plan Fund
        21
        6-22-  Amending budget ordinance 2020-24 in order to appropriate additional funds
2021-12 21     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2021 budget
        7-20-  Amending budget ordinance 2020-24 in order to appropriate additional funds
2021-13 21     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2021 budget
2021-14 9-21-  Establishing a special revenue fund to be named the County Library ARP Fund
        21
        9-21-  Amending budget ordinance 2020-24 in order to appropriate additional funds
2021-15 21     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2021 budget
        10-19- Amending budget ordinance 2020-24 in order to appropriate additional funds
2021-16 21     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2021 budget
2021-18 11-16- Levying the county, municipal, and school taxes for 2021, complying with Act
        21     848 of 1981 regarding the countywide reappraisal
        11-16- Amending budget ordinance 2020-24 in order to appropriate additional funds
2021-19 21     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2021 budget
        12-21- Amending budget ordinance 2020-24 in order to appropriate additional funds
2021-20 21     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2021 budget
        12-21- Appropriating funds, establishing county salaries and positions, adopting a
2021-21 21     classification system and salary schedule for county employees, and approving
               the 2022 budget for Sebastian County
        1-25-  Amending budget ordinance 2021-21 in order to appropriate additional funds
2022-1  22     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2022 budget
        1-25-  Amending budget ordinance 2021-21 in order to appropriate additional funds
2022-2  22     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2022 budget
2022-3  1-25-  Establishing a county general sub-fund to be called the ARPA Revenue
        22     Replacement Fund
        2-22-  Amending budget ordinance 2021-21 in order to appropriate additional funds
2022-4  22     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2022 budget
        2-22-  Amending budget ordinance 2021-21 in order to appropriate additional funds
2022-5  22     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2022 budget
        3-15-  Amending budget ordinance 2021-21 in order to appropriate additional funds
2022-7  22     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2022 budget
        4-19-  Amending budget ordinance 2021-21 in order to appropriate additional funds
2022-8  22     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2022 budget
        5-17-  Amending budget ordinance 2021-21 in order to appropriate additional funds
2022-9  22     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2022 budget
        5-17-  Amending budget ordinance 2021-21 in order to appropriate additional funds
2022-10 22     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2022 budget
2022-11 6-21-  Setting forth the American Rescue Plan Revenue Replacement Fund General Fund
        22     Sub Fund transfer procedure for general government services reimbursement
        6-21-  Amending budget ordinance 2021-21 in order to appropriate additional funds
2022-12 22     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2022 budget
        7-19-  Amending budget ordinance 2021-21 in order to appropriate additional funds
2022-14 22     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2022 budget
        7-19-  Appropriation ordinance to transfer ARPA Revenue Replacement funds for the
2022-15 22     provision of general government services to the County General Fund for the
               first two quarters of 2022
        7-19-  Amending budget ordinance 2021-21 in order to appropriate additional funds
2022-16 22     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2022 budget
        8-23-  Amending budget ordinance 2021-21 in order to appropriate additional funds
2022-17 22     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2022 budget
        8-23-  Amending budget ordinance 2021-21 in order to appropriate additional funds
2022-18 22     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2022 budget
        8-23-  Amending budget ordinance 2021-21 in order to appropriate additional funds
2022-19 22     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2022 budget
        9-27-  Amending budget ordinance 2021-21 in order to appropriate additional funds
2022-20 22     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2022 budget
        9-27-  Amending budget ordinance 2021-21 in order to appropriate additional funds
2022-21 22     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2022 budget
        10-25- Amending budget ordinance 2021-21 in order to appropriate additional funds
2022-22 22     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2022 budget
R.      11-15- Certifying local government endorsement of Owens Corning Company to
2022-7  22     participate in the tax back program (as authorized by section 15-4-2706(d) of
               the Consolidated Incentive Act of 2003)
2022-25 11-15- Levying the county, municipal and school taxes for 2021
        22
        11-15- Amending budget ordinance 2021-21 in order to appropriate additional funds
2022-26 22     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2022 budget
        12-20- Amending budget ordinance 2021-21 in order to appropriate additional funds
2022-27 22     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2022 budget
        12-20- Appropriating funds, establishing county salaries and positions, adopting a
2022-28 22     classification system and salary schedule for county employees, and approving
               the 2023 budget for Sebastian County
        12-20- Amending budget ordinance 2022-28 in order to appropriate additional funds
2022-29 22     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2023 budget
        1-26-  Amending budget ordinance 2022-28 in order to appropriate additional funds
2023-1  23     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2023 budget
        1-26-  Amending budget ordinance 2022-28 in order to appropriate additional funds
2023-2  23     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2023 budget
2023-3  1-26-  Setting forth the American Rescue Plan Revenue Replacement Funds General Sub
        23     Fund transfer procedure for general government services reimbursement
        2-21-  Amending budget ordinance 2022-28 in order to appropriate additional funds
2023-6  23     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2023 budget
        3-21-  Amending budget ordinance 2022-28 in order to appropriate additional funds
2023-7  23     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2023 budget
R.      3-21-  Certifying local government endorsement of Covia ISP, Inc. to participate in
2023-1  23     the tax back program (as authorized by section 15-4-2706(d) of the
               Consolidated Incentive Act of 2003)
        4-18-  Amending budget ordinance 2022-28 in order to appropriate additional funds
2023-9  23     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2023 budget
        4-18-  Amending budget ordinance 2022-28 in order to appropriate additional funds
2023-10 23     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2023 budget
R.      4-18-  Committing to the continuation and dedicated use of county sales and use tax
2023-3  23     proceeds
        5-16-  Amending budget ordinance 2022-28 in order to appropriate additional funds
2023-13 23     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2023 budget
        5-16-  Amending budget ordinance 2022-28 in order to appropriate additional funds
2023-14 23     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2023 budget
        6-20-  Amending budget ordinance 2022-28 in order to appropriate additional funds
2023-15 23     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2023 budget
        6-20-  Amending budget ordinance 2022-28 in order to appropriate additional funds
2023-16 23     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2023 budget
               Appropriation amendment; 2023 budget; appropriation of $41,107 from the
2023-17 7-18-  General Fund; $10,937 from the Emergency Management Grants Fund; $78,566 from
        23     the General Reserve Fund; and $58,692 from the General Fund Sales Tax Revenue
               Fund
2023-20 8-15-  Appropriation amendment; 2023 budget; appropriation of $2,335 from the
        23     Recorder’s Cost Fund
        8-15-  Appropriation amendment; 2023 budget; appropriation of $269,001 from the
2023-21 23     General Fund; $3,499 from the Assessor’s Commission Fund; and $490,000 from
               the County Road Fund
        9-19-  Appropriation amendment; 2023 budget; appropriation of $163,457 from the
2023-22 23     General Fund; $133,500 from the Recorder’s Cost Fund; and $17,440 from the
               American Rescue Fund
2023-23 9-19-  Appropriation amendment; 2023 budget; appropriation of $182,800 from the
        23     General Fund Sales Tax Revenue Fund
        10-17- Amending budget ordinance 2022-28 in order to appropriate additional funds
2023-26 23     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2023 budget
2023-28 11-21- Levying the county, municipal and school taxes for 2024
        23
2023-29 11-21- Setting forth the American Rescue Plan Revenue Replacement Funds General Fund
        23     Sub Fund transfer for general government services reimbursement
        11-21- Amending budget ordinance 2022-28 in order to appropriate additional funds
2023-30 23     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2023 budget
        11-21- Amending budget ordinance 2022-28 in order to appropriate additional funds
2023-31 23     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2023 budget
        12-19- Amending budget ordinance 2022-28 in order to appropriate additional funds
2023-33 23     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2023 budget
        12-19- Appropriation ordinance; establishing county salaries and positions, adopting
2023-34 23     a classification system and salary schedule for county employees and
               approving the 2024 budget
        1-23-  Amending budget ordinance 2023-34 in order to appropriate additional funds
2024-1  24     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2024 budget
        1-23-  Amending budget ordinance 2023-34 in order to appropriate additional funds
2024-2  24     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2024 budget
        2-20-  Amending budget ordinance 2023-34 in order to appropriate additional funds
2024-4  24     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2024 budget
        3-19-  Amending budget ordinance 2023-34 in order to appropriate additional funds
2024-5  24     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2024 budget
        3-19-  Amending budget ordinance 2023-34 in order to appropriate additional funds
2024-5  24     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2024 budget
        4-16-  Amending budget ordinance 2023-34 in order to appropriate additional funds
2024-7  24     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2024 budget
        5-21-  Amending budget ordinance 2023-34 in order to appropriate additional funds
2024-8  24     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2024 budget
        6-18-  Amending budget ordinance 2023-34 in order to appropriate additional funds
2024-9  24     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2024 budget
        6-18-  Amending budget ordinance 2023-34 in order to appropriate additional funds
2024-10 24     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2024 budget
        7-16-  Amending budget ordinance 2023-34 in order to appropriate additional funds
2024-12 24     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2024 budget
        8-20-  Amending budget ordinance 2023-34 in order to appropriate additional funds
2024-13 24     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2024 budget
        8-20-  Amending budget ordinance 2023-34 in order to appropriate additional funds
2024-15 24     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2024 budget
        9-24-  Amending budget ordinance 2023-34 in order to appropriate additional funds
2024-16 24     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2024 budget
        10-15- Amending budget ordinance 2023-34 in order to appropriate additional funds
2024-19 24     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2024 budget
2024-20 11-19- Levying the county, municipal and school taxes for 2025.
        24
        11-19- Amending budget ordinance 2023-34 in order to appropriate additional funds
2024-22 24     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2024 budget
        12-17- Obligating remaining $1,838,705 in the county’s American Rescue Plan Fund,
2024-23 24     3046 to be expended on or before December 31, 2026, and appropriated as
               needed to certain expenditures
        12-17- Amending budget ordinance 2023-34 in order to appropriate additional funds
2024-24 24     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2024 budget
        12-17- Appropriating funds, establishing county salaries and positions, adopting a
2024-25 24     classification system and salary schedule for county employees, and approving
               the 2025 budget for Sebastian County
        1-21-  Amending budget ordinance 2024-25 in order to appropriate additional funds
2025-1  25     and approve additional expenditures for county offices and departments in the
               2025 budget
        1-21-  Amending budget ordinance 2024-25 in order to appropriate $843,416 from
2025-2  25     General Fund, 1000, and approve additional expenditures for county offices
               and departments in the 2025 budget
        2-25-  Amending budget ordinance 2024-25 in order to appropriate $963,884 from five
2025-4  25     different funds and approve additional expenditures for county offices and
               departments in the 2025 budget
        2-25-  Amending budget ordinance 2024-25 in order to appropriate $37,500 from
2025-5  25     General Fund SalesTax Revenue Fund, 4801, and approve additional expenditures
               for county offices and departments in the 2025 budget
        3-18-  Amending budget ordinance 2024-25 in order to appropriate $54,868 from three
2025-6  25     different funds and approve additional expenditures for county offices and
               departments in the 2025 budget
              
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Arkansas Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ARKANSAS CODE
A.C.A. Cite Code Section
A.C.A. Cite             Code Section
Title 14                33.077,
                        33.078
Title 26, Subtitle 3    33.105
Title 27                33.077
5-1-101 et seq.         33.086
5-37-301 – 5-37-306   33.086
5-37-307                33.086
5-62-101-120            93.22
8-6-201 et seq.         50.01
9-27-336                94.03
11-10-713               34.03
11-10-715               34.03
12-41-101 et seq.       94.01
12-41-105               33.070
12-41-505               33.074
12-41-506(a)            33.090
12-41-601               32.087,
                        32.089
12-41-602               32.089
12-41-605 – 12-41-616 32.086
12-42-116               35.07
12-75-108               35.13
13-5-501 et seq.        94.02
                        32.055,
14-14-101 et seq.       33.106,
                        90.20,
                        90.35
14-14-701               94.03
14-14-705               32.116,
                        32.155
14-14-707               32.117
                        30.04,
14-14-904               32.137,
                        94.04
14-14-906               10.99
14-14-1102              33.020
14-14-1202(c)(1)(a)     94.04
14-14-1206              94.04
14-14-1301              31.01
14-14-1313              33.040
14-16-101 et seq.       32.055,
                        33.106
14-20-102               33.073
14-20-111               33.091
14-24-121               35.14
14-137-101 et seq.      32.175,
                        32.195
14-137-106(b)           32.195
14-137-108(a)(4)        32.197
14-137-123              32.200
14-268-106              151.11
14-238-106 et seq.      32.210
14-284-403              92.25
14-298-101 – 14-298-1290.20
16-13-709               31.04,
                        33.087
16-13-712               33.075
16-21-106               33.072
16-34-101 et seq.       35.11
16-34-103(b)            35.11
16-34-106               35.11
16-92-109               33.074
17-3701 – 17-3715     32.100
19-8-106                32.070
9-11-802(2)             33.028
20-19-301-312           93.16,
                        93.22
20-22-701               92.01
21-6-307                33.070
21-6-307(a)(15)         33.071
                        32.002,
26-28-102               32.003,
                        35.02
26-64-104               33.077
27-4-101 et seq.        90.35
27-35-101 – 27-35-113 90.35
82-1707                 92.99
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No.     Date Passed Code Section
77-2         1-3-77      T.S.O. XIV
77-4         1-10-77     30.04
77-6         9-12-77     34.03
78-4         6-26-78     T.S.O. XIII
78-5         8-17-78     T.S.O. IV
78-7         12-18-78    T.S.O. VI
79-9         4-18-79     T.S.O. XIII
82-9         12-22-82    T.S.O. XIII
84-6         10-17-84    T.S.O. XII
84-7         10-17-84    T.S.O. XII
85-1         2-21-85     T.S.O. X
86-6         9-16-86     T.S.O. III
88-2         4-20-88     33.089
88-5         9-21-88     35.02
89-1         2-22-89     T.S.O. III
89-11        9-22-89     T.S.O. IX
90-5         4-17-90     T.S.O. IX
90-9         12-18-90    T.S.O. VI
90-10        12-18-90    35.01
91-03        1-21-91     T.S.O. X
91-6         6-18-91     T.S.O. XI
91-9         8-20-91     T.S.O. I
91-10        12-17-91    34.08
92-2         1-21-92     T.S.O. IV
92-4         5-19-92     T.S.O. I
92-5         5-19-92     T.S.O. I
93-01        1-19-93     T.S.O. I
93-3         5-20-93     T.S.O. XIV
93-04        9-21-93     T.S.O. I
93-05        10-28-93    T.S.O. XII
93-6         11-16-93    T.S.O. IV
93-7         11-16-93    T.S.O. X
93-8         11-16-93    T.S.O. I
93-9         11-16-93    T.S.O. I
95-3         9-19-95     T.S.O. IX
95-5         10-17-95    35.10
95-6         10-17-95    35.04
97-2         1-28-97     T.S.O. IV
97-3         3-25-97     T.S.O. VII
97-4         5-20-97     T.S.O. VII
97-8         5-20-97     T.S.O. XIV
97-9         5-20-97     T.S.O. XIII
97-10        6-17-97     T.S.O. VIII
97-11        7-29-97     T.S.O. XI
97-12        7-29-97     34.07
97-15        11-18-97    T.S.O. III
97-16        11-18-97    T.S.O. III
98-12        11-17-98    T.S.O. VI
99-2         2-16-99     T.S.O. I
99-9         9-21-99     T.S.O. III
2000-4       3-21-00     T.S.O. VI
2000-11      9-16-00     T.S.O. I
2001-9       11-20-01    T.S.O. VI
2003-2       1-21-03     T.S.O. IV
2003-3       2-18-03     T.S.O. X
2003-4       2-18-03     T.S.O. IV
2003-10      5-20-03     T.S.O. X
2003-12      7-23-03     T.S.O. X
2003-13      8-19-03     T.S.O. X
2003-14      8-19-03     T.S.O. X
2003-15      8-19-03     T.S.O. IV
2004-3       7-22-04     T.S.O. X
2004-4       8-17-04     T.S.O. IV
2005-4       3-15-05     T.S.O. X
2005-5       4-19-05     T.S.O. XII
2005-6       4-19-05     T.S.O. X
2005-8       6-21-05     T.S.O. XII
2005-10      10-18-05    T.S.O. XIV
2006-1       2-21-06     T.S.O. X
2006-2       5-16-06     T.S.O. X
2006-3       6-20-06     T.S.O. X
- -          9-19-06     T.S.O. I
2007-1       1-16-07     T.S.O. X
2007-2       4-17-07     30.01
2007-3       4-17-07     T.S.O. X
2007-4       4-17-07     T.S.O. X
2007-5       4-17-07     T.S.O. X
2007-6       6-5-07      T.S.O. X
2007-7       6-5-07      T.S.O. X
2007-8       6-26-07     T.S.O. I
2007-9       8-21-07     T.S.O. X
2007-10      10-16-07    T.S.O. X
2007-11      10-16-07    T.S.O. X
2007-12      11-13-07    T.S.O. I
2007-14      11-20-07    T.S.O. X
2007-15      11-20-07    T.S.O. XIII
2007-16      11-20-07    35.06
2007-17      11-20-07    T.S.O. X
2007-18      11-20-07    35.10
2008-2       3-18-08     T.S.O. X
2008-3       3-18-08     T.S.O. X
2008-4       4-15-08     T.S.O. X
2008-6       7-21-08     T.S.O. I
2008-7       7-21-08     T.S.O. I
2009-2       1-20-09     30.01
2009-3       3-17-09     T.S.O. X
2009-4       4-21-09     T.S.O. XIV
2009-5       4-21-09     T.S.O. X
2009-6       5-19-09     T.S.O. X
2009-7       6-16-09     T.S.O. I
2009-8       6-16-09     T.S.O. I
2010-4       3-16-10     T.S.O. X
2010-5       2-16-10     T.S.O. XIV
2010-6       6-15-10     T.S.O. I
2010-8       6-15-10     T.S.O. X
2010-9       6-15-10     T.S.O. X
2010-10      7-20-10     T.S.O. X
2010-11      8-24-10     T.S.O. I
2010-12      9-21-10     T.S.O. X
2010-13      9-21-10     T.S.O. X
2010-14      9-21-10     T.S.O. XII
2010-17      10-19-10    T.S.O. X
2010-18      12-21-10    T.S.O. I
2011-1       2-15-11     T.S.O. I
2011-6       6-21-11     T.S.O. X
2011-9       8-16-11     T.S.O. X
2011-10      8-16-11     T.S.O. XII
2011-11      8-16-11     T.S.O. X
2011-12      9-20-11     35.13
2011-13      9-20-11     T.S.O. I
2011-14      10-18-11    T.S.O. X
2011-15      10-18-11    T.S.O. X
2011-16      11-3-11     T.S.O. X
2011-17      12-20-11    T.S.O. I
2011-18      12-20-11    T.S.O. I
2012-2       2-21-12     T.S.O. X
2012-3       2-21-12     T.S.O. X
2012-4       6-19-12     T.S.O. I
2012-5       7-24-12     T.S.O. X
2012-6       7-24-12     T.S.O. X
2012-7       7-24-12     T.S.O. X
2013-1       1-15-13     30.07
2013-4       5-21-13     T.S.O. I
2013-5       6-18-13     T.S.O. X
2013-7       7-16-13     T.S.O. I
2013-8       9-3-13      T.S.O. I
2013-9       9-17-13     T.S.O. XIV
2013-10      9-17-13     T.S.O. IV,
                         T.S.O. X
2014-1       1-7-14      T.S.O. IV
2014-2       2-18-14     T.S.O. X
2014-5       6-17-14     T.S.O. X
2014-6       6-17-14     T.S.O. X
2014-7       6-17-14     T.S.O. X
2014-12      10-21-14    T.S.O. I
2014-13      10-21-14    T.S.O. XIV
2014-17      12-16-14    T.S.O. I
2014-19      12-16-14    T.S.O. XIV
2015-1       1-27-15     T.S.O. XIV
2015-3       3-17-15     T.S.O. XIV
2015-4       4-21-15     T.S.O. X
2015-5       4-21-15     T.S.O. X
2015-6       5-19-15     30.01
2015-10      7-21-15     T.S.O. X
2015-12      9-15-15     T.S.O. X
2015-13      10-20-15    T.S.O. I
2015-14      11-18-15    T.S.O. X
2016-2       3-15-16     T.S.O. X
2016-3       3-15-16     T.S.O. X
2016-4       5-17-16     T.S.O. II
2016-6       5-17-16     T.S.O. X
2016-7       6-21-16     T.S.O. X
2016-8       7-19-16     T.S.O. X
2016-9       8-23-16     T.S.O. II
2016-10      8-23-16     T.S.O. X
2016-11      10-25-16    T.S.O. XIII
2017-1       3-21-17     T.S.O. XIV
2017-2       5-16-17     T.S.O. I
2017-5       6-20-17     T.S.O. I
2017-7       7-18-17     T.S.O. I
2017-8       9-19-17     T.S.O. I
2017-9       10-17-17    T.S.O. I
2018-2       5-15-18     T.S.O. X
2018-3       5-15-18     T.S.O. X
2018-4       5-15-18     T.S.O. X
2018-5       5-15-18     T.S.O. XIV
2018-6       7-17-18     T.S.O. X
2018-7       7-17-18     T.S.O. XII
2018-8       8-28-18     T.S.O. XIV
2019-1       3-19-19     T.S.O. X
2019-2       4-16-19     T.S.O. X
2019-3       6-18-19     T.S.O. X
2019-6       8-20-19     T.S.O. X
2019-7       8-20-19     T.S.O. I
2019-8       9-17-19     T.S.O. I
2019-11      11-19-19    T.S.O. X
2019-12      11-19-19    T.S.O. X
2020-1       1-21-20     T.S.O. IV
2020-2       8-18-20     T.S.O. X
2020-3       8-19-20     T.S.O. X
2020-4       8-18-20     T.S.O. I
2020-5       9-22-20     T.S.O. XIV
2020-6       9-22-20     T.S.O. XIV
2020-7       10-20-20    T.S.O. XIV
2020-8       10-20-20    T.S.O. I
2021-1       3-16-21     T.S.O. X
2021-2       3-16-21     T.S.O. X
2021-3       4-20-21     T.S.O. X
2021-5       5-18-21     T.S.O. X
2021-6       7-20-21     T.S.O. X
2021-7       7-20-21     T.S.O. I
2021-8       8-17-21     T.S.O. X
2021-9       8-17-21     T.S.O. X
2021-10      9-21-21     T.S.O. X
2021-11      9-21-21     35.04
2021-12      9-21-21     T.S.O. XII
2021-13      10-19-21    T.S.O. XIII
2022-1       2-22-22     T.S.O. X
2022-3       5-17-22     T.S.O. IV
R-108-22     7-12-22     T.S.O. I
2022-4       7-19-22     T.S.O. I
2022-7       11-15-22    T.S.O. XIV
2023-1       3-21-23     T.S.O. XIV
2023-2       4-18-23     T.S.O. X
2023-3       4-18-23     T.S.O. XIV
2023-4       5-16-23     T.S.O. X
2023-7       7-18-23     T.S.O. I
2023-8       9-19-23     T.S.O. VI
2023-6       9-28-23     T.S.O. V
2023-05      10-9-23     T.S.O. V
04-2023      10-23-23    T.S.O. V
2023-10-23-A 10-23-23    T.S.O. V
101023       10-23-23    T.S.O. V
2023-02      10-26-23    T.S.O. V
202-9        11-21-23    T.S.O. V
2023-10      12-19-23    T.S.O. XII
2024-3       2-20-24     T.S.O. X
2024-4       2-20-24     T.S.O. X
2024-5       4-16-24     T.S.O. X
2024-6       4-16-24     T.S.O. X
2024-7       5-21-24     T.S.O. X
2024-8       5-21-24     T.S.O. X
2024-9       5-21-24     T.S.O. X
2024-10      5-21-24     T.S.O. X
2024-11      7-16-24     T.S.O. X
2024-12      7-16-24     T.S.O. X
2024-13      9-24-24     T.S.O. I
2024-14      12-17-24    T.S.O. X
2024-15      12-17-24    33.089
2025-2       2-25-25     T.S.O. X
2025-3       2-25-25     T.S.O. X
                        
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
        - -         T.S.O. I
53-89    7-5-89      T.S.O. I
77-2     1-3-77      30.02
77-3     2-14-77     31.03
77-6     2-14-77     35.09
77-7     1-10-77     T.S.O. XIV
77-8     3-18-77     T.S.O. XIV
77-10    4-12-77     T.S.O. XIV
77-11    4-12-77     T.S.O. XIV
77-13    5-13-77     T.S.O. XIV
77-16    6-15-77     70.01,
                     70.02
77-17    6-15-77     T.S.O. IV
77-19    7-13-77     T.S.O. XIV
77-20    8-10-77     T.S.O. XIV
77-21    9-14-77     T.S.O. XIV
77-25    9-14-77     94.02
77-26    9-14-77     T.S.O. XIV
77-27    9-14-77     T.S.O. XIV
77-28    9-14-77     T.S.O. XIV
77-31    10-28-77    T.S.O. XIV
77-32    10-28-77    T.S.O. XIV
77-34    10-28-77    T.S.O. XIV
77-35    11-14-77    T.S.O. XIV
77-36    11-14-77    T.S.O. XIV
77-37    11-14-77    T.S.O. XIV
77-38    12-14-77    T.S.O. XIV
77-39    12-14-77    T.S.O. XIV
77-40    12-14-77    T.S.O. XIV
78-1     1-10-78     T.S.O. XIV
78-2     1-10-78     T.S.O. XIV
78-4     2-15-78     T.S.O. XIV
78-5     2-15-78     T.S.O. XIV
78-6     3-1-78      T.S.O. XIV
78-7     3-15-78     T.S.O. XIV
78-8     4-12-78     T.S.O. XIV
78-10    4-12-78     T.S.O. XIV
78-11    6-16-78     32.115 
                     32.124
78-12    6-16-78     T.S.O. I
78-15    7-11-78     T.S.O. XIV
78-16    8-11-78     T.S.O. XIV
78-17    8-17-78     T.S.O. XIV
78-18    9-12-78     32.136 
                     32.139
78-19    10-16-78    T.S.O. XIV
78-20    11-17-78    32.035 
                     32.044
78-21    11-17-78    T.S.O. XIV
78-22    11-17-78    T.S.O. XIV
78-24    11-17-78    T.S.O. XIV
78-25    12-18-78    T.S.O. XIV
78-26    12-18-78    T.S.O. XIV
79-3     2-23-79     T.S.O. XIV
79-4     3-19-79     T.S.O. XIV
79-5     3-19-79     T.S.O. XIV
79-6     4-19-79     T.S.O. XIV
79-7     5-23-79     T.S.O. XIV
79-8     6-19-79     T.S.O. I
79-9     6-19-79     T.S.O. XIV
79-10    7-17-79     T.S.O. I
79-11    7-17-79     T.S.O. XIV
79-12    8-22-79     T.S.O. XIV
79-13    9-19-79     T.S.O. XIV
79-14    9-19-79     T.S.O. XIV
79-16    9-19-79     T.S.O. XIV
79-17    10-18-79    T.S.O. I
79-19    10-18-79    T.S.O. XIV
79-20    10-18-79    T.S.O. XIV
79-21    10-18-79    T.S.O. XIV
79-23    11-21-79    T.S.O. XIV
79-24    11-21-79    T.S.O. I
79-25    11-21-79    T.S.O. XIV
79-26    12-19-79    34.06
79-27    2-18-97     33.040,
                     33.041
79-28    12-19-79    T.S.O. XIV
79-29    12-19-79    T.S.O. XIV
79-30    12-19-79    T.S.O. XIV
79-31    12-19-79    T.S.O. XIV
80-1     1-25-80     T.S.O. XIV
80-2     2-21-80     T.S.O. XIV
80-3     2-21-80     T.S.O. XIV
80-4     2-21-80     T.S.O. XIV
80-6     3-7-80      T.S.O. XIV
80-8     3-7-80      T.S.O. XIV
80-10    3-20-80     T.S.O. XIV
80-12    4-23-80     T.S.O. XIV
80-13    5-9-80      T.S.O. XIV
80-14    5-23-80     T.S.O. XIV
80-15    6-10-80     T.S.O. XIV
80-16    6-17-80     T.S.O. XIV
80-17    6-17-80     T.S.O. XIV
80-19    7-23-80     T.S.O. XIV
80-20    7-23-80     T.S.O. XIV
80-21    8-7-80      T.S.O. XIV
80-22    8-7-80      T.S.O. XIV
80-23    8-7-80      T.S.O. XIV
80-24    8-20-80     T.S.O. XIV
80-25    9-3-80      T.S.O. XIV
80-27    9-3-80      T.S.O. XIV
80-29    9-16-80     T.S.O. XIV
80-30    10-9-80     T.S.O. XIV
80-31    10-21-80    T.S.O. XIV
80-32    10-21-80    T.S.O. XIV
80-33    10-21-80    T.S.O. XIV
80-34    10-21-80    T.S.O. XIV
80-36    11-7-80     T.S.O. XIV
80-37    11-7-80     T.S.O. XIV
80-38    11-7-80     T.S.O. XIV
                     91.01,
80-39    11-7-80     91.02,
                     91.99
80-40    11-18-80    T.S.O. XIV
80-41    11-18-80    T.S.O. XIV
80-42    12-3-80     T.S.O. XIV
80-44    12-3-80     T.S.O. XIV
80-45    12-17-80    T.S.O. XIV
80-46    12-17-80    T.S.O. XIV
81-1     2-21-81     T.S.O. XIV
81-2     2-4-81      T.S.O. XIV
81-3     2-4-81      T.S.O. XIV
81-4     2-18-81     T.S.O. XIV
81-6     3-17-81     T.S.O. XIV
81-7     4-9-81      T.S.O. XIV
81-8     4-9-81      T.S.O. XIV
81-9     4-21-81     T.S.O. III
81-10    4-21-81     T.S.O. XIV
81-11    4-21-81     T.S.O. XIV
81-12    5-6-81      T.S.O. I
81-13    5-5-81      T.S.O. XIV
81-14    5-20-81     T.S.O. II
81-15    5-20-81     T.S.O. XIV
81-18    6-3-81      T.S.O. XIV
81-19    6-3-81      T.S.O. XIV
81-20    6-16-81     T.S.O. II
81-21    6-16-81     T.S.O. XIV
81-22    7-8-81      T.S.O. XIV
81-23    7-8-81      T.S.O. XIV
81-24    9-2-81      T.S.O. XIV
81-25    9-2-81      T.S.O. XIV
81-27    10-8-81     T.S.O. XIV
81-28    10-20-81    T.S.O. XIV
81-29    11-5-81     T.S.O. XIV
81-30    11-5-81     T.S.O. XIV
81-31    11-5-81     T.S.O. XIV
81-32    11-17-81    T.S.O. XIV
81-33    11-17-81    T.S.O. XIV
81-34    11-17-81    T.S.O. XIV
81-35    12-2-81     T.S.O. XIV
81-36    12-2-81     T.S.O. XIV
81-37    12-22-81    T.S.O. XIV
81-38    12-22-81    T.S.O. XIV
81-39    12-22-81    T.S.O. XIV
81-40    12-22-81    T.S.O. XIV
82-1     1-7-82      T.S.O. XIV
82-2     2-2-82      T.S.O. XIV
82-3     2-2-82      T.S.O. XIV
82-4     2-2-82      T.S.O. XIV
82-5     3-8-82      T.S.O. XIV
82-6     3-22-82     T.S.O. I
82-7     4-7-82      T.S.O. XIV
82-9     4-7-82      T.S.O. XIV
82-13    5-18-82     T.S.O. XIV
                     90.35 
82-14    6-16-82     90.41,
                     90.99
82-15    6-16-82     T.S.O. XIV
82-16    7-21-82     T.S.O. XIV
82-17    7-21-82     T.S.O. XIV
82-18    7-21-82     T.S.O. XIV
82-19    7-21-82     T.S.O. XIV
82-20    8-18-82     T.S.O. XIV
82-21    8-18-82     T.S.O. XIV
82-22    8-18-82     T.S.O. XIV
82-24    10-20-82    T.S.O. XIV
82-25    10-20-82    T.S.O. XIV
82-26    11-24-82    T.S.O. XIV
82-27    11-24-82    T.S.O. XIV
82-28    11-24-82    T.S.O. XIV
82-30    12-22-82    T.S.O. XIV
                     90.20 
82-33    12-22-82    90.23,
                     90.99
82-34    12-22-82    T.S.O. XIV
82-36    12-22-82    35.02
82-37    12-22-82    T.S.O. XIV
83-1     1-22-83     T.S.O. XIV
83-2     2-18-83     T.S.O. XIV
83-3     2-18-83     T.S.O. XIV
83-4     2-18-83     T.S.O. XIV
83-5     3-18-83     T.S.O. XIV
83-6     3-18-83     T.S.O. XIV
83-7     3-18-83     T.S.O. XIV
83-8     4-20-83     T.S.O. XIV
83-9     4-20-83     T.S.O. XIV
83-10    4-20-83     T.S.O. XIV
83-11    4-20-83     T.S.O. XIV
83-12    4-20-83     32.001 
                     32.004
83-13    4-20-83     T.S.O. XIV
83-14    4-20-83     T.S.O. XIV
83-15    5-18-83     T.S.O. XIV
83-16    5-18-83     T.S.O. XIV
83-18    5-18-83     T.S.O. XIV
83-19    5-18-83     T.S.O. XIV
83-20    6-22-83     T.S.O. XIV
83-21    6-22-83     31.02
83-22    6-22-83     T.S.O. XIV
83-23    7-22-83     T.S.O. XIV
83-24    7-22-88     33.088
83-26    8-17-83     T.S.O. XIV
83-27    8-17-83     T.S.O. XIV
83-28    8-17-83     T.S.O. XIV
83-29    8-17-83     T.S.O. XIV
83-30    9-23-83     T.S.O. XIV
83-31    9-23-83     T.S.O. XIV
83-32    9-23-83     T.S.O. XIV
83-33    9-23-83     T.S.O. XIV
83-34    10-20-83    T.S.O. XIV
83-35    10-20-83    T.S.O. XIV
83-36    10-20-83    T.S.O. XIV
83-37    10-20-83    T.S.O. I
83-38    11-17-83    T.S.O. XIV
83-39    11-17-83    T.S.O. XIV
83-42    12-22-83    T.S.O. XIV
83-43    12-22-83    T.S.O. XIV
84-1     1-20-84     T.S.O. XIV
84-2     2-23-84     T.S.O. XIV
84-3     2-23-84     T.S.O. XIV
84-4     2-23-84     T.S.O. XIV
84-5     3-22-84     T.S.O. XIV
84-6     3-22-84     T.S.O. XIV
84-7     3-22-84     T.S.O. XIV
84-8     3-22-84     T.S.O. XIV
84-9     4-18-84     T.S.O. XIV
84-10    5-16-84     T.S.O. XIV
84-11    6-21-84     T.S.O. XIV
84-12    6-21-84     T.S.O. XIV
84-13    6-21-84     T.S.O. XIV
84-14    7-19-84     T.S.O. I
84-15    7-19-84     T.S.O. XIV
84-16    7-19-84     T.S.O. XIV
84-17    7-19-84     T.S.O. XIV
84-18    7-19-84     T.S.O. XIV
84-19    7-19-84     T.S.O. I
84-20    8-24-84     T.S.O. XIV
84-21    8-24-84     T.S.O. XIV
84-22    8-24-84     T.S.O. XIV
84-24    9-19-84     T.S.O. XIV
84-25    10-17-84    T.S.O. XIV
84-26    10-17-84    T.S.O. XIV
84-27    10-17-84    T.S.O. XIV
84-28    11-21-84    T.S.O. XIV
84-29    12-20-84    T.S.O. XIV
84-30    12-20-84    T.S.O. XIV
84-31    12-20-84    T.S.O. XIV
85-2     1-22-85     T.S.O. XIV
85-3     1-22-85     T.S.O. XIV
85-4     3-19-85     T.S.O. XIV
85-5     2-20-85     T.S.O. XIV
                     92.01 
85-7     3-19-85     92.03,
                     92.99
85-8     4-16-85     T.S.O. XIV
85-9     5-21-85     T.S.O. I
85-10    5-21-85     33.086
85-11    5-21-85     T.S.O. XIV
85-12    5-21-85     T.S.O. XIV
85-13    5-21-85     T.S.O. XIV
85-14    5-21-85     T.S.O. XIV
85-15    5-21-85     T.S.O. XIV
85-16    5-21-85     T.S.O. XIV
85-17    6-18-85     T.S.O. II
85-18    6-18-85     T.S.O. XIV
85-19    6-18-86     T.S.O. XIV
85-21    7-23-85     T.S.O. XIV
85-22    8-20-85     T.S.O. I
85-24    8-20-85     T.S.O. XIV
85-25    8-20-85     T.S.O. XIV
85-26    8-20-85     T.S.O. XIV
85-27    9-24-85     T.S.O. XIV
85-28    9-24-85     T.S.O. XIV
85-29    9-24-85     T.S.O. XIV
85-31    10-22-85    32.055 
                     32.058
85-32    10-22-85    32.015 
                     32.022
85-34    10-22-85    T.S.O. XIV
85-35    12-4-85     T.S.O. XIV
85-36    12-4-85     T.S.O. XIV
85-37    12-11-85    T.S.O. XIV
85-38    12-17-85    T.S.O. XIV
85-3912  12-17-85    33.089
85-40    12-17-85    T.S.O. XIV
85-42    12-17-85    T.S.O. XIV
85-43    12-17-85    T.S.O. XIV
86-1     1-22-86     T.S.O. XIV
86-2     1-22-86     T.S.O. XIV
86-3     1-22-86     T.S.O. XIV
86-5     1-22-86     T.S.O. XIV
86-6     2-19-86     T.S.O. XIV
86-7     2-19-86     33.105 
                     33.108
86-8     3-18-86     T.S.O. XIV
86-9     4-22-86     T.S.O. II
86-10    4-22-86     T.S.O. XIV
86-11    5-20-86     T.S.O. XIV
86-12    5-20-86     T.S.O. XIV
86-13    6-17-86     T.S.O. XIV
86-14    6-17-86     T.S.O. XIV
86-15    7-22-86     T.S.O. XIV
86-16    8-21-86     T.S.O. XIV
86-18    8-19-86     T.S.O. XIV
86-20    9-16-86     T.S.O. XIV
86-21    9-16-86     T.S.O. XIV
86-22    10-21-86    T.S.O. XIV
86-23    10-21-86    T.S.O. XIV
86-25    11-18-86    T.S.O. XIV
86-26    11-18-86    T.S.O. XIV
86-27    12-18-86    T.S.O. XIV
86-28    12-18-86    T.S.O. XIV
86-29    12-18-86    T.S.O. XIV
87-2     1-21-87     T.S.O. XIV
87-3     1-21-87     T.S.O. XIV
87-4     2-18-87     T.S.O. XIV
87-5     1-19-87     T.S.O. XIV
87-6     2-19-87     T.S.O. XIV
87-9     3-20-87     T.S.O. XIV
87-10    4-21-87     T.S.O. XIV
87-13    4-21-87     T.S.O. XIV
87-14    5-20-87     T.S.O. XIV
87-15    5-20-87     33.001 
                     33.008
87-16    7-21-87     T.S.O. XIV
87-17    7-21-87     T.S.O. XIV
87-18    8-18-87     T.S.O. XIV
87-19    8-18-87     T.S.O. XIV
87-20    9-15-87     T.S.O. XIV
87-21    10-20-87    T.S.O. XIV
87-22    10-10-87    T.S.O. XIV
87-23    11-17-87    T.S.O. XIV
87-24    11-17-87    T.S.O. XIV
87-25    12-16-87    T.S.O. XIV
87-26    12-16-87    T.S.O. XIV
87-27    12-16-87    T.S.O. XIV
87-28    12-16-87    32.100,
                     32.101
87-29    12-18-87    31.01
87-30    12-18-87    T.S.O. XIV
88-1     1-21-88     T.S.O. XIV
88-2     2-18-88     T.S.O. XIV
88-3     3-16-88     T.S.O. XIV
88-6     4-20-88     T.S.O. XIV
88-7     4-20-88     T.S.O. XIV
88-8     4-20-88     T.S.O. XIV
88-9     5-18-88     T.S.O. XIV
88-10    5-18-88     T.S.O. XIV
88-12    6-22-88     T.S.O. I
88-13    6-22-88     92.15,
                     92.99
88-14    6-22-88     33.085
88-15    6-22-88     T.S.O. XIV
88-16    7-21-88     T.S.O. XIV
88-17    9-21-88     T.S.O. XIV
88-19    10-19-88    T.S.O. XIV
88-20    10-19-88    34.35 34.38
88-22    11-16-88    T.S.O. XIV
88-23    11-16-88    T.S.O. XIV
88-24    12-21-88    T.S.O. XIV
88-25    12-21-88    T.S.O. XIV
88-26    12-21-88    T.S.O. XIV
89-2     1-18-89     T.S.O. XIV
89-3     2-22-89     33.055 
                     33.058
89-4     2-22-89     T.S.O. XIV
89-6     5-23-89     T.S.O. XIV
89-7     5-17-89     T.S.O. XIV
89-8     5-17-89     T.S.O. XIV
89-9     6-21-89     T.S.O. I
89-10    6-21-89     T.S.O. XIV
89-11    7-19-89     T.S.O. XIV
89-12    7-19-89     T.S.O. XIV
89-13    7-19-89     T.S.O. XIV
89-14    7-19-89     T.S.O. XIV
89-15    7-19-89     T.S.O. XIV
89-16    7-19-89     T.S.O. XIV
89-17    7-19-89     30.03
89-18    8-15-89     T.S.O. XIV
89-19    8-16-89     T.S.O. XIV
89-20    8-16-89     T.S.O. XIV
89-22    9-22-89     T.S.O. XIV
89-23    9-22-89     T.S.O. XIV
89-24    10-18-89    T.S.O. XIV
89-25    10-18-89    T.S.O. I
89-26    11-21-89    T.S.O. XIV
89-27    11-21-89    T.S.O. V
89-28    11-21-89    T.S.O. XIV
89-30    12-20-89    T.S.O. XIV
89-31    12-20-89    T.S.O. XIV
89-32    12-20-89    T.S.O. XIV
90-1     1-16-90     T.S.O. XIV
90-2     2-20-90     T.S.O. XIV
90-4     3-20-90     T.S.O. XIV
90-5     3-20-90     35.06
90-7     4-17-90     T.S.O. XIV
                     110.01 
90-8     5-15-90     110.06,
                     110.99
90-9     3-15-90     T.S.O. XII
90-10    5-15-90     T.S.O. XIV
90-11    6-20-90     T.S.O. XIV
90-13    7-19-90     T.S.O. XIV
90-14    7-19-90     33.091
90-16    8-21-90     T.S.O. XIV
90-17    9-18-90     T.S.O. XIV
90-18    9-18-90     T.S.O. XIV
90-19    10-16-90    T.S.O. XIV
90-21    10-23-90    T.S.O. XIV
                     90.01 
90-22    10-23-90    90.06,
                     90.99
90-23    11-20-90    T.S.O. XIV
90-24    11-20-90    T.S.O. XIV
90-27    12-18-90    T.S.O. XIV
90-28    12-18-90    T.S.O. XIV
90-29    12-18-90    T.S.O. XIV
91-02    1-22-91     T.S.O. XIV
91-03    1-22-91     T.S.O. XIV
91-4     2-19-91     T.S.O. XIV
91-5     3-19-91     T.S.O. XIV
91-6     3-19-91     T.S.O. XIV
91-7     3-19-91     T.S.O. XIV
91-9     4-16-91     T.S.O. XII
91-10    4-16-91     T.S.O. XIV
91-11    4-16-91     33.074
91-12    4-16-91     33.071
91-13    4-16-91     T.S.O. V
91-15    5-21-91     94.04
91-16    5-21-91     T.S.O. XIV
91-17    5-21-91     T.S.O. XIV
91-19    6-18-91     T.S.O. I
91-20    6-18-91     T.S.O. XIV
91-21    6-18-91     T.S.O. XIV
91-22    6-18-91     T.S.O. XIV
91-23    7-23-91     T.S.O. XIV
91-24    7-23-91     33.072
91-25    8-20-91     T.S.O. XIV
91-26    8-20-91     33.093
91-31    9-19-91     T.S.O. XIV
91-33    10-22-91    T.S.O. XIV
91-36    11-19-91    T.S.O. XIV
91-37    11-19-91    T.S.O. XIV
91-38    11-19-91    T.S.O. III
91-40    12-17-91    T.S.O. XIV
91-42    12-17-91    94.01
92-1     1-21-92     T.S.O. XIV
92-2     2-19-92     T.S.O. XIV
92-04    3-23-92     T.S.O. XIV
92-5     4-21-92     T.S.O. XIV
92-6     4-21-92     T.S.O. XIV
92-7     5-19-92     T.S.O. XIV
92-8     6-16-92     T.S.O. XIV
92-9     6-25-92     92.25 
                     92.27
92-10    7-21-92     T.S.O. XIV
92-12    8-18-92     T.S.O. XIV
92-14    9-15-92     32.085 
                     32.089
92-15    9-15-92     T.S.O. XIV
92-16    10-10-92    T.S.O. XIV
92-17    10-20-92    T.S.O. XIV
92-18    11-17-92    T.S.O. XIV
92-19    11-17-92    T.S.O. XIV
92-20    11-17-92    T.S.O. XIV
92-21    11-17-92    T.S.O. I
92-22    11-17-92    T.S.O. I
92-23    11-17-92    T.S.O. XIV
92-24    12-15-92    T.S.O. XIV
92-27    12-15-92    T.S.O. XIV
93-2     1-19-93     T.S.O. XIV
93-3     2-16-93     T.S.O. XIV
93-4     3-16-93     T.S.O. XIV
93-6     4-20-93     T.S.O. II
93-8     4-20-93     T.S.O. XIV
93-10    5-18-93     T.S.O. XIV
93-11    5-18-93     T.S.O. V
93-12    6-22-93     T.S.O. XIV
93-13    7-20-93     T.S.O. XIV
93-14    8-17-93     T.S.O. XIV
93-15    9-21-93     T.S.O. XIV
93-16    9-21-93     33.073
93-17    10-19-93    T.S.O. XIV
93-18    11-16-93    T.S.O. XIV
93-19    11-16-93    T.S.O. I
93-21    11-16-93    T.S.O. XIV
93-22    12-21-93    T.S.O. XIV
93-23    12-21-93    94.04
93-24    12-21-93    T.S.O. XIV
93-25    12-21-93    33.092
94-1     1-18-94     T.S.O. XIV
94-2     1-18-94     35.07
94-3     2-15-94     T.S.O. XIV
94-5     3-15-94     T.S.O. XIV
94-7     3-15-94     T.S.O. I
94-8     3-15-94     94.03
94-9     4-19-94     T.S.O. XIV
94-10    4-19-94     T.S.O. II
94-12    4-28-94     T.S.O. I
94-13    5-17-94     T.S.O. XIV
94-14    6-21-94     T.S.O. XIV
94-15    7-19-94     T.S.O. XIV
94-16    8-16-94     T.S.O. XIV
94-17    9-20-94     T.S.O. XIV
94-18    10-18-94    T.S.O. XIV
                     90.20 
94-19    10-18-94    90.23,
                     90.99
94-20    11-22-94    T.S.O. XIV
94-21    11-22-94    T.S.O. XIV
94-22    12-20-94    T.S.O. XIV
94-23    12-20-94    T.S.O. XIV
95-2     1-17-95     T.S.O. XIV
95-3     1-17-95     T.S.O. XIV
95-5     2-21-95     T.S.O. XIV
95-7     3-21-95     T.S.O. IV
95-8     3-21-95     T.S.O. XIV
95-9     4-18-95     T.S.O. XIV
95-10    4-26-95     T.S.O. XIV
95-11    5-16-95     T.S.O. II
95-12    5-16-95     T.S.O. XIV
95-13    5-26-96     T.S.O. II
95-14    6-20-95     T.S.O. XIV
95-15    7-18-95     T.S.O. XIV
95-16    8-16-95     T.S.O. XIV
95-17    8-15-95     34.01
95-18    9-19-95     T.S.O. XIV
95-19    10-17-95    T.S.O. I
95-20    10-17-95    T.S.O. XIV
95-22    11-21-95    T.S.O. XIV
95-23    11-21-95    T.S.O. XIV
95-24    12-19-95    T.S.O. XIV
95-25    12-19-95    T.S.O. XIV
95-27    12-19-95    34.20 
                     34.22
96-1     1-17-96     T.S.O. XIV
96-3     2-20-96     T.S.O. XIV
96-4     3-19-96     T.S.O. III
96-5     4-16-96     T.S.O. XIV
96-6     5-22-96     T.S.O. XIV
96-7     6-18-96     T.S.O. XIV
96-8     7-23-96     T.S.O. XIV
96-9     7-23-96     32.175 
                     32.185
96-10    8-20-96     T.S.O. XIV
96-11    9-17-96     T.S.O. XIV
96-13    10-15-96    T.S.O. XIV
96-15    11-19-96    T.S.O. XIV
96-16    12-17-96    T.S.O. XIV
96-18    12-17-96    T.S.O. XIV
96-19    12-17-96    T.S.O. XIV
96-20    12-17-96    T.S.O. XIV
97-2     1-28-97     T.S.O. VII
97-3     1-28-97     T.S.O. XIV
97-5     2-19-97     T.S.O. VII
97-6     2-18-97     T.S.O. XIV
97-7     2-18-97     33.020 
                     33.024
97-8     4-15-97     T.S.O. VI
97-9     4-15-97     T.S.O. XIV
97-11    5-20-97     T.S.O. XIV
97-12    6-17-97     T.S.O. XIV
97-13    7-29-97     T.S.O. XIV
97-14    8-18-97     T.S.O. XIV
97-15    9-16-97     T.S.O. XIV
97-16    9-16-97     T.S.O. XIV
97-17    10-3-97     T.S.O. XIV
97-18    10-21-97    T.S.O. XIV
97-19    11-18-97    T.S.O. XIV
97-22    12-16-97    T.S.O. XIV
97-23    12-24-97    T.S.O. XIV
97-24    12-24-97    T.S.O. XIV
98-2     1-20-98     T.S.O. XIV
98-4     2-17-98     32.070,
                     32.071
98-5     2-17-98     T.S.O. XIV
98-6     2-17-98     T.S.O. XIV
98-9     3-25-98     33.070
98-10    3-25-98     T.S.O. XIV
98-11    4-21-98     T.S.O. XIV
98-12    4-21-98     T.S.O. XIV
98-13    5-21-98     T.S.O. XIV
98-14    6-16-98     T.S.O. XIV
98-15    6-16-98     T.S.O. XIV
98-16    7-22-98     T.S.O. XIV
98-17    8-18-98     150.01
98-18    8-18-98     T.S.O. XIV
98-19    9-15-98     T.S.O. XIV
98-20    10-20-98    T.S.O. XIV
98-21    11-17-98    T.S.O. XIV
98-22    11-17-98    T.S.O. XIV
98-23    12-15-98    T.S.O. XIV
98-24    12-15-98    T.S.O. XIV
98-25    12-15-98    T.S.O. XIV
98-26    12-15-98    34.02
98-29    12-15-98    T.S.O. XIV
98-30    12-15-98    T.S.O. XIV
99-2     1-27-99     T.S.O. XIV
99-3     1-27-99     T.S.O. XIV
99-4     1-27-99     T.S.O. XIV
99-5     2-16-99     T.S.O. XIV
99-6     3-16-99     T.S.O. XIV
99-7     4-20-99     T.S.O. XIV
99-8     4-20-99     T.S.O. XIV
99-10    5-18-99     T.S.O. XIV
99-12    6-15-99     T.S.O. XIV
99-13    7-20-99     T.S.O. XIV
99-14    7-20-99     T.S.O. I
99-15    7-20-99     35.03
99-16    8-17-99     T.S.O. XIV
99-17    8-17-99     T.S.O. XIV
99-18    8-17-99     T.S.O. XIV
99-19    9-21-99     T.S.O. XIV
99-21    9-21-99     93.01
99-22    9-21-99     T.S.O. XIV
99-23    9-21-99     T.S.O. XIV
99-24    10-19-99    T.S.O. XIV
99-25    10-19-99    T.S.O. XIV
99-26    11-16-99    T.S.O. XIV
99-27    11-16-99    T.S.O. XIV
99-28    12-21-99    T.S.O. XIV
99-29    12-21-99    T.S.O. XIV
99-30    12-21-99    T.S.O. XIV
2000-2   1-18-00     T.S.O. XIV
2000-3   2-15-00     T.S.O. XIV
2000-4   2-15-00     T.S.O. XIII
2000-5   3-21-00     T.S.O. XIV
2000-7   4-18-00     T.S.O. XIV
2000-8   5-24-00     T.S.O. XIV
2000-10  6-20-00     T.S.O. XIV
2000-11  7-18-00     T.S.O. XIV
2000-12  8-15-00     T.S.O. XIV
2000-13  8-15-00     T.S.O. XIV
2000-14  9-9-00      T.S.O. XIV
2000-15  10-17-00    T.S.O. XIV
00-16    10-27-00    T.S.O. XIV
2000-17  11-21-00    T.S.O. XIV
2000-18  12-19-00    T.S.O. XIV
2000-19  12-19-00    T.S.O. XIV
2000-20  12-19-00    T.S.O. XIV
2000-21  12-19-00    33.087
2001-2   1-16-01     T.S.O. XIV
2001-3   1-16-01     T.S.O. XIV
2001-4   1-16-01     T.S.O. XIV
2001-05  2-20-01     T.S.O. XIV
2001-6   3-20-01     35.05
2001-7   3-20-01     T.S.O. XIV
2001-8   3-20-01     T.S.O. XIV
2001-9   4-17-01     T.S.O. XIV
2001-11  5-15-01     T.S.O. XIV
2001-13  5-15-01     T.S.O. I
2001-14  5-15-01     T.S.O. XIV
2001-15  5-15-01     T.S.O. XIV
2001-16  6-19-01     T.S.O. XIV
2001-17  7-24-01     T.S.O. XIV
2001-18  7-24-01     32.195 
                     32.200
2001-19  7-24-01     T.S.O. XIV
2001-20  8-21-01     T.S.O. XIV
2001-22  10-16-01    T.S.O. XIV
2001-23  10-23-01    T.S.O. XIV
2001-24  11-20-01    T.S.O. XIII
2001-25  11-20-01    T.S.O. XIV
2001-27  11-20-01    33.075
2001-28  12-18-01    T.S.O. XIV
2001-29  12-18-01    T.S.O. XIV
2001-30  12-18-01    33.087
2001-32  12-18-01    T.S.O. I
2002-1   1-15-02     T.S.O. XIV
2002-2   1-29-02     T.S.O. XIV
2002-3   2-20-02     T.S.O. XIV
2002-5   3-19-02     T.S.O. XIV
2002-6   3-19-02     95.01 
                     95.06
2002-7   4-16-02     T.S.O. XIV
2002-8   5-21-02     T.S.O. XIV
2002-10  6-18-02     T.S.O. XIV
2002-11  7-23-02     T.S.O. XIV
2002-12  8-20-02     T.S.O. XIV
2002-13  9-17-02     T.S.O. XIV
2002-15  10-15-02    T.S.O. XIV
2002-16  11-19-02    T.S.O. XIV
2002-17  11-19-02    T.S.O. XIV
2002-19  12-17-02    T.S.O. XIV
2002-20  12-17-02    T.S.O. XIV
2003-1   1-1-03      30.01
2003-2   1-21-03     T.S.O. XIV
2003-3   1-21-03     33.087
2003-5   2-18-03     T.S.O. XIV
2003-6   3-18-03     T.S.O. XIV
2003-7   3-18-03     T.S.O. II
2003-8   3-18-03     T.S.O. XIV
2003-9   4-15-03     T.S.O. XIV
2003-10  4-15-03     33.076
2003-11  4-15-03     T.S.O. XIV
2003-12  4-15-03     T.S.O. XIV
2003-10  4-15-03     33.076
2003-13  5-20-03     T.S.O. XIV
2003-14  6-17-03     33.087
2003-15  7-22-03     T.S.O. XIV
2003-16  7-22-03     33.020 -
                     33.024
2003-18  7-22-03     T.S.O. XIV
2003-19  8-19-03     T.S.O. XIV
2003-20  8-19-03     T.S.O. XIV
2003-21  9-16-03     T.S.O. XIV
2003-22  10-21-03    T.S.O. XIV
2003-23  10-21-03    30.03
2003-24  10-21-03    T.S.O. XIV
2003-26  11-81-03    T.S.O. XIV
2003-27  11-18-03    T.S.O. XIV
2003-28  12-16-03    T.S.O. XIV
2003-29  12-16-03    T.S.O. XIV
2003-30  12-16-03    T.S.O. XIV
2004-1   1-20-04     33.087
2004-2   1-20-04     T.S.O. XIV
2004-3   1-20-04     T.S.O. XIV
2004-4   2-17-04     T.S.O. XIV
2004-5   2-17-04     T.S.O. XIV
2004-6   2-17-04     T.S.O. I
2004-7   3-16-04     T.S.O. XIV
2004-8   3-16-04     T.S.O. XIV
2004-9   3-16-04     T.S.O. XIV
2004-10  3-16-04     T.S.O. III
2004-11  3-16-04     T.S.O. XIV
2004-12  4-20-04     T.S.O. XIV
2004-13  4-20-04     T.S.O. XIV
2004-14  5-18-04     T.S.O. XIV
2004-15  6-15-04     T.S.O. XIV
2004-16  6-15-04     T.S.O. XIV
2004-17  7-22-04     T.S.O. VII
2004-18  7-22-04     T.S.O. XIV
2004-19  7-22-04     T.S.O. XIV
2004-20  7-22-04     T.S.O. XIV
2004-21  8-17-04     T.S.O. XIV
2004-22  9-21-04     Adopting Ordinance
2004-23  9-21-04     T.S.O. XIV
2004-24  9-21-04     T.S.O. XIV
2004-25  9-21-04     33.094
                     111.01 
2004-26  10-19-04    111.04,
                     111.99
2004-27  10-19-04    T.S.O. I
2004-28  10-19-04    T.S.O. XIV
2004-29  11-16-04    T.S.O. XIV
2004-30  11-16-04    T.S.O. XIV
2004-31  11-16-04    T.S.O. XIV
2004-32  12-21-04    T.S.O. XIV
2004-33  12-21-04    T.S.O. XIV
2004-34  12-21-04    33.087
2005-2   1-25-05     T.S.O. XIV
2005-3   1-25-05     T.S.O. XIV
2005-4   1-25-05     T.S.O. XIV
2005-5   2-15-05     T.S.O. XIV
2005-6   2-15-05     T.S.O. XIV
2005-7   2-15-05     T.S.O. XIV
2005-8   3-15-05     T.S.O. XIV
2005-9   3-15-05     T.S.O. XIV
2005-10  4-19-05     T.S.O. XIV
2005-12  4-19-05     T.S.O. XIV
2005-13  5-17-05     T.S.O. XIV
2005-15  6-21-05     34.05
2005-16  6-21-05     T.S.O. XIV
2005-17  7-19-05     T.S.O. I
2005-18  7-19-05     T.S.O. XIV
2005-19  7-19-05     T.S.O. XIV
2005-20  8-16-05     T.S.O. VII
2005-21  8-16-05     33.020 -
                     33.027
2005-22  9-20-05     32.175
2005-24  9-20-05     T.S.O. XIV
2005-25  10-18-05    T.S.O. XIV
2005-26  11-15-05    T.S.O. XIV
2005-27  11-15-05    T.S.O. XIV
2005-28  12-20-05    T.S.O. XIV
2005-29  12-20-05    T.S.O. XIV
2005-30  12-20-05    T.S.O. XIV
2005-31  12-20-05    33.087
2006-1   1-17-06     T.S.O. XIV
2006-2   1-17-06     T.S.O. XIV
2006-3   2-21-06     T.S.O. XII
2006-4   2-21-06     T.S.O. XIV
2006-5   3-21-06     T.S.O. XIV
2006-6   4-18-06     T.S.O. XIV
2006-7   5-16-06     35.05
2006-8   5-16-06     T.S.O. XIV
2006-9   6-20-06     T.S.O. XIV
2006-10  6-20-06     T.S.O. III
2006-11  7-18-06     T.S.O. XIV
2006-12  7-18-06     35.05
2006-13  8-15-06     T.S.O. XIV
2006-14  9-19-06     T.S.O. XIV
2006-15  10-17-06    T.S.O. XIV
2006-16  11-21-06    T.S.O. XIV
2006-17  11-21-06    T.S.O. XIV
2006-18  12-19-06    T.S.O. XIV
2006-19  12-19-06    T.S.O. XIV
2006-20  12-19-06    T.S.O. XIV
2006-21  12-19-06    33.087
2007-1   1-1-07      30.01
2007-2   1-16-07     T.S.O. XIV
2007-3   1-16-07     T.S.O. XIV
2007-4   2-20-07     T.S.O. XIV
2007-4   2-20-07     T.S.O. XIV
2007-5   3-20-07     T.S.O. XIV
2007-6   4-17-07     T.S.O. XIV
2007-7   5-15-07     T.S.O. XIV
2007-8   6-26-07     T.S.O. XIV
2007-9   6-26-07     T.S.O. XIV
2007-10  6-26-07     T.S.O. XIV
2007-11  6-26-07     35.12
2007-12  7-24-07     T.S.O. XIV
2007-13  8-21-07     T.S.O. XIV
2007-14  8-21-07     T.S.O. XIV
2007-15  8-21-07     T.S.O. I
2007-16  9-18-07     T.S.O. XIV
2007-17  9-18-07     T.S.O. XIV
2007-18  10-16-07    T.S.O. XIV
2007-19  10-16-07    30.03
2007-20  10-16-07    34.01
2007-21  10-16-07    T.S.O. XIV
2007-22  11-20-07    T.S.O. XIV
2007-23  11-20-07    T.S.O. XIV
2007-24  11-20-07    35.11
2007-25  12-18-07    T.S.O. XIV
2007-26  12-18-07    T.S.O. XIV
2007-27  12-18-07    31.04
2008-1   1-22-08     T.S.O. XIV
2008-2   1-22-08     T.S.O. XIV
2008-3   1-22-08     T.S.O. XIV
2008-4   1-22-08     T.S.O. XIV
2008-5   1-22-08     T.S.O. XIV
2008-6   2-19-08     T.S.O. XIV
2008-7   2-19-08     T.S.O. XIV
2008-8   3-18-08     T.S.O. XIV
2008-9   4-15-08     T.S.O. XIV
2008-10  5-20-08     T.S.O. XIV
2008-11  5-20-08     T.S.O. XIV
2008-12  6-18-08     T.S.O. XIV
2008-13  6-17-08     T.S.O. XIV
2008-14  7-22-08     T.S.O. XIV
2008-16  8-19-08     T.S.O. XIV
2008-17  8-19-08     T.S.O. XIV
2008-18  8-28-08     T.S.O. XIV
2008-19  9-16-08     T.S.O. XIV
2008-20  9-16-08     33.095
2008-21  10-21-08    T.S.O. XIV
2008-22  11-18-08    T.S.O. XIV
2008-23  11-18-08    T.S.O. XIV
2008-24  12-16-08    T.S.O. XII
2008-25  12-16-08    T.S.O. XIV
2008-26  12-16-08    T.S.O. XIV
2008-27  12-16-08    T.S.O. XIV
2008-28  12-16-08    T.S.O. XIV
2008-29  12-16-08    33.087
2009-1   1-1-09      30.01
2009-2   1-20-09     T.S.O. XIV
2009-3   1-20-09     T.S.O. XIV
2009-4   1-20-09     35.12
2009-5   2-17-09     T.S.O. XIV
2009-6   3-17-09     T.S.O. I
2009-7   3-17-09     T.S.O. XIV
2009-8   4-21-09     T.S.O. XIV
2009-10  5-19-09     T.S.O. XIV
2009-11  5-19-09     T.S.O. XIV
2009-12  5-19-09     32.088
                     130.01 -
2009-13  5-19-09     130.04,
                     130.99
2009-14  6-16-09     34.02
2009-15  6-16-09     T.S.O. XIV
2009-16  7-21-09     T.S.O. I
2009-17  7-21-09     T.S.O. XIV
2009-18  7-21-09     T.S.O. I
2009-19  8-18-09     T.S.O. XIV
2009-20  9-15-09     T.S.O. III
2009-21  9-15-09     T.S.O. XIV
2009-22  10-20-09    T.S.O. XIV
2009-23  11-17-09    T.S.O. XIV
2009-24  11-17-09    34.01,
                     34.02
2009-25  11-17-09    T.S.O. XIV
2009-26  12-15-09    T.S.O. I
2009-27  12-15-09    T.S.O. XIV
2009-28  12-15-09    T.S.O. XIV
2009-29  12-15-09    31.04
2009-30  12-15-09    T.S.O. XIV
2010-1   1-26-10     T.S.O. XIV
2010-2   1-26-10     T.S.O. XIV
2010-3   1-26-10     T.S.O. I
2010-5   4-20-10     T.S.O. X
2010-6   3-16-10     T.S.O. XIV
2010-8   4-20-10     T.S.O. XIV
2010-9   5-18-10     130.15
2010-10  5-18-10     T.S.O. XIV
2010-11  6-15-10     T.S.O. XIV
2010-12  7-20-10     33.090
2010-13  7-20-10     T.S.O. XIV
2010-14  8-24-10     T.S.O. XIV
2010-15  8-24-10     32.155 -
                     32.159
2010-16  9-21-10     T.S.O. XIV
2010-17  10-19-10    T.S.O. XIV
2010-18  11-16-10    T.S.O. XIV
2010-19  11-16-10    T.S.O. XIV
2010-20  12-21-10    T.S.O. III
2010-21  12-21-10    T.S.O. I
2010-22  12-21-10    T.S.O. XIV
2010-23  12-21-10    T.S.O. XIV
2010-24  12-21-10    31.04
2011-1   1-1-11      30.01
2011-2   1-18-11     T.S.O. XIV
2011-3   1-18-11     T.S.O. XIV
2011-4   2-15-11     T.S.O. XIV
2011-5   2-15-11     T.S.O. XIV
2011-6   3-15-11     T.S.O. XIV
2011-7   3-15-11     94.01
2011-8   4-19-11     T.S.O. XIV
2011-9   5-17-11     T.S.O. XIV
2011-10  6-21-11     T.S.O. XIV
2011-11  7-26-11     T.S.O. I
2011-12  8-16-11     T.S.O. XIV
2011-13  10-18-11    T.S.O. XIV
2011-14  10-18-11    T.S.O. XIV
2011-15  11-15-11    T.S.O. XIV
2011-16  11-15-11    T.S.O. XIV
2011-17  12-20-11    T.S.O. XIV
2011-18  12-20-11    T.S.O. XIV
2011-19  12-20-11    31.04
2012-1   1-24-12     T.S.O. XIV
2012-2   1-24-12     T.S.O. XIV
2012-4   2-16-12     T.S.O. X
2012-5   2-16-12     T.S.O. XIV
2012-6   2-21-12     T.S.O. XIV
2012-7   2-21-12     T.S.O. XIV
2012-9   3-20-12     T.S.O. XIV
2012-10  4-17-12     32.210 -
                     32.218
2012-11  4-17-12     T.S.O. XIV
2012-12  6-19-12     T.S.O. XIV
2012-13  6-19-12     T.S.O. XIV
2012-14  8-23-12     T.S.O. XIV
2012-15  8-23-12     T.S.O. I
2012-16  8-23-12     35.12
2012-17  10-16-12    T.S.O. XIV
2012-18  11-20-12    T.S.O. XIV
2012-19  11-20-12    T.S.O. XIV
2012-20  11-20-12    T.S.O. XIV
2012-21  12-18-12    T.S.O. XIV
2012-22  12-18-12    T.S.O. XIV
2012-23  12-18-12    T.S.O. XIV
2012-25  12-18-12    33.087
2013-1   1-1-13      30.01
2013-2   1-15-13     T.S.O. XIV
2013-4   2-19-13     T.S.O. II
2013-5   2-19-13     T.S.O. XIV
2013-6   2-19-13     T.S.O. XIV
2013-7   3-12-13     T.S.O. XIV
2013-8   3-19-13     35.14
2013-9   4-16-13     T.S.O. XIV
2013-10  4-16-13     T.S.O. XIV
2013-11  5-21-13     T.S.O. XIV
2013-13  6-18-13     34.01
2013-14  6-18-13     T.S.O. XIV
2013-15  8-20-13     30.05
2013-16  8-20-13     T.S.O. XIV
2013-17  10-15-13    T.S.O. XIV
2013-18  6-15-13     32.157
2013-19  11-19-13    T.S.O. XIV
2013-20  11-19-13    T.S.O. XIV
2013-21  12-17-13    T.S.O. XIV
2013-22  12-17-13    T.S.O. XIV
2013-23  12-17-13    T.S.O. X
2013-24  12-17-13    31.04
2014-1   1-21-14     T.S.O. XIV
2014-2   2-18-14     T.S.O. XIV
2014-3   2-18-14     T.S.O. XIV
2014-4   2-18-14     T.S.O. XIV
2014-5   4-15-14     T.S.O. XIV
2014-6   4-15-14     T.S.O. XIV
2014-7   6-17-14     T.S.O. XIV
2014-8   7-15-14     T.S.O. XIV
2014-9   7-15-14     T.S.O. XIV
2014-10  8-19-14     T.S.O. XIV
2014-12  9-16-14     T.S.O. XIV
2014-13  9-16-14     T.S.O. XIV
2014-14  10-21-14    T.S.O. XIV
2014-15  11-10-14    T.S.O. XIV
2014-16  11-18-14    T.S.O. XIV
2014-17  11-18-14    T.S.O. XIV
2014-18  12-16-14    T.S.O. XIV
2014-19  12-16-14    T.S.O. XIV
2014-20  12-16-14    31.04
2015-2   1-27-15     T.S.O. XIV
2015-3   1-27-15     T.S.O. XIV
2015-5   2-17-15     T.S.O. XIV
2015-6   3-17-15     T.S.O. XIV
2015-7   4-21-15     T.S.O. XIV
2015-8   4-21-15     T.S.O. XIV
2015-9   5-19-15     T.S.O. XIV
2015-10  6-16-15     T.S.O. XIV
2015-12  7-21-15     T.S.O. XIV
2015-16  10-20-15    T.S.O. XIV
2015-17  11-18-15    35.08,
                     35.99
2015-18  11-18-15    T.S.O. XIV
2015-19  11-18-15    T.S.O. XIV
2015-20  11-18-15    T.S.O. XIV
2015-21  12-15-15    T.S.O. XIV
2015-22  12-15-15    T.S.O. XIV
2015-23  12-15-15    T.S.O. XIV
2015-24  12-15-15    31.04
2016-1   1-26-16     T.S.O. XIV
2016-2   1-26-16     T.S.O. XIV
2016-3   1-26-16     35.15
2016-4   2-16-16     T.S.O. XIV
2016-5   3-15-16     35.16
2016-6   3-15-16     T.S.O. XIV
2016-7   4-26-16     T.S.O. XIV
2016-9   5-17-16     T.S.O. XIV
2016-11  6-21-16     T.S.O. XIV
2016-12  7-19-16     T.S.O. XIV
2016-13  8-23-16     T.S.O. XIV
2016-14  9-20-16     34.35
2016-15  9-20-16     T.S.O. XIV
2016-16  10-18-16    T.S.O. XIV
2016-17  11-15-16    T.S.O. XIV
2016-18  11-15-16    T.S.O. XIV
2016-19  11-15-16    T.S.O. XIV
2016-21  12-20-16    T.S.O. XIV
2016-22  12-20-16    T.S.O. XIV
2016-23  12-20-16    33.087
2017-1   1-24-17     T.S.O. XIV
2017-2   1-24-17     T.S.O. XIV
2017-4   2-21-17     T.S.O. XIV
2017-5   2-21-17     T.S.O. XIV
2017-6   2-21-17     34.01
2017-7   2-21-17     T.S.O. XIV
2017-8   3-21-17     T.S.O. I
2017-9   3-21-17     T.S.O. XIV
2017-10  4-18-17     T.S.O. I
2017-11  4-18-17     33.090
2017-12  4-18-17     T.S.O. XIV
2017-13  5-16-17     T.S.O. XIV
2017-14  6-20-17     34.35
2017-16  6-20-17     T.S.O. XIV
2017-17  6-20-17     T.S.O. XIV
2017-18  7-18-17     T.S.O. XIV
2017-20  8-15-17     T.S.O. XIV
2017-21  9-19-17     T.S.O. XIV
2017-22  10-17-17    T.S.O. XIV
2017-23  11-21-17    34.35
2017-24  11-21-17    T.S.O. I
2017-25  11-21-17    T.S.O. I
2017-26  11-21-17    T.S.O. XIV
2017-27  11-21-17    T.S.O. XIV
2017-28  12-19-17    T.S.O. XIV
2017-29  12-19-17    T.S.O. XIV
2017-30  12-19-17    33.087
2018-1   1-23-18     T.S.O. XIV
2018-2   1-23-18     T.S.O. XIV
2018-3   2-20-18     T.S.O. XIV
2018-4   3-20-18     T.S.O. XIV
2018-5   3-20-18     T.S.O. XIV
2018-6   5-15-18     T.S.O. XIV
2018-7   5-15-18     T.S.O. XIV
2018-8   6-19-18     T.S.O. XIV
2018-9   6-19-18     T.S.O. X
2018-11  7-17-18     T.S.O. I
2018-12  7-17-18     T.S.O. XIV
2018-13  8-28-18     50.02
2018-14  8-28-18     T.S.O. XIV
2018-15  10-16-18    T.S.O. XIV
2018-16  11-20-18    T.S.O. XIV
2018-17  11-20-18    92.25 -
                     92.27
2018-18  11-20-18    T.S.O. XIV
2018-19  12-18-18    T.S.O. XIV
2018-20  12-18-18    T.S.O. XIV
2018-21  12-18-18    31.04
2018-22  12-18-18    33.028
2019-1   1-22-19     T.S.O. XIV
2019-2   1-22-19     T.S.O. XIV
2019-3   1-22-19     30.01
2019-4   2-19-19     T.S.O. XIV
2019-5   4-16-19     T.S.O. XIV
2019-6   6-18-19     T.S.O. XIV
2019-7   8-20-19     T.S.O. XIV
2019-8   11-19-19    T.S.O. XIV
2019-9   11-19-19    T.S.O. XIV
2019-10  11-19-19    33.077
2019-11  12-17-19    T.S.O. XIV
2019-12  12-17-19    T.S.O. XIV
2019-13  12-17-19    33.087
2020-1   1-21-20     T.S.O. XIV
2020-2   1-21-20     T.S.O. XIV
2020-3   2-18-20     T.S.O. XIV
2020-4   3-18-20     T.S.O. I
2020-5   3-18-20     T.S.O. XIV
2020-6   5-26-20     T.S.O. II
2020-7   5-26-20     T.S.O. XIV
2020-8   6-16-20     T.S.O. I
2020-9   6-16-20     T.S.O. XIV
2020-10  7-21-20     T.S.O. XIV
2020-11  8-18-20     T.S.O. XIV
2020-12  8-18-20     35.17
2020-13  8-18-20     T.S.O. I
2020-14  9-22-20     T.S.O. I
2020-15  9-22-20     T.S.O. XIV
2020-18  10-20-20    T.S.O. XIV
2020-19  10-20-20    T.S.O. XIV
2020-20  11-17-20    T.S.O. XIV
2020-21  11-17-20    T.S.O. XIV
2020-23  12-15-20    T.S.O. XIV
2020-24  12-15-20    T.S.O. XIV
2020-25  12-15-20    33.087
2021-1   1-26-21     T.S.O. XIV
2021-2   1-26-21     T.S.O. XIV
2021-3   1-26-21     30.01
2021-4   3-16-21     T.S.O. XIV
2021-5   3-16-21     T.S.O. XIV
2021-6   4-20-21     T.S.O. XIV
2021-7   5-18-21     T.S.O. XIV
2021-8   5-18-21     32.230 -
                     32.238
                     93.15 -
2021-9   5-18-21     93.26,
                     93.99
2021-10  6-22-21     T.S.O. XIV
2021-11  6-22-21     33.020 -
                     33.027
2021-12  6-22-21     T.S.O. XIV
2021-13  7-20-21     T.S.O. XIV
2021-14  9-21-21     T.S.O. XIV
2021-15  9-21-21     T.S.O. XIV
2021-16  10-19-21    T.S.O. XIV
2021-17  10-19-21    33.087
2021-18  11-16-21    T.S.O. XIV
2021-19  11-16-21    T.S.O. XIV
2021-20  12-21-21    T.S.O. XIV
2021-21  12-21-21    T.S.O. XIV
2022-1   1-25-22     T.S.O. XIV
2022-2   1-25-22     T.S.O. XIV
2022-3   1-25-22     T.S.O. XIV
2022-4   2-22-22     T.S.O. XIV
2022-5   2-22-22     T.S.O. XIV
2022-6   3-15-22     T.S.O. I
2022-7   3-15-22     T.S.O. XIV
2022-8   4-19-22     T.S.O. XIV
2022-9   5-17-22     T.S.O. XIV
2022-10  5-17-22     T.S.O. XIV
2022-11  6-21-22     T.S.O. XIV
2022-12  6-21-22     T.S.O. XIV
2022-13  6-21-22     34.01
2022-14  7-19-22     T.S.O. XIV
2022-15  7-19-22     T.S.O. XIV
2022-16  7-19-22     T.S.O. XIV
2022-17  8-23-22     T.S.O. XIV
2022-18  8-23-22     T.S.O. XIV
2022-19  8-23-22     T.S.O. XIV
2022-20  9-27-22     T.S.O. XIV
2022-21  9-27-22     T.S.O. XIV
2022-22  10-25-22    T.S.O. XIV
2022-23  10-25-22    33.087
2022-24  10-25-22    33.078
2022-25  11-15-22    T.S.O. XIV
2022-26  11-15-22    T.S.O. XIV
2022-27  12-20-22    T.S.O. XIV
2022-28  12-20-22    T.S.O. XIV
2022-29  12-20-22    T.S.O. XIV
2023-1   1-26-23     T.S.O. XIV
2023-2   1-26-23     T.S.O. XIV
2023-3   1-26-23     T.S.O. XIV
2023-4   1-26-23     30.01
2023-6   2-21-23     T.S.O. XIV
2023-7   3-21-23     T.S.O. XIV
2023-8   4-18-23     T.S.O. I
2023-9   4-18-23     T.S.O. XIV
2023-10  4-18-23     T.S.O. XIV
                     90.01 -
2023-11  4-18-23     90.06,
                     90.99
2023-12  4-18-23     T.S.O. II
2023-13  5-16-23     T.S.O. XIV
2023-14  5-16-23     T.S.O. XIV
2023-15  6-20-23     T.S.O. XIV
2023-16  6-20-23     T.S.O. XIV
2023-17  7-18-23     T.S.O. XIV
                     96.01-
2023-18  7-18-23     96.06,
                     96.99
2023-19  8-15-23     T.S.O. I
2023-20  8-15-23     T.S.O. XIV
2023-21  8-15-23     T.S.O. XIV
2023-22  9-19-23     T.S.O. XIV
2023-23  9-19-23     T.S.O. XIV
                     93.15-
2023-24  10-17-23    93.26,
                     93.99
2023-25  10-17-23    33.087
2023-26  10-17-23    T.S.O. XIV
                     151.01,
2023-27  11-21-23    151.11-151.16,
                     151.20,
                     151.21
2023-28  11-21-23    T.S.O. XIV
2023-29  11-21-23    T.S.O. XIV
2023-30  11-21-23    T.S.O. XIV
2023-31  11-21-23    T.S.O. XIV
                     151.01,
                     151.10-
2023-32  12-19-23    151.15,
                     151.20,
                     151.21
2023-33  12-19-23    T.S.O. XIV
2023-34  12-19-23    T.S.O. XIV
2024-1   1-23-24     T.S.O. XIV
2024-2   1-23-24     T.S.O. XIV
2024-3   1-23-24     30.01
2024-4   2-20-24     T.S.O. XIV
2024-5   3-19-24     T.S.O. XIV
2024-6   3-19-24     T.S.O. I
2024-7   4-16-24     T.S.O. XIV
2024-8   5-21-24     T.S.O. XIV
2024-9   6-18-24     T.S.O. XIV
2024-10  6-18-24     T.S.O. XIV
                     151.01,
                     151.10 -
2024-11  6-18-24     151.15,
                     151.20,
                     151.21
2024-12  7-16-24     T.S.O. XIV
2024-13  8-20-24     T.S.O. XIV
2024-15  8-20-24     T.S.O. XIV
2024-16  9-24-24     T.S.O. XIV
2024-17  9-24-24     33.090
2024-18  10-15-24    33.087
2024-19  10-15-24    T.S.O. XIV
2024-20  11-19-24    T.S.O. XIV
2024-21  11-19-24    T.S.O. I
2024-22  11-19-24    T.S.O. XIV
2024-23  12-17-24    T.S.O. XIV
2024-24  12-17-24    T.S.O. XIV
2024-25  12-17-24    T.S.O. XIV
2025-1   1-21-25     T.S.O. XIV
2025-2   1-21-25     T.S.O. XIV
2025-3   1-21-25     30.01
2025-4   2-25-25     T.S.O. XIV
2025-5   2-25-25     T.S.O. XIV
2025-6   3-18-25     T.S.O. XIV
                    
 
 
