VILLAGE OF ALANSON, MICHIGAN
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2023 S-1 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 1 of 2022, passed 7-11-2022
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   How code designated and cited
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Section catchlines and other headings
   
10.04   Certain ordinances not affected by code
   
10.05   Continuation of ordinances
   
10.06   Prior rights, offenses, and the like
   
10.07   Ordinances repealed not re-enacted
   
10.08   Amendments to code
   
10.09   Supplementation of code
   
10.10   Appearance tickets
   
10.11   Separability of provisions
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 HOW CODE DESIGNATED AND CITED.
   This code shall constitute and be designated as the “The Village of Alanson
Code”, for which designation “code of ordinances”, “codified ordinances”, “this
code”, or “code” may be substituted.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Terms used in this code, unless otherwise specifically defined, have
the meanings prescribed by the statutes of the state for the same terms.
   (B)   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CIVIL INFRACTION. An act or omission that is prohibited by this code or
any ordinance of the village, but which is not a crime under this code or any
other ordinance of the village, and for which civil sanctions, including
without limitation, fines, damages, expenses, and costs may be ordered, as
authorized by Public Act 236 of 1961, being M.C.L.A. §§ 600.8701 through
600.8735, as amended. A municipal CIVIL INFRACTION is not a lesser included
offense of any criminal offense in this code.
      CODE. The Village of Alanson Code as designated in §
10.01.
      COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time within which an act is to be done, as
provided in this code or in any order issued pursuant to this code, when
expressed in days, shall be computed by excluding the first day and including
the last, except that if the last day is Sunday or a legal holiday it shall be
excluded; and when the time is expressed in hours, the whole of Sunday or a
legal holiday, from midnight to midnight, shall be excluded.
      COUNCIL. The Village Council of Alanson, Michigan.
      COUNTY. The County of Emmet, Michigan.
      JUVENILE. Any person under 17 years of age.
      MINOR. A person under 21 years of age.
      OFFICER, DEPARTMENT, BOARD, AND THE LIKE. Whenever any officer,
department, board, or other public agency is referred to by title only, the
reference shall be construed as if followed by the words “of the Village of
Alanson, Michigan”. Whenever, by the provisions of this code, any officer of
the village is assigned any duty or empowered to perform any act or duty,
reference to the officer shall mean and include the officer or his or her
deputy or authorized subordinate.
      ORDINANCES. The ordinances of the village and all amendments thereto.
      PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, trust, partnership, association, or
corporation. Whenever the word PERSON is used in any section of this code
prescribing a penalty or fine, as applied to partnerships or associations, the
word includes the partners or members thereof and, as applied to corporations,
the word includes officers, agents, or employees thereof who are responsible
for any violations of the section. The singular includes the plural. The
masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter genders.
      STATE, THE STATE, or THIS STATE. The State of Michigan.
      VILLAGE. The Village of Alanson, Michigan.
§ 10.03 SECTION CATCHLINES AND OTHER HEADINGS.
   The catchlines of the several sections of this code printed in boldface type
are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the sections and
shall not be deemed or taken to be the titles of the sections, nor as any part
of the sections, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed
when any of the sections, including the catchlines, are amended or re-enacted.
No provision of this code shall be held invalid by reason of deficiency in any
catchline or in any heading or title to any chapter, subchapter, or division.
§ 10.04 CERTAIN ORDINANCES NOT AFFECTED BY CODE.
   Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall affect any
ordinance not in conflict with or inconsistent with this code:
   (A)   Promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the village,
authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the village, any evidence of the
village’s indebtedness, any contract or obligations assumed by the village;
   (B)   Containing any administrative provisions of the Village Council;
   (C)   Granting any right or franchise;
   (D)   Dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening,
paving, widening, vacating, and the like, any street or public way in the
village;
   (E)   Making any appropriation;
   (F)   Levying or imposing taxes;
   (G)   Establishing or prescribing grades in the village;
   (H)   Providing for local improvements and assessing taxes therefor;
   (I)   Dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the village;
   (J)   Extending or contracting the boundaries of the village;
   (K)   Prescribing the number, classification, or compensation of any village
officers or employees;
   (L)   Prescribing specific parking restrictions, no parking zones, specific
speed zones, parking meter zones, and specific stop or yield intersections or
other traffic ordinances pertaining to specific streets;
   (M)   Pertaining to rezoning; and
   (N)   Any other ordinance, or part thereof, which is not of a general and
permanent nature; and all ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in
full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this code.
The ordinances are on file in the Village Clerk’s office.
§ 10.05 CONTINUATION OF ORDINANCES.
   The provisions of this code, so far as they are the same in substance as
those of heretofore existing ordinances, shall be construed as a continuation
of these ordinances and not as new enactments.
§ 10.06 PRIOR RIGHTS, OFFENSES, AND THE LIKE.
   Any act done, offense committed, or right accruing, accrued, or acquired, or
liability, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred prior to the time of
adoption of this code, shall not be affected by the adoption, but may be
enjoyed, asserted, enforced, prosecuted, or inflicted as fully and to the same
extent as if the adoption had not been effected.
§ 10.07 ORDINANCES REPEALED NOT RE-ENACTED.
   (A)   No ordinance or part of any ordinance heretofore repealed shall be
considered re-ordained or re-enacted by virtue of this code, unless
specifically re-enacted.
   (B)   The repeal of any curative or validating ordinances shall not impair
or affect any cure or validation already effected thereby.
§ 10.08 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   (A)   Amendments to any of the provisions of this code shall be made by
amending the provisions by specific reference to the section number of this
code in the following language: “That section _____ of the Village of Alanson
Code, is hereby amended to read as follows:...”. The new provisions shall then
be set out in full as desired.
   (B)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to be added,
the following language shall be used: “That the Village of Alanson Code is
hereby amended by adding a section, to be numbered _____, which section reads
as follows:...”. The new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
§ 10.09 SUPPLEMENTATION OF CODE.
   (A)   By contract or by village personnel, supplements to this code shall be
prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the Village Council. A
supplement to the code shall include all substantive permanent and general
parts of ordinances adopted during the period covered by the supplement and all
changes made thereby in the code. The pages of a supplement shall be so
numbered that they will fit properly into the code and will, where necessary,
replace pages which have become
obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that,
when they have been inserted, the code will be current through the date of the
adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
   (B)   In preparing a supplement to this code, all portions of the code which
have been repealed shall be excluded from the code by the omission thereof from
reprinted pages.
   (C)   When preparing a supplement to this code, the codifier (meaning the
person, agency, or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make
formal, non-substantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included
in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a
unified code. For example, the codifier may:
      (1)   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate divisions;
      (2)   Provide appropriate catchlines, headings, and titles for sections
and other divisions of the code printed in the supplement, and make changes in
catchlines, headings, and titles;
      (3)   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other divisions to be
inserted in the code and, where necessary, to accommodate new material, change
existing section or other subdivision numbers;
      (4)   Change the words “this ordinance” or words of the same meaning to
“this chapter”, “this subchapter”, “this division”, and the like, as the case
may be, or to “§§ _____ through _____” (inserting section numbers to indicate
the sections of the code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance
incorporated into the code); and
      (5)   Make other non-substantive changes necessary to preserve the
original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the code, but in no case
shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance
material included in the supplement or already embodied in the code.
§ 10.10 APPEARANCE TICKETS.
   The following public servants are hereby authorized to issue and serve
appearance tickets with respect to ordinances of the village, as provided by
Public Act 147 of 1968, being M.C.L.A. §§ 764.9a through 764.9e, as amended,
when the public servant has reasonable cause to believe that a person has
committed an offense in violation of a village ordinance:
   (A)   Building Inspector;
   (B)   Fire Marshal; and
   (C)   Fire Chief.
§ 10.11 SEPARABILITY OF PROVISIONS.
   Each section, division, sentence, clause, and provision of this code is
separable and, if any provision shall be held unconstitutional or invalid for
any reason, the decision shall not affect the remainder of this code, or any
part thereof, other than that part affected by the decision.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Unless another penalty is expressly provided by this code for any particular
provision or section, every person convicted of a violation of any provision of
this code or any rule or regulation adopted or issued in pursuance thereof,
shall be punished by a fine of not more than $500 and costs of prosecution or
by imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or by both such fine and
imprisonment; unless there is a fine or penalty specifically set forth in the
ordinance which provides for a greater penalty, and in that event, such greater
penalty shall control. Each act of violation and every day upon which any such
violation shall occur shall constitute a separate offense. The penalty provided
by this section, unless another penalty is expressly provided, shall apply to
the amendment of any section of this code whether or not such penalty is re-
enacted in the amendatory ordinance.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   VILLAGE COUNCIL
      
32.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT REQUESTS
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   Transferring funds
§ 30.01 TRANSFERRING FUNDS.
   The Village Treasurer shall have the option of transferring funds between
the following banks: Fifth Third Bank; Citizens National Bank; First Community
Bank; National City Bank; First Federal of Alpena; Bank of Northern Michigan;
Huntington Bank; and Northwestern Bank.
(Res. passed 12-17-2007)
CHAPTER 31: VILLAGE COUNCIL
Section
   
31.01   Reduction of number of members on Council
   
31.02   Term of office
   
31.03   Effective date
   
31.04   Adoption
§ 31.01 REDUCTION OF NUMBER OF MEMBERS ON COUNCIL.
   As authorized by applicable state law, the number of members on the Village
Council shall be reduced from six members to four members who, with the
President, shall constitute the Council.
(Ord. 1 of 2007, passed 11-19-2007)
§ 31.02 TERM OF OFFICE.
   After the effective date of adoption of this chapter, two Council members
shall be elected at each succeeding biennial village election. This chapter
shall not shorten the term of any incumbent member. Nor shall this chapter
shorten or eliminate a prospective term unless the nomination deadline for that
term is not less than 30 days after the effective date of the chapter. The term
of office of each elected Village Council Trustee is four years, beginning
November 20 after his or her election.
(Ord. 1 of 2007, passed 11-19-2007; Am._Res._2_of_2020, passed 7-13-2020)
§ 31.03 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect 45 days after the date of its adoption,
unless a petition signed by not less than 10% of the registered electors of the
village is filed with the Village Clerk or village office within such 45 days.
If a petition is filed within such period of time, this chapter shall then take
effect only upon its approval at the next general village or special village
election held on the question of whether the chapter shall be approved. Notice
of any delayed effect of this chapter and the right of petition under this
section shall be published separately at the same time and in the same manner
as the ordinance codified herein, or a notice of the ordinance codified herein,
is published in a local newspaper of general circulation.
(Ord. 1 of 2007, passed 11-19-2007)
§ 31.04 ADOPTION.
   This chapter shall be adopted by an affirmative vote of at least two-thirds
of the members of the Village Council.
(Ord. 1 of 2007, passed 11-19-2007)
CHAPTER 32: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Planning Commission
   
32.01   Creation and name of Village Planning Commission
   
32.02   Membership; appointment; compensation; terms; removal; vacancy
   
32.03   Organization; Chairperson; Secretary; other officers; committees;
meetings; rules; records
   
32.04   Power and duties
   
32.05   Conflicts of interest
   
32.06   Planning Director and personnel; contract for planning services and
other technicians
   
32.07   Notification to County Planning Commission
   
32.08   Savings clause
   
32.09   Effective date
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 32.01 CREATION AND NAME OF VILLAGE PLANNING COMMISSION.
   A Village Planning Commission is hereby created for the village pursuant to
the State Planning Enabling Act, Public Act 33 of 2008, being M.C.L.A. §§
125.3801 et seq., as amended. This Planning Commission shall be known as the
“Village of Alanson Planning Commission” (hereinafter referred to as “Planning
Commission”).
(Ord._5_of_2018, passed 2-12-2018)
§ 32.02 MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT; COMPENSATION; TERMS; REMOVAL; VACANCY.
   (A)   The Village Planning Commission shall consist of five members. The
Village Manager or a person designated by the Village Manager, the Village
President, one or more members of the Village Council, or any combination
thereof, may be appointed to the Village Planning Commission as ex officio
members with full voting rights on the Planning Commission, provided that these
officials constitute no more than one-third of the total membership on the
Planning Commission. Except as provided herein, an elected official or employee
of the village, however, shall not be eligible to be a member of the Village
Planning Commission. Members of the Village Planning Commission shall be
qualified electors of the village, except two members may be individuals who
are not qualified electors of the village. In addition, members of the Village
Planning Commission shall be representative of the entire geography of the
village to the extent practicable and shall be representative of important
segments of the village, such as the economic, governmental, educational, and
social development of the village, in accordance with the major interests as
they exist in the village, such as agricultural, natural resources, recreation,
education, public health, government, transportation, industry, and commerce.
   (B)   All members of the Village Planning Commission shall be appointed by
the Village President, subject to the approval by a majority vote of the entire
Village Council.
   (C)   All appointed members of the Village Planning Commission may be
compensated at a rate to be determined by the Village Council.
   (D)   Except for any ex officio members, the term of each appointed member
shall be three years or until his or her successor is appointed, except that
the respective terms of approximately one-third of the non ex officio members
first appointed shall be for one year and the respective terms of approximately
one-third of the non ex officio members first appointed shall be for two years,
so that as nearly as possible the terms of one-third of the non ex officio
members of the Planning Commission will expire each year. If appointed to the
Village Planning Commission, the term of the Village President shall correspond
to his or her term as Village President, the term of the Village Manager or
person designated by the Village Manager shall expire with the term of the
Village President who appointed the Village Manager, and the term of any member
appointed from the Village Council shall expire with his or her term on the
Village Council.
   (E)   After written charges and a public hearing before the Village Council,
a member of the Village Planning Commission, including any ex officio member,
may be removed from office for misfeasance, malfeasance, or nonfeasance in
office by the Village Council. The failure of a Planning Commission member to
disclose to the Planning Commission a potential conflict of interest, as
defined in §
32.05, shall constitute malfeasance in office. The failure of a Planning
Commission member to regularly attend scheduled meetings of the Planning
Commission shall constitute nonfeasance in office. The Planning Commission
Secretary shall report to the Village Council when a Planning Commission member
has failed to attend three consecutive Planning Commission meetings.
   (F)   A vacancy on the Village Planning Commission occurring otherwise than
through the expiration of a member’s term shall be filled for the unexpired
term in the same manner as the original appointment.
(Ord._5_of_2018, passed 2-12-2018)
§ 32.03 ORGANIZATION; CHAIRPERSON; SECRETARY; OTHER OFFICERS; COMMITTEES;
MEETINGS; RULES; RECORDS.
   (A)   The Village Planning Commission shall elect a Chairperson, Vice
Chairperson, and Secretary from its members; provided, however, an ex officio
member shall not be eligible to serve as the Chairperson or Vice Chairperson of
the Planning Commission. The Planning Commission may create and fill by
election such other offices as it considers advisable. The term of Chairperson
and any other officers shall be one year, with eligibility for reelection as
specified in the Planning Commission bylaws.
   (B)   The Planning Commission may appoint advisory committees, whose members
are not required to be members of the Planning Commission.
   (C)   The Village Planning Commission shall hold not less than four regular
meetings each year and shall by resolution determine the time and place of the
meetings.
   (D)   The Village Planning Commission shall adopt bylaws for the transaction
of its business.
   (E)   The Village Planning Commission shall keep a public record of its
resolutions, transactions, findings, and determinations.
(Ord._5_of_2018, passed 2-12-2018)
§ 32.04 POWER AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Village Planning Commission shall have all powers authorized by,
and shall perform all duties specified in, the State Planning Enabling Act,
being Public Act 33 of 2008, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3801 et seq., as amended,
except that the Village Planning Commission shall be exempt from the
requirement to prepare annually a capital improvement program of public
structures and improvements.
   (B)   The Village Planning Commission shall have all the powers and duties
conferred on zoning commissions under the State Zoning Enabling Act, being
Public Act 110 of 2006, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 et seq., as amended, and any
other powers and duties conferred on planning commissions by other provisions
of law. Any and all such powers and duties are hereby conferred and
incorporated as if fully set forth herein.
(Ord._5_of_2018, passed 2-12-2018)
§ 32.05 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   A member of the Village Planning Commission shall declare a conflict of
interest in connection with a matter pending before the Planning Commission and
shall disqualify himself or herself from deliberating and voting on the matter
when any of the following circumstances exist.
   (A)   The applicant is the child, grandchild, great-grandchild, parent,
grandparent, great-grandparent, brother, sister, nephew, niece, aunt, or uncle
of the Planning Commission member or the member’s spouse.
   (B)   The Planning Commission member or the member’s spouse, parent, child,
or any relative residing in the member’s household has a pecuniary interest in
the outcome of the matter.
   (C)   The Planning Commission member or the member’s spouse resides on or
has an ownership interest in land within 300 feet of the parcel regarding which
the decision is to be made.
   (D)   While being a member of the Planning Commission, the member has made
statements or taken any action outside the formal decision making process that
would suggest that he or she has prejudged the matter before the Planning
Commission or would in any way preclude him or her from affording the applicant
and the public a fair hearing.
   (E)   If the Planning Commission member has expressed an opinion concerning
a matter before the Planning Commission prior to becoming a member of the
Planning Commission and cannot in good faith set aside that prior opinion and
decide the matter based on the information provided at the public hearing and
the zoning ordinance requirements.
   (F)   The Planning Commission member concludes in good faith that because of
prior business or personal relationships with the applicant or with other
participants in the public hearing process, or for other reasons, he or she
cannot afford the applicant and the public a fair hearing.
(Ord._5_of_2018, passed 2-12-2018)
§ 32.06 PLANNING DIRECTOR AND PERSONNEL; CONTRACT FOR PLANNING SERVICES AND
OTHER TECHNICIANS.
   (A)   The Village Council may employ a Planning Director and other personnel
as it considers necessary to assist the Village Planning Commission in carrying
out its powers and duties.
   (B)   The Village Council may contract for professional planning services
and other technical services, such as attorneys and engineers, as it considers
necessary to assist the Village Planning Commission in carrying out its powers
and duties.
(Ord._5_of_2018, passed 2-12-2018)
§ 32.07 NOTIFICATION TO COUNTY PLANNING COMMISSION.
   Within 14 days after the Village Council adopts this subchapter, the Village
Clerk shall transmit a notice of the adoption of this subchapter to the County
Planning Commission.
(Ord._5_of_2018, passed 2-12-2018)
§ 32.08 SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   All official actions taken by the Village Planning Commission prior to the
effective date of this chapter are hereby approved, ratified, and reconfirmed.
Any project, review, or process taking place on the effective date of this
subchapter shall continue with the Village Planning Commission created by this
chapter, shall be subject to the requirements of this subchapter, and shall be
deemed a continuation of any previous Village Planning Commission action.
(Ord._5_of_2018, passed 2-12-2018)
§ 32.09 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall become effective the day following its publication in
a newspaper of general circulation within the village.
(Ord._5_of_2018, passed 2-12-2018)
CHAPTER 33: FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT REQUESTS
Section
   
33.01   Scope
   
33.02   Definitions
   
33.03   FOIA Coordinator; duties
   
33.04   Requests for public records
   
33.05   Time limitations in which to respond to request
   
33.06   Records exempt from disclosure
   
33.07   Denial of requests for public records
   
33.08   Administrative appeals
   
33.09   Fees
   
33.10   Effective date
§ 33.01 SCOPE.
   This policy shall only apply to a board, department, commission, council, or
agency of the village that has not exercised its authority as a public body, as
defined in the Freedom of Information Act (hereinafter referred to as “FOIA”),
to establish procedures for promptly and efficiently processing requests for
public records under the provisions of the FOIA consistent with the
requirements of the Act. Any public body that desires to establish its own FOIA
procedures shall file a copy of those procedures with the Village Clerk. These
procedures shall not be effective to exempt the public body from this policy,
until the procedures are approved by the Village Attorney to assure compliance
with the Act.
(Res. 2 of 2014, passed 11-10-2014)
§ 33.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FOIA COORDINATOR. The Village Clerk or such other individual as the Clerk
shall designate.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership,
firm, organization, association, governmental entity, or other legal entity.
PERSON does not include an individual serving a sentence of imprisonment in a
state or county correctional facility in this state or any other state, or in a
federal correctional facility.
   PUBLIC BODY. The village, or a board, department, commission, council, or
agency thereof.
   PUBLIC RECORD. A writing prepared, owned, used, in the possession of, or
retained by a public body in the performance of an official function, from the
time it is created. PUBLIC RECORD does not include computer software.
   UNUSUAL CIRCUMSTANCES. Any one or a combination of the following, but only
to the extent necessary for the proper processing of a request:
      (1)   The need to search for, collect, or appropriately examine or review
a voluminous amount of separate and distinct public records pursuant to a
single request; and/or
      (2)   The need to collect the requested public records from numerous
field offices, facilities, or other establishments which are located apart from
the particular office receiving or processing the request.
   WRITING. Handwriting, typewriting, printing, photostating, photographing,
photocopying, and every other means of recording, and includes letters, words,
pictures, sounds, or symbols, or combinations thereof, and papers, maps,
magnetic or paper tapes, photographic films or prints, microfilm, microfiche,
magnetic or punched cards, discs, drums, or other means of recording or
retaining meaningful content.
   WRITTEN REQUEST. A writing that asks for information, and includes a writing
transmitted by facsimile, electronic mail, or other electronic means.
(Res. 2 of 2014, passed 11-10-2014)
§ 33.03 FOIA COORDINATOR; DUTIES.
   (A)   The Village Clerk is hereby designated the Village FOIA Coordinator.
The Clerk may designate another individual to act on his or her behalf.
   (B)   The FOIA Coordinator shall be responsible for accepting and processing
requests for public records under the FOIA and shall be responsible for
approving denials under the FOIA. The FOIA Coordinator shall keep a copy of all
written requests for public records on file for no less than one year.
   (C)   The FOIA Coordinator shall provide a requesting person a reasonable
opportunity for inspection and examination of its public records, and shall
furnish reasonable facilities for making memoranda or abstracts from its public
records during the usual business hours. However, in the event that the FOIA
Coordinator determines that it is necessary to protect public records from
loss, unauthorized alteration, mutilation, or destruction or if the FOIA
Coordinator determines that personal inspection of records by a requesting
person will cause excessive and unreasonable interference with the discharge of
the functions of the various village departments and agencies, the FOIA
Coordinator may determine that only copies of the requested records will be
provided and that copies will be prepared in the normal course of business and
during normal business hours by village employees.
(Res. 2 of 2014, passed 11-10-2014)
§ 33.04 REQUESTS FOR PUBLIC RECORDS.
   (A)   All requests for public records shall be in writing. Requests
transmitted by facsimile, electronic mail, and other electronic means shall be
considered written requests.
   (B)   If an individual makes an oral request for a public record, the FOIA
Coordinator shall deliver or mail to the person making the request a written
form on which the individual can submit his or her request.
   (C)   All requests for a public record shall describe the public record in
sufficient detail to enable the FOIA Coordinator to find the public record.
   (D)   A person may subscribe to future issuance of public records that are
created, issued, or disseminated on a regular basis. Such a subscription shall
be valid for six months, and may be renewed. When a public record covered by a
subscription is created, the FOIA Coordinator shall deliver or mail a copy of
the public record to the person holding the subscription at the address
provided for that purpose.
   (E)   Public records are available for inspection during the Village Clerk’s
customary business hours, which are 10:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. on Tuesdays, with
the exception of holidays the village offices are closed. Members of the public
who desire to inspect public records outside of the above business hours may
contact the FOIA Coordinator through the village website (by telephone and/or
email) to schedule an appointment for such an inspection.
(Res. 2 of 2014, passed 11-10-2014)
§ 33.05 TIME LIMITATIONS IN WHICH TO RESPOND TO REQUEST.
   (A)   Unless the person making the request agrees in writing to a different
time period, the FOIA Coordinator shall respond to the request for a public
record within five business days after receiving the request.
   (B)   For written requests made by facsimile, electronic mail, or other
electronic transmission, the date of receipt of the request is the day after
the electronic transmission is made.
   (C)   The FOIA Coordinator shall respond to the request for a public record
by doing one of the following:
      (1)   Granting the request;
      (2)   Issuing a written notice to the requesting person denying the
request;
      (3)   Granting the request in part and issuing a written notice to the
requesting person denying the request in part; or
      (4)   Issuing a notice extending for not more than ten business days the
period during which he or she will respond to the request.
   (D)   The FOIA Coordinator shall not issue more than one notice of extension
for a particular request. Any such notice of extension shall specify the
reasons for the extension and the date by which the FOIA Coordinator shall
respond to the request in the manner provided in divisions (C)(1) through (C)
(3) above.
(Res. 2 of 2014, passed 11-10-2014)
§ 33.06 RECORDS EXEMPT FROM DISCLOSURE.
   Pursuant to the FOIA, the following records shall be exempt from disclosure:
   (A)   Information of a personal nature if public disclosure of the
information would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of an individual’s
privacy;
   (B)   Investigating records compiled for law enforcement purposes, but only
to the extent that disclosure as a public record would do any of the following:
      (1)   Interfere with law enforcement proceedings;
      (2)   Deprive a person of the right to a fair trial or impartial
administrative adjudication;
      (3)   Constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy;
      (4)   Disclose the identity of a confidential source, or if the record is
compiled by a law enforcement agency in the course of a criminal investigation,
disclose confidential information furnished only by a confidential source;
      (5)   Disclose law enforcement investigative techniques or procedures;
and/or
      (6)   Endanger the life or physical safety of law enforcement personnel.
   (C)   A public record that if disclosed would prejudice a public body’s
ability to maintain the physical security of custodial or penal institutions
occupied by persons arrested or convicted of a crime or admitted because of a
mental disability, unless the public interest in disclosure under this Act
outweighs the public interest in non-disclosure;
   (D)   Records or information specifically described and exempted from
disclosure by statute;
   (E)   A public record that is furnished by the public body to a public
officer in connection with the performance of the duties of that public
officer, if the considerations originally giving rise to the exempt nature of
the public record remain applicable;
   (F)   Trade secrets or commercial or financial information voluntarily
provided to an agency for use in developing policy if:
      (1)   The information is submitted upon a promise of confidentiality by
the public body;
      (2)   The promise of confidentiality is authorized by the Village Council
at the time the promise is made; and
      (3)   A description of the information is recorded by the public body
within a reasonable time after it has been submitted, maintained in a central
place within the public body, and made available to a person upon request. This
division (F)(3) does not apply to information submitted as a condition of
receiving a contract, license, or other benefit.
   (G)   Information or records subject to the attorney-client privilege;
   (H)   Information or records subject to the physician-patient privilege, the
psychologist-patient privilege, the minister, priest, or Christian Science
practitioner privilege, or other privilege recognized by statute or court rule;
   (I)   A bid or proposal by a person to enter into a contract or agreement,
until the time for the public opening of bids or proposals, or if a public
opening is not to be conducted, until the deadline for submission of bids or
proposals has expired;
   (J)   Appraisals of real property to be acquired by the public body until
either of the following occurs:
      (1)   An agreement is entered into; or
      (2)   Three years have elapsed since the making of the appraisal, unless
litigation relative to the acquisition has not yet terminated.
   (K)   Test questions and answers, scoring keys, and other examination
instruments or data used to administer a license, public employment, or
academic examination, unless the public interest in disclosure under this Act
outweighs the public interest in non-disclosure;
   (L)   Medical, counseling, or psychological facts or evaluations concerning
an individual if the individual’s identity would be revealed by a disclosure of
those facts or evaluation;
   (M)   Communications and notes within a public body or between public bodies
of an advisory nature to the extent that they cover other than purely factual
materials and are preliminary to a final agency determination of policy or
action. This exemption does not apply unless the public body shows that in the
particular instance the public interest in encouraging frank communication
between officials and employees of public bodies clearly outweighs the public
interest in disclosure;
   (N)   Records of law enforcement communication codes, or plans for
deployment of law enforcement personnel, that if disclosed would prejudice a
public body’s ability to protect the public safety unless the public interest
in disclosure under this Act outweighs the public interest in non-disclosure in
the particular instance;
   (O)   Testing data developed by a public body in determining whether
bidders’ products meet the specifications for purchase of those products by the
public body, if disclosure of the data would reveal that only one bidder has
met the specifications. This division (O) does not apply after one year has
elapsed from the time the public body completes the testing;
   (P)   Unless the public interest in disclosure outweighs the public interest
in non-disclosure in the particular instance, public records of a law
enforcement agency, the release of which would do any of the following:
      (1)   Identify or provide a means of identifying an informant;
      (2)   Identify or provide a means of identifying a law enforcement
undercover officer or agent or a plain clothes officer as a law enforcement
officer or agent;
      (3)   Disclose the personal address or telephone number of active or
retired law enforcement officers or agents or a special skill that they may
have;
      (4)   Disclose the name, address, or telephone numbers of family members,
relatives, children, or parents of active or retired law enforcement officers
or agents;
      (5)   Disclose operational instructions for law enforcement officers or
agents;
      (6)   Reveal the contents of staff manuals provided for law enforcement
officers or agents;
      (7)   Endanger the life or safety of law enforcement officers or agents
or their families, relatives, children, parents, or those who furnish
information to law enforcement departments or agencies;
      (8)   Identify or provide a means of identifying a person as a law
enforcement officer, agent, or informant;
      (9)   Disclose personnel records of law enforcement agencies; and/or
      (10)   Identify or provide a means of identifying residences that law
enforcement agencies are requested to check in the absence of their owners or
tenants.
   (Q)   Records of a public body’s security measures, including security
plans, security codes and combinations, passwords, passes, keys, and security
procedures, to the extent that the records relate to the ongoing security of
the public body;
   (R)   Records or information relating to a civil action in which the
requesting party and the public body are parties;
   (S)   Information or records that would disclose the Social Security number
of an individual; and/or
   (T)   Records or information of measures designed to protect the security or
safety of persons or property, whether public or private, including, but not
limited to, building, public works, and public water supply designs to the
extent that those designs relate to the ongoing security measures of a public
body, capabilities and plans for responding to a violation of the State Anti-
Terrorism Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 750.543a et seq., emergency response plans,
risk planning documents, threat assessments, and domestic preparedness
strategies, unless disclosure would not impair a public body’s ability to
protect the security or safety of persons or property or unless the public
interest in disclosure outweighs the public interest in non-disclosure in the
particular instance.
(Res. 2 of 2014, passed 11-10-2014)
§ 33.07 DENIAL OF REQUESTS FOR PUBLIC RECORDS.
   (A)   Before denying, in whole or in part, a request for a public record,
the FOIA Coordinator shall consult with the Village Attorney. The FOIA
Coordinator shall provide the Village Attorney with whatever information
(including a copy of the requested public record) he or she deems necessary to
determine whether legal grounds exist to deny, in whole or in part, the request
for that public record.
   (B)   If the FOIA Coordinator desires to deny the request, in whole or in
part, and the Village Attorney concludes that legal grounds exist to support
that denial, then the FOIA Coordinator shall issue a written notice denying the
request for the public record. The written denial notice shall contain the
following:
      (1)   An explanation of the basis under the FOIA or any other statute for
the determination that the public record, or a portion of the public record, is
exempt from disclosure, if that is the reason for the denial;
      (2)   A certificate that the public record does not exist under the name
given by or as described by the person making the request or by any other name
or description reasonably known to the FOIA Coordinator, if that is the reason
for the denial;
      (3)   If a separation or deletion is made, a description of the public
record or information on the public record that is exempt from disclosure and
separated or deleted from the disclosed public record as required by the FOIA,
unless that description would reveal the contents of the exempt information and
thus defeat the purpose of the exemption;
      (4)   A full explanation of the requesting person’s right to do either of
the following:
         (a)   File a written appeal with the Village Council, which appeal
shall include the word “appeal” in a prominent place on the front page and
shall identify the reason or reasons the FOIA Coordinator’s denial decision
should be reversed; or
         (b)   File a lawsuit in circuit court within 180 days after the final
decision denying the request which seeks to compel the FOIA Coordinator to
disclose the public record requested.
      (5)   A notice of the right to receive in a circuit court lawsuit
reasonable attorneys’ fees, costs, and disbursements if the circuit court
determines that the village has not complied with the FOIA and orders
disclosure of all or a portion of the public record requested and of the right
to receive compensatory damages and $500 in punitive damages if the circuit
court determines that the village has arbitrarily and capriciously violated the
FOIA.
(Res. 2 of 2014, passed 11-10-2014)
§ 33.08 ADMINISTRATIVE APPEALS.
   (A)   If the FOIA Coordinator makes a determination to deny all or a portion
of a request, the requesting person may submit a written appeal to the Village
Council.
   (B)   The Village Council is hereby designated the body vested with
authority to hear and decide appeals from decisions by the FOIA Coordinator
denying requests for public records under the FOIA.
   (C)   Any appeal of the FOIA Coordinator’s decision denying a request for a
public record must be filed in writing with the Village Clerk, must state the
word “appeal” in a prominent place on the first page of the documents filed,
and must identify the reason or reasons the FOIA Coordinator’s denial decision
should be reversed.
   (D)   Pursuant to the FOIA, the Village Council is not deemed to have
received the appeal until the first regularly scheduled meeting of the Village
Council following submission of the written appeal.
   (E)   Within ten days after receiving a written appeal, the Village Council
shall do one of the following:
      (1)   Reverse the disclosure denial;
      (2)   Issue a written notice to the person making the disclosure request
upholding the disclosure denial;
      (3)   Reverse the disclosure denial in part and issue a written notice to
the person making the disclosure request upholding the disclosure denial in
part; or
      (4)   Under unusual circumstances, issue a notice extending for not more
than ten business days the period during which the Village Council will respond
to the written appeal. The Village Council shall not issue more than one notice
of extension for a particular written appeal.
   (F)   In deciding an appeal the Village Council shall consider the
disclosure request without regard to the FOIA Coordinator’s decision and shall
determine whether the requested public record should be disclosed, in whole or
in part, or whether the public record, in whole or in part, is exempt from
disclosure under the FOIA.
   (G)   If the Village Council upholds all or a portion of the disclosure
denial that is the subject of the written appeal, the requesting person may
seek judicial review of the non-disclosure by commencing an action in circuit
court within 180 days after the Village Council’s final determination to deny
the request.
(Res. 2 of 2014, passed 11-10-2014)
§ 33.09 FEES.
   (A)   The Village Council shall adopt by separate resolution a schedule of
fees to be charged in connection with a request to inspect, copy, or receive
copies of a public record under the FOIA.
   (B)   The fees authorized in division (A) above shall comply with all of the
following.
      (1)   The fees shall be limited to actual mailing costs, the actual
incremental cost of duplication or publication, and the cost of labor directly
attributable to those tasks.
      (2)   The fees may include the cost to search, examine, review, and to
delete and separate exempt from non-exempt information, including the cost of
labor directly attributable to those tasks, but only when the failure to charge
such a fee would result in unreasonably high costs to the village. For purposes
of this division (B)(2), an unreasonably high cost will be incurred by the
village when the search, examination, review, and the deletion and separation
of exempt from non-exempt information exceeds in the aggregate more than three
hours. The village hereby specifically states that devoting more than three
hours of staff time to complying with a FOIA request results in unreasonably
high costs to the village, since that amount of time is beyond the normal time
devoted to servicing ordinary requests by the general public.
      (3)   The calculation of any labor costs allowed by this section shall
include the hourly wage of the lowest paid village employee capable of
retrieving the information necessary to comply with the request under the FOIA,
and shall utilize the most economical means available for making copies of the
requested public records.
      (4)   The fees shall be uniform and not dependent upon the identity of
the requesting person.
      (5)   A search for a public record may be conducted or copies of public
records may be furnished without charge or at a reduced charge if the FOIA
Coordinator determines that a waiver or reduction of the fee is in the public
interest because searching for or furnishing copies of the public record can be
considered as primarily benefitting the general public.
      (6)   A public record search shall be made and a copy of a public record
shall be furnished without charge for the first $20 of the fee for each request
to an individual who is entitled to information under the FOIA and who submits
an affidavit stating that the individual is then receiving public assistance
or, if not receiving public assistance, stating facts showing inability to pay
the cost because of indigence, For purposes of this division (B)(6), the
criteria for indigence shall be the federal poverty income guidelines, which
are updated annually by the federal government.
      (7)   If the fee authorized by this section exceeds $50, the FOIA
Coordinator may require the person requesting the public records or series of
public records to pay at the time the request is made a good faith deposit in
an amount not to exceed one-half the total fee.
      (8)   The fees authorized by this section shall not apply to public
records prepared under an act or statute specifically authorizing the sale of
those public records to the public, or if the amount of the fee for providing a
copy of the public record is otherwise specifically provided by a state statute
or by separate resolution or ordinance of the village.
(Res. 2 of 2014, passed 11-10-2014)
§ 33.10 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This policy shall become effective the day after the resolution codified
herein is published on the village’s website. In addition, the resolution
codified herein shall be posted in a conspicuous location in the village
offices.
(Res. 2 of 2014, passed 11-10-2014)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SEWER
      
51.   GARBAGE
CHAPTER 50: SEWER
Section
Municipal Sewer Use
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Use of public sewers required
   
50.03   Private sewage disposal
   
50.04   Building sewers and connections
   
50.05   Use of the public sewers
   
50.06   Protection from damage
   
50.07   Powers and authority of Inspectors
   
50.08   Conditions of service
   
50.09   Effective date
Sewer Rate and Connection
   
50.20   Definitions
   
50.21   Sewer user charge system
   
50.22   Industrial cost recovery system
   
50.23   Sewer connection charges
   
50.24   Payments and collections
   
50.25   Effective date
   
50.26   Residential equivalence table
Sanitation and Sewage Facilities
   
50.40   Requirements
   
50.41   Privies, vaults, cesspools, septic tanks, and the like
   
50.42   Miscellaneous
 
   
50.99   Penalty
MUNICIPAL SEWER USE
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORITY. The Harbor Springs Area Sewage Disposal Authority which, jointly
with the village, has jurisdiction over the use and operation of the treatment
works.
   B.O.D. (denoting BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxidation of
organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in five days at 20°C,
expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   CLASSES OF USERS. The division of sanitary sewer customers into classes by
similar process or discharge flow characteristics, as follows.
      (1)   COMMERCIAL USER. Any retail or wholesale business engaged in
selling merchandise or a service and that discharges only segregated domestic
wastes or wastes from sanitary conveniences.
      (2)   GOVERNMENTAL USER. Any federal, state, or local government office
or government service facility that discharges only segregated domestic wastes
or wastes from sanitary conveniences.
      (3)   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any manufacturing establishment which produces a
product from raw or purchased material. This category shall also refer to any
user of the publicly-owned treatment works identified in the Standard
Industrial Classification Manual, 1987, under divisions A, B, D, E, or I,
excluding those users already identified in one of the other user classes. A
user may also be excluded from the INDUSTRIAL USER class if it is determined
that such user will discharge only segregated domestic wastes or wastes from
sanitary conveniences.
      (4)   INSTITUTIONAL USER. Any educational, religious, or social
organization such as a school, church, nursing home, hospital, or other similar
entity that discharges only segregated domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
      (5)   RESIDENTIAL USER. An individual home or dwelling unit including
mobile homes, apartments, condominiums, or multi-family dwellings that
discharge only segregated domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary conveniences.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH, and
fecal coliform bacteria, plus any additional pollutants identified in the NPDES
permit if the treatment works was designed to treat such pollutants, and in
fact can remove such pollutants to a substantial degree. The term SUBSTANTIAL
DEGREE generally means removals in the order of 80% or greater.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking,
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage, and sale of produce.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant that is not a compatible pollutant, as
defined in “compatible pollutant” above.
   INDUSTRIAL COST RECOVERY. The recovery from each industrial user, as
defined, a portion of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency grant which is
allocable to the construction of facilities for the treatment of wastes from
said industries.
   INFILTRATION. Any waters entering the system from the ground, through such
means as, but not limited to, defective pipes, pipe joints, connections, or
manhole walls. INFILTRATION does not include and is distinguished from inflow.
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW. The total quantity of water from both infiltration and
inflow.
   INFLOW. Any waters entering the system through such sources as, but not
limited to, building downspouts, footing or yard drains, cooling water
discharges, seepage lines from springs, and swampy areas and storm drain cross
connections.
   INSPECTOR. Any person or persons authorized by the village or the Authority
to inspect and approve the installation of building sewers and their connection
to the public sewer system.
   MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY. An industrial user, as defined, that
discharges: a flow of 50,000 gallons or more per average work day; a flow
exceeding 5% of the total treatment plant flow; toxic pollutants in toxic
amounts as defined in the NPDES permit; or a flow with a significant impact on
the treatment plant when considered alone or in combination with other
industrial users.
   MANAGER. The manager of the Harbor Springs Area Sewage Disposal Authority,
or his or her authorized deputy, agent, or representative.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other
body of surface or groundwater.
   NORMAL STRENGTH SEWAGE. A sanitary wastewater flow containing an average
daily B.O.D. of not more than 200 mg/l or an average daily suspended solids
concentration of not more than 250 mg/l.
   NPDES PERMIT. The permit issued pursuant to the National Pollution Discharge
Elimination System for the discharge of wastewaters into the waters of the
state.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS. All costs, direct and indirect, (other than
debt service) necessary to ensure adequate wastewater treatment on a continuing
basis, conform with all related federal, state, and local requirements, and
assure optimal long-term facility management. (These O AND M COSTS include
depreciation and replacement costs.)
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation, or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the concentration of hydrogen ions in
grams per liter of solution.
   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of extra strength industrial wastewater flows in
privately-owned PRETREATMENT facilities prior to discharge into the public
sewer.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and is jointly controlled by the village and Authority.
   REPLACEMENT. Necessary expenditures made during the service life of the
treatment works to replace equipment and plant appurtenances required to
maintain the intended performance of the treatment works.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface,
and groundwaters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments,
(including polluted cooling water) together with such ground, surface, and
stormwater as may be present. The three most common types of SEWAGE are as
follows.
      (1)   COMBINED SEWAGE. Wastes including sanitary sewage, industrial
sewage, stormwater, infiltration, and inflow carried to the wastewater
treatment facilities by a combined sewer.
      (2)   INDUSTRIAL SEWAGE. A combination of liquid and water-carried
wastes, discharged from any industrial establishment, and resulting from any
trade or process carried on in that establishment. (This shall include the
wastes from pretreatment facilities and polluted cooling water.)
      (3)   SANITARY SEWAGE. The combination of liquid and water-carried wastes
discharged from toilet and other sanitary plumbing facilities.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT FACILITY. Any arrangement of devices and structures used
for treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating, and
disposing of sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRY. Any industry which contributes greater than 10% of the
design flow or design loading of the treatment works.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage, or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   STORM DRAIN (sometimes termed STORM SEWER). A sewer which carries storm and
surface waters and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other
than unpolluted cooling water.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of sewage works of the village.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in, water, sewage, or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   TREATMENT WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating, and
disposing of sewage, as defined in “sewage works” above.
   USER DEBT RETIREMENT CHARGE. The charge levied on all users on the treatment
works for the cost of any bond debt of which debt repayment is to be met from
the revenues of such works.
   USER O AND M CHARGE. The charge levied on all users of the treatment works
for the cost of operation and maintenance, including replacement and
depreciation, of such treatment works.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Alanson, as represented by the Village Council,
which, jointly with the Authority, has jurisdiction over the use and operation
of the treatment works.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(Ord. passed 11-5-1976)
§ 50.02 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in an unsanitary manner upon public or private property within the
village or in any area under the jurisdiction of said village, any human or
animal excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste which ordinarily would
be regarded as sewage or industrial wastes.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
village, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said village, any sanitary
sewage, industrial sewage, or other polluted waters, except where suitable
treatment has been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this
subchapter.
   (C)   The owner of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes situated within the
village or any area under the jurisdiction of the village, and abutting any
street, alley, or right-of-way, in which, within 200 feet at the nearest point
from the structure in which sewage originates, there is now located or may in
the future be located a public sewer or combined sewer of the village, is
hereby required at his or her own expense to install suitable toilet facilities
therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer
in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter when given official notice
to do so, provided that such connection shall not be required to be made less
than six months after the sewer, so located, is constructed and made available
for connection thereto.
   (D)   (1)   Any industry or structure discharging process flow to the
sanitary sewer, storm sewer, or receiving stream shall file the material listed
below with the Superintendent and Manager.
      (2)   The Village Council may require each person who applies for or
receives sewer service, or through the nature of the enterprise creates a
potential environmental problem to file the material listed below:
         (a)   File a written statement setting forth the nature of the
enterprise, the source and amount of water used, the amount of water to be
discharged with its present or expected bacterial, physical, chemical,
radioactive, or other pertinent characteristics of the wastes;
         (b)   Provide a plan map of the building, works, or complex, with each
outfall to the surface waters, sanitary sewer, storm sewer, natural
watercourse, or groundwaters noted, described, and the waste stream identified;
         (c)   Sample test, and file reports with the Superintendent, Manager,
and the appropriate state agencies on appropriate characteristics of wastes on
a schedule, at locations, and according to methods approved by the
Superintendent and Manager;
         (d)   Place waste treatment facilities, process facilities, waste
streams, or other potential waste problems under the specific supervision and
control of persons who have been certified by an appropriate state agency as
properly qualified to supervise such facilities;
         (e)   Provide a report on raw materials entering the process or
support system, intermediate materials, final product, and waste by-products as
those factors may affect waste control;
         (f)   Maintain records and file reports on the final disposal of
specific liquids, solids, sludges, oils, radioactive materials, solvents, or
other wastes; and
         (g)   If any industrial process is to be altered as to include or
negate a process waste or potential waste, written notification shall be given
to the Superintendent and Manager subject to approval.
(Ord. passed 11-5-1976) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.03 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of §
50.02(D), the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with all requirements of the Health Department of Northwest
Michigan.
   (B)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the village or
the Authority.
   (C)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewage disposal system as provided in §
50.02(D) a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance
with this subchapter.
   (D)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Health Department
of Northwest Michigan.
(Ord. passed 11-5-1976) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.04 BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with, or
opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenances thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the village. Before a permit may
be issued for excavating for plumbing in any public street, way, or alley, the
person applying for such permit shall have executed unto the village and
deposited with the Treasurer a corporate surety in the sum of $1,000
conditioned that he or she will perform faithfully all work with due care and
skill, and in accordance with the laws, rules, and regulations established
under the Authority or any ordinances of the village pertaining to plumbing.
This bond shall state that the person will indemnify and save harmless the
village and the owner of the premises against all damages, costs, expenses,
outlays, and claims of every nature and kind arising out of unskillfulness or
negligence on his or her part in connection with plumbing or excavating for
plumbing as prescribed in this subchapter. Such bond shall remain in force and
must be executed for a period of one year except that on such expiration it
shall remain in force as to all penalties, claims, and demands that may have
accrued thereunder prior to such expiration.
   (B)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits: for residential,
commercial, institutional, and governmental service; and for service to
establishments producing industrial waste. In either case, the owner, or his or
her agent, shall make application on a special form furnished by the village.
The permit applications shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or
other information considered pertinent in the judgment of the Superintendent
and Manager. A permit and inspection fee of $15 for residential, commercial,
institutional, or governmental building sewer permit and $25 for an industrial
building sewer permit shall be paid to the Village Treasurer at the time the
application is filed.
   (C)   All costs and expense incidental to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner or the person
installing the building sewer for said owner shall indemnify said village from
any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by said
installation.
   (D)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway, the building sewer
from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the whole
considered as one building sewer. Other exceptions will be allowed only by
special permission granted by the Superintendent and Manager.
   (E)   Old building sewers or portions thereof may be used in connection with
new buildings only when they are found on examination and test by the Inspector
to meet all requirements of this subchapter.
   (F)   (1)   The building sewer shall be constructed of either of the
following types of pipe meeting the current ASTM specifications:
         (a)   Plastic (ABS) ASTM D 1527 Schedule 40;
         (b)   Plastic (PVC) ASTM D 1785 Schedule 40;
         (c)   Vitrified Clay (VC) ASTM C-700 Extra Strength;
         (d)   Asbestos-Cement (AC) ASTM C-428 Cl-2400; and
         (e)   Cast Iron Extra Heavy ASTM A-74.
      (2)   If installed in filled or unstable ground, the building sewer shall
be of cast iron extra heavy pipe, except the other types of pipe may be used if
laid on a suitable improved bed or cradle as approved by the Superintendent and
Manager.
   (G)   All joints and connections shall be gas-tight and water-tight and
shall conform to the requirements of the current building and plumbing codes.
   (H)   The size and slope of the building sewers shall be subject to the
approval of the Inspector, but in no event shall the diameter be less than four
inches. Minimum grade shall be as follows:
      (1)   Six-inch pipe: one-eighth inch per foot or one inch per eight feet;
and/or
      (2)   Four-inch pipe: one-fourth inch per foot or two inch per eight
feet.
   (I)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. No building sewer shall be laid
parallel to or within three feet of any bearing wall, which might thereby be
weakened. The depth shall be sufficient to afford protection from frost. All
excavations required for the installation of a building sewer shall be open
trench work unless otherwise approved by the Inspector. Pipe laying and
backfill shall be performed in accordance with current ASTM specifications
except that no backfill shall be placed until the work has been inspected by
the Inspector or his or her representative.
   (J)   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit
gravity flow to the public sewer, sewage earned by such drains shall be lifted
by approved artificial means and discharged to the building sewer.
   (K)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be
made at the “Y” branch designated for that property, if such branch is
available at a suitable location. Any connection not made at the designated “Y”
branch in the main sewer shall be made only as directed by the Inspector and
approved by the Manager.
   (L)   (1)   The applicant for the building sewer shall notify the Inspector
when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public
sewer.
      (2)   The connection shall be made under the supervision of the Inspector
or his or her representative.
   (M)   (1)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be
adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from
hazard.
      (2)   Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed
in the course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the
village.
   (N)   No connections will be allowed unless there is capacity available in
downstream sewers, pump stations, interceptors, force mains, and treatment
facility, including capacity for B.O.D. and suspended solids in the sewage
treatment facility.
(Ord. passed 11-5-1976) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.05 USE OF THE PUBLIC SEWERS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater,
surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water, or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers,
or to a natural outlet approved by the appropriate state agency. Industrial
cooling water or unpolluted process waters may be discharged, upon approval of
the appropriate state agency, to a storm sewer or natural outlet.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided by specific limits, no person shall
discharge any of the following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   B.O.D.5 in excess of 200 mg/l;
      (2)   C.O.D. in excess of 450 mg/l;
      (3)   Chlorine demand in excess of 15 mg/l;
      (4)   Color, as from, but not limited to, dyes, inks, vegetable tanning
solutions, shall be controlled to prevent light absorbency which would
interfere with treatment plant processes or that prevent analytical
determinations;
      (5)   Explosive liquid, solid, or gas, gasoline, benzene, naptha, fuel
oil, or other flammable material shall not be admitted;
      (6)   Garbage not properly shredded (no particle size greater than one-
half inch) shall not be allowed;
      (7)   Grease, oils, wax, fat, whether emulsified or not, in excess of 50
mg/l; or other substances which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures
between 32°F and 150°F shall not be admitted to the sanitary sewer;
      (8)   Industrial wastes in concentrations above those listed below, or
any other metallic compounds in sufficient quantity to impair the operations of
the sewage treatment processes, shall not be allowed to enter sanitary sewers:
Cd
Cn6t
Cr
CrTotal Limitations set forth by appropriate state agencies to comply with
Cu      federal guidelines for protection of treatment plant and receiving
Fe      water course, and limitations set forth in the NPDES permit.
Ni
Pb
Phenols
Zn
 
      (9)   Inert suspended solids (such as, but not limited to, Fullers earth,
lime slurries, and lime residues) or of dissolved solids (such as, but not
limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate) in unusual concentrations shall
not be allowed;
      (10)   Insoluble, solid, or viscous substances such as, but not limited
to, ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, tar, feathers,
plastics, wood, hair, fleshings, and the like shall not be admitted to sanitary
sewers;
      (11)   Noxious or malodorous gas, such as, but not limited to, hydrogen
sulfide, sulphur dioxide, or oxides of nitrogen, and oilier substances capable
of public nuisance shall not be allowed;
      (12)   pH less than 5.5 or greater than 9.5 shall not be allowed;
      (13)   Radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or concentration
which may exceed limits established by applicable state and federal regulations
shall not be allowed;
      (14)   Suspended solids in excess of 250 mg/l;
      (15)   Temperature of wastes less than 32°F or greater than 150°F shall
not be allowed; and/or
      (16)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment to only such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
   (D)   (1)   The village reserves the right to contract with any industrial
user to allow said industry to use available excess capacity for discharging
wastewaters that exceed the limits of normal strength sewage. If any waters or
wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be discharged, to the public sewers,
which waters contain the substances or possess the characteristics enumerated
in division (C) above, and which in the judgment of the Superintendent or
Manager may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes,
equipment, or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or
constitute a public nuisance, the village may:
         (a)   Reject the wastes;
         (b)   Require pretreatment to the level defined as normal strength
sewage;
         (c)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable level for discharge to the
public sewers;
         (d)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/
or
         (e)   Require all industrial customers or industries with significant
changes in strength or flow to submit prior information to the village and
Authority concerning the proposed flows.
      (2)   If the Superintendent and Manager permit the pretreatment or
equalization of waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and
equipment shall be subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent and
Manager and subject to the requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances,
and laws.
   (E)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
judgment of the Superintendent and Manager, they are necessary for the proper
handling of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any
flammable wastes, sand, or other harmful ingredients; except that such
interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or dwellings
units. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the
village, and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for
cleaning and inspection.
   (F)   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided
for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
   (G)   When required by the village, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of the
wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessible and safely located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
Superintendent and Manager. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his
or her expense, and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and
accessible at all times.
   (H)   (1)   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of
waters and wastes to which reference is made in this subchapter shall be
determined in accordance with the most recent edition of the Standard Methods
for the Examination of Water and Sewage and shall also conform with the Federal
Register reprint of October 16, 1973 (40 C.F.R. part 136) which establishes
guidelines for testing procedures for analysis of pollutants. All measurements,
tests, and analyses shall be determined at the control manhole and upon
suitable samples taken at said manhole. In the event that no special manhole
has been required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest
downstream manhole in the public sewer from the point at which the building
sewer is connected.
      (2)   Sampling shall be earned out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb, and property. The particular analyses
involved will determined whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a
premises is appropriate, or whether grab sample or samples should be taken.
   (I)   Industrial cooling water containing such pollutants as insoluble oils
or grease or other suspended solids shall be pretreated for removal of the
pollutants and then discharged to the storm sewer.
   (J)   Agents of the village, Authority, State Department of Natural
Resources, or U.S. Environmental Protection Agency shall have the right to
enter all properties for the purpose of inspecting, measuring, sampling, and
testing the wastewater discharge.
(Ord. passed 11-5-1976) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.06 PROTECTION FROM DAMAGE.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance,
or equipment which is a part of the sewage works. Any person violating this
provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly
conduct.
(Ord. passed 11-5-1976) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.07 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   The Superintendent, Manager, Inspector, and other duly authorized employees
of the village and Authority bearing proper credentials and identification
shall be permitted to enter upon all properties for the purpose of inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, and testing in accordance with the
provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 11-5-1976)
§ 50.08 CONDITIONS OF SERVICE.
   (A)   At the time of original construction of the public sewer, the village
shall install at its expense that portion of the service from the main to the
lot or easement line of all occupied premises. The village shall maintain, at
its expense, the public sewer. Those customers making connections at the time
of original construction of the public sewer shall install, at their expense,
that portion of the service from said lot or easement line to their premises.
The customer shall maintain, at his or her expense, the building drain and
building sewer.
   (B)   Those customers making connections subsequent to the time of original
construction of the public sewer shall install, at their expense, that portion
of the service from the main to the lot or easement line in addition to that
portion of the service from said lot or easement line to their premises.
   (C)   The village or Authority shall, in no event, be held responsible for
claims made against it by reason of the breaking of any mains or service pipes,
or by reason of any other interruption of the service caused by the breaking of
machinery or stoppage for necessary repairs; and no person shall be entitled to
damages nor have any portion of a payment refunded for any interruption.
   (D)   The premises receiving sanitary sewer service shall at all reasonable
hours be subject to inspection by duly authorized personnel of the village or
Authority.
   (E)   These rules may be changed or amended.
(Ord. passed 11-5-1976) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.09 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter to be in full force and effect from and after its passage,
approval, and publication according to the law of the state.
(Ord. passed 11-5-1976)
SEWER RATE AND CONNECTION
§ 50.20 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meaning of terms
used in this subchapter shall be as defined in §
50.01.
(Ord. 75-36, passed 11-5-1976)
§ 50.21 SEWER USER CHARGE SYSTEM.
 
   (A)   All premises connected directly or indirectly to the sanitary sewers
of the village, except as hereinafter provided, shall be charged and shall make
monthly payments to the village in amounts computed on the basis of the number
of residential equivalents assigned to such premises in accordance with the
residential equivalence table in §
50.26, one residential equivalent representing the average quantity of sewage
generated by and emanating from a single-family residence. The Village Council
may, for sufficient reason, make exceptions to or change any of such
residential equivalents or establish residential equivalents for types of
premises not listed.
   (B)   The monthly sewer user charges shall consist of a user O and M charge
and a user debt retirement charge.
   (C)   The monthly user O and M charge per residential equivalent shall be an
amount established from time to time by resolution of the Village Council and
shall consist of a basic charge for operation, replacement, and depreciation of
the sewage works.
   (D)   The monthly user debt retirement charge per residential equivalent
shall be an amount established from time to time by resolution of the Village
Council and shall consist of a basic charge for bond indebtedness of the sewage
works.
   (E)   The Village Council may enter into a contract with any incorporated
resort association or other incorporated association, subdivider, or developer
whereby such association, subdivider, or developer shall agree to pay to the
village a user O and M charge and a user debt retirement charge as established
in this subchapter and in amounts computed on the basis of the number of
residential equivalents assigned to such association, subdivider, or developer
in accordance with the residential equivalence table set forth in §
50.26.
   (F)   The charges and rates for sewer services imposed by divisions (C) and
(D) above and authorized under the provisions of Public Act 94 of 1933, § 21,
being M.C.L.A. § 141.121, as amended, shall constitute a lien on all premises
served thereby whenever any such charges or rates shall be delinquent for six
months or more, unless notice is given that a tenant is responsible for the
payment of all such charges and rates. On April 1 of each year, the Village
Clerk shall certify to the tax assessing officer for the village, the fact of
such delinquency, whereupon such delinquent charges and rates shall be entered
upon the next tax roll as charges against such premises and shall be collected
and the lien thereof enforced in the same manner as general taxes against such
premises; provided, however, where notice is given that a tenant is responsible
for such charges and service as provided by Public Act 94 of 1933, § 21, being
M.C.L.A. § 141.121, as amended, no further service shall be rendered to such
premises until a cash deposit in an amount established by resolution of the
Village Council shall have been made as security for payment of such charges
and service.
   (G)   The Village Council shall have the right to adjust the user O and M
charge based on an annual audit review of the sewage works operation and
maintenance costs. Such an audit review shall be conducted annually by the
Harbor Springs Area Sewage Disposal Authority.
   (H)   It is anticipated that the user debt retirement charge will be
discontinued when all obligations of the village for payment of the capital
cost of the sewage works have been fully paid.
   (I)   All customers of the sewage works will be included in a user class and
each user class will pay for its proportionate use of the sewage works in terms
of volume and pollutant loading. Sewer user charges are levied to defray the
cost of operation, maintenance (including replacement and depreciation), and
debt retirement of the sewage works. The classes of users of the sewage works,
for the purpose of determining the user charges, shall be as follows:
      (1)   Class I - Residential: shall include those customers which
discharge only segregated domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary conveniences
and are defined as residential users in §
50.01;
      (2)   Class II - Commercial: shall include those customers which
discharge only segregated domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary conveniences
and are defined as commercial users in §
50.01;
      (3)   Class III - Institutional: shall include those customers which
discharge only segregated domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary conveniences
and are defined as institutional users in §
50.01;
      (4)   Class IV - Governmental: shall include those customers which
discharge only segregated domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary conveniences
and are defined as governmental users in §
50.01; and
      (5)   Class V - Industrial: shall include those customers which discharge
industrial sewage and are defined as industrial users in §
50.01.
   (J)   Each industrial user, as defined above, shall pay its share of the
operation, maintenance, replacement, and depreciation costs for treatment of
the industrial sewage, plus an amount that may be paid by industrial users for
the recovery of the portion of federal grants allocable to the treatment of
industrial sewage as defined in §
50.22.
   (K)   Each industrial sewer customer that discharges to the system process
wastewater which does not exceed the limits of normal strength sewage shall be
charged and shall make quarterly payments to the village in amounts based on
the number of residential equivalents assigned to such premises. The number of
residential equivalents shall be determined by dividing the average daily
discharge in gallons per day (computed using the month of the year with the
highest discharge) by 200 gallons. When less than 200 gallons per day are
discharged to the system one equivalent will be assigned. Where fractional
units above 1.00 are computed, the nearest whole number will be assigned.
   (L)   Each industrial user that proposes to discharge to the system process
wastewater which exceeds the limits of normal strength sewage will be required
to either: provide satisfactory pre-treatment to reduce the strength of the
wastewater to normal strength sewage; or pay a surcharge expressed in
additional residential equivalents determined by the relative concentration of
B.O.D., suspended solids, or other pollutant as compared to normal strength
sewage. The total number of residential equivalents, adjusted to include the
surcharge, shall be determined by the following relationship, but in no case be
less than the residential equivalents computed in division (K) above.
 
R t = Rf (.4 + .3  B  + .3  S  +  P )
           200 mg/l      250 mg/l      Pn
 
   Rt: total number of residential equivalents
   Rf: number of residential equivalents based on flow as computed in division
(K) above
   B: concentration of B.O.D discharged by user (mg/l) - value not to be less
than 200 mg/l
   S: concentration of suspended solids discharged by user (mg/l) - value not
to be less than 250 mg/l
   P: concentration of any pollutant discharged by user (mg/l)
   Pn: concentration of any pollutant determined to be acceptable as normal
strength sewage
   X: factor to be determined on an individual basis
   (M)   Prior to discharging to the system process wastewater which exceeds
the limits of normal strength sewage a permit must be obtained from the village
and the Harbor Springs Area Sewage Disposal Authority.
(Ord. 75-36, passed 11-5-1976; Ord. 2 of 2002, passed 4-15-2002) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.22 INDUSTRIAL COST RECOVERY SYSTEM.
   (A)   Each industrial user, as defined above and in §
50.01, that discharges to the system will be subject to an industrial cost
recovery charge equal to each industrial user’s allocable share of the federal
construction grant received after March 1, 1973 based on pollutant loading,
volume, and delivery flow rate.
   (B)   An industrial user for the purpose of the industrial cost recovery
system shall be as defined in §
50.01.
   (C)   A non-industrial user is any user of the treatment works that is not
an industrial user. Non-industrial users are not subject to the industrial cost
recovery system.
   (D)   The industrial cost recovery period is the time period that is
provided to allow industrial users to pay their total industrial cost recovery
charge. The period of time shall be equal to 30 years or the useful life of the
treatment works, whichever is less, as determined by the village.
   (E)   (1)   The industrial cost recovery charge for each industrial user
shall be a portion of the federal construction grant amount equal in proportion
to the industrial share of the total capacity of the treatment works in terms
of strength, volume, and delivery flow rate. Specifically, the industrial share
of the total capacity shall be determined by one of the three following
relationships, whichever produces the largest value.
 
(a) Industrial volume contribution per unit of time
Plan design volume per unit of time
(b) Industrial B.O.D. contribution per unit of time
Plant B.O.D. design capacity per unit of time
(c) Industrial suspended solids contribution per unit of time 
Plant suspended solids design capacity per unit of time
 
      (2)   Industrial cost recovery charges shall be calculated and paid
annually in an amount equal to the total industrial cost recovery charge for
any industrial user divided by the number of years in the cost recovery period.
   (F)   Costs recovered from industrial users shall be deposited by the
village in a separate account identified as the industrial cost recovery
account. Funds shall be distributed from the industrial cost recovery account
in accordance with U.S. Environmental Protection Agency rules and in the
following manner.
      (1)   The village shall retain 50% of the total recovered amount. The
remainder together with any interest earned thereon, shall be returned to the
U.S. Treasury on an annual basis.
      (2)   Eighty percent of the retained amount, together with interest
earned thereon, shall be used solely for the eligible costs of expansion or
reconstruction of the treatment works. The remainder of the retained amount may
be used as the village sees fit.
      (3)   Pending use, the village shall invest the retained amounts for
expansion and reconstruction in: obligations of the U.S. government;
obligations guaranteed as to principal and interest by the U.S. government or
any agency thereof; or shall deposit said amounts in accounts fully
collateralized by obligations of the U.S. government or by obligations fully
guaranteed as to principal and interest by the U.S. government or any agency
thereof.
   (G)   The Village Council shall have the right to adjust the industrial cost
recovery charges to any industrial user that makes a significant change in the
volume, strength, or delivery flow rate. Industrial users will only be required
to pay for those years of the cost recovery period that they use the system and
only at an annual rate in proportion to the length of the entire recovery
period.
(Ord. 75-36, passed 11-5-1976)
§ 50.23 SEWER CONNECTION CHARGES.
   All premises connected directly or indirectly to the sanitary sewers of the
village shall be charged a $2,100 tap-in fee for each residential equivalent
according to the residential equivalence table in §
50.26. The Village Council may for sufficient reasons make exceptions to or
change any of such residential equivalents for types of premises not listed.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2012)
§ 50.24 PAYMENTS AND COLLECTIONS.
   (A)   Bills for sewage disposal service are due and payable at the business
office of the village, or to any designated agent, on their date of issue, and
if not paid by the fifteenth day thereafter, shall be deemed delinquent and
shall be subject to a penalty as determined from time to time by the Village
Council. Bills shall be dated and mailed monthly and shall cover one month’s
service. If a bill is not paid within 30 days after its date of issuance, the
village shall serve upon the customer a written notice of delinquency and, if
it is not paid within 60 days after the date of issuance, the village may
discontinue sewer service to the premises and take such other measures as are
permitted by state law.
   (B)   All bills and notices relating to the conduct of the business of the
village and of the sewage works will be mailed to the customer at the address
listed on the application for the connection permit, unless a change of address
has been filed in writing at the business office of the village; and the
village shall not otherwise be responsible for delivery of any bill or notice,
nor will the customer be excused from non-payment of a bill or from any
performance required in said notice.
   (C)   Applications for connection permits may be cancelled and/or sewer
service disconnected by the village for any violation of any rule, regulation,
or condition of service, and especially for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Misrepresentation in the permit application as to the property or
residential equivalents to be serviced by the sewage works;
      (2)   Non-payment of bills; and/or
      (3)   Improper or imperfect service pipes and fixtures or failure to keep
the same in a suitable state of repair.
   (D)   Where the water or sewer service supplied to a customer has been
discontinued for non-payment of delinquent bill, the village reserves the right
to request a nominal sum be placed on deposit with the village for the purpose
of establishing or maintaining any customer’s credit. The reconnection will not
be made until after all delinquent bills and other charges, if any, owed by the
customer to the village have been paid.
   (E)   The Village shall make all reasonable efforts to eliminate
interruptions of service, and when such interruptions occur, will endeavor to
re-establish service with the shortest possible delay. Whenever service is
interrupted for purpose of working on the Sewage Works, all customers affected
by such interruption will be notified in advance whenever it is possible to do
so.
   (F)   (1)   Owners of premises no longer being used for human occupancy may
make a request in writing to the Village Clerk for a discontinuance of sewer
service.
      (2)   Said premises shall not be re-occupied within one year of
discontinuance of service until all monthly service charges have been paid from
the date of service discontinuance through the current month of proposed re-
occupancy and resumption of sewer service.
      (3)   If resumption of sewer service and re-occupancy does not occur
within one year of discontinuance, a new tap-in fee as provided by §
50.23(A) shall be paid.
(Ord. 75-36, passed 11-5-1976; Ord. passed 3-3-1980; Ord. 1 of 2003, passed 2-
3-2003)
§ 50.25 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter to be in full force and effect from and after its passage,
approval, and publication according to the law of the state.
(Ord. 75-36, passed 11-5-1976)
§ 50.26 RESIDENTIAL EQUIVALENCE TABLE.
Type of Premises Residential Equivalent
Type of Premises                        Residential Equivalent
Barber shops                            0.15 per chair
Bars                                    0.05 per seat
Beauty shops                            0.25 per booth
Boarding houses                         0.20 per person
Bowling alleys (no bars, lunch          0.15 per alley
facilities)
Churches                                0.01 per seat
Convalescent homes (nursing homes)      0.40 per bed
Country club                            0.10 per member
Drug stores                             0.20 per employee
Dry cleaners                            1.25 per press
Factories (exclusive of industrial      0.15 per person/per shift
wastes)
Grocery stores and super markets        0.30 per employee
Hospitals                               1.10 per bed
Hotels, motels (private baths, two      0.20 per bed
persons/room)
Industry (process waters)               (to be determined at time of
                                        application)
Laundry (self service)                  0.50 per washer
Marinas                                 0.10 per slip
Mobile home                             1.00 per unit
Multiple-family residence               1.00 per family
Office building                         0.10 per employee
Restaurants                             0.10 per seat
Rooming houses (no meals)               0.10 per person
Sanitary trailer and boat dump station  2.00 per station
Schools (cafeteria)                     0.03 per student
Schools (showers and cafeteria)         0.05 per student
Schools (without showers and cafeteria) 0.02 per student
Service station                         0.20 per pump
Single-family residence                 1.00 per unit
Snack bars, drive-ins, and the like     0.10 per seat and/or stall
Store (other than specifically listed)  0.15 per employee
Trailer parks (central bathhouses)      0.35 per trailer
Trailer parks (individual sewer         1.00 per trailer
connection)
Travel trailer parks and campgrounds    0.20 per site
(with individual sewer connections)
Travel trailer parks and campgrounds    0.15 per site
(without individual sewer connections)
Table Note:
Each connection to the public sewers will be assigned a minimum of 1.00
equivalent user. Where fractional units above 1.00 are computed, the nearest
whole number will be assigned.
 
(Ord. 75-36, passed 11-5-1976)
SANITATION AND SEWAGE FACILITIES
§ 50.40 REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall erect any dwelling or commercial or industrial
building without providing sewerage facilities and connections to the sanitary
sewer; provided that such connection need not be made if the premises are
located at a greater distance than 100 feet from a sanitary sewer.
   (B)   When a connection to a sanitary sewer is not required as in division
(A) above, the person erecting said dwelling or commercial building shall
provide a septic tank, provided a written permit is secured from the Village
Clerk. The use of vaults, privies, or cesspools will not be permitted.
   (C)   All septic tanks shall be constructed in accordance with the
specifications of the State Department of Health and under the supervision of
the Health Officer.
(Ord. 75-21, passed - -) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.41 PRIVIES, VAULTS, CESSPOOLS, SEPTIC TANKS, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Whenever, in the opinion of the Health Officer, any privy, vault,
cesspool, or septic tank shall become offensive to the safety, health, comfort,
convenience, or repose of the public, he or she shall give notice in the manner
provided in division (E) below, requiring the owner or occupant of the premises
to clean, remove, or alter the said privy, vault, cesspool, or septic tank in a
manner satisfactory to the Health Officer within five days from the day of the
first notice.
   (B)   Should the owner or occupant of the premises fail to clean, remove, or
alter the said privy, vault, cesspool, or septic tank within the time
specified, the Health Officer shall cause the work to be done and the expense
of such work shall be levied and collected by special assessment upon such
premises. Such special assessment shall, in each case, be made in pursuance of
a resolution of the Village Council directing the same and specifying the
amount thereof and the lot or premises upon which the same shall be assessed,
or at the option of the Village Council said charges may be collected in a suit
at law.
   (C)   If any privy, vault, or cesspool not accepted, having been ordered to
be removed by the Health Officer, because of its being unsafe for the health,
comfort, convenience, safety, and repose of the public, the said property owner
must comply with the provision of §
50.40. In complying, said condemned disposal system, owner shall have six
months’ time in which to comply and such work shall be completed in a six-month
period and shall be done in accordance with division (B) above.
   (D)   All property owners who now have privies, vaults, or cesspools on
their property and who are available to sewerage connection within the
specifications of §
50.40(A), will have six months to remove said present system of disposal and
connect to the sewer and, if said connection is not made in the six-month
period, such work shall be done in accordance with division (B) above.
   (E)   Notice regarding removal or alteration of privies, vaults, cesspools,
or septic tanks or any other act, the expense of which, if performed by the
village, may be collected from the owner in an action of law, shall be served:
      (1)   By delivering the notice to the owner personally or by leaving the
same at his or her residence, office, or place of business with some person of
suitable age and discretion;
      (2)   By mailing the notice by registered mail with return receipt to
such owner at his or her last known address; or
      (3)   If the owner is known, by posting the notice in some conspicuous
place on the premises five days prior to the date set therein for compliance.
   (F)   No person shall interfere with, obstruct, mutilate, conceal, or tear
down any official notice or placard posted by any village officer unless
permission is given to remove said notice.
(Ord. 75-21, passed - -) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.42 MISCELLANEOUS.
   (A)   No person shall expectorate in any public place, except into a
receptacle provided for that purpose.
   (B)   No person owning, in charge of, or in control of any lavatory or
washroom for use of the public, shall provide in or about such lavatory or
washroom any towel for common use. The term COMMON USE as used in this section
shall mean use by more than one person without cleaning.
(Ord. 75-21, passed - -) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person found to be violating any provision of §§
50.01 through
50.05 and
50.07  through
50.09  shall be served by the village with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations.
      (2)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in division (B)(1) above shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and
upon conviction thereof shall be fined in an amount not less than $5 and not
more than $99 for each violation. Each day in which any such violation shall
continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
      (3)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
50.01 through
50.09 shall become liable to the village, for any expense, loss, or damage
occasioned the village by reason of such violation.
   (C)   (1)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
50.20 through
50.25 shall be responsible for a municipal civil infraction as defined in
Public Act 12 of 1994, amending Public Act 236 of 1961, being M.C.L.A. §§
600.101 through 600.9939, and shall be subject to a fine of not more than $500.
Each day in which any such violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate
offense. The Village President is hereby designated as the authorized village
official to issue municipal civil infraction citations directing alleged
violators of §§
50.20 through
50.25 to appear in court. In addition, the village shall have the right to
bring a civil lawsuit to enforce the provisions of §§
50.20 through
50.25, including an action for injunctive relief to enjoin continued violations
of §§
50.20 through
50.25.
      (2)   In addition to the penalties provided in division (C)(1) above, any
person violating any of the provisions of §§
50.20 through
50.25 shall be liable to the village for any expense, loss, or damage incurred
by the village by reason of such violation.
   (D)   Any person who is convicted of any violation of any provision of §§
50.40 through
50.42 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by fine not to
exceed $100 or by imprisonment in the county jail not to exceed 90 days or by
both fine and imprisonment at the discretion of the trial court upon each count
or offense of which such person be convicted.
(Ord. 75-21, passed - -; Ord. passed 11-5-1976; Ord. 2 of 2002, passed 4-15-
2002)
CHAPTER 51: GARBAGE
Section
   
51.01   Definition
   
51.02   Regulations
   
51.03   Licenses
   
51.04   Pick up and collection for disposal of garbage
   
51.05   License required
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. All waste and refuse, vegetable or animal matter, filthy liquids,
discarded vegetable and/or animal food containers, decayed vegetable and/or
animal matter or mixtures, in such quantity as to create or contribute to the
creation of unsanitary, unhealthy, unwholesome, or disagreeable conditions or
odors within the village.
(Ord. 75-11, passed - -)
§ 51.02 REGULATIONS.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall deposit, place, or allow to
accumulate, except in suitable covered containers, any garbage in the village
and shall dispose of same only as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 75-11, passed - -) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.03 LICENSES.
   The village may issue up to four licenses to any person or firm to collect
garbage and/or trash within the village limits and dispose of same as herein
provided except that one license may be reserved for the dump contractor. Such
license shall require the payment of a $25 license fee and the furnishing of a
license and permit bond in the amount of $1,000 to the village and shall be
good for one year from its date.
(Ord. 75-11, passed - -)
§ 51.04 PICK UP AND COLLECTION FOR DISPOSAL OF GARBAGE.
   The picking up and collection for disposal of garbage and/or trash by any
licensed person, firm, or corporation may be done in any reasonable manner so
long as garbage and/or trash is covered and precautions are taken to prevent
spilling the same upon the public streets or alleys while in transit, but may
not be kept in truck or disposal vehicle from one day to another.
(Ord. 75-11, passed - -) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.05 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage in the business of collecting garbage and/or trash
within the village limits without first obtaining a license to do so as herein
provided; provided that this shall not prohibit any person from collecting and
delivering his or her own garbage and/or trash from time to time.
(Ord. 75-11, passed - -) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who is convicted of any violation of any provision of this
chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by fine not to
exceed $100 or by imprisonment in the county jail not to exceed 90 days or by
both fine and imprisonment at the discretion of the trial court upon each count
or offense of which such person be convicted.
(Ord. 75-11, passed - -)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
72.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Uniform Traffic Code adopted by reference
   
70.02   Tourist-oriented directional signs
   
70.03   Parking on private property
   
70.04   Parking on public streets and highways to prevent interference with
snow and ice removal
   
70.05   Two-hour parking
Parking Violations Bureau
   
70.20   Establishment
   
70.21   Location; administration
   
70.22   Violations
   
70.23   Schedule of fines
   
70.24   Orders of Council
   
70.25   Parking spaces
   
70.26   Burr Avenue parking restrictions
   
70.27   Two-hour parking limit
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 UNIFORM TRAFFIC CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The Uniform Traffic Code for cities, townships, and villages
promulgated by the Commissioner of State Police on February 14, 1958, and
published in Supplement No. 13, and on February 14, 1961, published in
Supplement No. 25 to the 1954 State Administrative Code in accordance with
Public Act 62 of 1956, being M.C.L.A. §§ 257.951 through 257.954, is hereby
adopted by reference, and accepted as amended, with all future amendments as in
this section modified.
   (B)   References in the Uniform Traffic Code for state cities, townships,
and villages to governmental unit shall mean the village.
   (C)   All ordinances relating to traffic which are in conflict with the
Uniform Traffic Code, or which shall be inconsistent with the provisions of the
Uniform Traffic Code, are, to the extent of such inconsistency, hereby
repealed.
   (D)   No person shall start, stop, or operate any motor vehicle on any
village street or roadway, or any other place open to the public, including any
area designated for the parking of motor vehicles, in such manner as to disturb
the peace by causing excessive noise with tires or mufflers or any other device
attached to or in an automobile or motor vehicle.
(Ord. 75-16, passed - -) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.02 TOURIST-ORIENTED DIRECTIONAL SIGNS.
   (A)   The village may permit tourist-oriented directional signs as defined
by M.C.L.A. § 247.401 within its jurisdictional boundaries as provided by, and
pursuant to, M.C.L.A. § 247.403(7).
   (B)   An operator of a tourist-oriented activity who wishes to participate
in a directional sign program under Public Act 299 of 1996, being M.C.L.A. §
247.402, as amended, and is applying for a sign that would reside within the
boundaries of the village in accordance with the provisions of Public Act 299
of 1996, § 2, being M.C.L.A. § 247.402, shall submit the application for review
by the Village Council or its designee.
   (C)   The Village Council may approve or reject the placement of any
tourist-oriented directional sign within its jurisdictional boundaries under
the provisions of this section.
   (D)   The Village Council may appoint a designee by resolution to approve or
reject the placement of any tourist-oriented directional sign within its
jurisdictional boundaries under the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 05-2005, passed 1-19-2005) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 PARKING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to park any
motor vehicle on any private property in the village without the express or
implied consent, authorization, or ratification of the owner, holder, occupant,
lessee, agent, or trustee of such property.
   (B)   Proof that any motor vehicle is parked on any private property in the
village contrary to the command, direction, condition, or limitation clearly
set forth on any sign posted on said property shall be prima facie evidence
that the registered owner of such vehicle parked the same in violation hereof.
   (C)   Complaint for the violation of this section shall be signed by the
owner, holder, occupant, lessee, agent, or trustee of such property.
(Ord. 75-30, passed - -) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 PARKING ON PUBLIC STREETS AND HIGHWAYS TO PREVENT INTERFERENCE WITH
SNOW AND ICE REMOVAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or stand, or to continue to let
be parked or standing, any wagon, tractor, truck tractor, trailer, truck,
automobile, or any motor vehicle in or on any public street or highway of the
village from the hour of 3:00 a.m. to the hour of 6:00 a.m. local village time,
from November 1 in any year to May 1 of the following year.
(Ord. 75-18, passed - -) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 TWO-HOUR PARKING.
   As of November 1, 1974, the village will enforce its two-hour parking
ordinance between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m.
(Ord. 47-24, passed 10-28-1974) Penalty, see §
70.99
PARKING VIOLATIONS BUREAU
§ 70.20 ESTABLISHMENT.
   Pursuant to the Revised Judicature Act, as added by Public Act 154 of 1968,
§ 8395, being M.C.L.A. § 600.8395, a Parking Violations Bureau, for the purpose
of handling alleged parking violations within the village, is hereby
established. The Parking Violations Bureau shall be under the supervision and
control of the Village Marshal.
(Ord. 75-17, passed 6-2-1975)
§ 70.21 LOCATION; ADMINISTRATION.
   The Village Marshal shall, subject to the approval of the Village Council,
establish a convenient location for the Parking Violations Bureau, appoint
qualified village employees to administer the Bureau, and adopt rules and
regulations for operation thereof.
(Ord. 75-17, passed 6-2-1975)
§ 70.22 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   No violation not scheduled in §
70.23 shall be disposed of by the Parking Violations Bureau. The fact that a
particular violation is scheduled shall not entitle the alleged violator to
disposition of the violation at the Bureau and in any case the person in charge
of such Bureau may refuse to dispose of such violation in which case any person
having knowledge of the facts may make a sworn complaint before any court
having jurisdiction of the offense as provided by law.
   (B)   No violation may be settled at the Parking Violations Bureau except at
the specific request of the alleged violator. No penalty for any violation
shall be accepted from any person who denies having committed the offense and
in no case shall the person who is in charge of the Bureau determine, or
attempt to determine, the truth or falsity of any fact or matter relating to
such alleged violation. No person shall be required to dispose of a parking
violation at the Parking Violations Bureau and all persons shall be entitled to
have any such violation processed before a court having jurisdiction thereof if
they so desire. The unwillingness of any person to dispose of any violation at
the Parking Violations Bureau shall not prejudice him or her or in any way
diminish the rights, privileges, and protection accorded to him or her by law.
   (C)   The issuance of a traffic citation or notices of violation by a police
officer of the village shall be deemed an allegation of a parking violation.
Such traffic ticket or notice of violation shall indicate the length of time in
which the person to whom the same was issued must respond before the Parking
Violations Bureau. It shall also indicate the address of the Bureau, the hours
during which the Bureau is open, the amount of the penalty scheduled for the
offense for which the ticket was issued and advise that a warrant for the
arrest of the person to whom the ticket was issued will be sought if such
person fails to respond within the time limit.
(Ord. 75-17, passed 6-2-1975)
§ 70.23 SCHEDULE OF FINES.
Offense Penalty
Offense                                                               Penalty
Angle parking violations                                              $5
Bus, parking other than bus stop                                      $5
Bus, taxicab stand violations                                         $3
Failure to set brakes                                                 $3
In alley                                                              $5
In prohibited zone (signs required)                                   $4
Loading zone violation                                                $5
Meter violations                                                      $5
Meters, not parked within space                                       $5
Obstructing traffic                                                   $5
Parked on grade, wheels not turned to curb                            $2
Parking 3:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m. for snow removal                       $3
Parking for prohibited purpose - displaying advertising               $5
Parking for prohibited purpose - displaying vehicle for sale          $5
Parking for prohibited purpose - selling merchandise                  $5
Parking for prohibited purpose - storage over 48 hours                $5
Parking for prohibited purpose - working or repairing vehicle         $5
Parking too far from curb                                             $5
Prohibited parking (signs unnecessary) beside street excavation when  $5
traffic obstructed
Prohibited parking (signs unnecessary) blocking emergency exit        $5
Prohibited parking (signs unnecessary) blocking fire escape           $5
Prohibited parking (signs unnecessary) double parking                 $4
Prohibited parking (signs unnecessary) in front of drive              $5
Prohibited parking (signs unnecessary) on bridge or viaduct           $10
Prohibited parking (signs unnecessary) on crosswalk                   $5
Prohibited parking (signs unnecessary) on sidewalk                    $5
Prohibited parking (signs unnecessary) within intersection            $10
Prohibited parking (signs unnecessary) within 15 feet of hydrant      $5
Prohibited parking (signs unnecessary) within 20 feet of crosswalk or $5
15 feet of corner lot line
Prohibited parking (signs unnecessary) within 30 feet of street side  $5
traffic sign or signal
Prohibited parking (signs unnecessary) within 50 feet of railroad     $5
crossing
Prohibited parking (signs unnecessary) within 75 feet of fire station $5
entrance
Prohibited parking (signs unnecessary) within 200 feet of accident    $5
where police in attendance
Wrong side of roadway                                                 $5
Additional Offenses Frequently Prescribed by Ordinance and Penalty
Variations
Offense First Offense Second Offense Third Offense
Additional Offenses Frequently Prescribed by Ordinance and Penalty Variations
Offense                              First Offense Second Offense Third Offense
Abandoned vehicle (plus towing and   $5            $10            $20
storage charge)
All night parking                    $5            $10            $20
Between sidewalk and curb            $5            $5             $10
Disabled vehicle, failure to move    $10           $10            $10
In prohibited zone - fire lane       $5            $10            $20
In prohibited zone - prohibited zone $5            $10            $20
In prohibited zone - tow away zone   $5            $10            $20
Keys in vehicle or motor running     $10           $10            $10
Private property, without owner’s  $5            $10            Court
consent
 
(Ord. 75-17, passed 6-2-1975)
§ 70.24 ORDERS OF COUNCIL.
   Where density of traffic, protection of life and property, or any hazardous
condition makes it advisable, parking may be limited, restricted, and/or
prohibited by order of the Village Council or the Village Marshal, and when so
regulated such limitation, restriction, and/or prohibition shall be indicated
by paint of distinguishing color and/or signs or devices of uniform character
indicating the distance, place, and space, and no person shall park a vehicle
in violation of such limitation, restriction, and/or prohibition.
(Ord. 75-17, passed 6-2-1975)
§ 70.25 PARKING SPACES.
   Wherever parking spaces have been or shall hereafter be marked or designated
by appropriate lines on the pavement, no vehicle shall be parked except in the
spaces so marked or designated.
(Ord. 75-17, passed 6-2-1975) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.26 BURR AVENUE PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   No vehicle shall be parked on Burr Avenue (U.S. 31), other than parallel to
the curb or street line.
(Ord. 75-17, passed 6-2-1975) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.27 TWO-HOUR PARKING LIMIT.
   There shall be a 24-hour parking limit in any municipal parking lot. This
section is to be strictly enforced.
(Ord. passed 1-16-1978) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who is convicted of any violation of any provision of §
70.01 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by fine not to
exceed $100 or by imprisonment in the county jail not to exceed 90 days or by
both fine and imprisonment at the discretion of the trial court upon each count
or offense of which such person be convicted.
   (C)   Any violation of §
70.03 shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $100 or by imprisonment for
not to exceed 90 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
   (D)   (1)   Every person who is convicted of a violation of §
70.04 shall be punished by a fine of not to exceed $100 or imprisonment in the
county jail for not to exceed 90 days, or both such fine and imprisonment in
the discretion of the court, together with the cost of the prosecution.
      (2)   Provided further, that in the event that it is necessary to remove
any unlawfully parked motor vehicle, enumerated herein, to facilitate snow
removal, the said motor vehicle shall be impounded by order of the Village
Police, and the owner shall be required to pay the impounding and towing fees
prior to the return of said motor vehicle, over and above any fines and costs.
   (E)   Any person who is convicted of any violation of any provision of §§
70.20 through
70.27 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by fine not to
exceed $100 or by imprisonment in the county jail not to exceed 90 days or by
both fine and imprisonment at the discretion of the trial court upon each count
or offense of which such person be convicted.
(Ord. 75-16, passed - -; Ord. 75-18, passed - -; Ord. 75-30, passed - -; Ord.
75-17, passed 6-2-1975)
CHAPTER 71: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Snowmobiles
   
71.01   Adoption by reference
   
71.02   Additional regulations
   
71.03   Street restrictions
   
71.04   Route
   
71.05   Hourly restrictions
 
   
71.99   Penalty
SNOWMOBILES
§ 71.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   Public Act 74 of 1968, being M.C.L.A. §§ 257.1501 through 257.1518, is
hereby adopted by the village as part of this subchapter, and any amendments
thereto shall become part of this subchapter.
(Ord. 75-31, passed 4-6-1987)
§ 71.02 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS.
   In addition to the provisions of Public Act 74 of 1968, being M.C.L.A. §§
257.1501 through 257.1518, as above adopted, the following regulations must be
followed when operating snowmobiles and ORVs within the village limits:
   (A)   A snowmobile or ORV, if and when driven on a street to give access to
a riding area, must be driven by a licensed driver;
   (B)   A snowmobile or ORV, if and when driven within the village limits,
must obey all traffic regulations;
   (C)   A snowmobile or ORV, if and when driven within the village limits,
must be driven as far to the right of the roadway as possible; and
   (D)   A snowmobile or ORV, if and when driven within the village limits,
must stop at all intersections, whether or not such an intersection is a stop
street for vehicular traffic.
(Ord. 75-31, passed 4-6-1987) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 STREET RESTRICTIONS.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to operate, or to allow
another person to operate, a snowmobile or ORV on any streets, roads, alleys,
or public rights-of way within the corporate limits of the village except on
those streets designated herein:
Street Location
Street  Location
Bonz    From Milton Road to Chicago Street
Street
Chicago From Bonz Street to Valley Road
Street
East    From the railroad tracks to and via the alley that runs behind the Village
Street  Business District, across River Street and along the side of the bank
        building
Milton  From south village limit, north to Warren Street, then along the railroad
Road    tracks to Bonz Street, then along Milton Road to Valley Road
River   From Banwell Road to the riverside parking lot, to the alley behind Bob’s
Street  Place, north to East Street, west across U.S. 31 to the trail on the
        railroad tracks
Valley  To the west village limits
Road
Warren  To North Street, North Street to Chicago Street, and Chicago Street to Bonz
Street  Street
        From West Street to Milton Road
West    From River Street to Warren Street
Street
 
(Ord. 75-31, passed 4-6-1987; Ord. passed 11-21-1994) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 ROUTE.
   Snowmobile or ORV travel along this designated route will be for the express
purpose of passing through the village or to return to place of residence.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d37f480839e172f33b3bce8aa1158f3e1e7566bc/
IMAGES/0-0-0-659.png]
(Ord. 75-31, passed 4-6-1987) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 HOURLY RESTRICTIONS.
   Marked route on the village map as seen in §
71.04 and as attached to the ordinance codified herein shall be known as the
only designated route for snowmobile or ORV traffic within the corporate limits
of the village.
(Ord. 75-31, passed 4-6-1987) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who is convicted of any violation of any provision of §§
71.01 through
71.05 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by fine not to
exceed $100 or by imprisonment in the county jail not to exceed 90 days or by
both fine and imprisonment at the discretion of the trial court upon each count
or offense of which such person be convicted.
(Ord. 75-31, passed 4-6-1987)
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   School buses
SCHEDULE I. SCHOOL BUSES.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle shall not overtake or meet and pass any school
bus which has stopped for the purpose of receiving or discharging passengers.
All school buses shall contain such signs on the back and front thereof, with
respect thereto as required by state statute.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle overtaking or meeting any school bus which has
stopped for the purpose of receiving or discharging any passengers shall bring
such vehicle to a full stop at least ten feet from the school bus and shall not
proceed until the signals are no longer actuated. Passengers crossing the road
upon being discharged from a school bus shall cross in front of the stopped
school bus.
   (C)   No vehicle shall overtake or pass or drive within ten feet of school
buses loading or discharging passengers. School buses may block traffic on
North Street in front of the Littlefield Public School between the hours of 7:
55 a.m. and 3:30 p.m. on any weekday during the school year.
   (D)   Any school bus parked on North Street for the purpose of loading or
discharging passengers shall have the red flashing lights operating. An
authorized bus driver shall remain in each bus when said bus is parked on this
street.
   (E)   Any driver of a vehicle or other persons violating any of the
provisions of this schedule shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to a
fine not to exceed $100, or imprisonment up to 90 days, or both such fine and
imprisonment.
(Ord. 75-25, passed - -)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCE
      
91.   PARKS
      
92.   ANIMALS
      
93.   INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES
      
94.   RECREATION
CHAPTER 90: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCE
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Public morals and conduct
   
90.02   Removal of ice and snow
   
90.03   Outdoor burning
Nuisances
   
90.15   Definitions
   
90.16   Nuisances
   
90.17   Prohibition
   
90.18   Industrial usage
   
90.19   Enforcement
   
90.20   Abatement by village
   
90.21   Emergency abatement
   
90.22   Separate court actions
   
90.23   Effective date
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 PUBLIC MORALS AND CONDUCT.
   (A)   Prohibited acts. No person shall do any of the following acts in the
village:
      (1)   Engage in any illegal occupation or business;
      (2)   Be under the influence of intoxicating liquor or narcotic drugs
upon any public streets or in any public place in said village;
      (3)   Engage in any indecent, insulting, immoral, or obscene conduct in
any street, alley, or other public place;
      (4)   Discharge any firearm or airgun except by written permission of a
police officer of said village;
      (5)   Explode any firecrackers except by written permission of the
Council of said village;
      (6)   Engage in any window peeping;
      (7)   Jostle or roughly crowd or push any person unnecessarily in any
street, alley, or other public place;
      (8)   Loiter in and about any hospital, school, church, public building,
street, or alley without sufficient excuse therefor;
      (9)   Make any immoral or obscene exhibition or exposure of his or her
person;
      (10)   Print, engrave, write, paint, draw, sell, offer for sale, give
away, exhibit, or have in possession for any of said purposes, any obscene,
lewd, lascivious, immoral, or indecent book, pamphlet, paper, picture,
photograph, image, or representation, or other article of any immoral or
indecent nature;
      (11)   Maliciously destroy, deface, damage, or injure any public property
or any private property owned by another;
      (12)   Misrepresent his or her financial or physical condition for the
purpose of obtaining relief from any person or agency;
      (13)   Accost any person for immoral purposes or endeavor to entice any
person into an automobile or other vehicle;
      (14)   Create any disturbance in any public place or at any lawful
assembly;
      (15)   Commit any assault or any assault and battery;
      (16)   Make any breach of the peace, either by making any unnecessary
loud and disturbing noise or by causing any other public disturbance;
      (17)   Spit upon or otherwise foul or litter any public sidewalk, or any
hallway, stairway, or steps in or near any public building or place of worship;
      (18)   Engage for hire in the practice or occupation of fortune telling,
mind reading, character reading, or phrenology;
      (19)   Excite any disturbance or contention in any tavern, hotel,
manufacturing establishment, or any other business place, or in any public
street, alley, park, public building, or at any election or other public
meeting where citizens are lawfully and peacefully assembled; and/or
      (20)   Fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or direction of a
police officer.
   (B)   Prostitution.
      (1)   No person shall engage in prostitution in the village.
      (2)   No person shall consort in a house of prostitution or where
lewdness is practiced, encouraged, or allowed.
      (3)   No person shall harbor or keep in or about his or her premises any
prostitute or permit any prostitution therein.
(Ord. 75-22, passed 6-2-1975) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.02 REMOVAL OF ICE AND SNOW.
   (A)   Hereafter, the owner or owners, firms, corporations, or tenants of any
lot or premises fronting, abutting, or adjoining the streets, or portions of
streets, as hereinafter set forth in division (B) below, which are within the
limits of the village, shall not permit the sidewalk or sidewalks in front of
or adjacent to said lot or premises, and lying along said street, streets, or
portion of a street as set forth in division (B) below, to be obstructed by ice
or snow; and said owner, owners, firms, corporations, or tenants shall remove
all ice and snow from the sidewalk or sidewalks in front of and adjacent to
said lot or premises within 24 hours after the same has formed or fallen upon
said sidewalk or sidewalks.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall apply to the owner, owners,
firms, corporations, or tenants of any lot or premises fronting, abutting, or
adjoining upon Burr Avenue (U.S. 31) from its intersection with M-68, south to
its intersection with Warren Street, and upon River Street from its
intersection with Burr Avenue (U.S. 31) east to Crooked River.
   (C)   No person from partnership, association, or corporation shall cause,
suffer, or permit any snow or ice removed from the adjoining premises to be
heaped upon the part of any street between the sidewalk and the gutter within
50 feet of any street intersection or corner to a height in excess of four
feet; and whenever any snow or ice removed from the adjoining premises shall be
heaped up to a height in excess of four feet at any such place it shall be the
duty of the owner or occupant of the adjoining premises, or other person or
firm having the custody or control of the adjoining premises to remove such
part of snow or ice as will result in compliance with this section within 12
hours after being notified by the Village Clerk or his or her duly authorized
agent to affect such removal. It shall not be a defense that heaping up of snow
in excess of the height above mentioned is partly caused by the natural fall of
snow or by acts or omissions of the village or other public authorities in the
course of snow removal.
   (D)   Provided, that if the owner or owners, firms, corporations, or tenants
of any lot or premises, subject to the provisions hereof, shall fail to remove
the ice or snow obstructing the sidewalk or sidewalks adjoining or in front of
said lot or premises, within 24 hours after said ice or snow has formed or has
fallen, the Village Council will cause the same to be removed, and the expense,
thereof, or such part thereof, as the Council shall have determined, shall be
charged to such person and the said Council may cause the amount of such
expense incurred thereby for which person or persons shall have become liable,
together with a penalty of 10% in addition thereto, to be reported to the Board
of Special Assessors, to be levied by it as a special tax or assessment upon
the said lot or premises adjacent to and abutting upon the said sidewalk or
sidewalks of said person or persons, as the statute in such cases made and
provided; or the village may collect such amount, together with the penalty
aforesaid, from the person or persons of such lot or premises in an action of
assumpsit.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, owners, firms, corporations, or
tenants of any lot or premises within the village limits to cause, suffer, or
permit any snow or ice to be pushed across any public street, alley, or right-
of-way.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, owners, firms, corporations, or
tenants of any lot or premises within the village limits to cause, suffer, or
permit any snow or ice to be placed on any premises not under his, her, or
their immediate control.
(Ord. 75-15, passed 6-2-1975) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 OUTDOOR BURNING.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to control open outdoor burning and to
prohibit and prevent the creation or the continuation of danger to the
community by fire.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation, public or
private, to engage in outdoor burning in such places or manner as to be a
danger to any person or to the public by endangering the health, comfort, and
safety of any such person or of the public, or in such manner as to cause
injury or damage to property or business. Unlawful burning is declared to be a
public danger and may be abated by the Village Mayor or anyone whom he or she
may designate for such purposes. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or
corporation, public or private, to engage in outdoor burning after 5:00 p.m.
without a special permit.
   (C)   No person, firm, or corporation shall burn any combustible material
that emits gases, mists, vapors, and smokes that create a stench or smell that
is obnoxious or offensive to any person or to the public.
   (D)   At the discretion of the Village Mayor or the Fire Chief, permits may
be granted for burning of leaves or grass when, in their opinion, there will be
no danger to the community. At no time will such burning of leaves or grass be
lawful without such a permit.
   (E)   The Village Mayor and the Fire Chief have the authority to prohibit
the burning of anything including the burning of trash in incinerators or other
devices when, in their opinion, a fire danger to the community exists. The
Village Mayor and the Fire Chief have the authority, at all times, to approve
or disapprove the type and kind of device used to burn trash.
   (F)   A fire pit shall be allowed if the fire is contained within a
controlled ring of reasonable size.
(Ord. 75-26, passed 6-2-1975) Penalty, see §
90.99
NUISANCES
§ 90.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING MATERIALS. Include, but are not limited to, lumber, bricks,
concrete or cinder blocks, plumbing or heating materials, electrical wiring or
equipment, shingles, mortar, concrete or cement, nails, screws, or any other
materials used in construction of any structure.
   GARBAGE. Rejected food wastes, including waste accumulation of animal,
fruit, or vegetable matter used or intended for food or that related to the
preparation, use, cooking, dealing in, or storing of meat, fish, fowl, fruit,
or vegetables.
   JUNK. Any personal property which is or may be salvaged for reuse, resale,
or reduction, or which is possessed, accumulated, or dismantled for any of the
aforesaid purposes. By way of example and not limitation, the term shall
include used or salvaged metals and their compounds or combinations, used or
salvaged rope, rubber, or car parts.
   JUNK VEHICLES. Junk automobiles, junk motor vehicles, trailers in disrepair,
or boats, any of which have not been licensed for use at any time during a
continuous period exceeding one year, or have not been in use for any reason
during a continuous period exceeding one year.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, or corporation.
   RUBBISH. Non-putrescible solid wastes, excluding ashes, consisting of both
combustible and noncombustible wastes, such as paper, cardboard, metal
containers, wood, glass, bedding, crockery, bags, rags, and demolished building
materials.
   SEALED CONTAINER. A covered, closable container which is rodent-proof, fly-
proof and water-tight, such as garbage cans with properly fitting tops or
plastic garbage bags which have been closed or twisted shut.
   TOTALLY CLOSED STRUCTURE. A building capable of being sealed on all sides
such as a house, garage, or storage shed with a roof, floor, and walls, or
closable doors around its perimeter.
(Res. passed 8-2-1993)
§ 90.16 NUISANCES.
   The following are hereby declared to be nuisances:
   (A)   The keeping or storage of building materials outside on private
property unless there is in force a valid building permit from the County
Building Department for construction on that property and the building
materials are for use in such construction, or unless the building materials
are screened by natural objects, plantings, fences, or other appropriate means
so as not to be visible from any village street or alley;
   (B)   The keeping or storage of ashes, junk, garbage, or rubbish outside of
a totally enclosed structure on private property except in a sealed container
designed for the purpose of holding such ashes, junk, garbage, or rubbish;
   (C)   The placing of ashes, junk, garbage, rubbish, or dead animals on
private property without the owner’s permission, or on any street or alley, or
on any public property. This provision applies regardless of whether the ashes,
junk, garbage, rubbish, or dead animal is in a sealed container;
   (D)   The keeping or storage of junk, garbage, rubbish, or dead animals on
private property, including inside a building or in a house, in such a manner
that the items, regardless of the method of containment, have become a breeding
ground, food source, or habitation of insects, rodents, or vermin, emit
offensive or unhealthy odors, or are kept or stored so as to permit them to be
scattered on adjoining property by the wind, animals, or other means;
   (E)   Intentional depositing of oil, gasoline, or industrial wastes on the
ground;
   (F)   Any accumulation of stagnant water permitted or maintained on any lot
or piece of ground;
   (G)   The pollution of any well or cistern, stream or body of water, by
sewage, industrial wastes, or other substances;
   (H)   The existence of any structure or damaged partial structure which,
because of fire, wind, or other natural disaster or physical deterioration, is
no longer habitable if a dwelling, nor currently useful for any other purpose
for which it may have been intended;
   (I)   The existence of any vacant building, garage, house, or outbuilding
unless such structure is kept secure from entry by the public;
   (J)   The distributing, placing, posting, or fixing of posters, notices, or
handbills on public buildings, public property, lamp posts, or utility poles,
except as may be authorized or required by law;
   (K)   The distribution, placing, posting, or fixing of posters, notices, or
handbills on private property without consent of the owner or occupant, except
as authorized or required by law;
   (L)   The keeping or maintaining of any fierce, vicious, or dangerous dog or
other animal so as to allow or permit such dog or other animal to be upon any
public street, alley, or other public place, unless securely muzzled and led by
a leash;
   (M)   Any condition which provides harborage for rats, mice, snakes, and
other vermin;
   (N)   The keeping or maintaining of any animal, including, but not limited
to, a dog, cat, snake, mouse, rat, gerbil, or hamster, that is infected with
rabies, the mange, or other diseases, or to allow such animal to run at large
within the village;
   (O)   The keeping or confining of cows, horses, pigs, sheep, goats, or fowl
within the village;
   (P)   All disagreeable or obnoxious odors and stenches, as well as the
conditions, substances, or other causes which give rise to the emission or
generation of such odors and stenches;
   (Q)   The outdoor burning of any garbage, rubbish, or animal hides,
feathers, or other organic animal matter or any burning that causes dense
smoke, noxious fumes, gas or soot, or cinders in unreasonable quantities;
   (R)   The growth of noxious weeds, including, but not limited to, poison
ivy, poison oak, poison sumac, ragweed, and goldenrod, or the growth of lawn
grass that is allowed to remain eight inches or more in height for more than
seven days; and
   (S)   Storage on any property of junk automobiles, junk vehicles, trailers
in disrepair, or boats, any of which have not been licensed for use at any time
during a continuous period exceeding one year, or have not been in use for any
reason during a continuous period exceeding one year, except in a completely
enclosed building. For the purposes of this subchapter, the terms junk
automobiles and junk vehicles shall also include any motor vehicle which is
inoperative for any reason, such as being in a state of disassembly, disrepair,
stripped, or dismantled.
(Res. passed 8-2-1993) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.17 PROHIBITION.
   (A)   Subject to §
90.18, no person owning, leasing, occupying, or having charge of any premises
shall commit, create, or maintain any nuisance.
   (B)   Subject to §
90.18, no person shall knowingly permit the existence of a nuisance on the
property owned, possessed, leased, occupied, or controlled by such person.
   (C)   Each day a nuisance shall exist shall constitute a separate and
distinct violation under the provisions of this subchapter.
(Res. passed 8-2-1993) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.18 INDUSTRIAL USAGE.
   The storage or keeping of salvageable metal or wood shall not be prohibited
on property upon which is located a factory engaged in manufacturing,
assembling, or machining as long as the salvageable metal or wood is for resale
or reuse by the occupant of the property.
(Res. passed 8-2-1993) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.19 ENFORCEMENT.
   This subchapter shall be enforced by the Village President. Prosecutions may
be commenced by an appearance ticket or by a complaint and warrant from the
District Court.
(Res. passed 8-2-1993)
§ 90.20 ABATEMENT BY VILLAGE.
   (A)   If the owner or possessor of any property to whom a notice to abate a
nuisance has been given fails to eliminate the nuisance, the Village President,
after receiving authorization by the Village Council, shall take such steps as
are necessary to abate or eliminate the nuisance.
   (B)   The cost of elimination of the nuisance by the village, including
reasonable attorney fees, may be collected in a lawsuit against the owner and/
or possessor of the property on which the nuisance existed and/or against the
person who committed, created, or maintained the nuisance.
(Res. passed 8-2-1993)
§ 90.21 EMERGENCY ABATEMENT.
   When, in the opinion of the Village President and at least two other members
of the Village Council, there is actual and immediate danger to the public or
occupants of a particular premises caused by a nuisance on such premises, the
village may without notice or hearing, order the premises vacated, post
warnings on the premises of the dangerous conditions, and abate the nuisance;
preparing a statement of costs incurred which shall be billed to the parties
concerned and recoverable in a suit at law in any court with jurisdiction.
(Res. passed 8-2-1993)
§ 90.22 SEPARATE COURT ACTIONS.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall prohibit the village or any interested
party from seeking such other relief as may be permitted in law or in equity
regarding the existence of a nuisance.
(Res. passed 8-2-1993)
§ 90.23 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall become effective 30 days from the date of its
adoption.
(Res. passed 8-2-1993)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §
90.01 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be
punished by a fine not in excess of $100 and cost of prosecution or by
imprisonment not to exceed 90 days, or both such fine and imprisonment in the
discretion of the court.
   (C)   Any person who is convicted of any violation of any provision of §
90.02 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by fine not to
exceed $100 or by imprisonment in the county jail not to exceed 90 days or by
both fine and imprisonment at the discretion of the trial court upon each count
or offense of which such person be convicted.
   (D)   Any person who is convicted of any violation of any provision of §
90.03 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by fine not to
exceed $100 or by imprisonment in the county jail not to exceed 90 days or by
both fine and imprisonment at the discretion of the trial court upon each count
or offense of which such person be convicted.
   (E)   Any person, firm, or corporation found violating the provisions of §
90.04 shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not more than $100 or
imprisonment not to exceed 30 days or by both such fine and imprisonment.
Offenses on separate days shall be deemed to be separate offenses for the
purposes of § 90.04. Any abatement hereinbefore provided for shall be in
addition to any penalties prescribed in this division (E).
   (F)   Any person who shall violate or assist in the violation of §§
90.15 through
90.23 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not more than
$500 or by imprisonment in the county jail for not more than 90 days, or both.
(Ord. 75-12, passed - -; Ord. 75-15, passed 6-2-1975; Ord. 75-22, passed 6-2-
1975; Ord. 75-26, passed 6-2-1975; Res. passed 8-2-1993)
CHAPTER 91: PARKS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Definition
   
91.02   Firearms; explosives
   
91.03   Soliciting
   
91.04   Sleeping in the park
   
91.05   Loitering
   
91.06   Motor vehicles
Public Use of Parks and/or Picnic Areas
   
91.15   Fires
   
91.16   Defacing property
   
91.17   Organization meetings and gatherings
   
91.18   Unreserved parks or picnic areas
   
91.19   Advertising
   
91.20   Alcohol use
   
91.21   Littering
   
91.22   Throwing
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 DEFINITION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PARKS and PUBLIC PLACES. Unless specifically limited, includes all parks,
beaches, grass plots, playgrounds, recreation areas, athletic fields, and other
areas which are now or may hereafter be acquired by purchase, gift, devise,
bequeath, loan, or lease.
   (B)   Any term in the singular shall include the plural.
(Ord. 75-35, passed - -)
§ 91.02 FIREARMS; EXPLOSIVES.
   No unauthorized person or persons shall fire or discharge any firearm or
throw stones or other missiles; nor fire, discharge, or set off any rocket,
cracker, torpedo, or other fireworks containing any substance of an explosive
nature in any public park or playground. The last inhibition shall not prevent
special fireworks expositions to be given under the auspices of the Village
Mayor, with the approval of the Village Council.
(Ord. 75-35, passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 SOLICITING.
   (A)   No booth, tent, stall, or other structure shall be erected for any
purpose, and no hawking or peddling shall be done or any article or thing sold
or exposed for sale in any public park or playground except by written
permission of the Village Clerk.
   (B)   No person shall carry on any trade or business or sell or display any
goods, wares, or merchandise in the park, unless it be with the written consent
of the Village Clerk or Mayor.
(Ord. 75-35, passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 SLEEPING IN THE PARK.
   No person or persons shall sleep, whether in a vehicle, trailer, tent,
hammock, or other manner, in the park, public way, or other public place during
the night time.
(Ord. 75-35, passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 LOITERING.
   No person or persons shall loiter or remain upon any public park or
playground between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. except those persons
renting municipal docking facilities from the village.
(Ord. 75-35, passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 MOTOR VEHICLES.
   All motor vehicles are prohibited from all park areas excepting the parking
lot of said parks.
(Ord. 75-35, passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.99
PUBLIC USE OF PARKS AND/OR PICNIC AREAS
§ 91.15 FIRES.
   (A)   No person or persons shall kindle, burn, or smolder a fire in any park
or picnic area, except in the receptacles provided therefor, and/or in portable
units brought in by individuals for the purpose of cooking. All fires built
shall be for cooking purposes only.
   (B)   When the fire receptacles have been used, the person or persons so
responsible for their initial start shall be responsible for the proper safety
of their operation, including damage that may occur from hot ashes, paper,
cinders, wood, metal, or glass which may fall, blow, or generally be scattered
throughout the park or picnic area.
   (C)   No fire receptacle, when in use, shall be left unattended.
   (D)   No fire receptacle shall be left in a burning state when the person or
persons are through with the receptacle’s use.
   (E)   No unsightly mass of ashes, paper, cinders, wood, metal, or glass
shall be left in or near the receptacle and any aforementioned debris must be
deposited in the proper waste containers provided for that purpose in any park
or picnic area.
   (F)   No wood shall be split, chopped, or sawed within or around the parks
or picnic areas for the purpose of making kindling.
(Ord. 75-34, passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.16 DEFACING PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person or persons shall remove, change, alter, mutilate, carve,
burn, or destroy any piece of property or equipment contained or housed in any
park or picnic area.
   (B)   Picnic tables, chairs, stools, benches, and the like may be removed or
added in a park or picnic area, following use of said equipment, provided the
area is restored to its original supply of equipment.
   (C)   Picnic tables, chairs, stools, fire receptacles, and the like shall be
used only for the purposes for which they were intended.
(Ord. 75-34, passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.17 ORGANIZATION MEETINGS AND GATHERINGS.
   (A)   Any organized group, organization, club, association, or fund raising
group may hold meetings, barbecues, auctions, picnics, and the like free of
charge provided they secure written approval from the Village Clerk or
delegated assistant previous to the time they wish to use any park or picnic
area in the village.
   (B)   Any group, organization, club, association, or fund raising group
holding written approval from the Village Clerk or delegated assistant, for the
use of a park or picnic area, shall have precedence over any other private
group or groups in the use of facilities.
(Ord. 75-34, passed - -)
§ 91.18 UNRESERVED PARKS OR PICNIC AREAS.
   (A)   In the event the parks or picnic areas have not been reserved, any
person or persons may use the facilities, provided that he, she, or they obey
the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Unreserved use of parks and picnic areas will be on a first-come,
first-serve basis.
(Ord. 75-34, passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.19 ADVERTISING.
   The affixing of signs, placards, banners, flags, and/or advertisements for
the purpose of attracting attention shall be prohibited without the written
permission of the Village Mayor and Village Clerk, or designated assistant.
Under no circumstances are nails, tacks, staples, spikes, glues, or adhesives
to be used in the affixing of the aforementioned articles to structures or
facilities provided for park or picnic use.
(Ord. 75-34, passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.20 ALCOHOL USE.
   Any abuse of the use of alcoholic beverages shall be strictly prohibited.
(Ord. 75-34, passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.21 LITTERING.
   No rubbish, trash, or debris shall be brought into or left in a park or
picnic area from other sources of origination.
(Ord. 75-34, passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.22 THROWING.
   It shall be unlawful to throw, or cause to be thrown, water, snow, ice,
rubbish, trash, or debris within the parks or picnic areas.
(Ord. 75-34, passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any provision of §§
91.01 through
91.06 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof,
punished by a fine not to exceed $100 and the cost of prosecution, or by
imprisonment in the county jail for not to exceed 90 days, or both such fine
and imprisonment in the discretion of the court. Each day that a violation is
permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense. The imposition of any
sentence shall not exempt the offender from compliance with the requirements of
§§
91.01 through
91.06.
   (C)   Any person who is convicted of any violation of any provision of §§
91.15 through
91.22 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by fine not to
exceed $100 or by imprisonment in the county jail not to exceed 90 days or by
both fine and imprisonment at the discretion of the trial court upon each count
or offense of which such person shall be convicted.
(Ord. 75-34, passed - -; Ord. 75-35, passed - -)
CHAPTER 92: ANIMALS
Section
   
92.01   Requirement to own animals, fowls, and the like
   
92.02   Grandfathering
   
92.03   Exclusions
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 REQUIREMENT TO OWN ANIMALS, FOWLS, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Any person owning a parcel containing five continuous acres, and
having the written permission of his or her adjoining property owners shall be
allowed to have animals or fowls within the village.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to
keep or confine or otherwise secure horses, ponies, burros, hogs, cattle,
sheep, goats, or any other animal or fowl, within the village limits, nor shall
it be lawful to allow such animals or fowl to run at large within the village
except as provided in this division (B).
      (2)   (a)   Any person who keeps female chickens in the village shall
obtain a permit from the village prior to acquiring the female chickens.
Application must be made by the property owner and shall be made to the Village
Clerk and shall be submitted with a filing fee of $20.
         (b)   Permits expire and become invalid one year after the date of
issuance. Persons who wish to continue keeping female chickens shall have
obtained a new permit on or before the expiration date of the previous permit.
Application for a new permit shall be pursuant to the procedures and
requirements that are applicable at the time the person applies for a new
permit.
         (c)   Notwithstanding the issuance of a permit by the village, private
restrictions on the use of property shall remain enforceable and take
precedence over a permit. Private restrictions include, but are not limited to,
deed restriction, condominium master deed restrictions, and covenant deeds. A
permit issued to a person whose property is subject to interpretation and
enforcement of the private restriction is the sole responsibility of the
private parties involved.
         (d)   A person who keeps or houses female chickens on his or her
property shall comply with the following requirements:
            1.   Have been issued the permit required under division (B)(2)(a)
above;
            2.   Female chickens are not permitted in the downtown district;
            3.   If the lot is less than one continuous acre, keep no more than
six female chickens;
            4.   If the lot is greater than five continuous acres, owners shall
be allowed to have animals per division (A) above;
            5.   The principal use of the person’s property is for a single-
family dwelling or two-family dwelling;
            6.   No person shall keep any rooster;
            7.   No person shall slaughter any female chickens within village
limits;
            8.   The female chickens shall be provided with a covered enclosure
and must be kept in the covered enclosure or a fenced enclosure at all times.
The fenced enclosure shall be no larger than 11 square feet per female chicken
in the area. The coop and enclosure shall be constructed in such a manner as to
prevent access by dogs, cats, and wildlife;
            9.   A person shall not keep female chickens in any location of the
property other than in the backyard. For purposes of this division (B)(2)(d)9.,
BACKYARD means that portion of a lot enclosed by the property’s rear lot line
and the side lot lines to the points where the side lot lines intersect with an
imaginary line established by the rear of the single-family or two-family
structure and extending to the side lot lines;
            10.   No covered enclosure or fenced enclosure shall be located
closer than ten feet to any property line of adjacent property;
            11.   All enclosures for keeping of female chickens shall be so
constructed or repaired as to prevent rats, mice, or other rodents from being
harbored underneath, within, or within the walls of the enclosure. A covered
enclosure or fenced enclosure shall not be located closer than 20 feet to any
residential structure on adjacent property provided, however, this requirement
can be waived as follows: if the principal use of the applicant’s property is
for a single-family dwelling, to obtain such a waiver the applicant shall
present at the time of applying for a permit, the written statements of all
adjacent landowners that there is no objection to the issuance of the permit;
            12.   All feed and other items associated with the keeping of
female chickens that are likely to attract or to become infested shall be
protected so as to prevent rats, mice, or other rodents from gaining access to
or coming into contact with them;
            13.   If the above requirements are not complied with, the village
may revoke any permit granted under this section and/or initiate prosecution
for a civil infraction violation;
            14.   Female chickens shall be kept humanely; and
            15.   Female chickens waste shall be removed in an environmentally
responsible manner. Waste can be composted or bagged and removed. Dead female
chickens shall be immediately removed and disposed of properly. Piling waste on
the property is not allowed.
         (e)   Any person who has been issued a permit shall submit it for
examination upon demand by any Public Safety Officer or Code Enforcement
Officer.
(Ord. passed 7-7-1983; Ord. passed 2-13-2017) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02 GRANDFATHERING.
   The lawful use of such land and/or buildings for the above purposes existing
at the time of the adoption of this chapter may be continued, although such use
does not conform with the provisions hereof. In the event that a non-conforming
use of any building or premises for such purposes is discontinued for a period
of one year, or that such building or premises is sold, or otherwise changes
ownership, the use of the same shall thereafter conform to the terms of this
chapter.
(Ord. 75-32, passed - -) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 EXCLUSIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not be construed or interpreted as
applying to the keeping of any cat, dog, canary, parakeet, or similar pet or
bird normally kept as a pet within any dwelling house or place of business
within the said village.
(Ord. 75-32, passed - -)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter upon conviction thereof
be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine not exceeding
$100 or imprisonment in the county jail for a period not to exceed 90 days or
by both such fine and imprisonment in the discretion of the court.
(Ord. 75-32, passed - -)
CHAPTER 93: INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES
Section
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Prohibition
   
93.03   Nuisance
   
93.04   Enforcement
   
93.05   Civil action
   
93.06   Effective date
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISMANTLED AND PARTIALLY DISMANTLED MOTOR VEHICLES. Motor vehicles from
which some part or parts ordinarily a component of such motor vehicle has been
removed or is missing.
   FARM OPERATION. An active enterprise primarily involving the commercial
production, harvesting, and storage of plant and animal products useful to
human beings on a site or sites having a combined area of ten acres of more.
   INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES. Motor vehicles which, by reason of dismantling,
disrepair lack of licensing, or other cause, are either incapable of being
propelled under their own power or are prevented by law from being so
propelled.
   JUNK DEALER. A person, firm, or corporation licensed to operate in the
village.
   MOTOR VEHICLES. Any wheeled vehicle which is designed to be self-propelled.
   PERSON. A person, firm, corporation, partnership, association, limited
liability company, or any other entity.
(Ord. 98-3, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 93.02 PROHIBITION.
   (A)   No person shall park or store one or more dismantled, partially
dismantled, or inoperable motor vehicles outdoors on any premises within the
limits of the village for a period of more than 30 days continuously.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to garages and service stations openly
and actively engaged in making service repairs for the public, to farm
operation, nor to dismantled, partially dismantled, or inoperable motor
vehicles stored in a closed building or stored so that they cannot be seen from
any public highway or seen from any adjoining land owned by another person.
(Ord. 98-3, passed 12-21-1998) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 NUISANCE.
   The presence of one or more dismantled, partially dismantled, or inoperable
motor vehicle outdoors for a period of more than 30 days continuously on any
premises within the limits of the village is hereby declared to be a public
nuisance, a nuisance per se, and is hereby further declared to be offensive to
the public health, safety, and welfare.
(Ord. 98-3, passed 12-21-1998) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Village Zoning Administrator and Village President are hereby designated
as the authorized village officials to issue municipal civil infraction
citations directing alleged violators of this chapter to appear in court.
(Ord. 98-3, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 93.05 CIVIL ACTION.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the village or any interested party
from seeking equitable or injunctive relief to eliminate a nuisance or to
ensure compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 98-3, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 93.06 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective 30 days after its first publication.
(Ord. 98-3, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall be
responsible for a municipal civil infraction as defined in Public Act 12 of
1994, amending Public Act 236 of 1961, being M.C.L.A. §§ 600.101 through
600.9939, and shall be subject to a fine of not more than $500. Each day this
chapter is violated shall be considered as a separate violation. Any action
taken under this section shall not prevent civil proceedings for abatement or
termination of the prohibited activity.
(Ord. 98-3, passed 12-21-1998)
CHAPTER 94: RECREATION
Section
Water Vessels
   
94.01   Word meanings
   
94.02   No wake zones
   
94.03   Effective date
   
94.04   Public boat dock parking
 
   
94.99   Penalty
WATER VESSELS
§ 94.01 WORD MEANINGS.
   All words and phrases used in §§
94.01 through
94.03 shall be construed and have the same meanings as those words and phrases
defined in Public Act 303 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 324.80201 et seq., as
amended.
(Ord. 75-38, passed 8-5-1985)
§ 94.02 NO WAKE ZONES.
 
County Regulation Citation    Description              Details
                                                       On the portion of the
                                                       Crooked River located
                              Crooked river; slow - no within the village
Regulation No. 24 R 281.724.3 wake speed               limits it is unlawful
                                                       for the operator of a
                                                       vessel to exceed a slow,
                                                       no wake speed.
 
(Ord. 75-38, passed 8-5-1985) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   Sections
94.01 through
94.03 shall take effect 30 days after publication in the Petoskey News Review.
(Ord. 75-38, passed 8-5-1985)
§ 94.04 PUBLIC BOAT DOCK PARKING.
   There shall be a four-hour docking limit (maximum) at the village boat
docks. This section is to be strictly enforced.
(Ord. 74-1, passed 7-22-1974; Ord. passed 7-10-2017) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Violation of §§
94.01 through
94.03 are a misdemeanor and may be punished by a fine not to exceed $100
together with costs of prosecution or imprisonment in the county jail or such
other place of detention as the court may prescribe, for a period not to exceed
90 days, or said fine, costs of prosecution, and imprisonment, at the
discretion of the court.
   (C)   There will be a $25 fine for each and every offense of §
94.04.
(Ord. 74-1, passed 7-22-1974; Ord. 75-38, passed 8-5-1985; Ord. passed 7-10-
2017)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
   
110.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
111.   EATING AND DRINKING ESTABLISHMENTS
   
112.   ADULTS ONLY BUSINESSES
   
113.   TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDERS
   
114.   MARIJUANA
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
110.01   Licensing and sale of goods, wares, and the like by those not having a
regularly established place of business within the village
   
110.02   Circuses, shows, menageries, exhibitions, and other performances
   
110.03   Public auctions
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 LICENSING AND SALE OF GOODS, WARES, AND THE LIKE BY THOSE NOT HAVING A
REGULARLY ESTABLISHED PLACE OF BUSINESS WITHIN THE VILLAGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to haul or
bring into the village, either directly or indirectly, any goods, wares,
merchandise, provisions, fruit, food products, or other personal property with
the intention of selling or disposing of the same from any room, store,
warehouse, building, lot, railroad car, vehicle, or in any other manner
whatsoever, either at wholesale or retail, by soliciting orders therefor from
house to house, or from store to store or otherwise without a bonafide
intention of engaging in the business of selling or disposing of such goods,
wares, merchandise, provisions, fruit, food products, or other personal
property in established or to be established place of business, within the
village, without first obtaining a license for such purpose as herein provided.
This section shall not apply to salespeople taking orders by sample or by
solicitation for orders for outside wholesale houses, for goods and merchandise
not already trucked or loaded for selling or delivery.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who does or attempts to do any of the
acts specified in division (A) above shall first make application to the
Village Clerk for a license to do so, and for such license shall pay fees as
follows:
License Type Fee
License Type                                                      Fee
For each day or part of a day less than one week, except for sale $5 per day
of used autos and trucks
For each week under one month, except for sale of used autos and  $10 per week
trucks
For each month, less than one year, except for the sale of used   $25 per month
autos and trucks
For one year, except for sale of used autos and trucks            $50 per year
For sale of used autos and trucks, one week of less               $25
For sale of used autos and trucks, per month                      $75
For sale of used autos and trucks, per year                       $300
 
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any person, firm, or
corporation having a regularly established place of business within the
village, and whose stock of goods, wares, or merchandise has been assessed for
taxation and the tax shall have been paid thereon during the current year, nor
to any person, firm, or corporation selling wood, fuel, or farm products
produced by such person on his or her own premises or on the premises of
others.
(Ord. 75-9, passed - -) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.02 CIRCUSES, SHOWS, MENAGERIES, EXHIBITIONS, AND OTHER PERFORMANCES.
   (A)   No person or persons, company troupe, combination, or corporation
shall engage in, carry on, conduct, or exhibit any show, circus, menagerie, or
circus and menagerie combined, exhibition, or other performance; nor exhibit
any natural or artificial curiosity within any public hall, room, theater,
tent, or enclosure (whether covered by roof or not) within the village, without
first having obtained therefor a license from the Village Clerk, who is hereby
authorized to issue the same, for which license there shall be paid by the
person, party, or corporation, to whom the same shall be issued, the amounts as
specified in the following divisions.
   (B)   For circuses, menageries, or wild west shows traveling with wagons,
there shall be paid the sum of $10 for each day the same continues.
   (C)   For a circus, menagerie, or wild west show, or any combination of the
same traveling on cars, there shall be paid the sum of $2 for each car used by
said circus, menagerie, or wild west show for each day the same continues;
provided however, that for any circus, menagerie, or wild west show or
combination of the same, the minimum license fee shall be $10 for each day and
the maximum license fee shall be $50 for each day.
   (D)   For any other show, exhibition, or performance, whether in a building,
tent, or simply within an enclosure without roof, there shall be charged $5 for
each day.
   (E)   For the exhibition of any natural or artificial curiosity, in a tent,
under canvas, within an enclosure, public hall, or theater, there shall be
charged the sum of $3 per day.
   (F)   For every out of door vocal or instrumental concert, or vocal and
instrumental concert combined, medicine show, advertising entertainment, so-
called free show, or exhibition in any public street, upon any street corner or
upon premises facing on or adjacent to any public space or commons, there shall
be charged a fee of $3 for each and every day.
   (G)   It shall be the duty of every person, company, or corporation
receiving any such license, to keep good order in and about his, her, or their
place of business, amusement, entertainment, or exhibition.
   (H)   Any license granted under the provisions of this section may be
forthwith revoked by order of the Village Council whenever the provisions of
this section are being disregarded.
(Ord. 75-7, passed- -) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03 PUBLIC AUCTIONS.
   It shall not be lawful for any person not a resident of this village to sell
or offer for sale at public auction, within the village limits, any goods,
wares, merchandise, or other articles without first paying the tax herein
prescribed, which shall be $5 for each and every day or fraction thereof of
such sale, said tax to be paid in to the Treasury of the Village Council;
provided that nothing in this section shall apply to sales by order of decree
of court or public law.
(Ord. 75-1, passed - -) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
110.01 upon conviction thereof be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
punished by a fine not exceeding $100 or imprisonment in the county jail for a
period not to exceed 90 days or by both such fine and imprisonment in the
discretion of the court.
   (C)   Every violation or failure to comply with the provisions of §
110.02 shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $100, and in the imposition of
such fine, the court may make a further sentence that the offender, on failure
to pay such fine, be imprisoned in the county jail until the same shall be
paid, not exceeding the period of 90 days.
   (D)   Any person who is convicted of any violation of any provision of §
110.03 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by fine not to
exceed $100 or by imprisonment in the county jail not to exceed 90 days or by
both fine and imprisonment at the discretion of the trial court upon each count
or offense of which such person shall be convicted.
(Ord. 75-1, passed - -; Ord. 75-7, passed - -; Ord. 75-9, passed - -)
CHAPTER 111: EATING AND DRINKING ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Permits
   
111.03   Placarding or public display of grade notice
   
111.04   Examination and condemnation of unwholesome or adulterated food or
drink
   
111.05   Inspection of restaurants
   
111.06   Grading of restaurants
   
111.07   Grades of restaurants which may operate
   
111.08   Reinstatement of permit; supplementary regrading
   
111.09   Disease control
   
111.10   Procedure when infection suspected
   
111.11   Foodhandlers card
Mobile Food Vending
   
111.20   Definitions
   
111.21   Mobile vending locations
   
111.22   Licensing
   
111.23   Licensing duration and application
   
111.24   Requirements
   
111.25   Impoundment
   
111.26   Other licenses
   
111.27   Revocation
   
111.28   Complaints; appeals
   
111.29   Enforcement officials
   
111.30   Nuisance per se
   
111.31   Separate court action
   
111.32   Fines
 
   
111.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person who handles food or drink during preparation or
serving, or who comes in contact with any eating or cooking utensils, or who is
employed in a room in which food or drink is prepared or served.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The Health Officer of the village and/or his or her
authorized representative.
   ITINERANT RESTAURANT. One operating for a temporary period in connection
with a fair, carnival, circus, public exhibition, or other similar gathering.
Fraternal organizations and church groups who serve occasional meals are
included under this classification.
   PERSON. A person, firm, corporation, or association.
   RESTAURANT. Restaurant, coffee shop, cafeteria, short order café,
luncheonette, tavern, sandwich stand, soda fountain, and all other eating or
drinking establishments, as well as kitchens or other places in which food or
drink is prepared for sale elsewhere.
   UTENSILS. Any kitchenware, tableware, glassware, cutlery, utensils,
containers, or other equipment with which food or drink comes in contact during
storage, preparation, or serving.
(Ord. 75-23, passed - -)
§ 111.02 PERMITS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a restaurant in the village
who does not possess an unrevoked permit from the Health Officer. Such permit
shall be posted in a conspicuous place. Only persons who comply with the
requirements of this chapter shall be entitled to receive and retain such a
permit. A person conducting an itinerant restaurant shall be required to secure
a permit. Such a permit may be temporarily suspended by the Health Officer upon
the violation by the holder of any of the terms of this chapter, or revoked
after an opportunity for a hearing by the Health Officer upon serious or
repeated violation.
(Ord. 75-23, passed - -) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 PLACARDING OR PUBLIC DISPLAY OF GRADE NOTICE.
   Every restaurant shall display at all times in a place designated by the
Health Officer, a notice approved by the Health Officer, stating the grade of
the establishment.
(Ord. 75-23, passed - -) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 EXAMINATION AND CONDEMNATION OF UNWHOLESOME OR ADULTERATED FOOD OR
DRINK.
   Samples of food, drink, and other substances may be taken and examined by
the Health Officer as often as may be necessary for the detection of
unwholesomeness or adulteration. The Health Officer may condemn and forbid the
sale of, or cause to be removed or destroyed, any food or drink which is
unwholesome or adulterated.
(Ord. 75-23, passed - -)
§ 111.05 INSPECTION OF RESTAURANTS.
   (A)   At least once every six months, the Health Officer shall inspect every
restaurant located within the village. In case the Health Officer discovers the
violation of any item of sanitation required for the grade then held, he or she
shall make a second inspection after the lapse of such time as he or she deems
necessary for the defect to be remedied, and the second inspection shall be
used in determining compliance with the grade requirements of this chapter. Any
violation of the same item of this chapter on such second inspection shall call
for immediate degrading or suspension of permit.
   (B)   One copy of the inspection report shall be posted by the Health
Officer upon an inside wall of the restaurant, and said inspection report shall
not be defaced or removed by any person except the Health Officer. Another copy
of the inspection report shall be filed with the records of the Health
Department.
   (C)   The person operating the restaurant shall, upon request of the Health
Officer, permit access to all parts of the establishment and shall permit
copying any or all records of food purchased.
(Ord. 75-23, passed - -) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.06 GRADING OF RESTAURANTS.
   (A)   Grade A restaurants. The grading of all restaurants shall be based
upon the following standards; all Grade A restaurants shall comply with all of
the following items of sanitation.
      (1)   Floors. The floors of all rooms in which food or drink is stored,
prepared, or served, or in which utensils are washed, shall be of such
construction as to be easily cleaned, shall be smooth, and shall be kept clean
and in good repair.
      (2)   Walls and ceilings. Walls and ceilings of all rooms shall be kept
clean and in good repair. All walls and ceilings of rooms in which food or
drink is stored or prepared shall be finished in light color. The walls shall
have a smooth, washable surface up to the level reached by splash or spray.
      (3)   Doors and windows. When flies are prevalent, all openings into the
outer air shall be effectively screened and doors shall be self-closing, unless
other effective means are provided to prevent the entrance of flies.
      (4)   Lighting. All rooms in which food or drink is stored or prepared or
in which utensils are washed shall be well lighted.
      (5)   Ventilation. All rooms in which food or drink is stored, prepared,
or served, or in which utensils are washed, shall be well ventilated.
      (6)   Toilet facilities. Every restaurant shall be provided with adequate
and conveniently located toilet facilities for its employees. In restaurants
hereafter constructed, toilet rooms shall not open directly into any room in
which food, drink, or utensils are handled or stored. The doors of all toilet
rooms shall be self-closing. Toilet rooms shall be kept in a clean condition,
in good repair, and well lighted and ventilated. Hand-washing signs shall be
posted in each toilet room used by employees. All outside toilets shall be
maintained in a sanitary condition and otherwise conform to applicable state
law, and regulations pertaining thereto.
      (7)   Water supply. Running water under pressure shall be easily
accessible to all rooms in which food is prepared or utensils are washed, and
the water supply shall be adequate, and of a safe, sanitary quality.
      (8)   Lavatory facilities. Adequate and convenient hand-washing
facilities shall be provided, including hot and cold running water, soap, and
approved sanitary towels. The use of a common towel is prohibited. No employee
shall resume work after using the toilet room without first washing his or her
hands.
      (9)   Construction of utensils and equipment. All multi-use utensils and
all show and display cases or windows, counters, shelves, tables, refrigerating
equipment, sinks, and other equipment or utensils used in connection with the
operation of a restaurant shall be so constructed as to be easily cleaned and
shall be kept in good repair. Utensils containing or plated with cadmium or
lead shall not be used, provided that solder containing lead may be used for
jointing.
      (10)   Cleaning and bacterial treatment of utensils and equipment. All
equipment, including display cases or windows, counters, shelves, tables,
refrigerators, stoves, hoods, and sinks shall be kept clean and free from dust,
dirt, insects, and other contaminating material. All cloths used by waiters,
chefs, and other employees shall be clean. Single-service containers shall be
used only once. All equipment used in the preparing, storing, or service of
foods or drinks shall be kept in a clean and sanitary manner at all times.
Cracked, porous, or chipped dishes shall not be used. All dishes or utensils,
used for serving foods, shall have smooth even surfaces, and shall be non-
absorbent. After each person’s use, all utensils, glasses, and other dishes
used for the serving of the food or drink, and all multi-use utensils used in
the preparation of food or drink, shall be thoroughly washed and cleansed in
hot water of not less than 100°F when washed by hand or with water not less
than 120°F when washed by mechanical means so that all grease and foreign
material are effectively removed. Such wash water shall contain an effective
detergent or cleansing agent, not soap. Immediately after washing and before
being used, the dishes and glasses and utensils shall be rinsed in clean water
and then sterilized by one of the following processes:
         (a)   When washed by hand: by a complete immersion in hot water
maintained at a temperature of not less than 170°F for a period of not less
than two minutes;
         (b)   By a complete immersion for a period of at least two minutes in
clean water containing a sterilizing solution of not less than 100 parts per
million of available chlorine; or
         (c)   When washed by mechanical means: by a thorough rinse or spraying
process with hot water maintained at a temperature of not less than 170°F or by
complete immersion for a period of at least two minutes in clean water
containing a sterilizing solution of not less than 100 parts per million of
available chlorine.
      (11)   Storage and handling of utensils and equipment. After bactericidal
treatment utensils shall be stored in a clean, dry place protected from flies,
dust, and other contamination, and shall be handled in such a manner as to
prevent contamination as far as practicable. Single-service utensils shall be
purchased only in sanitary containers and shall be handled in a sanitary
manner. An approved dipper vat with running water shall be provided for
dippers, spoons, and the like and in all places selling ice cream where it is
dipped from one receptacle to another.
      (12)   Disposal of wastes. 
         (a)   Fly-proof and water-tight metal containers shall be supplied for
the storing of garbage and refuse. Garbage and refuse containers shall be
emptied at least every two days. Such containers or its contents shall not be
allowed to become foul smelling or a breeding place for flies. Garbage and
refuse shall be disposed of in a sanitary manner, so as to create neither a
nuisance nor a menace to health. The burning of mixed papers and garbage on
back lots and alleyways adjacent to food establishments is strictly forbidden.
         (b)   All sewage and other water-carried wastes shall be disposed of
in a municipal system wherever available. Where a municipal sewer system is not
available, sewage and other water-carried wastes shall be disposed of into a
sanitary private system, the operation of which creates neither a nuisance nor
unreasonable pollution of a stream, lake, or other body of water.
      (13)   Refrigeration. All readily perishable food and drink shall be kept
at or below 50°F except when being prepared or served. Wastewater from
refrigeration equipment shall be properly disposed of.
      (14)   Wholesomeness of food and drink.
         (a)   All food and drink shall be clean, wholesome, free from spoilage
and so prepared as to be safe for human consumption. All milk, fluid milk
products, ice cream, and other frozen desserts served shall be from approved
sources. Milk and fluid milk products shall be served in the individual
original containers in which they were received from the distributor or from a
bulk container equipped with an approved dispensing device; provided, that this
requirement shall not apply to cream, which may be served from the original
bottle, or from a dispenser approved for such service. All oysters, clams, and
mussels shall be from approved sources, and if shucked shall be kept until used
in the containers in which they were placed at the shucking plant.
         (b)   Only artificially manufactured ice shall be used in drinks. Such
artificial ice shall be made from a source of water approved by the State
Department of Health.
      (15)   Storage, display, and serving of food and drink. All food and
drink shall be so stored, displayed, and served as to be protected from dust,
flies, vermin, depredation, and pollution by rodents, unnecessary handling,
droplet infection, overhead leakage, and other contamination. No animals or
fowls shall be kept or allowed in any room in which food or drink is prepared
or stored. All means necessary for the elimination of flies, roaches, and
rodents shall be used.
      (16)   Cleanliness of employees. All employees shall wear clean outer
garments and shall keep their hands clean at all times while engaged in
handling food, drink, utensils, or equipment. Employees shall not expectorate
or use tobacco in any form in rooms in which food is prepared.
      (17)   Miscellaneous. The premises of all restaurants shall be kept clean
and free of litter or rubbish. None of the operations connected with a
restaurant shall be conducted in any room used as living or sleeping quarters.
Adequate lockers or dressing rooms shall be provided for employees’ clothing
and shall be kept clean. Soiled linens, coats, and aprons shall be kept in
containers provided for this purpose.
   (B)   Grade B restaurants. Grade B restaurants are those which fail to
comply with divisions (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(4), (A)(5), or (A)(17) above, but
which conform with all other items of sanitation required for a Grade A
restaurant.
   (C)   Grade C restaurants. Grade C restaurants are those which fail to
comply with either the Grade A or the Grade B requirements.
   (D)   Itinerant restaurants. Itinerant restaurants shall be constructed and
operated in an approved manner.
(Ord. 75-23, passed - -)
§ 111.07 GRADES OF RESTAURANTS WHICH MAY OPERATE.
   From and after 12 months from the date on which this chapter takes effect,
no restaurant shall be operated within the village or its police jurisdiction,
unless it conforms with the Grade A or Grade B, or approved itinerant
restaurant requirements of this chapter; provided that when any restaurant
fails to qualify for any of these grades, the Health Officer is authorized to
suspend the permit or, in lieu thereof, to degrade the restaurant and permit
its operation during a temporary period not exceeding 30 days.
(Ord. 75-23, passed - -) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.08 REINSTATEMENT OF PERMIT; SUPPLEMENTARY REGRADING.
   Any restaurant, the grade of which has been lowered and all grade displays
have been changed accordingly, or the permit of which has been suspended, may
at any time make application for regrading or the reinstatement of the permit.
Within one week after the receipt of a satisfactory application, accompanied by
a statement signed by the applicant to the effect that the violated provision
or provisions of this chapter have been conformed with, the Health Officer
shall make a reinspection, and thereafter as many additional reinspections as
he or she may deem necessary, to assure himself or herself that the applicant
is again complying with the higher grade requirements and, in case the findings
indicate compliance, shall award the higher grade or reinstate the permit.
(Ord. 75-23, passed - -)
§ 111.09 DISEASE CONTROL.
   No person who is affected with any disease in a communicable form or is a
carrier of such disease shall work in any restaurant, and no restaurant shall
employ any such person or any person suspected of being affected with any
disease in a communicable form or of being a carrier of such disease. If the
restaurant manager suspects that any employee has contracted any disease in a
communicable form or has become a carrier of such disease, he or she shall
notify the Health Officer immediately. A placard containing this section shall
be posted in all toilet rooms.
(Ord. 75-23, passed - -) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.10 PROCEDURE WHEN INFECTION SUSPECTED.
   When suspicion arises as to the possibility of transmission of infection
from any restaurant employee, the Health Officer is authorized to require any
or all of the following measures:
   (A)   The immediate exclusion of the employee from all restaurants;
   (B)   The immediate closing of the restaurant concerned until no further
danger of disease outbreak exists, in the opinion of the Health Officer; and/or
   (C)   Adequate medical examinations of the employee and of his or her
associates, with such laboratory examinations as may be indicated.
(Ord. 75-23, passed - -)
§ 111.11 FOODHANDLERS CARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the handling, preparation,
or storage of food, beverages, or utensils in a restaurant, or for any operator
of a restaurant to employ or permit any person to engage in such activities,
unless such person holds a foodhandlers card issued by the Health Officer of
the village. All foodhandlers cards shall expire June 30 and shall be renewed
annually. No person shall be issued a foodhandlers card until he or she has
submitted to such tests or examinations, physical, medical, or otherwise,
which, in the opinion of the Health Officer, are necessary for the protection
of public health. No person who refuses to submit to a physical examination
shall be continued in the employ of any restaurant.
(Ord. 75-23, passed - -) Penalty, see §
111.99
MOBILE FOOD VENDING
§ 111.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter the following words and phrases are
defined as follows:
   MOBILE FOOD VENDING. Vending, serving, or offering for sale food and/or
beverages from a mobile food vending unit which meets the definition of a food
service establishment under Public Act 92 of 2000, which may include the
ancillary sales of branded items consistent with the food, such as a tee shirt
that bears the name of the organization engaged in mobile food vending.
   MOBILE FOOD VENDING UNIT. Any motorized or non-motorized vehicle, trailer,
or other device designed to be portable and not permanently attached to the
ground from which food is vended, served, or offered for sale.
   OPERATE. All activities associated with the conduct of business, including
set up and take down and/or actual hours where the mobile food vending unit is
open for business.
   VENDOR. Any individual engaged in the business of mobile food vending; if
more than one individual is operating a single stand, cart or other means of
conveyance, then VENDOR shall mean all individuals operating such single stand,
cart or other means of conveyance.
   ICE CREAM TRUCK. Any motorized vehicle that serves as a mobile retail outlet
from which ice cream is vended, served, or offered for sale.
(Ord._1_of_2022, passed 7-11-2022)
§ 111.21 MOBILE VENDING LOCATIONS.
   The prohibition set forth herein shall apply to all mobile food vending
locations in the Village of Alanson.
   (A)   Public property. Mobile food vending shall only be allowed on public
property when part of an approved public or private event.
   (B)   Private property. Mobile food vending on private property shall only
be allowed with an approved license. Mobile food vending on private property
shall not be allowed to utilize public property including, but not limited to,
street rights-of-way.
   (C)   The aforementioned restrictions do not apply to mobile ice cream
trucks.
(Ord._1_of_2022, passed 7-11-2022)
§ 111.22 LICENSING.
   (A)   No vendor shall engage in mobile food vending without a license from
the Village Clerk authorizing such vending. The Village Clerk shall prescribe
the form of such licenses and application for such license. All licenses shall
be prominently displayed on the mobile food vending unit. No vending through a
mobile food vending unit of food and/or other human consumables shall be
licensed unless it meets the definition of mobile food vending as defined by
this section.
   (B)   The aforementioned restrictions do not apply to ice cream trucks.
(Ord._1_of_2022, passed 7-11-2022)
§ 111.23 LICENSING DURATION AND APPLICATION.
   (A)   Licenses may be issued by the Village Clerk expiring at the end of
each calendar year. Any license issued under this subchapter is non-
transferable.
   (B)   Every vendor desiring to engage in mobile food vending shall make a
written application to the Village Clerk for a license under this subchapter.
The applicant shall truthfully state, in full, all information requested by the
Village Clerk and be accompanied by a $20 service fee established by resolution
of the Village Council. Additionally, the applicant shall provide all
documentation as required by the village.
   (C)   The aforementioned restrictions do not apply to ice cream trucks.
(Ord._1_of_2022, passed 7-11-2022)
§ 111.24 REQUIREMENTS.
   Any vendor engaging in mobile food vending shall comply with the following
requirements:
   (A)   Provide appropriate waste receptacles at the site of the unit and
remove all litter, debris and other waste attributable to the vendor on a daily
basis.
   (B)   If operating on village-owned or controlled property, vendor may only
locate on such property in locations associated with a village-approved public
or private event. All mobile food vending trucks operating at an event, whether
on public or private property, will be required to obtain the appropriate
license(s) and pay the fee established by resolution of the Village Council.
   (C)   No vendor may operate on public property within one block of a village
authorized street fair, public festival, farmers market or event being
conducted without authorization from the event sponsor.
   (D)   No vendor may use flashing or blinking lights or strobe lights; all
exterior lights over 60 watts shall contain opaque, hood shields to direct the
illumination downward.
   (E)   No vendor shall use loud music, amplification devices or "crying out"
or any other audible methods to gain attention which causes a disruption or
safety hazard as determined by the village.
   (F)   Comply with the village's nuisance ordinance, sign ordinance and all
other village ordinances.
   (G)   Comply with all applicable federal, state and county regulations.
   (H)   Mobile food vending units shall not utilize any electricity or power
without the prior written authorization of the power customer; no power cable
or similar device shall be extended across any vi1lage street, alley or
sidewalk.
(Ord._1_of_2022, passed 7-11-2022)
§ 111.25 IMPOUNDMENT.
   Any equipment associated with food vending that is not in compliance with
this subchapter and left on public property may be impounded at the owner's
expense.
(Ord._1_of_2022, passed 7-11-2022)
§ 111.26 OTHER LICENSES.
   A license obtained under this subchapter shall not relieve any vendor of the
responsibility for obtaining any other license, or authorization required by
any other ordinance, statute or administrative rule.
(Ord._1_of_2022, passed 7-11-2022)
§ 111.27 REVOCATION.
   The Village Clerk shall revoke the license of any vendor engaged in mobile
food vending who ceases to meet any requirement of this subchapter or violates
any other federal, state or local regulation, makes a false statement on their
application, or conducts activity in a manner that is averse to the protection
of the public health, safety and welfare. Immediately upon such revocation, the
Village Clerk shall provide written notice to the license holder by certified
mail to their place of business or residence as indicated on the application.
Immediately upon such revocation, the license shall become null and void.
(Ord._1_of_2022, passed 7-11-2022)
§ 111.28 COMPLAINTS; APPEALS.
   If a written complaint is filed with the Village Clerk alleging a food
vendor has violated the provisions of this subchapter, the Village Clerk shall
promptly send a copy of the written complaint to the vendor together with a
notice that an investigation will be made as to the truth of the complaint. The
vendor shall be invited to respond to the complaint and present evidence and
respond to evidence produced by the investigation. If the Village Clerk, after
reviewing all relevant material, finds the complaint to be supported by a
preponderance of the evidence, the complaint shall be certified. If a license
is denied or revoked by the Village Clerk, or if a written complaint is
certified pursuant to this subchapter, the applicant or holder of a license may
appeal to and have a hearing before the Village Council. The Village Council
shall make a written determination, after presentation by the applicant and
investigation by the Village Clerk, as to whether or not the grounds for
denial, revocation or complaint are true. If the Village Council determines
that such grounds are supported by a preponderance of the evidence, the action
of Village Clerk or filing of the complaint shall be sustained and the
applicant may appeal the Village Council's decision to a court of competent
jurisdiction.
(Ord._1_of_2022, passed 7-11-2022)
§ 111.29 ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS.
   The Village President and any other person appointed by the Village Council
are hereby designated as the authorized officials to issue municipal civil
infraction citations directing alleged violators of this subchapter to appear
in court.
(Ord._1_of_2022, passed 7-11-2022)
§ 111.30 NUISANCE PER SE.
   A violation of this subchapter is hereby declared to be a nuisance per se
and is declared to be offensive to the public health, safety and welfare.
(Ord._1_of_2022, passed 7-11-2022)
§ 111.31 SEPARATE COURT ACTION.
   In addition to enforcing this subchapter through the use of a municipal
civil infraction proceeding, the village may initiate proceedings in the
Circuit Court to abate or eliminate the nuisance per se or any other violation
of this subchapter.
(Ord._1_of_2022, passed 7-11-2022)
§ 111.32 FINES.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this subchapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
111.99.
   (B)   Any person who is convicted of any violation of any provision of this
subchapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by fine not
to exceed $500 per day for each day in which the person is in violation.
(Ord._1_of_2022, passed 7-11-2022)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who is convicted of any violation of any provision of this
chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by fine not to
exceed $100 or by imprisonment in the county jail not to exceed 90 days or by
both fine and imprisonment at the discretion of the trial court upon each count
or offense of which such person be convicted. Each and every violation of the
provisions of this chapter shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 75-23, passed - -)
CHAPTER 112: ADULTS ONLY BUSINESSES
Section
   
112.01   Authorization
   
112.02   Site location principles
   
112.03   Site development requirements
   
112.04   Use regulations
   
112.05   Definitions
§ 112.01 AUTHORIZATION.
   Because certain forms of expression relating to sexual materials have a
particular functional and inherent characteristic with a high potential of
being injurious to surrounding properties by depreciating the quality and value
of such property, it is the intent of this chapter to provide a framework of
regulatory standards which can be used for approving or disapproving this type
of special use.
(Ord. 01-96, passed 7-15-1996)
§ 112.02 SITE LOCATION PRINCIPLES.
   (A)   The following principles shall be utilized to evaluate the proposed
location of any such use.
   (B)   These principles shall be applied by the Planning Commission as
general guidelines to help assess the impact of such a use upon the district in
which it is proposed.
      (1)   No adult only business shall be located within 500 feet, measured
from property line to property line, from a church, school, public park or
playground, non-commercial public assembly facility, any other adult only
business, or any areas where large numbers of minors regularly congregate.
      (2)   The site shall be located in the general business district. The
site shall not be within 500 feet of any R-1A, R-1B, or B-1.
(Ord. 01-96, passed 7-15-1996) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.03 SITE DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The site layout, setbacks, structures, functions, and overall
appearance shall be compatible with adjacent uses.
   (B)   Windows, displays, signs, and decorative or structural elements of
buildings shall not include or convey examples of a sexual nature, and are
limited to one sign. The sign shall be approved by the Village Planning
Commission, and in accordance with the Village Zoning Ordinance.
   (C)   All building entries, windows, and other such openings shall be
located, covered, or screened in such a manner as to prevent a view into the
interior from any public or semi-public area, and wherever else it is requested
by the Village Planning Commission.
   (D)   No loud speakers or sound equipment shall be used by an adult only
business that projects sound outside of the adult only business so that the
sound can be discerned by the public from public or semi-public areas.
   (E)   The adult only business shall clearly post at the entrance to the
business, or that portion of the business utilized for adult only purposes,
that minors are excluded.
(Ord. 01-96, passed 7-15-1996) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.04 USE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall reside in or permit a person to reside in the premises
of an adult only business.
   (B)   No person shall operate an adult only business unless there is
conspicuously placed in a room where such business is carried on, a notice
indicating the prices for all services performed therein.
   (C)   The owners, operators, or persons in charge of an adult only business
shall not allow entrance into such building, or any portion of a building used
for such use, to any minors, as defined by M.C.L.A. §§ 722.51 et seq., as
amended.
   (D)   No adult only business shall possess or disseminate, or permit persons
therein to possess or disseminate, on the premises any obscene materials as
defined by M.C.L.A. §§ 752.361 et seq., as amended.
(Ord. 01-96, passed 7-15-1996) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE. An establishment having as a substantial or significant
portion of its stock and trade, books, magazines, video tapes, films,
recordings, and other periodicals which are distinguished or characterized by
their emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or relating to “specified
sexual activities” or “specific anatomical areas” or any other “sexually
explicit matter” as hereinafter defined, or an establishment with a segment or
section devoted to the sale or display of such material.
   ADULT MINI-MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An enclosed building with the capacity of
less than 50 persons used for presenting material distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on matters depicting, describing, or relating to
“specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas” or any other
“sexually explicit matter”, as hereinafter defined, for observation by patrons
therein.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An enclosed building used for presenting
material distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting,
describing, or relating to “specified sexual activities” or “specified
anatomical areas” or any other “sexually explicit matter”, as hereinafter
defined, for observation by patrons therein.
   ADULT NOVELTY BUSINESS. An establishment having as its principal activity
the sale of devices for the stimulation of the human genitals or devices
designed for sexual stimulation.
   ADULT PERSONAL SERVICE BUSINESS. An establishment having as its principal
activity a person of one sex, while nude or partially nude, providing personal
services for any person on an individual basis in a closed room. It includes,
but is not limited to, the following activities and services: massage parlors;
exotic rubs; modeling studios; body painting studios; wrestling studios; and/or
individual theatrical performance. It does not include activities performed by
persons pursuant to, and in accordance with, licenses issued to such persons by
the state.
   BATHING ESTABLISHMENTS. Any place of business which, in exchange for a fee,
provides as its principal function, bathing facilities, sauna baths, steam
rooms, or Turkish baths.
   CABARET. A business establishment which features topless dancers, go-go
dancers, exotic dancers, strippers, male or female impersonators, or similar
entertainers.
   ESCORT SERVICES. An establishment which provides for the services of
escorting persons for a payment of a fee.
   NUDE AND/OR TOPLESS SERVICES. An establishment which features or offers, as
a portion of its business, the services of models, masseurs, masseuses,
employees, and the like who are nude, semi-nude, or topless when performing
their services.
   SEXUALLY EXPLICIT MATTER. All matter defined as being sexually explicit
under the provisions of Public Act 33 of 1978, being M.C.L.A. §§ 722.671 et
seq., as amended, which definitions are hereby adopted and included herein by
reference.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Less than completely and opaquely covered human
genitals, pubic region, buttocks, and female breast below a point immediately
above the top of the areola and human male genitals in a discernible turgid
state, even if completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.
      (1)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
      (2)   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse, or sodomy; and/or
      (3)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttock, or female breasts.
(Ord. 01-96, passed 7-15-1996)
CHAPTER 113: TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDERS
Section
   
113.01   Purpose
   
113.02   Conflict
   
113.03   Definitions
   
113.04   Permit required
   
113.05   Issuance of permit
   
113.06   Construction/engineering permit
   
113.07   Conduit of utility poles
   
113.08   Route maps
   
113.09   Repair of damage
   
113.10   Establishment and payment of maintenance fee
   
113.11   Modification of existing fees
   
113.12   Savings clause
   
113.13   Use of funds
   
113.14   Annual report
   
113.15   Cable television operators
   
113.16   Existing rights
   
113.17   Compliance
   
113.18   Reservation of police powers
   
113.19   Authorized village officials
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 PURPOSE.
   The purposes of this chapter are to regulate access to and ongoing use of
public rights-of-way by telecommunications providers for their
telecommunications facilities while protecting the public health, safety, and
welfare and exercising reasonable control of the public rights-of-way in
compliance with the Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
Oversight Act (“Act”) and other applicable law, and to ensure that the village
qualifies for distributions under the Act by modifying the fees charged to
providers and complying with the Act.
(Ord. 2 of 2003, passed 6-2-2003)
§ 113.02 CONFLICT.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed in such a manner as to conflict
with the Act or other applicable law.
(Ord. 2 of 2003, passed 6-2-2003)
§ 113.03 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACT. The Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
Oversight Act, as amended from time to time.
      PERMIT. A non-exclusive permit issued pursuant to the Act and this
chapter to a telecommunications provider to use the public rights-of-way in the
village for its telecommunications facilities.
      VILLAGE. The Village of Alanson.
      VILLAGE CLERK. The Village Clerk or his or her designee.
      VILLAGE COUNCIL. The Village Council of the village or its designee. This
section does not authorize delegation of any decision or function that is
required by law to be made by the Village Council.
      VILLAGE PRESIDENT. The duly elected or appointed President of the
village, or his or her designee.
   (B)   All other terms used in this chapter shall have the same meaning as
defined or as provided in the Act, including without limitation the following.
      AUTHORITY. The Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
Oversight Authority created pursuant to § 3 of the Act.
      MPSC. The Michigan Public Service Commission in the Department of
Consumer and Industry Services, and shall have the same meaning as the term
“Commission” in the Act.
      PERSON. An individual, corporation, partnership, association,
governmental entity, or any other legal entity.
      PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on, below, or above a public roadway,
highway, street, alley, easement, or waterway. PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY does not
include a federal, state, or private right-of-way.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES or FACILITIES. The equipment or personal
property, such as copper and fiber cables, lines, wires, switches, conduits,
pipes, and sheaths, which are used to or can generate, receive, transmit,
carry, amplify, or provide telecommunication services or signals.
TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES or FACILITIES do not include antennas, supporting
structures for antennas, equipment shelters or houses, and any ancillary
equipment and miscellaneous hardware used to provide federally licensed
commercial mobile service as defined in § 332(d) of part I of title III of the
Communications Act of 1934, Ord. 652, 48 Stat. 1064, 47 U.S.C. § 332 and
further defined as commercial mobile radio service in 47 C.F.R. § 20.3, and
service provided by any wireless, two-way communication device.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER, PROVIDER, and TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES.
Those terms as defined in § 102 of the Michigan Telecommunications Act, Public
Act 179 of 1991, being M.C.L.A. § 484.2102. Telecommunication provider does not
include a person or an affiliate of that person when providing a federally
licensed commercial mobile radio service as defined in § 332(d) of part I of
the Communications Act of 1934, Ord. 652, 48 Stat. 1064, 47 U.S.C. § 332 and
further defined as commercial mobile radio service in 47 C.F.R. § 20.3, or
service provided by any wireless, two-way communication device. For the purpose
of the Act and this chapter only, a PROVIDER also includes any of the
following: a cable television operator that provides a telecommunications
service; except as otherwise provided by the Act, a person who owns
telecommunication facilities located within a public right-of-way; or a person
providing broadband internet transport access service.
(Ord. 2 of 2003, passed 6-2-2003)
§ 113.04 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Permit required. Except as otherwise provided in the Act, a
telecommunications provider using or seeking to use public rights-of-way in the
village for its telecommunications facilities shall apply for and obtain a
permit pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   Application. Telecommunications providers shall apply for a permit on
an application form approved by the MPSC in accordance with § 6(1) of the Act.
A telecommunications provider shall file one copy of the application with the
Village Clerk, one copy with the Village President, and one copy with the
Village Attorney. Applications shall be complete and include all information
required by the Act including, without limitation, a route map showing the
location of the provider’s existing and proposed facilities in accordance with
§ 6(5) of the Act.
   (C)   Confidential information. If a telecommunications provider claims that
any portion of the route maps submitted by it as part of its application
contain trade secret, proprietary, or confidential information, which is exempt
from the Freedom of Information Act, Public Act 442 of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§
15.231 through 15.246, pursuant to § 6(5) of the Act, the telecommunications
provider shall prominently so indicate on the face of each map.
   (D)   Application fee. Except as otherwise provided by the Act, the
application shall be accompanied by a one-time non-refundable application fee
in the amount of $500.
   (E)   Additional information. The Village Council may request an applicant
to submit such additional information which the Village Council deems
reasonably necessary or relevant. The applicant shall comply with all such
requests in compliance with reasonable deadlines for such additional
information established by the Village Council. If the village and the
applicant cannot agree on the requirement of additional information requested
by the village, the village or the applicant shall notify the MPSC as provided
in § 6(2) of the Act.
   (F)   Previously issued permits. Pursuant to § 5(1) of the Act,
authorizations or permits previously issued by the village under § 251 of the
State Telecommunications Act, Public Act 179 of 1991, being M.C.L.A. §
484.2251, and authorizations or permits issued by the village to
telecommunications providers prior to the 1995 enactment of § 251 of the State
Telecommunications Act but after 1985 shall satisfy the permit requirements of
this chapter.
   (G)   Existing providers. Pursuant to § 5(3) of the Act, within 180 days
from November 1, 2002, the effective date of the Act, a telecommunications
provider with facilities located in a public right-of-way in the village as of
such date that has not previously obtained authorization or a permit under §
251 of the State Telecommunications Act, Public Act 179 of 1991, being M.C.L.A.
§ 484.2251, shall submit to the village an application for a permit in
accordance with the requirements of this chapter. Pursuant to § 5(3) of the
Act, a telecommunications provider submitting an application under this
division (G) is not required to pay the $500 application fee required under
division (D) above. A provider under this division (G) shall be given up to an
additional 180 days to submit the permit application if allowed by the
Authority, as provided in § 5(4) of the Act.
(Ord. 2 of 2003, passed 6-2-2003) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.05 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Approval or denial. The authority to approve or deny an application
for a permit is hereby delegated to the Village Council. Pursuant to § 15(3) of
the Act, the Village Council shall approve or deny an application for a permit
within 45 days from the date a telecommunications provider files an application
for a permit under §
113.04(B) of this chapter for access to a public right-of-way within the
village. Pursuant to § 6(6) of the Act, the Village Clerk shall notify the MPSC
when the Village Council has granted or denied a permit, including information
regarding the date on which the application was filed and the date on which
permit was granted or denied. The Village Council shall not unreasonably deny
an application for a permit.
   (B)   Form of permit. If an application for permit is approved, the Village
Clerk shall issue the permit in the form approved by the MPSC, with or without
additional or different permit terms, in accordance with §§ 6(1), 6(2), and 15
of the Act.
   (C)   Conditions. Pursuant to § 15(4) of the Act, the Village Council may
impose conditions on the issuance of a permit, which conditions shall be
limited to the telecommunications provider’s access and usage of the public
right-of-way.
   (D)   Bond requirement. Pursuant to § 15(3) of the Act, and without
limitation on division (C) above, the Village Council may require that a bond
be posted by the telecommunications provider as a condition of the permit. If a
bond is required, it shall not exceed the reasonable cost to ensure that the
public right-of-way is returned to its original condition during and after the
telecommunications provider’s access and use.
(Ord. 2 of 2003, passed 6-2-2003)
§ 113.06 CONSTRUCTION/ENGINEERING PERMIT.
   A telecommunications provider shall not commence construction upon, over,
across, or under the public right-of-way in the village without first obtaining
a construction or engineering permit if such a permit is required by village
ordinance. No fee shall be charged for such a construction or engineering
permit.
(Ord. 2 of 2003, passed 6-2-2003) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.07 CONDUIT OF UTILITY POLES.
   Pursuant to § 4(3) of the Act, obtaining a permit or paying the fees
required under the Act or under this chapter does not give a telecommunications
provider a right to use conduit or utility poles.
(Ord. 2 of 2003, passed 6-2-2003) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.08 ROUTE MAPS.
   Pursuant to § 6(7) of the Act, a telecommunications provider shall, within
90 days after the substantial completion of construction of new
telecommunications facilities in the village, submit route maps showing the
location of the telecommunications facilities to both the MPSC and to the
village. The route maps should be in paper format unless and until the
Commission determines otherwise, in accordance with § 6(8) of the Act.
(Ord. 2 of 2003, passed 6-2-2003) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.09 REPAIR OF DAMAGE.
   Pursuant to § 15(5) of the Act, a telecommunications provider undertaking an
excavation or construction or installing telecommunications facilities within a
public right-of-way or temporarily obstructing a public right-of-way in the
village, as authorized by a permit, shall promptly repair all damage done to
the street surface and all installations under, over, below, or within the
public right-of-way and shall promptly restore the public right-of-way to its
pre-existing condition.
(Ord. 2 of 2003, passed 6-2-2003) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.10 ESTABLISHMENT AND PAYMENT OF MAINTENANCE FEE.
   In addition to the non-refundable application fee paid to the village set
forth in §
113.04(D), a telecommunications provider with telecommunications facilities in
the village’s public rights-of-way shall pay an annual maintenance fee to the
Authority pursuant to § 8 of the Act.
(Ord. 2 of 2003, passed 6-2-2003) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.11 MODIFICATION OF EXISTING FEES.
   (A)   In compliance with the requirements of § 13(1) of the Act, the village
hereby modifies, to the extent necessary, any fees charged to
telecommunications providers after November 1, 2002, the effective date of the
Act, relating to access and usage of the public rights-of-way, to an amount not
exceeding the amounts of fees and charges required under the Act, which shall
be paid to the Authority.
   (B)   In compliance with the requirements of § 13(4) of the Act, the village
also hereby approves modification of the fees of providers with
telecommunication facilities in public rights-of-way within the village’s
boundaries, so that those providers pay only those fees required under § 8 of
the Act.
   (C)   The village shall provide each telecommunications provider affected by
the fee with a copy of the ordinance codified herein, in compliance with the
requirement of § 13(4) of the Act.
   (D)   To the extent any fees are charged telecommunications providers in
excess of the amounts permitted under the Act, or which are otherwise
inconsistent with the Act, such imposition is hereby declared to be contrary to
the village’s policy and intent, and upon application by a provider or
discovery by the village, shall be promptly refunded as having been charged in
error.
(Ord. 2 of 2003, passed 6-2-2003) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.12 SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   Pursuant to § 13(5) of the Act, if § 8 of the Act is found to be invalid or
unconstitutional, the modification of fees under §
113.11 shall be void from the date modification was made.
(Ord. 2 of 2003, passed 6-2-2003)
§ 113.13 USE OF FUNDS.
   Pursuant to § 9(4) of the Act, all amounts received by the village from the
Authority shall be used by the village solely for rights-of-way related
purposes. In conformance with that requirement, all funds received by the
village from the Authority shall be deposited into the Major Street Fund and/or
the Local Street Fund maintained by the village under applicable state law.
(Ord. 2 of 2003, passed 6-2-2003)
§ 113.14 ANNUAL REPORT.
   Pursuant to § 10(5) of the Act, the Village Clerk shall file an annual
report with the Authority on the use and disposition of funds annually
distributed by the Authority.
(Ord. 2 of 2003, passed 6-2-2003)
§ 113.15 CABLE TELEVISION OPERATORS.
   Pursuant to § 13(6) of the Act, the village shall not hold a cable
television operator in default or seek any remedy for its failure to satisfy an
obligation, if any, to pay after November 1, 2002, the effective date of the
Act, a franchise fee or similar fee on that portion of gross revenues from
charges the cable operator received for cable modem services provided through
broadband internet transport access services.
(Ord. 2 of 2003, passed 6-2-2003)
§ 113.16 EXISTING RIGHTS.
   Pursuant to § 4(2) of the Act, except as expressly provided herein with
respect to fees, this chapter shall not affect any existing rights that a
telecommunications provider or the village may have under a permit issued by
the village or under a contract between the village and a telecommunications
provider related to the use of the public rights-of-way.
(Ord. 2 of 2003, passed 6-2-2003)
§ 113.17 COMPLIANCE.
   The village hereby declares that its policy and intent in adopting this
chapter is to fully comply with the requirements of the Act, and the provisions
of this chapter should be construed in such a manner as to achieve that
purpose.
(Ord. 2 of 2003, passed 6-2-2003)
§ 113.18 RESERVATION OF POLICE POWERS.
   Pursuant to § 15(2) of the Act, this chapter shall not limit the village’s
right to review and approve a telecommunication provider’s access to and
ongoing use of a public right-of-way or limit the village’s authority to ensure
and protect the health, safety, and welfare of the public.
(Ord. 2 of 2003, passed 6-2-2003)
§ 113.19 AUTHORIZED VILLAGE OFFICIALS.
   The Village President or his or her designee is hereby designated as the
authorized village official to issue municipal civil infraction citations
(directing alleged violators to appear in court) or municipal civil infraction
violation notices (directing alleged violators to appear at the Municipal
Ordinance Violations Bureau) for violations under this chapter.
(Ord. 2 of 2003, passed 6-2-2003)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   A person who violates any provision of this chapter or the terms or
conditions of a permit is responsible for a municipal civil infraction as
defined in Public Act 12 of 1994, amending Public Act 236 of 1961, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 600.101 through 600.9939, and shall be subject to a fine of not
more than $500. Each day this chapter is violated shall be considered as a
separate violation. Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the
remedies available to the village in the event of a violation by a person of
this chapter or a permit.
(Ord. 2 of 2003, passed 6-2-2003)
CHAPTER 114: MARIJUANA
Section
   
114.01   Marijuana establishments prohibited
   
114.02   Enforcement officials
   
114.03   Nuisance per se
   
114.04   Separate court action
 
   
114.99   Violation; penalty
§ 114.01 MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED.
   Pursuant to the authority granted under § 6.1 of the Michigan Regulation and
Taxation of Marijuana Act, 2018 Initiated Law 1, § 6.1 M.C.L.A. § 333.27956,
Subsection 1, the Village of Alanson hereby completely prohibits any marijuana
establishment, as the term is defined in § 3(h) of the Michigan Regulation and
Taxation of Marijuana Act, 2018 Initiated Law 1, § 3(h), M.C.L.A. § 333.27953
(h), within its boundaries.
(Ord._2_of_2019, passed 10-14-2019)
§ 114.02 ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS.
   The Village President and any other person appointed by the Village Council
are hereby designated as the authorized officials to issue municipal civil
infraction citations directing alleged violators of this chapter to appear in
court.
(Ord._2_of_2019, passed 10-14-2019)
§ 114.03 NUISANCE PER SE.
   A violation of this chapter is hereby declared to be a nuisance per se and
is declared to be offensive to the public health, safety and welfare.
(Ord._2_of_2019, passed 10-14-2019)
§ 114.04 SEPARATE COURT ACTION.
   In addition to enforcing this chapter through the use of a municipal civil
infraction proceeding, the village may initiate proceedings in the Circuit
Court to abate of eliminate the nuisance per se or any other violation of this
chapter.
(Ord._2_of_2019, passed 10-14-2019)
§ 114.99 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be responsible
for a municipal civil infraction as defined in Public Act 12 of 1994, amending
Public Act 236 of 1961, being §§ 600.101-600.9939 of MCL, and shall be subject
to a fine of not more than $500 each day this chapter is violated shall be
considered as a separate violation.
(Ord._2_of_2019, passed 10-14-2019)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
131.   MINORS
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
130.01   Explosives
   
130.02   Discharge of firearms, air guns, zip guns, bows and crossbows
   
130.03   School trespassing
   
130.04   Discharge of fireworks within village limits
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 EXPLOSIVES.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation shall cause or knowingly permit
dynamite, nitroglycerine, gunpowder, or other high explosive of any kind or
nature to be exploded or fired within the limits of this village without first
obtaining a permit therefor as hereinafter provided; nor at all within 500 feet
of any dwelling, school house, church, or other public place, except in extreme
emergency.
   (B)   Any person desiring to fire or explode any of the explosives referred
to in division (A) above hereof, shall make written and signed application
therefor specifying the purpose, place, and time the same is to be used, and
presenting the same to the Village President or Village Marshal and obtaining
his or her signed approval thereof, and filing same with the approval with the
Village Clerk, setting forth the time, place, and purpose of the use of said
explosives.
   (C)   No person, firm, or corporation shall handle, keep, store, or house
within 1,000 feet of any dwelling, church, school house, or other public place,
nor within the business district of this village, any of the explosives
described in division (A) above, exceeding a harmless quantity hereof, at any
time whatsoever.
   (D)   The keeping or storing of any of the explosives described in division
(A) above is hereby declared to be dangerous and a public nuisance, and any
such explosive found in the prohibited district described in division (C) above
may be destroyed or removed forthwith by any police officer or constable or any
other police officer of this state, and without any liability on his, her, or
their part.
(Ord. 75-10, passed - -) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS, AIR GUNS, ZIP GUNS, BOWS, AND CROSSBOWS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. This section is adopted so that the Village
Council may promote the public health, safety and general welfare within the
village through the regulation of the discharge of firearms, air guns, zip
guns, bows, crossbows and similar devices. By prohibiting the discharge of
firearms, air guns and zip guns, and by restricting the discharge of bows and
crossbows, the Village Council seeks to prevent bodily injury, death, property
damage and other nuisances within the village limits.
   (B)   Definitions.  For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning. Other words and phrases shall be given their common,
ordinary meaning unless the context clearly requires otherwise. Headings and
captions are for reference purposes only and shall not be used in the
interpretation of this section.
      AIR GUN. Any implement, designed as a gun, that will expel a BB or pellet
by spring, gas or air. AIR GUN includes a paintball gun that expels by
pneumatic pressure plastic balls filled with paint for the purpose of marking
the point of impact.
      BOW. A flexible strip of wood or other material, bent by a string
stretched between its ends, capable of propelling an arrow.
      CROSSBOW. A weapon capable of propelling an arrow consisting of a bow
fixed transversely on a stock, the string of which is released by a trigger
mechanism.
      FIREARM. Any device designed, made, or adapted to expel a projectile
through a barrel by using the energy or force generated by an explosion or
burning substance or any device readily convertible to that use. FIREARM
includes but is not limited to guns, handguns, machine guns, rifles, shotguns,
automatic rifles, revolvers and pistols.
      PERSON. An individual, corporation, organization, government or
governmental subdivision or agency, business trust, estate, trust, partnership,
association and any other legal entity.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, parks, streets,
highways, and the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartments, office
buildings, transport facilities and shops.
      PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on, below, or above a public roadway,
highway, street, public sidewalk, alley, waterway, or utility easement in which
the village has an interest.
      TARGET. An inanimate object capable of safely absorbing an arrow
discharged or shot from a bow or crossbow without allowing the arrow to pass
completely through the object.
      VILLAGE. The municipality of the village located in Emmet County,
Michigan, its agents and assigns.
      VILLAGE LIMITS. The incorporated municipal boundaries of the village.
      ZIP GUN. A device or combination of devices that was not originally a
firearm and is adapted to expel a projectile through a smooth-bore or rifled-
bore barrel by using the energy generated by an explosion or burning substance.
   (C)   Discharge of certain weapons.
      (1)   No person shall discharge, fire or shoot any firearm within the
village limits.
      (2)   No person shall discharge, fire or shoot any air gun or zip gun
within the village limits.
      (3)   No person shall discharge or shoot any bow or crossbow in any
public place, on or across any public right-of-way or onto the property of any
other person within the village limits.
      (4)   No person shall discharge or shoot any bow or crossbow on private
property within the village limits, except at a target as defined in this
section and when such discharging or shooting can be done without violating
division (C)(3).
   (D)   Exceptions. Division (C) shall not apply to:
      (1)   Licensed law enforcement officers, provided that such discharges
are made in the course and scope of the law enforcement officer’s official
duties.
      (2)   The use of blank cartridges for a theatrical production, a military
ceremony or a sporting event.
      (3)   Duly designated animal control officers destroying sick, injured,
or predatory animals on public or private property.
      (4)   A person in the lawful exercise of self-defense or the defense of
others.
(Ord. 75-2, passed - -; Ord._4_of_2018, passed 2-12-2018) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 SCHOOL TRESPASSING.
   (A)   Short title. This section may be cited as the “School Trespass
Ordinance” of the village.
   (B)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any street, alley, park, public building, public, private,
or parochial school, any place of business or any assembly open to or
frequented by the public, and any other place which is open to the public view
or to which the public has access.
   (C)   Acts prohibited. No person shall:
      (1)   Willfully or maliciously make or assist in making any noises,
disturbance, or improper diversions by which the peace, quietude, or good order
of any public, private, or parochial school is disturbed;
      (2)   Use profane, indecent, or immoral language or indulge in indecent
or immoral conduct in any building or on any property adjacent to any building
in the village occupied as a public, private, or parochial school;
      (3)   Create a disturbance in any private, public, or parochial school or
on the surrounding school grounds or on the fields or grounds lawfully used for
school activities while such recreational areas or other activities are in
progress and any person found to be doing same shall leave immediately when so
directed by the principal or by any other person designated by the principal;
      (4)   Be drunk or under the influence of any narcotic drug or alcoholic
beverage or indulge in or use any narcotic drug or any alcoholic beverage in
any private, public, or parochial school or on the surrounding school grounds
or on the fields or grounds lawfully used for school activities;
      (5)   Enter and remain in any public, private, or parochial school
building between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. on days such school is in
session who is not a regularly enrolled student, teacher, or other employee of
such school, unless he or she shall have first immediately proceeded to the
administrator’s offices and identified himself to the principal or the
principal’s designees;
      (6)   Enter and remain in any public, private, or parochial school, or on
surrounding school grounds within 300 feet of the school building, after being
requested to leave by the principal or his or her designee, or within 300 feet
of any surrounding school grounds or field or grounds lawfully used for school
activities;
      (7)   Willfully destroy, remove, damage, alter, or in any manner deface
any property not his or her own, in any private, public, or parochial school or
on the surrounding school grounds or on the fields or grounds lawfully used for
school activities;
      (8)   Borrow or attempt to borrow any money or thing of value from any
student in any public, private, or parochial school or on any public, private,
or parochial school property in the village or, during any time when any such
student is going to or returning from any regularly scheduled session of any
such school, without first obtaining the written approval of the principal of
such school or other persons designated by the principal of such school to
issue such written approval;
      (9)   Be on any school grounds after dark unless he or she is actively
engaged in school sponsored functions, supervised recreational activities, or
is participating in an athletic event or is a spectator of such event;
      (10)   Insult, accost, molest, or otherwise annoy, either by word of
mouth, sign, or motion, any person in any private, public, or parochial school
or on the surrounding school grounds or on the fields or grounds lawfully used
for school activities;
      (11)   Collect or stand in crowds, or arrange, encourage, or abet the
collection of persons in crowds for illegal or mischievous purposes in any
private, public, or parochial school or on the surrounding school grounds or on
the fields or grounds lawfully used for school activities; and/or
      (12)   Obstruct, resist, hinder, or oppose any member, employee, teacher,
or principal of any public, private, or parochial school, or school board, in
the discharge of his or her duties as such in any public, private, or parochial
school, or on the surrounding school grounds, or the fields or grounds lawfully
used for school activities.
(Ord. 75-33, passed - -) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 DISCHARGE OF FIREWORKS WITHIN VILLAGE LIMITS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. This section is adopted so that the Village
Council may promote the public health, safety and general welfare within the
village through the regulation of the discharge of consumer fireworks. By
regulating the discharge of fireworks, the Village Council seeks to prevent
bodily injury, property damage, and other nuisances within the village limits.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning. Other words and phrases shall be given their common,
ordinary meaning unless the context clearly requires otherwise. Headings and
captions are for reference purposes only and shall not be used in the
interpretation of this section.
      CONSUMER FIREWORK. A firework device that is designed to produce visible
efforts by combustion, that are required to comply with the construction,
chemical composition, and labeling regulations promulgated by the United States
Consumer Product Safety Commission under 16 CFR parts 1500 and 1507, and that
are listed in American Pyrotechnics Association ("APA") standard 87-1, 3.1.2,
3.3.3, or 3.5. CONSUMER FIREWORKS do not include low-impact fireworks.
      DISPLAY FIREWORK. A large firework device that is explosive material
intended for use in fireworks displays and designed to produce visible or
audible effects by combustion, deflagration, or detonation, as provided in 27
CFR 555.11, 49 CFR 172, and APA standard 87-1, 4.1.
      FIREWORK or FIREWORKS. Any composition or device, except for a starting
pistol, a flare gun, or a flare, designated for the purpose of producing a
visible or audible effect by combustion, deflagration, or detonation. FIREWORKS
consist of consumer fireworks, low-impact fireworks, articles pyrotechnic,
display fireworks, and special effects.
      LOW-IMPACT FIREWORK. Ground and handheld sparkling devices as that phrase
is defined under APA standard 87-1, 3.1, 3.1.1.1 to 3.1.1.8, and 3.5.
      NATIONAL HOLIDAY. The following legal public holidays:
         (a)   New Year's Day, January 1.
         (b)   Birthday of Martin Luther King, Jr., the third Monday in
January.
         (c)   Washington's Birthday, the third Monday in February.
         (d)   Memorial Day, the last Monday in May.
         (e)   Independence Day, July 4.
         (f)   Labor Day, the first Monday in September.
         (g)   Columbus Day, the second Monday in October.
         (h)   Veteran's Day, November 11.
         (i)   Thanksgiving Day, the fourth Thursday in November.
         (j)   Christmas Day, December 25.
      NOVELTIES. A term as defined under APA standard 87-1, 3.2, 3.2.1, 3.2.2,
3.2.3, 3.2.4, and 3.2.5 and all of the following:
         (a)   Toy plastic or paper caps for toy pistols in sheets, strips,
rolls, or individual caps containing not more than .25 of a grain of explosive
content per cap, in packages labeled to indicate the maximum explosive content
per cap.
         (b)   Toy pistols, toy cannons, toy canes, toy trick noisemakers, and
toy guns in which toy caps as described in division (a) above are used, that
are constructed so that the hand cannot come in contact with the cap when in
place for the explosion, and that are not designed to break apart or be
separated so as to form a projectile or missile by the explosion.
         (c)   Filter sparklers in paper tubes not exceeding 1/8 inch in
diameter.
         (d)   Toy snakes not containing mercury, if packed in cardboard boxes
with not more than 12 pieces per box for retail sale and if the manufacturer's
name and the quantity contained in each box are printed on the box; and toy
smoke devices.
      OCCUPANT. Any person having immediate control of private or public
premises and/or real property.
      OWNER. Any person holding legal or equitable title to a property or to
real improvements upon a property.
      PREMISES. Any dwelling, building or other structure designed or used
wholly or in part for residential purposes, whether inhabited or vacant, and
its curtilage or part thereof.
      PROPERTY. Anything of value which is subject to ownership, including real
property and fixtures.
      REAL PROPERTY. Land and whatever is erected upon, growing upon or affixed
to it.
   (C)   Prohibition on use of consumer fireworks. No person shall ignite,
discharge or use consumer fireworks within the village, except this prohibition
shall not preclude any person from the ignition, discharge and use of consumer
fireworks on the day preceding, the day of, or the day after a national
holiday, during the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. Further, no owner or
occupant shall permit a person to ignite, discharge or use consumer fireworks
on their property within the village, except during the hours permitted on the
day preceding, the day of, or the day after a national holiday. A village
resident may apply for prior permission to discharge fireworks during the
prohibited time. Approval of said discharge will be at the discretion of an
approved village ordinance enforcement officer.
   (D)   Low impact and novelty fireworks. The use, ignition or discharge of
low impact and novelty fireworks is prohibited during the hours defined in §
130.04(C), except on the day before, the day after and the day of a national
holiday when time periods for consumer fireworks set forth in §
130.04(C).
   (E)   Minors.
      (1)   A minor shall not use, discharge, or ignite any consumer fireworks
at any time, including those times defined in §
130.04(C).
      (2)   A minor shall not use, discharge, or ignite any low impact
fireworks or novelty fireworks, unless under the supervision of a parent or
guardian, and the use, discharge and ignition is within permitted hours defined
in §
130.04(C), and does not violate the provisions of this section.
   (F)   Enforcement. The Village President, his/her designees and sworn law
enforcement officers are authorized to enforce the provisions of this section.
   (G)   Violations, fines, penalties and seizure.
      (1)   Any person, firm, corporation or entity violating the provisions of
this section shall be guilty of a civil infraction, punishable by a fine up to
$100.
      (2)   If the Village President, his/her designee, or a sworn law
enforcement officer determines that a violation of this section has occurred,
he or she may seize the consumer fireworks as evidence of the violation.
      (3)   Following the final disposition of a finding of responsibility for
violating this section, the village may dispose of or destroy any consumer
firework retained as evidence in that prosecution.
      (4)   In addition to any other penalty, a person, firm, corporation, or
entity that is found responsible for a violation of this section shall be
required to reimburse the city for the costs of storing, disposing of, or
destroying the consumer fireworks that were confiscated for a violation of this
section.
(Ord._75-40_of_2018, passed 10-8-2018)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who is convicted of any violation of any provision of §
130.01 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by fine not to
exceed $100 or by imprisonment in the county jail not to exceed 90 days or by
both fine and imprisonment at the discretion of the trial court upon each count
or offense of which such person be convicted.
   (C)   (1)   Any person who knowingly violates §
130.02(C)(1) or (3) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of
not more than $500 and/or by imprisonment in the county jail for not more than
90 days.
      (2)   Any person who violates §
130.02(C)(2) or (4) shall be responsible for a municipal civil infraction as
defined in Public Act 12 of 1994, amending Public Act 236 of 1961, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 600.101 through 600.9939 and shall be subject to a fine of not more
than $500.
      (3)   Deputies of the County Sheriff and village officials designated by
the Village Council are hereby authorized to issue municipal civil infraction
citations under this section directing offenders to appear in court.
   (D)   Any person who is convicted of any of the acts of disorderly conduct
as specified in §
130.03 shall be punished by fine not to exceed $100 or by imprisonment not to
exceed 90 days or by both fine and imprisonment at the discretion of the court,
upon each count or offense of which such person shall be convicted.
(Ord. 75-2, passed - -; Ord. 75-8, passed - -; Ord. 75-10, passed - -; Ord. 75-
33, passed - -; Ord._5_of_2018, passed 2-12-2018)
CHAPTER 131: MINORS
Section
   
131.01   Curfew
   
131.02   Curfew exceptions
   
131.03   Contributing to the delinquency of a minor
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 CURFEW.
   (A)   It shall hereafter be unlawful for any person under the full age of 17
years to be and/or remain upon any of the public streets, alleys, parks, and
other public grounds within the village, between the hours of 10:30 p.m. in the
afternoon and 6:00 a.m. of the following forenoon, unless accompanied by a
parent or legal guardian or while returning from some school function or while
in the discharge of an errand under the direction of his or her parent,
parents, or legal guardian.
   (B)   Any child who shall violate this section may be deemed a delinquent
child and be punishable as such delinquent child in the County Probate Court.
   (C)   Any person who shall willfully or knowingly permit any child, of whom
they are the parent, parents, or legal guardian, to violate this section shall
be guilty of contributing to the delinquency of a minor child.
   (D)   It shall not be necessary that said child violating the provisions of
this section be adjudged a delinquent child before prosecution of said parent,
parents, or legal guardian be instituted and trial had, and the parent,
parents, or legal guardian’s guilt or innocence adjudicated.
(Ord. 75-13, passed - -) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.02 CURFEW EXCEPTIONS.
   A citation for violation of §
131.01 may be issued by a police officer only if the officer reasonably
believes that a violation has occurred and none of the exemptions enumerated in
this section apply. It is an exemption to a violation under that the person
engaged in the prohibited conduct while:
   (A)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
   (B)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
   (C)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
   (D)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home from
an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
   (E)   Involved in an emergency;
   (F)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department about the minor’s presence;
   (G)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the village, a civic
organization, or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the
minor, or going to or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an
official school, religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults
and sponsored by the village, a civic organization, or another similar entity
that takes responsibility for the minor;
   (H)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
   (I)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed in
accordance with state law.
§ 131.03 CONTRIBUTING TO THE DELINQUENCY OF A MINOR.
   Any person who shall, by any act or any word, encourage, contribute toward,
cause, or tend to cause any minor child under the age of 17 years of age to
become negligent or delinquent as to come or tend to come under the
jurisdiction of the Juvenile Division of the Probate Court, as defined in
applicable state law, whether or not such child shall be adjudicated a ward of
the Probate Court, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 75-29, passed - -) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who is convicted of any violation of any provision of §
131.01 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by fine not to
exceed $100 or by imprisonment in the county jail not to exceed 90 days or by
both fine and imprisonment at the discretion of the trial court upon each count
or offense of which such person be convicted.
   (C)   Upon conviction of the violation of §
131.03, the penalty to be assessed may be by fine of not more than $100 or by
imprisonment in the county jail for not more than 90 days, or any part of
either or both.
(Ord. 75-13, passed - -; Ord. 75-29, passed - -)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   DANGEROUS OR DAMAGED STRUCTURES
      
151.   ZONING CODE
      
152.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
153.   SUBDIVISIONS AND SITE CONDOMINIUMS
      
154.   LAND DIVISIONS AND PROPERTY TRANSFERS
CHAPTER 150: DANGEROUS OR DAMAGED STRUCTURES
Section
Dangerous Structures
   
150.01   Prohibition
   
150.02   Notice
   
150.03   Inspection
   
150.04   Abatement by village
   
150.05   Nuisance
   
150.06   Injunctive relief
   
150.07   Enforcement
   
150.08   Effective date
   
150.09   Procedure
Damaged Structures
   
150.20   Duty of responsible party for building
   
150.21   Duty of village
 
   
150.99   Penalty
DANGEROUS STRUCTURES
§ 150.01 PROHIBITION.
   No person, corporation, or business organization shall own, occupy, or
maintain any structure within the village which is unsafe.
(Ord. 2 of 1998, passed 12-14-1998) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02 NOTICE.
   As a prerequisite to the village abating the unsafe condition itself, the
village shall give the owner written notice of the unsafe condition, the
location of the structure, and give the owner and/or occupant 30 days to remedy
the unsafe condition. The notice may be personally delivered or may be sent to
the address of the premises or, if the address of the premises is unknown, the
notice may be sent to the address shown on the assessor’s rolls.
(Ord. 2 of 1998, passed 12-14-1998) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.03 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Village representatives shall have the right to inspect structures to
determine violations of, or compliance with, this subchapter.
   (B)   Village representatives may exercise this right to inspection by
consent of the person having the right to possession of the structure or any
part thereof, or by administrative search warrant.
(Ord. 2 of 1998, passed 12-14-1998)
§ 150.04 ABATEMENT BY VILLAGE.
   (A)   In addition to the other remedies provided in this subchapter, the
village may elect to take such steps as are necessary to abate the unsafe
condition if the owner and/or occupant fails to comply with a notice issued
pursuant to §
150.02. A representative of the village, after receiving authorization by the
Village Council, shall take such steps as are necessary to abate or eliminate
the unsafe condition.
   (B)   The cost of elimination of the unsafe condition by the village,
including reasonable attorney fees, may be collected in a lawsuit against the
owner and/or occupant of the structure and/or against the person who committed,
created, or maintained the unsafe condition.
(Ord. 2 of 1998, passed 12-14-1998)
§ 150.05 NUISANCE.
   A violation of this subchapter is hereby declared to be a public nuisance or
a nuisance per se and is declared to be offensive to the public health, safety,
and welfare.
(Ord. 2 of 1998, passed 12-14-1998) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.06 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   (A)   The village shall have the right to institute a separate court action
seeking injunctive relief to abate the nuisance.
   (B)   This remedy may be used in addition to, or in lieu of, a civil
infraction proceeding.
(Ord. 2 of 1998, passed 12-14-1998)
§ 150.07 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Village President is hereby designated as the authorized village
official to issue municipal civil infraction citations directing alleged
violators of this subchapter to appear in court.
(Ord. 2 of 1998, passed 12-14-1998)
§ 150.08 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall become effective 20 days after its enactment.
(Ord. 2 of 1998, passed 12-14-1998)
§ 150.09 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Initiation. Village becomes aware of a dangerous structure as a result
of:
      (1)   A written complaint; or
      (2)   Observation by a village official.
   (B)   First step. At the first meeting after receipt of divisions (A)(1) or
(A)(2) above, the complaint is assigned a complaint number by the Village Clerk
and the complaint is placed on the agenda. If the Council members desire to
take action against the complaint, they pass a motion to send notice in
accordance with §
150.02. If it is the belief on the part of the Village Council that inspection
is necessary under §
150.03, then the letter will also request that the owner or occupant consent to
have the village’s designated, qualified Inspector enter the structure and
submit a written report within 30 days. No action by the owner or occupant
other than the consent to inspect will be required until after the receipt of
the report and determination by the village of what remedial action is
necessary. At that time the owner will have 30 days to remedy the unsafe
condition.
   (C)   Second step. If no action is taken by owner or occupant within the 30-
day period, the village will assess a first step fine of $75 and require the
owner or occupant to appear at the next regularly scheduled village meeting.
   (D)   Third step. If no action is taken by owner or occupant under division
(C) above, the village will assess an additional fine of $150. Additional fines
will be assessed in accordance with the following schedule:
      (1)   Step three fine: $300; or
      (2)   Step four fine: $500.
   (E)   Step six. If no action to remedy the unsafe condition has been taken
within 30 days of step five above, the Village Council will take up an
abatement by village under §
150.04.
(Ord. passed - -)
DAMAGED STRUCTURES
§ 150.20 DUTY OF RESPONSIBLE PARTY FOR BUILDING.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, lessee, occupant, or other party
responsible for all buildings, structures, or parts thereof, situated within
the village limits, that have heretofore, or that may hereafter become damaged
by fire, lightning, windstorm, or other calamity, or shall become depreciated
by neglect, misuse, or non-use, to such an extent as to render the same
uninhabitable or not fit for use for which it was intended, to within 60 days
after the occurrence of such damage or depreciation, to repair or reconstruct
the same and render the same habitable and fit for use; or to remove the
remains of said building or structure, or part thereof, within the said period
of 60 days; provided that an extension of time therefor may be granted by the
Village Council for good reason.
(Ord. 75-6, passed 6-2-1975) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.21 DUTY OF VILLAGE.
   It shall be the duty of the village to supervise tearing down and removal of
any and all buildings, structures, or parts thereof which shall have been
damaged by fire, lightning, windstorm, or other calamity and which shall not
have been repaired or removed as required in §
150.20, and shall keep an account of such expense of such tearing down and
removal and the amount of such expense shall become a debt against the owner,
lessee, or other party responsible and may be recovered by the village in an
action at law.
(Ord. 75-6, passed 6-2-1975)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §§
150.01 through
150.09 shall be guilty of a municipal civil infraction as defined in Public Act
12 of 1994, amending Public Act 236 of 1961, being M.C.L.A. §§ 600.101 through
600.9939, and shall be subject to a fine of not more than $500. Each day §§
150.01 through
150.09 is violated shall be considered as a separate violation.
   (C)   Any person who is convicted of any violation of any provision of §§
150.20 and
150.21 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be punished by fine not to
exceed $100 or by imprisonment in the county jail not to exceed 90 days or by
both fine and imprisonment at the discretion of the trial court upon each count
or offense of which such person be convicted.
(Ord. 75-6, passed 6-2-1975; Ord. 2 of 1998, passed 12-14-1998)
CHAPTER 151: ZONING CODE
Section
   
151.01   Zoning Code adopted by reference
§ 151.01 ZONING CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Zoning Ordinance of the village, including text and Zoning Map, and all
amendments thereto, is hereby adopted into this chapter as if fully set forth
herein. Copies of the Zoning Ordinance and said amendments can be found at the
Village Clerk’s office.
(Ord. passed 9-3-1993; Ord. 03-2005, passed 10-24-2005; Ord. 04-2005, passed 1-
2-2006; Ord. 2-2006, passed - -2006; Ord. 03-2006, passed 1-2-2006)
CHAPTER 152: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Sidewalks
   
152.01   Duty to keep clean
   
152.02   Unlawful activity
   
152.03   Damage repair
   
152.04   Failure to comply
Street Repair
   
152.15   Street repair
Street Closures
   
152.30   Petitions
   
152.31   Procedure
   
152.32   Notice
   
152.33   Expenses
   
152.34   Decision
   
152.35   Vacating
 
   
152.99   Penalty
SIDEWALKS
§ 152.01 DUTY TO KEEP CLEAN.
   It shall be the duty of the owner and occupant, or either of them, of any
land or tenement within the village abutting on any public street and on which
street there is laid a cement sidewalk, gutter, or curb adjacent to the
property of such owner or occupant, to at all times keep said sidewalk, gutter,
or curb and the whole thereof free from rubbish, sand, and dirt.
(Ord. 75-5, passed - -) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.02 UNLAWFUL ACTIVITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to undermine any
sidewalk, gutter, or curb within the village or to remove the adjacent earth so
that by the settling and washing away of the earth any sidewalk, gutter, or
curb will become undermined.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant, or either of them, to
allow any sidewalk, gutter, or curb on any public street adjacent to the
property so owned or occupied by them, to become or remain undermined.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, firm, or corporation
to place or move any heavy object or thing over, along, or across any cement
sidewalk, gutter, or curb in the village so as to damage or break said
sidewalk, gutter, or curb or cause any part of it to become displaced.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to plant or cause to be planted
any tree or shrub in such close proximity to any cement sidewalk, gutter, or
curb as to cause said sidewalk, gutter, or curb to become displaced or leave
its established grade.
(Ord. 75-5, passed - -) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.03 DAMAGE REPAIR.
   It shall be the duty of the owner and occupant, or either of them, to:
   (A)   At once repair any and all damage done to any sidewalk, gutter, or
curb within the village, on any street adjacent to the property so owned and
occupied by them; and
   (B)   To remove the cause of said damage, if any.
(Ord. 75-5, passed - -) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.04 FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   In case the owner or occupant of any lands abutting on a public street on
which any cement sidewalk, gutter, or curb is laid shall fail within 24 hours
after notice to perform and abide by all things required in this subchapter,
the Village Street Commissioner may thereupon proceed to carry out the
provisions of this subchapter and charge this expense thereof to such owner and
occupant, or either of them, and if unpaid the amount thereof, together with a
penalty of 25% in addition shall be assessed against said property and the
owner and occupant in the next levy and assessment of the general village taxes
of the village.
(Ord. 75-5, passed - -) Penalty, see §
152.99
STREET REPAIR
§ 152.15 STREET REPAIR.
   (A)   The millage for street repair, as allowed under general law, for the
purpose of street repairs, and to be used only for street repairs, and levied
by the village, is hereby exempt from capture by the Village Downtown
Development Authority pursuant to M.C.L.A. § 125.1653(3).
   (B)   The Village President is hereby authorized to enter into an agreement
with the Village Downtown Development Authority for the purpose of exempting
the millage for street repairs, levied by the village, from capture by the
Village Downtown Development Authority for current and any future additions to
the Village Downtown Development Authority boundaries.
   (C)   This section is effective when filed with the Village Clerk and
remains in effect until a resolution rescinding this resolution is filed.
(Res. 01-2006, passed 9-18-2006)
STREET CLOSURES
§ 152.30 PETITIONS.
   Whenever an owner or owners of land within said village shall file a written
petition with the Village Clerk to vacate a street, alley, or portion thereof
in the village, whether platted or not, the petition shall first be referred to
the Village Council for a report of whether or not it is advisable to vacate
such street, alley, or portion thereof.
(Ord. 75-19, passed - -)
§ 152.31 PROCEDURE.
   After receiving the report of the appointed investigating committee, the
Village Council shall determine whether to proceed further and if so, the
procedure shall be as hereinafter set forth.
   (A)   The village shall have published a notice of the hearing and date of
said hearing on the petition for the vacating of the street, alley, or portion
thereof by publishing the notice thereof once each week for three consecutive
weeks in a newspaper printed or circulated within the village.
   (B)   The village shall also cause copies of said published notice to be
posted in three of the most public places within the village.
   (C)   The village shall also cause to be mailed, by first class mail, a copy
of said notice of hearing to those persons shown by the last known Village
Assessor’s records, to be the owners of each lot or parcel of land which abuts
said street, alley, or portion thereof to be vacated.
   (D)   The village shall cause to be mailed, by certified mail, a copy of
said published notice to the State Treasurer and to all of the public utilities
providing services in the village, if said street, alley, or portion thereof
sought to be vacated is connected to a county road; then, a copy of said notice
shall also be mailed to the Board of County Road Commissioners of the county.
(Ord. 75-19, passed - -)
§ 152.32 NOTICE.
   Said notice shall set forth the time, date, and place of said hearing and
shall also contain an exact description of the street, alley, or portion
thereof which it is proposed to vacate, and the subject of said hearing.
(Ord. 75-19, passed - -)
§ 152.33 EXPENSES.
   (A)   If the vacating of said street, alley, or portion thereof is on the
motion of the Village Council itself, the procedure shall be as contained in
this subchapter, but all expenses of publications and of the mailing of said
notices and posting of said notices and other expenses shall be borne by the
village.
   (B)   If said application or petition for vacating of said street, alley, or
portion thereof shall be by a person, persons, firm, or corporation other than
the village, all costs of publication and of the mailing and posting of notices
shall be paid in advance by said petitioner or petitioners.
(Ord. 75-19, passed - -) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.34 DECISION.
   (A)   It is further ordained that after the Council has held the hearing and
has heard any objections thereto, it shall then make its decision and order
either the granting such petition and vacating said street, alley, or portion
thereof or denying said petition. If such street, alley, or portion thereof is
vacated, a copy of the resolution and a drawing of the vacated portion of
street or alley shall be recorded with the Register of Deeds and with the State
Treasurer.
   (B)   The village may reserve an easement for public utility purposes and
other public purposes within the right-of-way of a street, alley, or other
public lands vacated.
(Ord. 75-19, passed - -)
§ 152.35 VACATING.
   (A)   If the vacating of said street, alley, or portion thereof is on the
motion of the Village Council itself, it may then proceed under the applicable
sections of Public Act 288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 through 560.293,
the Subdivision Control Act, to have said street, alley, or portion thereof
vacated in the circuit court at the expense of the village.
   (B)   If the vacating of said street, alley, or portion thereof is on the
petition of a private person, persons, owner, or owners, then it shall be up to
said petitioner or petitioners, after said street, alley, or portion thereof
shall have been vacated in accordance with this subchapter, to proceed at their
own expense in the circuit court under the terms of Public Act 288 of 1967,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 through 560.293.
(Ord. 75-19, passed - -) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who is convicted of any violation of any provision of §§
152.01 through
152.04 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be punished by fine not to
exceed $100 or by imprisonment in the county jail not to exceed 90 days or by
both fine and imprisonment at the discretion of the trial court upon each count
or offense of which such person be convicted.
   (C)   Any person who is convicted of any violation of any provision of §§
152.30 through
152.35 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by fine not to
exceed $100 or by imprisonment in the county jail not to exceed 90 days or by
both fine and imprisonment at the discretion of the trial court upon each count
or offense of which such person be convicted.
(Ord. 75-5, passed - -; Ord. 75-19, passed - -)
CHAPTER 153: SUBDIVISIONS AND SITE CONDOMINIUMS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Short title
   
153.002   Purpose
   
153.003   Definitions
   
153.004   Interpretation
   
153.005   Fees
   
153.006   Variances
   
153.007   Effective date
Condominium Subdivisions
   
153.020   Approval
   
153.021   Plan requirements
   
153.022   Easement for utilities
   
153.023   Private streets
   
153.024   Design and approval
   
153.025   Preliminary approval by the Planning Commission
   
153.026   Effect of preliminary approval or denial
   
153.027   State and county approval
   
153.028   Final approval
   
153.029   Records approved by the village
Subdivision Procedure
   
153.040   Preparation of subdivision for platting
   
153.041   Pre-preliminary plat investigation
   
153.042   Preliminary plat; tentative approval
   
153.043   Preliminary plat; final approval
   
153.044   Final plat
Design Standards
   
153.055   Development guides
   
153.056   Streets
   
153.057   Easements
   
153.058   Lots
   
153.059   Floodplain
   
153.060   Natural features
Improvements
   
153.075   Improvements
   
153.076   Streets and utilities
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be designated as the “Village of Alanson
Subdivision and Site Condominium Regulations Ordinance” and may be referred to
herein as “this chapter” or “chapter”.
(Ord. 97-2, passed 12-15-1997)
§ 153.002 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is: to regulate and control the subdivision of
land and site condominiums within the corporate limits of the municipality in
order to promote the public health, safety, comfort, convenience, and general
welfare of the inhabitants of the village, consistent with the Master Plan and
Zoning Ordinance; to secure adequate traffic circulation through coordinated
street systems to provide for emergency vehicle ingress and egress and to
lessen congestion on the streets and highways; to ensure adequate provision for
water, drainage, and sanitary sewer facilities, and other health requirements;
to achieve the maximum utility and livability on individual lots; to ensure
that the resulting development is compatible with the surrounding area and to
provide logical procedures for the achievement of these purposes.
(Ord. 97-2, passed 12-15-1997)
§ 153.003 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Singular
words shall include the plural, and masculine words shall include the feminine
and neuter.
   ALLEY. A dedicated public way affording a secondary means of access to
abutting property and not intended for general traffic circulation.
   BLOCK. Property abutting one side of a street and lying between the two
nearest intersecting streets or between the nearest such street and railroad
right-of-way, unsubdivided acreage, river, or live stream, or between any of
the foregoing and any other barrier to the continuity of the development.
   CLERK. The Clerk of the village.
   COMMISSION or PLANNING COMMISSION. The Village Planning Commission also
referred to as PLANNING AND ZONING BOARD.
   CONDOMINIUM ACT. Public Act 59 of 1978, being M.C.L.A. §§ 559.101 through
559.272, as amended.
   CONDOMINIUM SUBDIVISION (SITE CONDOMINIUM). Shall be equivalent to the term
“subdivision” as used in the Zoning Ordinance and this chapter.
   CONDOMINIUM SUBDIVISION PLAN. The site, survey, and utility plans; floor
plans; and sections, as appropriate, showing the existing and proposed
structures and improvements including the location thereof on the land.
   CONDOMINIUM UNIT. The portion of the condominium project designed and
intended for separate ownership and use, as described in the master deed.
   CONSOLIDATING MASTER DEED. The final amended master deed for contractible
condominium project, an expandable condominium project, or a condominium
project containing convertible, land, or convertible space, which final amended
master land or convertible space, which final amended master deed fully
describes the condominium project as completed.
   CONTRACTIBLE CONDOMINIUM. A condominium project from which any portion of
the submitted land or buildings may be withdrawn pursuant to express provisions
in the condominium documents and in accordance with this chapter and the
Condominium Act.
   CONVERSION CONDOMINIUM. A condominium project containing condominium units
some or all of which were occupied before the establishment of the condominium
project.
   CONVERTIBLE AREA. A unit or a portion of the common elements of the
condominium project referred to in the condominium documents within which
additional condominium units or general or limited common elements may be
created pursuant to express provision in the condominium documents and in
accordance with this chapter and the Condominium Act.
   EASEMENT. A specific area of land over which a liberty, privilege, or
advantage is granted by the owner to the public, a corporation, or some
particular person or part of the public for specific uses and purposes, and
which shall be designated a “public” or “private” EASEMENT, depending on the
nature of the user.
   EXPANDABLE CONDOMINIUM. A condominium project to which additional land may
be added pursuant to express provision in the condominium documents and in
accordance with this chapter and the Condominium Act.
   GOVERNING BODY. The Village Council of the village.
   IMPROVEMENTS. Grading, street surfacing, curbs and gutters, sidewalks,
crosswalks, water mains, fire hydrants, sanitary sewers, storm sewers,
culverts, bridges, and other additions to the natural state of land which
increases its value, utility, or habitability.
   LOT. A parcel of land separated from other parcels on a preliminary or
recorded plat for the purpose of sale, lease, or separate use.
   LOT IN CONDOMINIUM SUBDIVISIONS. The same as home site and condominium unit.
   MAJOR STREETS OR THOROUGHFARE PLAN. The part of the Master Plan which sets
forth the location, alignment, and dimensions of existing and proposed streets
and thoroughfares.
   MASTER DEED. The condominium document recording the condominium project as
approved by the village to which is attached as exhibits and incorporated by
reference the approved bylaws for the project and the approved condominium
subdivision plan for the project.
   MASTER PLAN. The Comprehensive Land Use Plan for the village, including
graphic and written proposals indicating the general locations recommended for
the streets, parks, schools, public buildings, zoning districts, and all
physical developments of the municipality, including any unit or part of such
plan separately adopted, and any amendment to such plan or parts thereof
adopted by the Planning Board.
   MUNICIPAL ENGINEER or ENGINEER. The staff engineer or consulting engineer of
the village.
   MUNICIPAL PLANNER or PLANNER. The staff planner or consulting planner or
Village Planning and Zoning Board.
   MUNICIPALITY. The Village of Alanson.
   PARCEL or TRACT. A continuous area or acreage of land which can be described
as provided for in the Subdivision Act.
   PERSON. Individual, partnership, firm, corporation, or association.
   PLAT. A map or chart of a subdivision of land.
      (1)   FINAL PLAT. A map of all or part of a subdivision providing
substantial conformance to the preliminary plat of the Subdivision Control Act
and this chapter and suitable for recording by the County Register of Deeds.
      (2)   PRELIMINARY PLAT. A map showing the salient features of a proposed
subdivision submitted to an approving authority for purposes of preliminary
consideration, prepared in conformance with the Subdivision Control Act.
   PROPRIETOR. A natural person, firm, association, partnership, corporation,
or combination of any of them, which may hold any ownership interest in land,
whether recorded or not.
   PUBLIC RESERVATION. A portion of a subdivision which is set aside for public
use and made available for public use and acquisition.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. Any person, firm, or corporation, municipal department,
board, or commission duly authorized to furnish, and furnishing under
governmental regulations to the public: gas; steam; electricity; sewage
disposal; communication; telegraph; transportation; or water.
   PUBLIC WALKWAY. A right-of-way dedicated for the purpose of a pedestrian
access through residential areas, and located so as to connect to two or more
streets, or a street and a public land, or designated as a public way in the
common element of a condominium project.
   STREET. Any street, avenue, boulevard, road, lane, parkway, viaduct, alley,
or other way which is an existing state, county, or municipal roadway; or a
street or way shown in a plat heretofore approved pursuant to law or approved
by official action; or a street or way on a plat duly filled and recorded in
the office of the County Register of Deeds. A STREET includes the land between
the street lines, whether improved or unimproved, and may comprise pavement,
shoulders, gutters, sidewalks, parking areas, and lawns.
      (1)   BOULEVARD STREET. A street developed to two traffic lanes separated
by a median, lanes.
      (2)   CUL-DE-SAC STREET. A minor street of short length, having one end
open to traffic and being permanently terminated at the other end of a
vehicular turnaround.
      (3)   LOCAL STREET. A public street, publicly owned or a public street
privately owned used primarily to carry local traffic.
      (4)   LOOP STREET. A minor street of short length with two openings to
traffic beginning from the same street, and projecting parallel to each other
and connecting at their termination by a loop.
      (5)   MAJOR THOROUGHFARE. An arterial street of great continuity which is
intended to serve as a large volume traffics for both the immediate municipal
area and region beyond, and may be designated in the Village Street Plan, as a
major thoroughfare, parkway, expressway, or equivalent term to identify those
streets comprising the basic structure of the street plan.
      (6)   MARGINAL ACCESS STREET. A minor street paralleling and adjacent to
a major thoroughfare winch provides access to abutting properties and
protection from through traffic.
      (7)   MINOR STREET. A street, publicly or privately owned, of limited
continuity used primarily for access to abutting residential property.
      (8)   TURNAROUND. A short boulevard street permanently terminated by a
vehicular turnaround.
   SUBDIVISION. The partitioning or dividing of a parcel or tract of land by
the proprietor thereof or by his or her heirs, executors, administrators, legal
representatives, successors, or assigns for the purpose of sale, or lease of
more than one year, or of building development, where the act of division
creates five or more parcels of land each of which is ten acres or less in
area; or five or more parcels of land each of which is ten acres or less in
area are created by successive divisions within a period of ten years.
   SUBDIVISION ACT. The Subdivision Control Act, Public Act 288 of 1967, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 through 560.293, as amended.
   ZONING ORDINANCE. The village’s Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. 97-2, passed 12-15-1997)
§ 153.004 INTERPRETATION.
   The provisions of these regulations shall be held to be the minimum
requirements adopted for the promotion and preservation of public health,
safety, and general welfare of the village. These regulations are not intended
to repeal, abrogate, annul, or in any manner interfere with existing
regulations or laws of the village, nor to conflict with any statutes of the
state or county, except that these regulations shall prevail in cases where
these regulations impose a greater restriction than is provided by existing
statutes, laws, or regulations.
(Ord. 97-2, passed 12-15-1997)
§ 153.005 FEES.
   Engineering fees, inspection fees, water and sewer connection charges, and
other applicable development charges may be provided for by resolution of the
village.
(Ord. 97-2, passed 12-15-1997)
§ 153.006 VARIANCES.
   (A)   The village may authorize a variance from these regulations when, in
its opinion, undue hardship may result from strict compliance.
   (B)   In granting any variance, the Village Council shall prescribe only
conditions that it deems necessary to or desirable for the public interest.
   (C)   In making its findings, as required herein below, the Village Council
shall take into account the nature of the proposed use of land and the existing
use of land in the vicinity, the number of persons to reside or work in the
proposed subdivision, and the probable effect of the proposed subdivision upon
traffic conditions in the vicinity.
   (D)   No variance shall be granted unless the Village Council finds:
      (1)   These are special circumstances or conditions affecting said
property such that the strict application of the provisions of this chapter
would deprive the applicant of the reasonable use of his or her land;
      (2)   The variance is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment of a
substantial property right of the petitioner; and
      (3)   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the public
welfare or injurious to other property in the territory in which said property
is situated.
(Ord. 97-2, passed 12-15-1997)
§ 153.007 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective 20 days after its publication or 20 days
after the publication of a summary of its provisions in a local newspaper of
general circulation.
(Ord. 97-2, passed 12-15-1997)
CONDOMINIUM SUBDIVISIONS
§ 153.020 APPROVAL.
   (A)   Pursuant to authority conferred by § 141 of the Condominium Act,
Public Act 59 of 1978, being §§ 559.101 through 559.272, as amended, all
condominium subdivision plans shall be reviewed and approved by the Village
Planning and Zoning Commission.
   (B)   In determining whether to approve a condominium subdivision plan, the
Planning Commission shall consult with the Village Attorney, Village Council,
and regarding the adequacy of the master deed, deed restrictions, utility
systems and streets, subdivision layout and design, and compliance with all
requirements of the Condominium Act and this chapter.
(Ord. 97-2, passed 12-15-1997)
§ 153.021 PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The name, address, and telephone numbers of: all persons, firms, or
corporation(s) with an ownership interest in the land on which the condominium
project will be located together with a description of the nature of each
entity’s interest (for example, fee owner optionee, or land contract vendee);
all engineers, attorneys, architects, or registered land surveyors associated
with the project; and the developer or proprietor of the condominium project.
   (B)   The legal description of the land on which the condominium project
will be developed together with appropriate tax identification numbers.
   (C)   The acreage content of the land on which the condominium project will
be developed.
   (D)   The purpose of the project (for example, residential, commercial,
industrial, and the like).
   (E)   Number of condominium units to be developed on the subject parcel.
   (F)   A survey plan of the condominium subdivision, engineered by an
engineer registered in the state.
   (G)   A wetlands and tree survey plan, when appropriate.
   (H)   The condominium subdivision plan shall show the size, location, area
vertical boundaries and volume for each unit comprised of enclosed air space. A
number shall be assigned to each condominium unit. The condominium subdivision
plan shall include the nature, location, and size of common elements.
   (I)   A utility plan showing all sanitary sewer, water, and storm sewer
lines and easement granted to the village for maintenance of these utilities.
   (J)   A street construction, paving, and maintenance plan for all streets
within the proposed condominium subdivision.
   (K)   A storm drainage and stormwater management plan, including all lines,
swales, basins, and other facilities.
(Ord. 97-2, passed 12-15-1997)
§ 153.022 EASEMENT FOR UTILITIES.
   The condominium subdivision plan shall include all necessary easements
granted to the village for the purposes of constructing, operating, inspecting,
maintaining, repairing, altering, replacing, and/or removing pipelines, mains,
conduits, and other installations of a similar character for the purpose of
providing public utilities, including conveyance of sewage, water, and
stormwater runoff across, through, and under the property subject to said
easement, and excavating and refilling ditches and trenches necessary for the
location of said structure.
(Ord. 97-2, passed 12-15-1997)
§ 153.023 PRIVATE STREETS.
   If a condominium subdivision is proposed to have private streets, they shall
be developed at least to the minimum design and construction standards,
inspection approval, and maintenance requirements of this chapter and those
requirements of other governmental bodies such as may apply.
(Ord. 97-2, passed 12-15-1997)
§ 153.024 DESIGN AND APPROVAL.
   All condominiums subdivision plans shall conform to the plan preparation
requirements, review, and approval procedures, design, layout, and improvements
standards of this chapter, as amended. A deposit in the form of cash, certified
check, or irrevocable bank letter of credit acceptable to the village shall be
made with the village to guarantee the installation and completion of any
required streets, sanitary sewer, water supply, open space improvements, and
drainage facilities, within a length of time agreed upon from the date of final
approval of the condominium subdivision plan by the Village Planning and Zoning
Board.
(Ord. 97-2, passed 12-15-1997)
§ 153.025 PRELIMINARY APPROVAL BY THE PLANNING COMMISSION.
   The Planning Commission shall consider whether to grant preliminary approval
of the site plan for the proposed condominium project based on the standards
and requirements set forth in this chapter. The Village Planning Commission
shall preliminarily approve, preliminarily approve subject to conditions, or
deny the proposed condominium project and site plan.
(Ord. 97-2, passed 12-15-1997)
§ 153.026 EFFECT OF PRELIMINARY APPROVAL OR DENIAL.
   (A)   A denial shall mean that the proposed project and site plan does not
meet the requirements of this chapter. Any denial shall specify the reasons for
the denial and those requirements of the chapter that are not met.
   (B)   A preliminary approval shall mean that the condominium project and
site plan meet the requirements of this chapter. Subject to any conditions
imposed by the Village Planning and Zoning Board as part of this motion,
preliminary approval assures the applicant that the project and site plan will
receive final approval if:
      (1)   All state and county approvals are obtained;
      (2)   No negative comments are received from any governmental agency or
public utility; and
      (3)   All federal, state, and local laws and ordinances are met.
(Ord. 97-2, passed 12-15-1997)
§ 153.027 STATE AND COUNTY APPROVAL.
   (A)   All site condominium projects shall require the review and approval of
the following agencies prior to final site plan approval:
      (1)   The County Road Commission if any part of the project includes or
abuts a county road or, if any part of the project includes or abuts a state
highway or includes streets or roads that connect with or lie within the right-
of-way of a state highway, the State Department of Transportation;
      (2)   The County Soil Conservation Division; and
      (3)   The State Department of Natural Resources shall approve the
extensions of the water supply system and the wastewater disposal system, with
appropriate Health Department reviews as required.
   (B)   In addition to the specific required approvals, all site condominiums
project site plans shall be submitted to the State Department of Natural
Resources, the County Planning and Zoning Division (if the project abuts a
county or state highway), each of the public utilities serving the site, and
any other state agency designated by the Village Planning and Zoning Board, for
informational purposes. The Village Planning and Zoning Board shall consider
any comments made by these agencies prior to final site plan approval.
(Ord. 97-2, passed 12-15-1997)
§ 153.028 FINAL APPROVAL.
   Final approved shall be granted by the Planning Commission upon the receipt
of all the following:
   (A)   A revised, dated site plan incorporating all of the changes, if any,
required for preliminary approval;
   (B)   Approved site plans showing all required state and county approvals;
and
   (C)   All requirements pursuant to §
153.025.
(Ord. 97-2, passed 12-15-1997)
§ 153.029 RECORDS APPROVED BY THE VILLAGE.
   The condominium project developer or proprietor shall furnish the village
with the following:
   (A)   One copy of the recorded master deed;
   (B)   One copy of all restrictive covenants;
   (C)   Two copies of an “as built” survey;
   (D)   One copy of the site plan on a Mylar sheet of at least 13 inches by 16
inches with an image not to exceed ten and one-half by 14 inches; and
   (E)   The “as built” survey shall be reviewed by the village for compliance
with village ordinances.
(Ord. 97-2, passed 12-15-1997)
SUBDIVISION PROCEDURE
§ 153.040 PREPARATION OF SUBDIVISION FOR PLATTING.
   The preparation of a subdivision for platting shall be preceded by a
preliminary plat investigation, and then followed with the preliminary plat and
the final plat, all in accordance with the Subdivision Control Act and the
procedures following in this subchapter.
(Ord. 97-2, passed 12-15-1997)
§ 153.041 PRE-PRELIMINARY PLAT INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Prior to the preparation of a preliminary plat, it is suggested that
the proprietor meet informally with the Village Council and Village Planning
and Zoning Board to investigate the procedures and standards of the village
with reference to this chapter and with the proposals of the Master Plan as
they affect the area in which the proposed subdivision is located.
   (B)   The proprietor should concern himself or herself with the following
factors.
      (1)   The proprietor should secure a copy of the Zoning Ordinance,
Subdivision and Site Condominium Regulations, engineering specifications, and
other similar ordinances or controls relative to the subdivision and
improvement of land so as to make himself or herself aware of the requirements
of the village.
      (2)   The area for the proposed subdivision should be properly zoned for
the intended use.
      (3)   An investigation of adequacy of existing schools and the adequacy
of public open spaces, including parks and playgrounds to serve the proposed
subdivision, should be made by the proprietor.
      (4)   The relationship of the proposed subdivision with respect to major
thoroughfares and plans for widening of thoroughfares should be investigated by
the proprietor.
      (5)   Standards for sewage disposal, water supply, and drainage of the
village should be investigated by the proprietor.
(Ord. 97-2, passed 12-15-1997)
§ 153.042 PRELIMINARY PLAT; TENTATIVE APPROVAL.
   The preparation of a preliminary plat shall be carried out through two
phases: tentative and final preliminary plat approval.
   (A)   Filing.
      (1)   The proprietor shall submit five copies of the preliminary plat and
other data concerning the proposed subdivision, together with a copy of proof
of ownership to the Village Clerk at least 14 days before a meeting of the
Village Planning Commission. The Clerk shall forward such data to the Planning
and Zoning Board and shall request that the preliminary plat be placed on the
next agenda of the Planning and Zoning Board.
      (2)   The Littlefield Public Schools shall be informed and made aware of
the proposed preliminary plat by the proprietor. The proprietor shall submit
evidence in the form of a letter that a copy of the preliminary plat has been
delivered to the appropriate Littlefield Public Schools for its information.
      (3)   The preliminary plat shall be prepared in accordance with § 111 of
the Subdivision Act and in accordance with the requirements of this chapter.
The Village Planning and Zoning Board shall act on the preliminary plat within
60 days after the first meeting of the Village Planning Commission after the
proposed preliminary plat has been deposited with the Village Clerk.
      (4)   The Village Clerk shall check the proposed plat and other data for
completeness of the application. Should any of the data required in the
Subdivision Control Act or in this chapter be omitted from the proposed plat,
the Clerk shall be directed to inform the proprietor of the data required and
suggest that the application not be filed until the required data is received.
      (5)   The proprietor shall deposit the sum required to cover costs of
reviewing all engineering plans and layout, said deposit to be made at the time
the preliminary plat is submitted to the Clerk.
   (B)   Identification and description. The following data shall be provided
on the preliminary plat:
      (1)   Proposed name of subdivision;
      (2)   Location by section, town, and range, or by other legal
description;
      (3)   Names and addresses of the proprietor, owner, planner, landscape
architect, designer, engineer, or surveyor who designed the subdivision layout.
The proprietor shall also indicate his or her interest in the land; and
      (4)   Date, north point, and scale of plat one inch equals 100 feet as
minimum acceptable scale.
   (C)   Existing conditions. The following data shall be provided on the
preliminary plat:
      (1)   An overall location map at a scale of not less than one inch equals
1,000 feet showing the relationship of the subdivision to its surroundings such
as section lines and/or major streets or collector streets shall be provided;
      (2)   Boundary lines of proposed subdivision, section lines within or
adjacent to the tract, and overall property dimensions;
      (3)   Property lines of contiguous, adjacent tracts of subdivided and
unsubdivided land up to one-fourth mile are to be shown in relation to the
tract being proposed for subdivision, including those located across abutting
roads;
      (4)   Location, widths, and names of existing or prior platted streets
and private streets, all existing buildings, public areas, and public easements
within or adjacent to the tract being proposed for subdivision, including those
located immediately across abutting roads;
      (5)   Location of existing sewers, water mains, storm, and other
underground facilities within or adjacent to the tract being proposed for
subdivision; and
      (6)   A map showing the location of all existing drainage courses,
floodplains, lakes, streams, and wetlands within 500 feet of the development,
as well as within it. This map must be prepared by an engineer or surveyor
registered in the state after on-site study and must include, in addition to
the above:
         (a)   The location of any areas to be preserved as open or recreation
space, why each area is being preserved (e.g., soil conditions, wetlands,
natural drainage courses, woodlands, steep slopes, and the like). Also who will
own and maintain these areas;
         (b)   Location of other natural resources and natural features to be
preserved or destroyed in the proposed development, including all bodies of
water, streams, wetlands, woodlands, slopes over 20%, and trees of four in DBH
or greater, wildlife, and valuable vegetation; and
         (c)   Topography drawn to contours with an interval of at two feet
elevation. Topography shall be based on United States Geological Survey Datum.
Benchmarks for the work shall be indicated on the drawing.
   (D)   Proposed conditions. The following data shall be indicated on the
preliminary plat drawing:
      (1)   Layout of streets indicating proposed street names, right-of-way
widths, and connections with adjoining platted streets and also the widths and
location of alleys, existing easements, and public walkways;
      (2)   Layout, number, and dimensions of lots, including the front
building setback lines showing dimensions;
      (3)   Indication of parcels of land intended to be dedicated or set aside
for public use and/or for the use of property owners in the subdivision;
      (4)   An indication of the status of the petitioner’s ownership and
existing and proposed use of any parcels identified as excepted on the
preliminary plat. If the proprietor has an interest or owns any parcel so
identified as excepted, the preliminary plat shall indicate how this property
could be developed in accordance with the requirements of the existing zoning
district in which it is located;
      (5)   State of intended use of the proposed plat such as residential
single-family, two-family, and multiple-family housing commercial, industrial,
recreational, or agricultural, churches, and other non-public uses exclusive of
single-family dwellings any site proposed for parks, playgrounds, schools, or
other public uses; and
      (6)   Show top of foundation elevation of the structure from the top of
the nearest casting of a manhole. Structure shall not be more than ten inches
above the existing grade of the lot prior to any excavation unless approved by
the village.
   (E)   Review by Village Planning Commission. Before the Village Planning
Commission acts on the preliminary plat, the following shall occur:
      (1)   One copy each of the preliminary plat shall be transmitted to the
Zoning Administrator for technical review and recommendation;
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall check the proposed plat for
completeness. Should any of the data required in the Subdivision Control Act,
or this chapter be omitted, the Zoning Administrator shall inform the Village
Planning Commission of the data required, and that the application will be
delayed until the required data is received;
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator, within 30 days of receipt of the
preliminary plat, shall notify the Village Planning and Zoning Board of his or
her recommendations for either approval, delay, or rejection of the preliminary
plat;
      (4)   Upon receipt of the recommendations of the Zoning Administrator,
the Village Planning and Zoning Board shall place the preliminary plat on the
next regular Village Planning and Zoning Board agenda, at which meeting the
proprietor will be scheduled to appear. The Village Planning and Zoning Board
shall act on the preliminary plat unless the proprietor agrees to an extension
in writing at this time;
      (5)   The Village Planning and Zoning Board shall review the preliminary
plat for compliance with the following:
         (a)   Applicable ordinances and regulations;
         (b)   Availability and adequacy of utilities; and
         (c)   Availability of school and recreation facilities.
      (6)   The Village Planning and Zoning Board shall recommend conditional
approval, disapproval, or approval of the preliminary plat.
         (a)   Should the approval be a conditional approval, the preliminary
plat shall not be forwarded to the Village Council until said conditions have
been satisfied by the proprietor.
         (b)   Should the Village Planning and Zoning Board disapprove the
preliminary plat, it shall record the reasons in the minutes of the meeting.
The proprietor shall be notified of the action of the Board in writing. A copy
of this action of the Board in writing shall also be submitted to the Village
Council accompanied by all the remaining copies of the preliminary plat.
         (c)   Should the Village Planning and Zoning Board find that all
conditions have been met, it shall give tentative approval to the preliminary
plat. The Board shall make a notation to that effect on each copy of the
preliminary plat and distribute copies of same as follows:
            1.   Retain one copy with comments which shall become a matter of
permanent record in the Village Planning and Zoning Board files;
            2.   Forward one copy to the Littlefield Public School Board; and
            3.   Forward seven copies to the Village Clerk with recommendations
for approval attached thereto.
   (F)   Review by Village Council.
      (1)   The Village Council will not review a preliminary plat before
compliance with division (E) above, and then shall consider the preliminary
plat and shall take action thereon within 90 days of the date of accepting for
initial filing with the Clerk.
      (2)   Should the Village Council give tentative approval of the
preliminary plat, it shall be deemed to confer upon the proprietor the right to
proceed with the preparation of a final preliminary plat.
      (3)   The tentative approval of the preliminary plat by the Village
Council is effective for a period of one year. Should the preliminary plat in
whole or in part not be submitted for final approval within this time limit,
the preliminary plat must again be submitted to the Planning and Zoning Board
for recommendation and approval to the Village Council. The one-year period may
be extended if applied for by the proprietor to the Planning and Zoning Board
for recommendation to grant same by the Village Council.
(Ord. 97-2, passed 12-15-1997)
§ 153.043 PRELIMINARY PLAT; FINAL APPROVAL.
   The procedure for the preparation and review of a preliminary plat for final
approval requires approval as follows.
   (A)   Filing.
      (1)   The preliminary plat shall comply with the provisions of the
Subdivision Control Act.
      (2)   The preliminary plat for final approval shall conform substantially
to the preliminary plat for tentative approval as approved and it may
constitute only that portion of the approved preliminary plat which the
proprietor proposes to record and develop at the time; provided, however, that
such portion conforms to this chapter. The preliminary plat for final approval
shall show the actual geometries and dimensions of the streets and shall either
show exact lot dimensions or show approximate lot dimensions which shall not be
decreased on the final plat.
      (3)   Five copies of the preliminary plat for final approval of the
proposed subdivision, together with written application in triplicate, shall be
submitted to the Village Clerk at least 14 days prior to the regular Village
Council meeting (which meeting shall be considered as the date of filing).
      (4)   The Village Clerk shall check the proposed plat for completeness.
Should any of the data required in the Subdivision Act, or §
153.042, be omitted, the Clerk shall be directed to inform the proprietor of
the data required, and that the application will be delayed until the required
data is received.
      (5)   The Village Clerk shall transmit a copy of the valid and complete
preliminary plat to the Village Planning and Zoning Board for technical review
and recommendation.
   (B)   Village Planning and Zoning Board review - preliminary plat final
approval.
      (1)   The Village Clerk shall place the preliminary plat on the next
regular Village Planning and Zoning Board agenda, at which meeting the
proprietor will be scheduled to appear. The Planning and Zoning Board shall act
on the preliminary plat within 45 days after the date of filing unless the
proprietor agrees to an extension, in writing.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the Clerk to send a notice by registered or
certified mail to the owners of land immediately adjoining the property to be
platted of the presentment of the preliminary plat and the time and place of
the meeting of the Planning and Zoning Board to consider said preliminary plat;
said notice shall be sent not less than five days before the date fixed
therefor.
      (3)   The preliminary plat for final approval shall be reviewed by the
Planning and Zoning Board as to conformity with the approved tentative
preliminary plat and plans for utilities and other improvements.
      (4)   The preliminary plat for final approval documents shall be reviewed
by the Planning and Zoning Board as to conformity with the approved tentative
preliminary plat and compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
      (5)   Should the Planning and Zoning Board find that the preliminary plat
for final approval is in satisfactory conformance with the tentative
preliminary plat and with the requirements of this chapter, it shall approve
same and notify the Village Clerk of this action in its official minutes and
forward the same, together with all accompanying data, to the Village Clerk for
review by the Village Council.
      (6)   Should the Planning and Zoning Board find that the preliminary plat
for final approval does not conform satisfactorily to the previously approved
tentative preliminary plat or with the requirements of this chapter, and that
it is not acceptable, it shall record the reason in its official minutes and
forward same together, with all accompanying data to the Village Clerk; and
recommend that the village disapprove the preliminary plat until the objections
causing disapproval have been changed to meet the approval of the Planning and
Zoning Board.
   (C)   Village Council - preliminary plat final approval.
      (1)   The Village Council will not review a preliminary plat for final
approval until it has received the review and recommendations of the Planning
Commission. Following the receipt of such recommendations, the Village Council
shall consider the preliminary plat at such meeting that the matter is placed
on the regularly scheduled agenda. The Village Council shall take action on the
preliminary plat within 45 days of the date of the initial filing of the plat
with the Clerk, as required in division (B)(1) above.
      (2)   Should the governing body approve the preliminary plat, it shall
record its approval on the plat and return one copy to the proprietor.
      (3)   Final approval of the preliminary plat shall not constitute final
approval of the plat.
      (4)   (a)   Final approval of the preliminary plat by the Village Council
shall be effective for a period of 12 months.
         (b)   Should the preliminary plat, in whole or in part, not be
submitted for final plat approval within the time limit, the preliminary plat
must again be submitted to the Planning Commission and Village Council for
approval unless an extension is applied for by the proprietor, and such request
is granted in writing by the Village Council.
(Ord. 97-2, passed 12-15-1997)
§ 153.044 FINAL PLAT.
   The procedure for preparation and review of a final plat shall be as
follows.
   (A)   Preparation.
      (1)   The final plat shall comply with the provisions of the Subdivision
Act.
      (2)   The final plat shall conform substantially to the preliminary plat
as approved and it may constitute only that portion of the approved preliminary
plat which the proprietor proposes to record and develop at the time; provided,
however, that such portion conforms to this chapter.
      (3)   The proprietor shall submit as evidence of title, an abstract of
title certified to date with the written opinion of an attorney at law thereon
or, at the option of the proprietor, a policy of title insurance for
examination in order to ascertain as to whether or not the proper parties have
signed the plat.
   (B)   Final plat review.
      (1)   Five copies (or copies as provided for in rules of procedure of
State Department of Treasury) on an approved polyester film and three paper
prints of the final plat shall be filed by the proprietor with the Village
Clerk and shall deposit such sums of money as the Village Council may require
herein or by other ordinances.
      (2)   The Village Planning Commission shall review the profile drawings
for the proposed street centerline, sanitary sewer, water lines, and storm
sewer. Approval shall be given in writing to the Village Clerk prior to final
acceptance. The profile drawings shall be drawn to a scale of not less than one
inch equals 100 feet horizontally and one inch equals five feet vertically.
      (3)   The Village Planning Commission shall notify the Village Council of
its recommendations for either approval or rejection of the final plat.
      (4)   The Village Council shall review all recommendations and take
action on the final plat within 20 days of its date of filing.
      (5)   (a)   Upon the approval of the final plat by the Village Council,
the subsequent approvals shall follow the procedure set forth in the
Subdivision Act.
         (b)   Three prints of the final plat shall be forwarded; one to the
Clerk, one to the Planning Board, and one to the Administrator of Chapter 154
of this code of ordinances.
         (c)   The five polyester film copies shall be forwarded to the Village
Clerk.
(Ord. 97-2, passed 12-15-1997)
DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 153.055 DEVELOPMENT GUIDES.
   The subdivision and site condominium design standards set forth under this
subchapter are development guides for the assistance of the proprietor. All
final plans must be reviewed and approved by the Village Planning Commission
and the Village Council.
(Ord. 97-2, passed 12-15-1997)
§ 153.056 STREETS.
   Streets shall conform to at least all minimum requirements of the general
specifications and typical cross-sections as set forth in this subchapter, and
other conditions set forth by the village.
   (A)   Location and arrangement.
      (1)   The proposed subdivision and site condominium shall conform to the
various elements of
Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances, the Village Zoning Ordinance, and this
chapter and shall be considered in relation to the existing and planned major
thoroughfares and secondary streets.
      (2)   The street layout shall provide for continuation of secondary
streets in the adjoining subdivisions or of the proper projection of streets
when adjoining property is not subdivided; or conform to a plan for a
neighborhood unit drawn up and adopted by the Planning Commission.
      (3)   The street layout shall include minor streets so laid out that
their use by through traffic shall be discouraged.
      (4)   Should a proposed subdivision or site condominium border on or
contain an existing or proposed major thoroughfare, the Planning Commission may
require marginal access streets, reverse frontage with an approved screen
planting contained in a non-access reservation along the rear property line
having a minimum width of 15 feet, or such other treatment as may be necessary
for adequate protection of residential properties and to afford separation and
reduction of traffic hazards.
      (5)   Half streets shall be prohibited, except where absolutely essential
to the reasonable development of the subdivision in conformity with the other
requirements of these regulations, and where the Planning Commission finds it
will be practicable to require the dedication of the other half when the
adjoining property is developed. Wherever there exists adjacent to the tract to
be subdivided, a dedicated or platted and recorded half street, the other half
shall be platted.
   (B)   Right-of-way widths. Street right-of-way widths shall conform to at
least the following minimum requirements:
Street Type Right-Of-Way
Street Type                               Right-Of-Way
Alley                                     40 feet
Cul-de-sac streets turnarounds            75-foot radius
(industrial)
Cul-de-sac streets turnarounds            55-foot radius
(residential)
Industrial service streets                (to be determined)
Local streets                             (to be determined)
                                          In conformance with the Major
Major thoroughfares                       Thoroughfare Plan of the village as
                                          approved by MDOT
Marginal access streets                   34 feet
Maximum length for industrial and other   May exceed 500 feet subject to the
cul-de-sac streets                        approval of the Planning Commission
Maximum length for residential cul-de-sac Generally 500 feet
streets
Minor (single-family residential) streets 60 feet
Minor streets, public or private          60 feet
 
(Ord. 97-2, passed 12-15-1997)
§ 153.057 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Location of utility line easements shall be provided along the rear or
side lot lines as necessary for utility lines or, in special cases, in the road
right-of-way adjacent to the road surface. Easements shall give access to every
lot, park, or public grounds. Such easements shall be a total of not less than
12 feet wide, six feet from each parcel.
   (B)   Recommendations on the proposed layout of telephone and electric
company easements should be sought from all of the utility companies serving
the area.
   (C)   Easements needed for storm drainage purposes shall be determined by an
engineer registered in the state and shall be approved by the village.
   (D)   Aerial easements three feet in width shall be provided where needed
along side lot lines so as to provide for street light drop-outs for the
provision of street lightning. A notation shall be made on the plat indicating,
“The side lot lines between lots (indicate lot numbers) are subject to street
light drop-out rights granted to the power company.”
   (E)   All easements shall be duly recorded by the County Register of Deeds.
(Ord. 97-2, passed 12-15-1997)
§ 153.058 LOTS.
   Lots within subdivisions shall conform to the following standards.
   (A)   Sizes and shapes.
      (1)   The lot size, width, depth, and shape in any subdivision proposed
for residential use shall be appropriate for the location and the type of
development contemplated.
      (2)   Lot areas and widths shall conform to at least the minimum
requirements of the Village Zoning Ordinance for the district in which the
subdivision is proposed.
      (3)   Building setback lines shall conform to at least the minimum
requirements of the Zoning Ordinance.
      (4)   Corner lots in residential districts having a side-to-side
relationship with lots across a common separating street shall have exterior
side yards which conform to at least the greater of the two minimum side yards
required by the Zoning Ordinance for the district in which the subdivision is
proposed, except that in cases where the exterior side yard of a corner lot is
essentially a continuation of the front yard of the lot immediately to its
rear, said side yard shall not be less than the required front yard of the
zoning district.
      (5)   Excessive lot depth in relation to width shall be avoided. A depth-
to-width ratio of three to one shall normally be considered a maximum.
      (6)   Lots intended for purposes other than residential use shall be
specifically designed for such purposes, and shall have adequate provision for
off-street parking, off-street loading, and other requirements in accordance
with the Zoning Ordinance.
   (B)   Arrangement.
      (1)   Every lot shall front or abut on a street.
      (2)   Side lot lines shall be at right angles or radial to the street
lines, or as nearly as possible thereto.
      (3)   Residential lots abutting major thoroughfares or secondary streets,
where marginal access streets are not desirable or possible to attain, shall be
platted with reverse frontage lots with an approved screen planting contained
in a non-access reservation along the rear property line having a minimum width
of 15 feet, or such other treatment as may be adequate for protection of
residential properties, or with side lot lines parallel to the major traffic
streets, or shall be platted with extra depth to permit generous distances
between building and such trafficway.
      (4)   Lots shall have a front-to-front relationship across all streets
where possible except as provided for under §
153.056. Any deviation shall require the review and approval of the Planning
Board.
(Ord. 97-2, passed 12-15-1997)
§ 153.059 FLOODPLAIN.
   (A)   Any areas of land within the proposed subdivision which lie either
wholly or in part within the floodplain of a river, stream, creek, or lake, or
any other areas which are subject to flooding or inundation by stormwater or
have inadequate drainage, shall not be platted for any use as may increase
danger to health, life, or property.
   (B)   Any part of the property determined to be wetlands may not be included
as a building site unless proper approvals are granted by the State Department
of Environmental Quality and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.
   (C)   If the Village Council determines that a flood problem or wetland does
exist, then it shall reject all or that part of the proposed subdivision lying
within the floodplain or wetland.
(Ord. 97-2, passed 12-15-1997)
§ 153.060 NATURAL FEATURES.
   (A)   The natural features and character of lands must be preserved wherever
possible.
   (B)   Due regard must be shown for all natural features such as large trees,
natural groves, water course, wetlands, and similar community assets that will
add attractiveness and value to the property, if preserved.
   (C)   The preservation of drainage and natural stream channels must be
considered by the proprietor and the dedication and provision of adequate
barriers, where appropriate, shall be required.
(Ord. 97-2, passed 12-15-1997)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 153.075 IMPROVEMENTS.
   The improvements set forth under this subchapter are to be considered as the
minimum acceptable standard. All those improvements for which standards are not
specifically set forth shall have said standards set by resolution of the
village. All improvements must meet the approval of the Village Planning
Commission and/or the Village Council.
(Ord. 97-2, passed 12-15-1997)
§ 153.076 STREETS AND UTILITIES.
   Street and utility improvements shall be provided by the proprietor in
accordance with the standards and requirements established in this section and/
or any other such standards and requirements which may from time to time be
established by the village.
   (A)   Street pavement width standards.
Street Type Pavement Width (Measured from Face of Curb to Face of Curb)
Street Type                     Pavement Width (Measured from Face of Curb
                                to Face of Curb)
Alley                           20 feet
Cul-de-sac streets turnarounds  65-foot radius; 35-foot wide pavement
(industrial)
Cul-de-sac streets turnarounds  40-foot radius; 27-foot wide pavement
(residential)
Industrial streets              (to be determined)
Local streets                   (to be determined)
                                In conformance with the standards and
Major thoroughfares             specifications established by the County
                                Road Commission; this width is generally
                                established as 44 feet
Marginal access streets         20 feet
Minor streets, when dedicated   24 feet
Minor streets, when private     24 feet
Turnaround (loop) streets       Not less than 80 feet in inside diameter at
                                terminating loop; 27-foot wide pavement
 
   (B)   Street cross-section standards.
      (1)   Major thoroughfares. Cross-sections in accordance in conformance
with the specifications of the County Road Commission.
      (2)   Local streets. To be determined.
      (3)   Minor streets. Sixty-foot right-of-way. A four-foot concrete
sidewalk located one foot from the property line on each side of the roadway
shall be provided.
      (4)   Marginal access streets. Thirty-four-foot right-of-way. A four-foot
concrete sidewalk located one foot from the property line on the private
property side of the roadway shall be provided.
   (C)   Pavement design and placement.
      (1)   For minor streets, the section design shall be with concrete curb
and gutter with an eight-inch 22A base and two and one-half inch asphalt.
      (2)   The final wearing course for street(s) will be installed one year
from the acceptance of the base course by the village. Funds for the final
wearing course shall be in the form of a letter of credit or be deposited in an
escrow account to cover the improvement.
   (D)   Grading and centerline gradients. Per plans and profiles approved by
the village.
   (E)   Street grades. For adequate drainage, the minimum street grade shall
not be less than 0.4%. The maximum street grade shall be 6%.
   (F)   Alignment.
      (1)   Vertical curves shall be adequate to provide the minimum vertical
visibility as required under division (F)(3) below for major thoroughfares,
local streets, and minor streets.
      (2)   Minimum horizontal curbs - the radii of centerline curvature:
         (a)   Major thoroughfare: 475-foot radius;
         (b)   Secondary streets: 300-foot radius; and
         (c)   A minimum 50-foot tangent shall be introduced between reverse
curves on minor streets, 100 feet on secondary streets, and 300 feet on major
thoroughfares.
      (3)   Visibility requirements are as follows.
         (a)   Minimum vertical visibility (measured from four and one-half
foot eye level to 18 inch tail light) shall be: 500 feet on major
thoroughfares; 300 feet on local thoroughfares; 200 feet on minor streets; and
100 feet on minor streets less than 500 feet in length.
         (b)   Minimum horizontal visibility shall be: 300 feet on major
thoroughfares, measured on centerline; 200 feet on secondary streets, measured
on centerline; and 100 feet on minor streets, measured on centerline.
      (4)   Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly as possible
to 90 degrees.
      (5)   Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than 125 feet shall be
avoided.
      (6)   Curved streets intersecting with major thoroughfares or secondary
streets shall do so with a tangent section of centerline 50 feet in length
measured from the right-of-way line of the major thoroughfare or secondary
street.
   (G)   Storm drainage system.
      (1)   Together with other drainage improvements per plans approved by the
Village Council.
      (2)   Storm sewers shall not be less than 12 inch diameter and laid at
such a grade that the flow will exceed two and one-half feet per second when
flowing full. Design criteria shall be based on a five-year storm rate.
Generally, all storm sewers shall be located 12 feet north or west of the
property line.
      (3)   Stormwater shall run no more than 500 feet before being picked up
by a catch basin. If stormwater is carried around an intersection radius, limit
of pickup shall be 300 feet if grade is 0.60% or less; if greater than 0.60%,
intercepting basins shall be installed.
      (4)   Adequate provision shall be made for proper drainage of stormwater
run-off from residential rear yards. Unless each yard is drained from rear to
front, there shall be one rear yard catch basin every 240 feet or less along
the rear easement line. Rear yards shall slope at a minimum grade of 0.5% to
the proper stormwater catch basin. Rear yard catch basins shall be connected to
the stormwater system with a pipe of not less than six-inch diameter with slip
seal joints or equal.
      (5)   Where county drains are involved, a letter or document of approval
from the County Road Commissioner must be submitted by the proprietor.
   (H)   Sewage disposal.
      (1)   The sewage system shall be located within street rights-of-way per
plans approved by the City Engineer. Sanitary sewers shall be of not less than
eight-inch diameter and tested in accordance with ASTM procedure. Exfiltration
tests shall not exceed 750 gallons per inch diameter per mile per day. All
sanitary sewers shall be laid at a grade to exceed a flow of two feet per
second when flowing full. Minimum sanitary sewer depth in all new work shall be
seven and one-half feet below the center of the closest road. Generally, all
sanitary sewers shall be located on the centerline on minor streets.
      (2)   All house leads shall be a minimum of four-inch diameter class C13
to the property line.
      (3)   All leads in new subdivisions shall be constructed to the property
line before the streets are built.
      (4)   Minimum depth of leads at property line shall be seven feet. In
cases where the lead is not brought to the property line and the sewer is more
than ten feet in depth, risers with stoppers shall be installed to a point
seven and one-half feet below centerline street grade.
      (5)   House leads shall be constructed of vitrified or cast iron pipe
with premium joints or cast iron pipe and tested before acceptance against
exfiltration by ASTM methods. Roof drains shall not be connected to sanitary
sewers and the drains around buildings shall not be connected to sanitary
sewers if groundwater is present.
   (I)   Trees.
      (1)   Existing trees near street rights-of-way shall be preserved by the
proprietor.
      (2)   Street trees shall be provided: at least one per lot or not more
than one tree for each 50 feet placed between the sidewalk and curb or between
the curb and the property line where no sidewalks are provided.
      (3)   The following species of trees shall be permitted:
         (a)   Norway Maple;
         (b)   To be selected by the village;
         (c)   Pin Oak;
         (d)   Honey Locust;
         (e)   To be selected by the village;
         (f)   Sugar Maple;
         (g)   Little Leaf Linden;
         (h)   Modesto Ash;
         (I)   Locust Moraine Locust;
         (j)   Hop Horn Beam;
         (k)   Paul Scarlet Hawthorn; and/or
         (l)   Such other species as may be approved by the village.
   (J)   Requirements for underground wiring. The proprietor shall make
arrangements for all distribution lines for telephone and electric service and
cable television to be placed underground entirely throughout a subdivided
area, and such conduits or cables shall be placed within private easements
provided to such service companies by the developer. All telephone and
electrical facilities shall be constructed in accordance with standards of
constriction approved by the State Public Service Commission. All drainage and
underground utility installations which traverse privately-owned property shall
be protected by easements granted by the proprietor.
   (K)   Partitioning of land in existing recorded plats. All requests for
partitioning of land in existing recorded plats shall be made in accordance
with
Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances.
   (L)   Partitioning of land not subdivided. All requests for partitioning of
land not subdivided shall be made in accordance with
Chapter 154.
(Ord. 97-2, passed 12-15-1997)
CHAPTER 154: LAND DIVISIONS AND PROPERTY TRANSFERS
Section
   
154.01   Title
   
154.02   Purpose
   
154.03   Definitions
   
154.04   Approval of land divisions or property transfers required;
establishment of exempt splits
   
154.05   Procedure for division or property transfer
   
154.06   Standards for approval of parcel divisions or property transfers
   
154.07   Land configuration variances
   
154.08   Appeals to the Zoning Board of Appeals
   
154.09   Enforcement officer
   
154.10   Nuisance per se
   
154.11   Separate court action
 
   
154.99   Penalty
§ 154.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Village Land Division Ordinance”.
(Ord._2_of_2018, passed 2-12-2018)
§ 154.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to carry out the provisions of the Land
Division Act (Act 288 of the Public Acts of 1967, as amended, formerly known as
the Subdivision Control Act), to prevent the creation of lots and parcels that
do not comply with applicable village code provisions and/or ordinances, to
minimize potential boundary disputes, to maintain the orderly development of
the village, and to otherwise protect the public health, safety and general
welfare of the residents and the present and future property owners of the
village. This shall be accomplished by regulating the division of existing lots
and parcels and property transfers between two or more adjacent lots or
parcels. It is further the purpose of this chapter to prescribe the procedures
for the submission and review of proposed lot and parcel divisions and property
transfers, to authorize fees for the review of applications submitted under
this chapter, and to provide penalties for violations of this chapter.
(Ord._2_of_2018, passed 2-12-2018)
§ 154.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSIBLE. In reference to a lot or parcel means that the lot or parcel
meets one or both of the following requirements:
      (1)   Has an area where a driveway provides vehicular access to an
existing road or street and meets all applicable location standards of the
State Transportation Department or the village or has an area where a driveway
can provide vehicular access to an existing road or street and can meet all
such applicable location standards; and/or
      (2)   Is served by an existing easement that provides vehicular access to
an existing road or street and meets all applicable location standards of the
State Transportation Department or the village or can be served by a proposed
easement that will provide vehicular access to an existing road or street and
that will meet all such applicable location standards.
   APPLICANT. An owner of a lot or parcel of land, or his or her designee.
   CONVEY. A transfer by an owner of an ownership interest in real property.
   DEVELOPMENT SITE. Any parcel or lot on which exists or which is intended for
building development other than the following:
      (1)   Agricultural use involving the production of plants and animals
useful to humans, including forages and sod crops; grains, feed crops, and
field crops; dairy and dairy products; poultry and poultry products; livestock,
including breeding and grazing of cattle, swine and similar animals; berries;
herbs; flowers; seeds; grasses; nursery stock; fruits; vegetables; Christmas
trees; and other similar uses and activities.
      (2)   Forestry use involving the planting, management or harvesting of
timber.
   DIVIDE or DIVISION. The partitioning or splitting of a lot, parcel or tract
of land by the owner or by his or her heirs, executors, administrators, legal
representatives, successors, or assigns for the purpose of sale, lease of more
than one year, building development that results in one or more parcels of less
than 40 acres or the equivalent, and that satisfies the division standards of §
154.06 of this chapter. DIVIDE or DIVISION does not include a property transfer
between two or more adjacent lots or parcels, if the property taken from one
lot or parcel is added to an adjacent lot or parcel; and any resulting lot or
parcel shall not be considered a building site unless the lot or parcel
conforms to the requirement of the Land Division Act, being Act 288 of the
Public Acts of 1967, as amended, the Zoning Ordinance, as amended, and this
chapter.
   EXEMPT SPLIT. The partitioning or splitting of a lot, parcel or tract of
land by the owner or by his or her heirs, executors, administrators, legal
representatives, successors, or assigns that does not result in one or more
lots or parcels of less than 40 acres or the equivalent. For a property
transfer between two or more adjacent lots or parcels, if the property taken
from one lot or parcel is added to an adjacent lot or parcel, any resulting lot
or parcel shall not be considered a building site unless the lot or parcel
conforms to the requirement of the Land Division Act, being Act 288 of the
Public Acts of 1967, as amended, the Zoning Ordinance, as amended, and this
chapter.
   FORTY ACRES OR THE EQUIVALENT. Forty acres, a quarter-quarter section
containing not less than 30 acres, or a government lot containing not less than
30 acres.
   LAND. All land areas occupied by real property, except the submerged
bottomlands of inland lakes, rivers and streams.
   LOT. A measured portion of a parcel or tract of land, which is described and
fixed in a recorded plat.
   OWNER. A person that holds a legal, equitable, option, or contract interest
in a lot or parcel of land whether recorded or not.
   PARCEL. A continuous area or acreage of land which can be described as
provided for in the Land Division Act, being Act 288 of the Public Acts of
1967, as amended.
   PARENT PARCEL. First a tract of land lawfully in existence on March 31,
1997, if one exists in connection with a proposed division, or, if one does not
exist, a parcel lawfully in existence on March 31, 1997.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, corporation, association, partnership, estate,
trust, limited liability company, or other legal entity, or any combination of
any of them.
   PLAT or RECORDED PLAT. A map or chart of a subdivision of land created
pursuant to the Land Division Act of 1967, being Act 288 of the Public Acts of
1967, as amended, or predecessor statutes to that act.
   PROPERTY TRANSFER. A transfer of property between two or more adjacent lots
or parcels, if the property taken from one lot or parcel is added to an
adjacent lot or parcel and if all resulting lots or parcels conform to the
requirements of the Land Division Act, being Act 288 of the Public Acts of
1967, as amended, the Zoning Ordinance, as amended, and this chapter. If the
property transferred does not independently conform to the requirements of the
Land Division Act, being Act 288 of the Public Acts of 1967, as amended, the
Zoning Ordinance, as amended, and this chapter, then it shall not be considered
a development site, but may only be used in conjunction with the lot or parcel
to which it was transferred.
   VILLAGE PRESIDENT. The President of the village.
   TRACT OF LAND. Two or more lots or parcels that share a common property line
and are under the same ownership.
   ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS. The Zoning Board of Appeals.
(Ord._2_of_2018, passed 2-12-2018)
§ 154.04 APPROVAL OF LAND DIVISIONS OR PROPERTY TRANSFERS REQUIRED;
ESTABLISHMENT OF EXEMPT SPLITS.
   (A)   The owner of a lot, parcel, or tract of land shall not divide or
effect a property transfer involving, or cause any person to divide or effect a
property transfer involving, that lot, parcel, or tract of land except as
provided in this chapter, unless the division or property transfer is approved
as part of a subdivision plat at the time of plat approval under the Land
Division Act of 1967, being Act 288 of the Public Acts of 1967, as amended, the
division or property transfer is part of a condominium project developed under
the Condominium Act, being Act 59 of the Public Acts of 1978, as amended, or
the division or property transfer is done pursuant to an order of a court of
competent jurisdiction.
   (B)   The owner of a lot, parcel, or tract of land claiming an exempt split
as defined in §
154.03(F) of this chapter shall submit to the Village President either a survey
map of the land claimed to be an exempt split prepared pursuant to the survey
map requirements of Act 132 of the Public Acts of 1970, as amended, certified
by a land surveyor licensed by the state, or other clear evidence documenting
that the proposed exempt split of a parcel or tract of land will not result in
one or more parcels of less than 40 acres or the equivalent. In addition, the
owner of a lot, parcel, or tract of land claiming an exempt split shall submit
to the Village President evidence that each lot, parcel, or tract of land
resulting from the proposed exempt split are accessible, as defined in this
chapter. If the Village President finds that the proposed division is an exempt
split and that each new lot, parcel, or tract of land that will result from the
division is accessible, then no further action under this chapter shall be
required. If the Village President finds that the proposed division is either
not an exempt split or that each new lot, parcel, or tract of land that will
result from the division is not accessible, then he or she shall give the owner
written reasons for his or her decision. In that event the owner shall be
required to proceed under §
154.05 of this chapter to obtain approval of the proposed division. If the
owner disagrees with the Village President’s decision, the owner can submit
revised information to the Village President or appeal the Village President’s
decision to the Zoning Board of Appeals pursuant to §
154.08 of this chapter.
   (C)   In addition, an exempt split or other partitioning or splitting of a
parcel or tract of land that only results in parcels of 20 acres or more in
size is not subject to approval under this chapter if the parcel or tract of
land being partitioned or split is not accessible and was in existence on March
31, 1997 or resulted from an exempt split or a partitioning or splitting under
Section 109b of the Land Division Act, as amended.
(Ord._2_of_2018, passed 2-12-2018)
§ 154.05 PROCEDURE FOR DIVISION OR PROPERTY TRANSFER.
   The following procedure shall be followed to divide a lot, parcel or tract
of land or to effect a property transfer:
   (A)   The applicant shall submit an application to the Village President on
a form supplied by the village for that purpose. The application shall include,
but not be limited to the following:
      (1)   Proof of ownership of the lot, parcel, or tract of land to be
divided, or of the lots or parcels involved in a property transfer;
      (2)   The names and addresses of all persons having an interest in the
lot, parcel, or tract of land to be divided, or of the lots or parcels involved
in a property transfer and a statement of the type of interest each holds;
      (3)   The history of the prior divisions of the parent parcel or tract of
land from which the applicant’s parcel or tract of land came and proof that the
applicant holds the right to divide the parcel or tract of land proposed for
division;
      (4)   A survey map of the land proposed to be divided or the land
involved in the property transfer prepared pursuant to the survey map
requirements of Act 132 of the Public Acts of 1970, as amended, certified by a
land surveyor licensed by the state and depicting the dimensions of the lot,
parcel, or tract of land to be divided, or the lots or parcels involved in a
property transfer, the dimensions of the lots, parcels, or tracts of land that
will result from the division or property transfer, the location of all current
easements on the lot, parcel, or tract of land to be divided, or on the lots or
parcels involved in a property transfer, and the location of all proposed
easements on the lots, parcels or tracts of land that will result from the
division or property transfer. The easements required by this subsection shall
include both utility easements and ingress/egress easements. The survey shall
also depict all buildings and structures on the lot, parcel, or tract of land
to be divided, or on the lots or parcels involved in a property transfer and
the distances between these buildings and structures and the original property
lines of the lot, parcel, or tract of land to be divided, or the lots or
parcels involved in a property transfer and shall depict the distances between
these buildings and structures and the property lines of the lots, parcels, or
tracts of land that will result from the division or property transfer. The
Village President may waive the survey map requirement if he or she finds that,
considering the size, simple nature of the division or property transfer, the
undeveloped character of the parent parcel, or that the proposed division of a
tract of land will be along preexisting and recorded lot or parcel boundaries,
a survey map is not needed to determine compliance with this chapter and the
Land Division Act, as amended. If a survey map is not required, then the
applicant shall submit a tentative parcel map which shall be a scale drawing
showing the approximate dimensions of the parcels, the parcel lines, public
utility easements, accessibility, and other evidence establishing compliance
with the approval standards of this chapter;
      (5)   A map showing the location of the lot, parcel, or tract of land to
be divided, or the lots or parcels involved in a property transfer within the
village;
      (6)   Legal descriptions, certified by a registered land surveyor
licensed by the state, of the lots, parcels, or tracts of land that will result
from the division or property transfer;
      (7)   If the lot, parcel, or tract of land that will result from the
division or property transfer will be a development site, then the applicant
shall submit a permit or other documentation from the State Transportation
Department or the Village Department of Public Works that each such resulting
lot, parcel, or tract of land is accessible. In addition, if the lot, parcel,
or tract of land that will result from the division or property transfer will
be a development site, the applicant shall submit evidence establishing
adequate easements for public utilities from each such resulting lot, parcel,
or tract of land to existing public utility facilities;
      (8)   A brief statement as to the purpose of the proposed division or
property transfer and whether the lots, parcels or tracts of land that will
result from the division or property transfer are intended as a development
site; and
      (9)   Such other documentation that the Village President may require
relating to the application to divide a parent parcel.
   (B)   The application shall be accompanied by an application fee as
established and set forth in a village fee schedule. This fee schedule shall
also establish after the fact fees that must be paid when an otherwise lawful
division or property transfer occurs but without first complying with the
procedural requirements of this chapter. This after the fact fee is not
intended to be a penalty, but shall consist of the normal application fee plus
an amount equal to the legal and administrative costs incurred by the village
as the result of the applicant's failure to initially comply with the
requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   After receiving the information required in §
154.05(A) of this chapter, the Village President shall, within 45 days, decide
whether to approve the proposed division or property transfer. If the applicant
fails to provide all the information required by this chapter, then the
application shall be deemed incomplete and may be denied on that basis. The
Village President’s decision to approve the division or property transfer shall
be made pursuant to the standards contained in §
154.06 of this chapter. The Village President may grant conditional approval of
an application, subject to the applicant obtaining any necessary variances from
the Zoning Board of Appeals pursuant to §
154.07 of this chapter. The Village President shall specify in writing the
reasons for his or her decision concerning the proposed division or property
transfer. If the Village President fails to grant approval of a proposed
division or property transfer, the applicant shall then have the option of
resubmitting information for approval to the Village President or appealing the
Village President’s decision to the Zoning Board of Appeals pursuant to §
154.08 of this chapter. Any approval or approval with conditions of a division
or property transfer shall not be considered a determination that the resulting
lots, parcels, or tracts of land comply with any other chapters or regulations
of the village.
   (D)   If the Village President approves a proposed division or property
transfer, then the Village President shall send a letter indicating such
approval to the applicant with copies to the Zoning Administrator and the
County Equalization Department. This letter shall contain the following
statement: “Pursuant to Section 109a of the Land Division Act, as amended, the
Village of Alanson, its officers and employees are not liable if a building
permit is not issued for a parcel less than one acre in size that resulted from
an approved division under the Village of Alanson Land Division Ordinance.” A
copy of this letter shall be retained by the Village President in his or her
official records.
   (E)   Because zoning requirements may change over time, any approval of an
application for a division or property transfer by the Village President under
§
154.05(C) of this chapter shall expire and a new approval required, unless the
applicant within 90 days from the date of the approval, records in the County
Register of Deeds Office an instrument(s) of conveyance or a complete survey,
including the legal descriptions for each resulting lot or parcel documenting
the division or property transfer and files a copy of that recorded instrument
(s) or survey with the Village President. If the grantor intends to convey the
right to future divisions of the parcel being conveyed, the deed or land
contract shall contain the following statement as required by the Land Division
Act, as amended: “The grantor grants to the grantee the right to make (insert
number) division(s) under section 108 of the Land Division Act, Act 88 of the
Public Acts of 1967.” Finally, all deeds and land contracts of unplatted land
shall contain the following statement as required by the Land Division Act, as
amended: “This property may be located within the vicinity of farm land or a
farm operation. Generally accepted agricultural and management practices which
may generate noise, dust, odors, and other associated conditions may be used
and are protected by the Michigan Right to Farm Act.”
(Ord._2_of_2018, passed 2-12-2018)
§ 154.06 STANDARDS FOR APPROVAL OF PARCEL DIVISIONS OR PROPERTY TRANSFERS.
   An application to divide a lot, parcel, or tract of land, or to effect a
property transfer shall be granted when all of the following standards are met:
   (A)   The proposed division or property transfer shall comply with all
requirements of the Land Division Act of 1967, being Act 288 of the Public Acts
of 1967, as amended.
   (B)   The lots, parcels, or tracts of land that will result from the
division or property transfer shall comply with all requirements of the Zoning
Ordinance, as amended, including but not limited to the requirements relating
to area and width for the newly created lots, parcels, or tracts of land, the
requirements relating to lake and/or road frontages, and the requirements
relating to setbacks if the newly created lots, parcels, or tracts of land have
buildings or structures on them. The addition of land to an already lawful
nonconforming lot or parcel is permitted without a zoning variance, provided
that the lot or parcel from which the land is taken will not become a
nonconforming lot or parcel or, if already nonconforming, will not become more
nonconforming.
   (C)   Each lot, parcel, or tract of land that will result from the division
or property transfer shall have an adequate and accurate legal description.
   (D)   Except for the remainder of the parent parcel or parent tract of land
retained by the owner, each new lot, parcel, or tract of land that will result
from the division, including those lots, parcels, and tracts of land greater
than ten acres, shall have a depth of not more than four times its width as
measured under the requirements of the Zoning Ordinance. This standard shall
not apply to a property transfer.
   (E)   If a lot, parcel, or tract of land that will result from the division
or property transfer will be a development site, then each such resulting lot,
parcel, or tract of land shall have adequate easements for public utilities
from each such resulting lot, parcel, or tract of land to existing public
utility facilities.
   (F)   If the land proposed to be transferred between two or more adjacent
lots or parcels does not independently conform to the requirements of the Land
Division Act, being Act 288 of the Public Acts of 1967, as amended, the Zoning
Ordinance, as amended, and this chapter, then the land proposed to be
transferred shall not thereafter be independently considered a development
site, but may only be used in conjunction with an adjoining lot(s), parcel(s),
or tract(s) of land.
   (G)   Each lot, parcel, or tract of land that will result from the division
or property transfer shall be accessible.
   (H)   The owner of the parcel or tract of land shall possess the right to
divide the parcel or tract of land. This standard shall not apply to a property
transfer.
   (I)   The proposed division does not isolate a cemetery so that it no longer
is accessible as defined in this chapter. This standard shall not apply to a
property transfer.
(Ord._2_of_2018, passed 2-12- 2018)
§ 154.07 LAND CONFIGURATION VARIANCES.
   (A)   If a lot, parcel, or tract of land that will result from a division or
property transfer does not meet the requirements of the Zoning Ordinance as
specified in §
154.06(B) of this chapter, then the applicant may seek a variance from those
zoning requirements from the Zoning Board of Appeals pursuant to the procedures
of the Zoning Ordinance.
   (B)   If a lot, parcel, or tract of land that will result from a division
does not meet the depth to width requirements of §
154.06(D) of this chapter, then the applicant may seek a variance from those
requirements from the Zoning Board of Appeals pursuant to the procedures of
this section.
   (C)   The Zoning Board of Appeals may grant a variance under this chapter
from the depth to width requirement of §
154.06(D) of this chapter, if all of the following exist:
      (1)   Exceptional or extraordinary circumstances or conditions exist on
the parent parcel, including exceptional topographic or physical conditions,
that do not generally apply to other lots, parcels, or tracts of land in the
village;
      (2)   The exceptional or extraordinary circumstances or conditions
existing on the parent parcel are not the result of any act or omission by the
applicant or his or her predecessors in title;
      (3)   The granting of the variance shall not be injurious or otherwise
detrimental to adjoining lots, parcels, or tracts of land or to the general
health, safety, and general welfare of the village;
      (4)   The resulting lots, parcels or tracts of land with the variance
granted shall be compatible with surrounding lots, parcels or tracts of land;
and
      (5)   The variance granted shall be the minimum variance that will make
possible the reasonable use of the parent parcel.
   (D)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall follow the procedures of the Zoning
Ordinance relating to variances when deciding whether to grant a variance under
this section.
   (E)   In granting any variance under this chapter, the Zoning Board of
Appeals may prescribe appropriate conditions and safeguards in order to ensure
that the lot, parcel, or tract of land that will result from the division or
property transfer complies with the variance granted under this chapter.
Violations of such conditions and safeguards shall be deemed a violation of
this chapter, punishable under §
154.08 of this chapter.
(Ord._2_of_2018, passed 2-12- 2018)
§ 154.08 APPEALS TO THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS.
   Any person aggrieved by a decision of the Village President may appeal that
decision to the Zoning Board of Appeals following the procedures of the Zoning
Ordinance, as amended, for appeals to the Zoning Board of Appeals. Any such
appeal shall be filed within 30 days from the date of the decision from which
the appeal is taken. During the appeal, the Zoning Board of Appeals shall
conduct a de novo hearing of the matter and to that end shall have all the
powers of the Village President. In rendering its decision, the Zoning Board of
Appeals shall receive and consider evidence and data relevant to the case and
shall issue its decision in writing within a reasonable period of time after
receiving all evidence and data in the case. The decision of the Zoning Board
of Appeals shall then be sent promptly to the applicant, to the person who
filed the appeal (if different than the applicant), and to the Village
President and Zoning Administrator.
(Ord._2_of_2018, passed 2-12- 2018)
§ 154.09 ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   The Village President and other officials designated by the Village Council
are hereby designated as the authorized village officials to issue municipal
civil infraction citations directing alleged violators of this chapter to
appear in court.
(Ord._2_of_2018, passed 2-12- 2018)
§ 154.10 NUISANCE PER SE.
   A violation of this chapter is hereby declared to be a nuisance per se and
is declared to be offensive to the public health, safety and welfare.
(Ord._2_of_2018, passed 2-12- 2018)
§ 154.11 SEPARATE COURT ACTION.
   In addition to enforcing this chapter through the use of a municipal civil
infraction proceeding, the village may initiate proceedings in the Circuit
Court to abate or eliminate the nuisance per se or any other violation of this
chapter.
(Ord._2_of_2018, passed 2-12- 2018)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be responsible
for a municipal civil infraction as defined in Public Act 12 of 1994, amending
Public Act 236 of 1961, being M.C.L.A. §§ 600.101 through 600.9939, and shall
be subject to a fine of not more than $500. Each day this chapter is violated
shall be considered as a separate violation. Any action taken under this
section shall not prevent civil proceedings for abatement or termination of the
prohibited activity.
(Ord._2_of_2018, passed 2-12- 2018)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ZONING MAP CHANGES AND DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
      
II.   ANNEXATIONS
      
III.   FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
TABLE I: ZONING MAP CHANGES AND DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
 
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
            Rezoning properties from FF-1 Farm Forest to B-2 General Business
91-  6-3-   District. The properties are bounded by M-68, Spring Street, and Banwell
01   1996   Road and are tax parcel numbers 24-17-10-200-018 and 24-17-10-400- 017,
            Section 10, T35N, R4W.
-    4-19-  Rezoning properties from R1-B One-Family to B-2 General Business. Tax
     1999   parcel number 24-41-17-10- 300-013, Section 10, T35N, R4W (East Street).
1 of - -    Rezoning, from R-1B to all B-1, the property described in Exhibit “A”
2006        attached to the ordinance codified herein.
6 of 12-18- Approval of the amended Development Plan and amended tax increment
2006 2006   financing plan for the Downtown Development Authority.
           
 
TABLE II: ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord. No.  Date Passed  Description
                         Adding territory to the village to which the Downtown
                         Development Authority shall exercise its powers
                         commencing at intersection of former GR & I RR Branch
                         Row with north line of Powers Road then east to
                         northwest line of Highway U.S. 31, then northeast
                         along said highway to south line of Highway M-68, then
                         northwest along south line of Chicago Street to east
                         line of Milton Avenue, then southwest along Milton
                         Avenue to point of beginning. Also, Section 10, T35N
                         R4W, commencing on east line of Highway U.S. 31 south
                         389 feet ten inches north of north one-eighth line for
                         point of beginning, then east to McKenzie land, then
                         south approximately 200 feet, then east to west bank
4 of 2006 - -            of Crooked River, south along river to southeast
                         corner of plat of Riverside Park, then east across
                         said river to east bank thereof, then southeast along
                         north line of Weidenhammer property to west line of
                         Spring Street, south along said street to north line
                         of Highway M-68, northwest along highway to west bank
                         of Crooked River, then south along said river to north
                         line of West Street, then west along West Street to
                         southeast corner of Lot 6, Block 5, then south to
                         northwest corner of Lot 1, Block 3 of Evergreen Park
                         Plat, then south along west line of said Plat to east
                         line of Highway U.S. 31 south, then northeast along
                         said highway to point of beginning, including Bonz
                         Island.
                        
 
TABLE III: FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Franchise granted to the Michigan Consolidated Gas Company
75-37    10-5-1981   to lay, maintain, operate, and use gas pipes, mains,
                     conductors, service pipes, and other necessary equipment
                     for the purpose of conveying gas in the village.
                     Franchise granted to Consumers Energy Company Electric to
0-16     6-13-2016   construct, maintain, and commercially use electric lines
                     to do a local electric business in the village for a
                     period of 30 years.
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Michigan Compiled Laws Annotated
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MICHIGAN COMPILED LAWS ANNOTATED
M.C.L.A. Cite Code Section
M.C.L.A. Cite             Code Section
15.231 through 15.246     113.04
125.31 through 125.45     32.09
125.1653(3)               152.15
125.3101 et seq.          32.04
125.3801 et seq.          32.01,
                          32.04
141.121                   50.21
247.401                   70.02
247.402                   70.02
247.403(7)                70.02
257.951 through 257.954   70.01
257.1501 through 257.1518 71.01,
                          71.02
281.1001 through 281.1199 94.01
324.80201 et seq.         94.01
333.27953(h)              114.01
333.27956, subsection 1   114.01
484.2102                  113.03
484.2251                  113.04
559.101 through 559.272   153.003,
                          153.020
560.101 through 560.293   152.35,
                          153.003
                          50.99,
                          93.99,
                          113.99,
600.101 through 600.9939  114.99,
                          130.99,
                          150.99,
                          154.99
600.8395                  70.20
600.8701 through 600.8735 10.02
722.51 et seq.            112.04
722.671 et seq.           112.05
750.543a et seq.          33.06
752.361 et seq.           112.04
764.9a through 764.9e     10.10
                          
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No.  Date Passed Code Section
01-2006   9-18-2006   152.15
                      90.15 -
–       8-2-1993    90.23,
                      90.99
–       12-17-2007  30.01
2 of 2014 11-10-2014  33.01 -
                      33.10
2 of 2020 7-13-2020   31.02
                     
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.      Date Passed Code Section
74-1          7-22-1974   94.04,
                          94.99
47-24         10-28-1974  70.05
75-1          - -         110.03,
                          110.99
75-2          - -         130.02,
                          130.99
                          152.01 -
75-5          - -         152.04,
                          152.99
                          150.20,
75-6          6-2-1975    150.21,
                          150.99
75-7          - -         110.02,
                          110.99
75-9          - -         110.01,
                          110.99
75-10         - -         130.01,
                          130.99
                          51.01 -
75-11         - -         51.05,
                          51.99
75-13         - -         131.01,
                          131.99
75-15         6-2-1975    90.02,
                          90.99
75-16         - -         70.01,
                          70.99
                          70.20 -
75-17         6-2-1975    70.26,
                          70.99
75-18         - -         70.04,
                          70.99
                          152.30 -
75-19         - -         152.35,
                          152.99
                          50.40 -
75-21         - -         50.42,
                          50.99
75-22         6-2-1975    90.01,
                          90.99
                          111.01 -
75-23         - -         111.11,
                          111.99
75-25         - -         Ch. 72, Schedule I
75-26         6-2-1975    90.03,
                          90.99
75-29         - -         131.03,
                          131.99
75-30         - -         70.03,
                          70.99
                          50.01 -
–           11-5-1976   50.09,
                          50.99
                          50.20 -
75-36         11-5-1976   50.22,
                          50.24 -
                          50.26
–           1-16-1978   70.27
–           3-3-1980    50.24
75-37         10-5-1981   TSO Table III
–           7-7-1983    92.01
                          94.01 -
75-38         8-5-1985    94.03,
                          94.99
                          71.01 -
75-31         4-6-1987    71.05,
                          71.99
                          92.02,
75-32         - -         92.03,
                          92.99
75-33         - -         130.03,
                          130.99
                          91.15 -
75-34         - -         91.22,
                          91.99
                          91.01 -
75-35         - -         91.06,
                          91.99
–           9-3-1993    151.01
–           11-21-1994  71.03
91-01         6-3-1996    TSO Table I
01-96         7-15-1996   112.01-
                          112.05
                          153.001 -
                          153.007,
                          153.020 -
                          153.029,
97-2          12-15-1997  153.040 -
                          153.044,
                          153.055 -
                          153.060,
                          153.075,
                          153.076
                          150.01 -
2 of 1998     12-14-1998  150.09,
                          150.99
                          93.01 -
98-3          12-21-1998  93.06,
                          93.99
–           4-19-1999   TSO Table I
2 of 2002     4-15-2002   50.21,
                          50.99
1 of 2003     2-3-2003    50.24
                          113.01 -
2 of 2003     6-2-2003    113.19,
                          113.99
05-2005       1-19-2005   70.02
03-2005       10-24-2005  151.01
04-2005       1-2-2006    151.01
2-2006        - -2006     151.01
03-2006       1-2-2006    151.01
6 of 2006     12-18-2006  TSO Table I
1 of 2006     - -         TSO Table I
4 of 2006     - -         TSO Table II
1 of 2007     11-19-2007  31.01 - 31.05
01 of 2011    6-20-2011   32.01 -
                          32.09
–           5-7-2012    50.23
0-16          6-13-2016   TSO Table III
–           2-13-2017   92.01
–           7-10-2017   94.04,
                          94.99
2 of 2018     2-12-2018   32.01 -
                          32.09
4 of 2018     2-12-2018   130.02,
                          130.99
                          154.01 -
5 of 2018     2-12-2018   154.11,
                          154.99
75-40 of 2018 10-8-2018   130.04
                          114.01 -
2 of 2019     10-14-2019  114.04,
                          114.99
1 of 2022     7-11-2022   111.20 -
                          111.32
                         
 
 
Comprehensive Ordinance List
Publisher's Note: The following table lists all ordinances passed by the
Village of Alanson. The table includes links to the ordinances, as maintained
in PDF format. For other legislation, including ordinances passed prior to
2018, please contact the Village of Alanson.
 
Ordinances that amend the Code and are not yet effective have their
identifiying information highlighted in yellow. Changes made by those
ordinances are not incorporated into the text of the Code until the amending
ordinances are effective. Ordinances that do not affect the code have been
grayed out.
 
Jump to:
Ordinances
Ordinances
Ord. No. Eff. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
Ord.  Eff. Short Title and Code Sections Affected
No.   Date
No._3 2/   Amending Ch. 154 regarding land divisions and property transfers.
of    12/   
2018  18   Sections Affected:
           154.01 - 154.11, 154.99
           Amending § 130.02 regarding the discharge of firearms, air guns, zip guns,
No._4 2/   bows, and crossbows within the Village limits.
of    12/   
2018  18   Sections Affected:
           130.02
No._5 2/   Creating a Village Planning Commission.
of    12/   
2018  18   Sections Affected:
           Title III
      5/   Amending sewer user charge
50.21 14/   
      18   Sections Affected:
           50.21
No.        Regulating the discharge of fireworks within Village limits.
75-40 10/   
of    8/18 Sections Affected:
2018       91.02
No._2 10/  Prohibiting marihuana establishments within the Village.
of    14/   
2019  19   Sections Affected:
            
No._1 1/   Establishing the Deputy Clerk and Deputy Treasurer positions.
of    13/   
2020  20   Sections Affected:
           Title III
Res.  7/
No._2 13/  Clarifying the terms of office for four Village Council members.
of    20
2020
No._1 7/   Establishing mobile food vendor regulations.
of    15/   
2022  22   Sections Affected:
            
          
 
 
