ALLEGAN, MICHIGAN
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Code current through local ordinance 526; passed 2-10-2025
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
CITY CHARTER
Preamble
Chapter I. Name and Boundaries
   
1.1.   Incorporation
   
1.2.   Wards
Chapter II. General Municipal Powers
   
2.1.   General powers
   
2.2.   Intergovernmental cooperation
   
2.3.   Exercise of powers
Chapter III. Enumeration Powers
   
3.1.   Public safety
   
3.2.   Streets and public ways
   
3.3.   Water courses
   
3.4.   Public works
   
3.5.   Public parks, cemeteries, and public places
   
3.6.   Health
Chapter IV. Elections
   
4.1.   Qualifications of electors
   
4.2.   Election procedure
   
4.3.   Precincts
   
4.4.   Election commission
   
4.5.   Regular election
   
4.6.   Special election
   
4.7.   Conduct of elections
   
4.8.   Nominations procedure
   
4.9.   Approval of petitions
   
4.10.   Nominations to fill vacancy in elective office
   
4.11.   Form of ballot
   
4.12.   Canvass of votes
   
4.13.   Tie vote
   
4.14.   Recount
   
4.15.   Recall
Chapter V. Elective Officers of the City
   
5.1.   Elective officers
   
5.2.   Qualifications
   
5.3.   Term of office
   
5.4.   Oath of office
   
5.5.   Surety bonds
   
5.6.   Notice of election
   
5.7.   Vacancy defined
   
5.8.   Vacancies
   
5.9.   The mayor and mayor pro tempore
   
5.10.   Compensation for councilmembers
   
5.11.   Regular meetings of the council
   
5.12.   Special meetings of the council
   
5.13.   Business at special meetings
   
5.14.   Meetings to be public
   
5.15.   Quorum
   
5.16.   Rules of order
   
5.17.   Judge qualifications of members
   
5.18.   Vote required
   
5.19.   Investigations
   
5.20.   Printing of council proceedings
   
5.21.   Depository of city funds
   
5.22.   Licenses
   
5.23.   Rights as to property
   
5.24.   Trusts
   
5.25.   Traffic violations bureau
   
5.26.   Advisory committees or boards
   
5.27.   Further functions and duties of the council
   
5.28.   Prohibitions
Chapter VI. Legislation
   
6.1.   Prior legislation
   
6.2.   Ordinances
   
6.3.   Codes of technical regulations
   
6.4.   Ordinance record
   
6.5.   Publication of ordinance
   
6.6.   Codification
Chapter VII. Initiative and Referendum
   
7.1.   General authority
   
7.2.   Petitions
   
7.3.   Procedure after filing
   
7.4.   Referendum petitions; suspension of effect of ordinance
   
7.5.   Action on petitions
   
7.6.   Results of election
Chapter VIII. Administrative Officers
   
8.1.   [Administrative officers]
   
8.2.   City manager
   
8.3.   Removal of city manager
   
8.4.   Powers and duties of the city manager
   
8.5.   City clerk
   
8.6.   City treasurer
   
8.7.   Financial accounting
   
8.8.   City attorney
   
8.9.   City assessor
   
8.10.   Additional administrative powers and duties
   
8.11.   City planning
   
8.12.   Zoning board of appeals
Chapter IX. General Finance
   
9.1.   Fiscal year
   
9.2.   Budget procedure
   
9.3.   Budget document
   
9.4.   Budget hearing
   
9.5.   Adoption of the budget
   
9.6.   Budget control
   
9.7.   Independent audit
Chapter X. Taxation
   
10.1.   Power to tax
   
10.2.   Tax limits
   
10.3.   Exemptions
   
10.4.   Tax day
   
10.5.   Assessment roll
   
10.6.   Board of review
   
10.7.   Duties and functions of the board of review
   
10.8.   Meetings of the board of review
   
10.9.   Notice of meetings
   
10.10.   Certification of roll
   
10.11.   Clerk to certify tax levy
   
10.12.   City tax roll
   
10.13.   Tax roll certified for collection
   
10.14.   Tax lien
   
10.15.   Taxes due, notification thereof
   
10.16.   Collection charges on late payment of taxes
   
10.17.   Collection of delinquent taxes
   
10.18.   Failure or refusal to pay personal property taxes
   
10.19.   State, county, and school taxes
Chapter XI. Special Assessment
   
11.1.   Special assessments, general powers
   
11.2.   Procedure fixed by ordinance
   
11.3.   Implementation of the chapter
Chapter XII. Borrowing Authority
   
12.1.   General borrowing
   
12.2.   Limits of borrowing authority
   
12.3.   Preparation and record of bonds
   
12.4.   Deferred payment contracts
Chapter XIII. Franchises-Contracts-Permits
   
13.1.   Franchises
   
13.2.   Right of regulation
   
13.3.   Rates of franchised utilities
   
13.4.   Purchase—Condemnation
   
13.5.   Revocable permits
   
13.6.   Use of streets by utility
   
13.7.   License fees
   
13.8.   Purchasing procedure
   
13.9.   Purchase and sale of real property
   
13.10.   Contracting authority of council
   
13.11.   Limitations on contractual powers
   
13.12.   Official interest in contracts
Chapter XIV. Utilities
   
14.1.   General powers respecting utilities
   
14.2.   Acquisition of private property
   
14.3.   Control of utilities
   
14.4.   Rates and charges
   
14.5.   Utility charges—Collection
   
14.6.   Accounts
   
14.7.   Disposal of plants
   
14.8.   Capital asset improvement sinking fund
Chapter XV. Municipal Rights and Liabilities
   
15.1.   Rights, liabilities, remedies
   
15.2.   Liability for damages
   
15.3.   Statements of city officers
Chapter XVI. General Provisions and Definitions
   
16.1.   Public records
   
16.2.   Headings
   
16.3.   Effect of illegality of any part of charter
   
16.4.   Amendments
   
16.5.   Definitions and interpretations
Chapter XVII. Schedule
   
17.1.   Election to adopt charter
   
17.2.   Form of ballot
   
17.3.   Effective date of charter
   
17.4.   Election of officers
   
17.5.   Continuation of appointive officers
   
17.6.   Boards and commissions
   
17.7.   Continuation of contracts and obligations
   
17.8.   Council action
Editor’s note:
   Printed herein is the Charter of the City of Allegan, as adopted 9-1-2008.
Amendments are
    indicated by history notes in parentheses following the amended section.
Absence of a history
    note indicates that the section is unchanged from the original Charter.
Additions made for
    clarity are indicated by brackets.
Statutory reference:
   Home rule cities generally, see MCL §§ 117.1 et seq.
   Power to adopt and amend charter, see Mich. Const. 1963, Art. VII, § 22
PREAMBLE
   We the people of the City of Allegan, State of Michigan, pursuant to
authority granted by the constitution and laws of the State of Michigan, in
order to promote our common welfare, to encourage more direct and efficient
methods in the transaction of our municipal affairs, and to commemorate our
City’s Sesquicentennial, do hereby ordain and establish this charter.
CHAPTER I. NAME AND BOUNDARIES
SECTION 1.1. INCORPORATION.
   The body corporate of the City of Allegan shall include all territory
constituting the City of Allegan on the effective date of this charter,
together with all territories that may be annexed thereto and less any
detachments therefrom that may be made in a manner prescribed by law.
SECTION 1.2. WARDS.
   The City shall consist of and constitute one single ward.
CHAPTER II. GENERAL MUNICIPAL POWERS
SECTION 2.1. GENERAL POWERS.
   The City of Allegan and its officers shall be vested with any and all powers
and immunities, expressed and implied, which cities and their officers are, or
hereafter may be, permitted to exercise or to provide for in their charters
under the Constitution and Laws of the State of Michigan, including all the
powers and immunities which are granted to cities and officers of cities as
fully and completely as though those powers and immunities were specifically
enumerated in and provided for in this charter. In no case shall any
enumeration of particular powers or immunities in this charter be held to be
exclusive.
SECTION 2.2. INTERGOVERNMENTAL COOPERATION.
   The City may join with any municipal corporation or with any other unit or
agency of government, whether local, state, or federal, or with any number or
combination thereof, by contract or otherwise, as may be permitted by law, in
the ownership, operation, or performance, jointly or by one or more on behalf
of all, of any property, facility or service which each would have the power to
own, operate, or perform separately.
SECTION 2.3. EXERCISE OF POWERS.
   Where no procedure is set forth in this charter for the exercise of any
power granted to or possessed by the city and its officers, resort may be had
to any procedure set forth in any statute of the State of Michigan which was
passed for the government of cities, or in any other statute of the State of
Michigan. If alternate procedures are to be found in different statutes, then
the council shall select that procedure which it deems to be most expeditious
and to the best advantage of the city and its inhabitants. Where no procedure
for the exercise of any power of the city is set forth, either in this charter
or in any statute of the State of Michigan, the council shall prescribe by
ordinance a reasonable procedure for the exercise thereof.
CHAPTER III. ENUMERATION POWERS
SECTION 3.1. PUBLIC SAFETY.
   The City shall be vested with any and all powers for the public safety,
expressed and implied, which cities and their officers are, or hereafter may
be, permitted to exercise, which powers shall include, but not be limited to,
police powers, the enactment and enforcement of zoning ordinances, and the
enactment and enforcement of ordinances for fire prevention, including
establishing and maintaining fire and police departments which may be combined
into a public safety department.
SECTION 3.2. STREETS AND PUBLIC WAYS.
   The City shall be vested with any and all powers, expressed or implied,
which cities and their officers are, or hereafter may be, permitted to exercise
for the control and regulation of public ways, streets, alleys, bridges,
sidewalks, and the area above and beneath them.
SECTION 3.3. WATER COURSES.
   The City shall be vested with any and all powers, expressed or implied,
which cities and their officers are, or hereafter may be, permitted to exercise
for the control and regulation of all rivers, streams, waters, and water
courses within the city limits.
SECTION 3.4. PUBLIC WORKS.
   The City shall be vested with any and all powers, expressed or implied,
which cities and their officers are, or hereafter may be, permitted to exercise
to acquire by purchase, gift, condemnation, lease, construction, or otherwise
own, establish, maintain, operate, and administer, either within or without its
corporate limits, public works of all kinds, public buildings of all kinds, and
all works which involve the public health or safety; and may provide for the
cost and expenses thereof.
SECTION 3.5. PUBLIC PARKS, CEMETERIES, AND PUBLIC PLACES.
   (a)   The City shall be vested with any and all powers, expressed or
implied, which cities and their officers are, or hereafter may be, permitted to
exercise to establish, maintain, and protect all parks, cemeteries, and public
places (together with all improvements thereon) owned by the city either within
or without its city limits.
   (b)   All cemeteries and parks now owned or which may be acquired by the
city, either within or without the city limits, shall be forever dedicated
solely to cemetery or park purposes respectively, and all grants or dedications
made for such purposes shall continue without change except in such manner as
may be permitted by law.
   (c)   All ordinances pertaining to the public health and welfare in the
regulation of public cemeteries shall apply equally to all cemeteries within
the city belonging to or under control of, any church, religious society,
corporation, company, or association.
SECTION 3.6. HEALTH.
   The council shall have and exercise within and for the city all the powers,
privileges and immunities conferred upon boards of health and may enact such
ordinances as may be deemed necessary for the preservation and protection of
the health of the city’s inhabitants.
CHAPTER IV. ELECTIONS
SECTION 4.1. QUALIFICATIONS OF ELECTORS.
   The residents of the city having the qualifications of electors in the State
of Michigan shall be eligible to vote in the city.
SECTION 4.2. ELECTION PROCEDURE.
   The general election laws shall apply to and control all procedures relating
to city elections, including qualifications of electors, establishment of
precincts, verification of petitions, registration of voters, and voting hours.
The clerk shall give public notice of each city election in the same manner as
is required by law for the giving of public notice of general elections in the
state.
SECTION 4.3. PRECINCTS.
   The election precincts of the city shall remain as they existed on the
effective date of this charter unless altered by the city election commission
in accordance with statutes.
SECTION 4.4. ELECTION COMMISSION.
   An election commission is hereby created, consisting of the clerk and one
other appointive city officer whom the council shall designate, and one other
qualified registered elector whom the council shall designate, and such
appointed persons shall serve at the pleasure of the council. The clerk shall
be chairperson. The commission shall have charge of all activities and duties
required of it by state law and this charter relating to the conduct of
elections in the city. The compensation of election personnel shall be
determined in advance by the election commission, in accordance with the city
budget.
SECTION 4.5. REGULAR ELECTION.
   A nonpartisan regular city election shall be held on the first Monday in
April each odd numbered year for the election of city officers.
SECTION 4.6. SPECIAL ELECTION.
   Special city elections shall be held when called by resolution of the City
Council at least sixty (60) days in advance of such election, or when required
by law. Any resolution calling a special city election shall set forth the
purpose of such election.
SECTION 4.7. CONDUCT OF ELECTIONS.
   Except as otherwise provided by this charter, the provisions of the general
election laws of the State of Michigan shall apply to elections held under this
charter.
SECTION 4.8. NOMINATIONS PROCEDURE.
   The candidates for elective office shall be nominated by petitions, the
blanks for which shall be furnished by the clerk. The candidate may use his or
her own petition blanks, providing they conform substantially with state
statutes. Each such petition shall be signed by not less than fifty (50) nor
more than seventy-five (75) registered electors of the city. Nominating
petitions shall be filed at the clerk’s office by 4:00 p.m. on the third Monday
in February prior to the date of the regular city election. At least one week
before, and not more than three (3) weeks before, the last day for filing
nominating petitions, the clerk shall publish notice to that effect.
   Each elector signing shall add his or her residential street and number and
the date of signature. No electors shall sign petitions for more candidates for
any office than the number to be elected to such office. Where any name appears
on more petitions than there are candidates to be elected to said office, such
names shall not be counted upon any petition for that office. No petition shall
be left for signatures in any public place unless accompanied by the circulator
of the petition. When a petition is filed by persons other than the person
whose name appears thereon as a candidate, it may be accepted only when
accompanied by the written consent of the candidate.
SECTION 4.9. APPROVAL OF PETITIONS.
   The Clerk shall accept only nomination petitions which conform substantially
with state statutes and which contain the required number of valid signatures
for candidates having those qualifications required for the respective elective
city offices as set forth in this charter. Upon receipt of any nomination
petition, the Clerk shall, forthwith, determine the sufficiency of the
signatures on each petition filed, and if the clerk finds that any petition
does not contain the required number of valid signatures of registered
electors, the clerk shall immediately notify the candidate, who may file an
amended petition not later than five (5) days after the date and hour for
filing the original petition, but the failure to so notify any candidate shall
in no way prevent a final determination that the petition does not meet the
requirements of this section. Withdrawal of a candidate’s name from
consideration on the ballot must be made in writing and in conformance with the
time allowed by statute.
SECTION 4.10. NOMINATIONS TO FILL VACANCY IN ELECTIVE OFFICE.
   Whenever it shall be necessary at any city election to elect an officer to
fill a vacancy for an unexpired term such fact shall be stated in the petitions
filed for the purpose of nominating candidates to fill such vacancy.
SECTION 4.11. FORM OF BALLOT.
   The ballots for all elections under this charter shall conform to the
printing and numbering of ballots as required by statute, except that no party
designation or emblem shall appear on any city ballot.
SECTION 4.12. CANVASS OF VOTES.
   The Board of Canvassers designated by statute as being permitted to cities
for canvass of votes on candidates and issues shall canvass the votes of all
city elections in accordance with statute.
SECTION 4.13. TIE VOTE.
   If in any city election there shall be no choice between candidates by
reason of two (2) or more candidates having received an equal number of votes,
then the determination of the election of such candidate by lot will be as
provided by state statute.
SECTION 4.14. RECOUNT.
   A recount of the votes cast at any city election for any office, or upon any
proposition, may be had in accordance with the general election laws of the
state.
SECTION 4.15. RECALL.
   Any elective official may be removed from office by the electors of the city
in the manner provided by the general laws of the state. A vacancy created by
the recall of any elective official shall be filled in the manner prescribed by
state law.
CHAPTER V. ELECTIVE OFFICERS OF THE CITY
SECTION 5.1. ELECTIVE OFFICERS.
   The legislative power of the city, except as reserved by this charter, shall
be vested in a council consisting of seven (7) councilmembers elected at large
on a nonpartisan basis. The council shall have the power and authority to adopt
such ordinances and resolutions as it shall deem proper in the exercise of its
powers. There shall also be elected in the City of Allegan a Constable.
SECTION 5.2. QUALIFICATIONS.
   Each elective city official must be a duly registered elector in the city,
and shall have been a resident of the city for six (6) months immediately prior
to the election at which he or she is a candidate for office.
SECTION 5.3. TERM OF OFFICE.
   The terms of councilmembers shall be four (4) years beginning fifteen (15)
days following the city election at which they are elected. The term of
Constable shall be two (2) years beginning fifteen (15) days following the city
election at which he or she is elected.
SECTION 5.4. OATH OF OFFICE.
   Each elective or appointive officer of the city, before entering upon the
duties of this office and within the time specified in this charter, shall take
and subscribe to the oath of office prescribed by the state constitution, which
shall be filed and kept in the office of the clerk.
SECTION 5.5. SURETY BONDS.
   Any city officer may be required to give a bond to be approved by the
council for the faithful performance of the duties of his or her office in such
sum as the council shall determine, but all officers receiving or disbursing
city funds shall be bonded. All official bonds shall be corporate surety bonds
and the premiums thereon shall be paid by the city. All official bonds shall be
filed with the clerk, except that of the clerk, which shall be filed with the
treasurer or other officer designated by the council.
SECTION 5.6. NOTICE OF ELECTION.
   Notice of the election of any officer of the city shall be given them by the
clerk, in writing, within seven (7) days after the canvass of the vote by which
they were elected. If within fourteen (14) days from the date of notice such
officer shall not take, subscribe, and file with the clerk their oath of
office, such neglect shall be deemed a refusal to serve and the office shall
thereupon be deemed vacant, unless the council shall, for good cause, extend
the time in which such officer may qualify as above set forth.
SECTION 5.7. VACANCY DEFINED.
   In addition to other provisions of this charter, a vacancy shall be deemed
to exist in any elective office on the day when the officer dies, files a
resignation with the city clerk, is removed from office, moves from the city,
is convicted of a felony, or of misconduct in office under this charter, is
judicially declared to be mentally incompetent, or is absent from three (3)
consecutive regular meetings of the council, unless excused by the council for
cause to be stated in the record of council proceedings.
SECTION 5.8. VACANCIES.
   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this charter, any vacancy occurring in
any elective office shall be filled, by the concurring vote of at least four
(4) members of the Council, within thirty-five (35) days after such vacancy
shall have occurred. Said appointee shall serve until fifteen (15) days
following the next regular city election following his or her appointment. In
all cases where the term of office in which a vacancy occurs extends beyond
fifteen (15) days following the next regular city election following the
occurrence of such vacancy, the vacancy shall be filled at such regular city
election for the balance of the term. Any person elected or appointed to fill
any vacancy shall take and subscribe to the usual oath of office and furnish
any bond required of the same type and in the same manner as regularly elected
officers.
   (b)   If a vacancy occurs in any appointive office, it shall be filled in
the manner provided for making the original appointment. In the case of members
of boards and commissions appointed for a definite term, such appointment shall
be for the unexpired term.
SECTION 5.9. THE MAYOR AND MAYOR PRO TEMPORE.
   The council at its first meeting following each regular city election shall
elect one of its members as mayor and one mayor pro tem by an affirmative vote
of a majority of its members, and who shall serve for one year or until their
successors are elected. The mayor shall be chief executive of the city, shall
preside at all meetings of the council, and shall speak and vote at such
meetings as any other councilmember. For all ceremonial purposes and for
purposes of military law, the mayor shall be recognized as head of the city
government and shall possess all powers and duties as otherwise provided by
statute, but shall have no administrative duties. The mayor pro tem shall act
as mayor during the absence or disability of the mayor.
SECTION 5.10. COMPENSATION FOR COUNCILMEMBERS.
   (a)   The councilmembers shall receive twenty-five dollars ($25.00) per
meeting up to a maximum of eight hundred dollars ($800.00) in total
remuneration per year. The mayor shall receive thirty dollars ($30.00) per
meeting up to a maximum of nine hundred sixty dollars ($960.00) per year. Such
compensation shall be paid quarterly, or more often as the council directs, and
shall be the only compensation which may be paid councilmembers for the
discharge of any official duties as a councilmember for or on behalf of the
city during their tenure in office, except that they may be reimbursed for
necessary expenses actually incurred by them on city business. Such
reimbursement must be approved by council. The council may establish and
provide in advance, a per diem rate to meet basic expenses. Whenever timely,
requests for travel should be submitted for council approval in advance.
   (b)   A local officers compensation commission is created which shall
determine the salaries of each local elected official. The commission shall
consist of five (5) members. The members shall be registered electors of the
city, appointed by the mayor subject to confirmation by a majority of the
members elected and serving in the council. The terms of office shall be five
(5) years except that of the members first appointed, one each shall be
appointed for terms of one (2), two (2), three (3), four (4), and five (5)
years. The first members shall be appointed within thirty (30) days after the
effective date of the charter. Members other than the first members shall be
appointed before October 1 of the year of appointment. Vacancies shall be
filled for the remainder of the unexpired term. A member or employee of the
legislative, judicial, or executive branch of government or a member of the
immediate family of a member or employee of the legislative, judicial, or
executive branch of government shall not be a member of the commission.
   (c)   The commission shall determine the salary of each local elected
official. The council, by resolution adopted by roll call vote by 5/7 of the
members elected to and serving on the council shall approve it. The
determination of the commission shall be effective thirty (30) days following
approval by the council. If the determination is rejected, the existing salary
shall prevail. The expense allowance or reimbursement paid to ejected officials
in addition to salary shall be for expenses incurred in the course of city
business and accounted for to the city.
   (d)   The commission shall meet for not more than fifteen (15) session days
in each odd-numbered year and shall make its determination within forty-five
(45) calendar days after its first meeting. A majority of the members of the
commission constitutes a quorum for conducting the business of the commission.
The commission shall not take action or make a determination without a
concurrence of a majority of the members appointed and serving on the
commission. The commission shall elect a chairperson from among its members. As
used in this section, “session day” means a calendar day on which the
commission meets and a quorum is present. The members of the commission shall
not receive compensation, but shall be entitled to actual and necessary
expenses incurred in the performance of official duties.
   (e)   The business which the commission may perform shall be conducted at a
public meeting of the commission held in compliance with Act No. 267 of the
Public Acts of 1976, being sections 15.261 to 15.275 of the Michigan Compiled
Laws. Public notice of the time, date, and place of the meeting of the
commission shall be given in the manner required by Act No. 267 of the Public
Acts of 1976.
   (f)   A writing prepared, owned, used, in the possession of, or retained by
the commission in the performance of an official function shall be made
available to the public in compliance with Act No. 442 of the Public Acts of
1976, being sections 15.231 to 15.246 of the Michigan Compiled Laws.
SECTION 5.11. REGULAR MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL.
   Regular meetings of the council shall be held at least twice in each
calendar month at the usual place of holding meetings of the council. If any
time set by resolution of the council for the holding of a regular meeting of
the council shall be a holiday, then such regular meeting shall be held on the
next following secular day which is not a holiday or on such other day as may
be set by the council.
SECTION 5.12. SPECIAL MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL.
   Special meetings of the Council may be called by the clerk on the written
request of the mayor or any two (2) members of the Council or the city manager
upon eighteen (18) hours’ written notice to each member of the council. The
written notice shall designate the purpose of such meeting.
SECTION 5.13. BUSINESS AT SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   No business shall be transacted at any special meeting of the Council unless
the same has been stated in the notice of such meeting.
SECTION 5.14. MEETINGS TO BE PUBLIC.
   All regular and special meetings of the council shall be open to the public
and the rules of order of the council shall provide that the citizens shall
have a reasonable opportunity to be heard at any such meeting on matters within
the jurisdiction of the council.
SECTION 5.15. QUORUM.
   Four (4) members of the Council shall be a quorum for the transaction of
business, but in the absence of a quorum, two (2) or more members may adjourn
any regular or special meeting to a later date.
SECTION 5.16. RULES OF ORDER.
   The council shall determine its own rules and order of business and shall
keep a written or printed journal of all its proceedings in the English
language which shall be signed by the mayor and the clerk. The vote upon the
passage of all ordinances, and upon the adoption of all resolutions shall be
taken by “Yes” and “No” votes and entered upon the record, except that where
the vote is unanimous, it shall only be necessary to so state in such record.
Each member of the council, who shall be recorded as present at any meeting
shall be required to vote on all questions decided by the council at such
meeting, unless excused by four (4) of the members present or in any case,
where the matter personally affects the member not voting. A member not excused
can be considered in violation of this charter when so determined by the
council.
SECTION 5.17. JUDGE QUALIFICATIONS OF MEMBERS.
   The council shall be the judge of the election and qualifications of its
members and of the grounds of forfeiture of their office and for that purpose
shall have power to subpoena witnesses, administer oaths and require production
of evidence. A member charged with conduct constituting grounds for forfeiture
of his or her office shall be entitled to a public hearing on demand, and
notice of such hearing shall be published in one or more newspapers of general
circulation in the city at least one week in advance of the hearing. Decisions
made by the council under this section shall be subject to review by the
courts.
SECTION 5.18. VOTE REQUIRED.
   Except as otherwise provided in this charter, no ordinance or resolution
shall be adopted or passed except by affirmative vote of at least four (4)
members of the council. Except as otherwise provided in this charter, no real
estate or any interest therein shall be sold or disposed of, vote of the
council reconsidered or rescinded at a special meeting, or ordinance to rezone
property shall be adopted, except by affirmative vote of at least five (5)
members of the council.
SECTION 5.19. INVESTIGATIONS.
   The council or its duly appointed representatives may subpoena witnesses,
administer oaths, and compel the production of books, papers, and other
evidence to conduct formal investigation into the conduct of any department,
office, or officer of the city and make investigations as to malfeasance,
misfeasance, nonfeasance or irregularities in municipal affairs. Failure to
obey such subpoena or to produce books, papers, or other evidence as ordered
under the provisions of this Section shall constitute misconduct in office. The
council shall give a reasonable time for such action.
SECTION 5.20. PRINTING OF COUNCIL PROCEEDINGS.
   The minutes of the council shall be printed and made available for public
inspection within seven (7) days after the passage thereof. A synopsis of such
minutes, prepared by the clerk and approved by the mayor, showing the substance
of each separate proceedings of the council shall be a sufficient compliance
with the requirements of this section.
SECTION 5.21. DEPOSITORY OF CITY FUNDS.
   The council shall select annually one or more depositories in which the
funds of the city shall be deposited. Additions may be made at the discretion
of the council during the year.
SECTION 5.22. LICENSES.
   The council shall by ordinance prescribe the terms and conditions upon which
licenses may be granted, suspended, or revoked; and may require an exact
payment of such reasonable sums for any licenses as it may deem proper.
SECTION 5.23. RIGHTS AS TO PROPERTY.
   The council shall have the power to acquire for the city by purchase, gift,
condemnation, lease, construction or otherwise, either within or without its
corporate limits, and either within or without the County of Allegan, private
property, for any public use or purpose within the scope of its powers, whether
herein specifically mentioned or not; and shall have the power to maintain and
operate the same to promote the public health, safety and welfare.
SECTION 5.24. TRUSTS.
   The council may, in its discretion receive and hold any property in trust
for cemetery, park, or other municipal purposes. Any trust now existing for the
benefit of the City of Allegan shall be continued to full force and in
accordance with the cy pres doctrine.
SECTION 5.25. TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS BUREAU.
   The council shall have the power and authority to establish by ordinance a
Traffic Violations Bureau, as provided by law, for the handling of such
violations of ordinances and regulations of the city, or parts thereof, as
prescribed in the ordinance establishing such bureau. Any person who has
received any notice to appear to a charge of violating any of such ordinances
may within the time specified in the notice of such charge answer at the
Traffic Violations Bureau to the charges set forth in such notice by paying a
fine, in writing pleading guilty to the charge, waiving a hearing in court and
pay such fine in court. Acceptance of the prescribed fine by the bureau shall
be deemed to be complete satisfaction for the violation, and the violator shall
be given receipt which so states. The creation of such a bureau shall not
operate as to deprive any person of a full and impartial hearing in court,
should a person so choose.
SECTION 5.26. ADVISORY COMMITTEES OR BOARDS.
   The mayor, with the advise [advice] and consent of the city council may,
from time to time, appoint such committees or boards as are deemed appropriate
to advise and consult with them, and with appropriate departments, regarding
any municipal activity. Such committees or boards shall be advisory, serve
temporarily and without compensation unless otherwise provided by the city
council.
SECTION 5.27. FURTHER FUNCTIONS AND DUTIES OF THE COUNCIL.
   The council shall determine all matters of policy of the city and adopt
ordinances and necessary rules and regulations to make the same effective.
Further the council shall, subject to the limitations of law, raise revenues
and make appropriations for the operation of the city government, provide for
the public peace and health and safety of persons and property.
SECTION 5.28. PROHIBITIONS.
   (a)   No councilmember may hold any other city office or city employment
while actively fulfilling the term for which he or she was elected to the
council, and no former councilmember or mayor shall hold any compensated,
appointive city office until one year after the expiration of the term for
which he or she was elected to the council or to office; it is the intent of
this provision that no former councilmember or mayor shall be appointed as city
manager, city clerk, city treasurer, finance officer, city attorney, city
assessor, police chief, fire chief, or any other appointive city administrative
office until one year after the term to which he or she was elected has
expired. The terms of this provision shall not apply to appointed city boards
or commissions.
   (b)   Neither the council nor any of its members shall in any manner dictate
the appointment or removal of any city administrative officers or employees
whom the manager or any of his or her subordinates are empowered to appoint,
but the council may express its views and fully and freely discuss with the
manager anything pertaining to appointment and removal of such officers and
employees.
   (c)   It is hereby declared to be the policy of this charter that, except as
otherwise provided herein, all matters relating and pertaining to the
administration of the city government shall be performed by the administrative
officers and personnel of the city who shall function without interference from
the council. Neither the council nor its members shall give orders to any such
officer or employee, either publicly or privately.
   (d)   No appointive city officer or employee shall hold an elective office
of the city unless he or she resigns from that position with the city.
   (e)   No member of the council or of any board or commission of the city
shall vote on any issue or matter in which he or she or a member of his or her
family shall have a proprietary or financial interest or as the result of which
he or she may receive or gain a financial benefit. If a question is raised
under this section at any council, board or commission meetings, such specific
question shall be resolved before the main question shall be voted on, but the
council, board or commission member concerning whom the question was raised
shall not vote on such determination.
   (f)   Unless the council shall by an affirmative vote of seven (7) members,
which vote shall be recorded as part of the official proceedings, determine
that the best interests of the city shall be served, the following relatives of
any elective or appointive officer are disqualified from holding any appointive
office or city employment during the term for which said elective or appointive
officer was elected or appointed: current spouse, child, parent, grandchild,
grandparent, brother, sister, or the spouse of any of them. All relationships
shall include those arising from adoption. This section shall in no way
disqualify such relatives or their spouses who are appointive officers or
employees of the city at the time of the election or appointment of said
official or employed by the city at the time of adoption of this charter.
CHAPTER VI. LEGISLATION
SECTION 6.1. PRIOR LEGISLATION.
   All valid ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations of the City of
Allegan which are not inconsistent with this charter and which are in force and
in effect on the effective date of this charter shall continue in full force
and effect until repealed or amended. Those provisions of any effective, valid
ordinance, resolution, rule or regulation which are inconsistent with this
charter are hereby repealed.
SECTION 6.2. ORDINANCES.
   All legislation of the City of Allegan shall be by ordinance. Each ordinance
shall be identified by a number and a short title. The style of all ordinances
shall be The City of Allegan Ordains. The effective date of each ordinance
shall be prescribed therein. At least two (2) weeks shall elapse between the
introduction and enactment of ordinances, except that the council may pass any
ordinance which is immediately necessary for the preservation of the public
peace, health, or safety by a five-sevenths (5/7) vote of the council as an
emergency ordinance on the date of introduction thereof. Any ordinance passed
as an emergency ordinance shall recite such fact. No ordinance making or
amending a grant, renewal, or extension of a franchise or other special
privilege shall be passed by the council as an emergency ordinance. No
ordinance shall be revised, altered, or amended by reference to its title only,
but the ordinance, section, or subsection of the ordinance to be revised,
altered, or amended shall be re-enacted and published in full, except as
otherwise provided in this charter. An ordinance may be repealed by reference
to its number and title only.
SECTION 6.3. CODES OF TECHNICAL REGULATIONS.
   The council may adopt any detailed technical regulations as a city ordinance
by reference to any recognized standard code, official or unofficial, or if
such a code be written in detail for the city and adopted as an ordinance, the
publication of a sufficient number of copies in booklet form, available for
public distribution at cost, shall be sufficient publication of such ordinance,
and any amendment to or revision of such adopted code or detailed technical
ordinance may be published in the same manner.
SECTION 6.4. ORDINANCE RECORD.
   All ordinances when enacted shall be recorded by the clerk in a book called
“The Ordinance Book.” and it shall be the duty of the mayor and the clerk to
authenticate such record by their official signatures.
SECTION 6.5. PUBLICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this charter, all ordinances when
enacted shall be published forthwith by the clerk in the manner provided by
this charter for publication of notices, or as otherwise provided by law, and
the clerk shall enter a certificate as to the manner and date of publication
under each ordinance in the ordinance book.
   (b)   As used in this section, the term “publish” means to print and
distribute in one or more newspapers of general circulation in the city:
      (1)   The ordinance or a brief summary thereof, and
      (2)   The places where copies of it have been filed and the times when
they are available for public inspection.
SECTION 6.6. CODIFICATION.
   The present Allegan City Code in force and in effect on the effective date
of this charter shall be updated on an annual basis. Copies of the code shall
be furnished to city officers, placed in libraries and public offices for free
public reference and made available for purchase by the public at a cost fixed
by the council.
CHAPTER VII. INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM
SECTION 7.1. GENERAL AUTHORITY.
   (a)   Initiative. The qualified voters of the city shall have power to
propose ordinances to the council and, if the council fails to adopt an
ordinance so proposed without any charge in substance, to adopt or reject it at
a city election, provided that such power shall not extend to the budget or
capital program or any ordinance relating to appropriation of money, levy of
taxes or salaries of city officers or employees.
   (b)   Referendum. The qualified voters of the city shall have power to
require reconsideration by the council of any adopted ordinances and, if the
council fails to repeal an ordinance so reconsidered, to approve or reject it
at a city election, provided that such power shall not extend to the budget or
capital program or any emergency ordinance or ordinance relating to
appropriation of money or levy of taxes.
SECTION 7.2. PETITIONS.
   (a)   Number of signatures. Initiative and referendum petitions must be
signed by not less than one hundred fifty (150) nor more than one hundred
seventy-five (175) qualified voters of the city.
   (b)   Form and content. All papers of a petition shall be uniform in size
and style and shall be assembled as one instrument for filing. Each signature
shall be executed in ink or indelible pencil and shall be followed by the
address of the person signing and date of signing. Petitions shall contain or
have attached thereto throughout their circulation the full text of the
ordinance proposed or sought to be considered.
   (c)   Affidavit of circulator. Each paper of a petition shall have attached
to it when filed an affidavit executed by the circulator thereof stating that
he or she personally circulated the paper, the number of signatures thereon,
that all signatures were affixed in his or her presence, that the circulator
believes them to be the genuine signatures of the persons whose names they
purport to be and that each signer had an opportunity before signing to read
the full text of the ordinance proposed or sought to be reconsidered.
   (d)   Time for filing referendum petitions. Referendum petitions must be
filed within sixty (60) days after adoption by the council of the ordinance
sought to be reconsidered.
SECTION 7.3. PROCEDURE AFTER FILING.
   (a)   Certificate of clerk; amendment. Within twenty-one (21) days after the
petition is filed, the city clerk shall complete a certificate as to its
sufficiency, specifying, if it is insufficient, the particulars wherein it is
defective and shall promptly send a copy of the certificate to the petitioners
by registered mail. A petition certified insufficient for lack of the required
number of valid signatures may be amended once if the petitioner files a notice
of intention to amend it with the clerk within two (2) days after receiving the
copy of the certificate and files a supplementary petition upon additional
papers within ten days after receiving the copy of such certificate. Such
supplementary petition shall comply with the requirements of subsections (b)
and (c) of section 7.2 and within seven (7) days after it is filed the clerk
shall complete a certificate as to the sufficiency of the petition as amended
and promptly send a copy of such certificate to the petitioner by registered
mail as in the case of an original petition. If a petition or amended petition
is certified sufficient, or if a petition or amended petition is certified
insufficient and the petitioners do not elect to amend or request council
review under subsection (b) of this section within the time required, the clerk
shall promptly present such certificate to the council and the certificate
shall then be a final determination as to the sufficiency of the petition.
   (b)   Council review. If a petition has been certified insufficient and the
petitioners do not file notice of intention to amend it or if an amended
petition has been certified insufficient, the petitioners may, within two days
after receiving the copy of such certificate, file a request that it be
reviewed by the council. The council shall review the certificate at its next
meeting following the filing of such request and approve or disapprove it, and
the council’s determination shall then be a final determination as to the
sufficiency of the petition.
   (c)   Court review: new petition. A final determination as to the
sufficiency of a petition shall be subject to court review. A final
determination of insufficiency, even if sustained upon court review, shall not
prejudice the filing of a new petition for the same purpose.
SECTION 7.4. REFERENDUM PETITIONS; SUSPENSION OF EFFECT OF ORDINANCE.
   When a referendum petition is filed with the city clerk, the ordinance
sought to be reconsidered shall be suspended from taking effect. Such
suspension shall terminate when:
   (1)   There is a final determination of insufficiency of the petition, or
   (2)   The petitioners withdraw the petition, or
   (3)   The council repeals the ordinance, or
   (4)   Thirty (30) days have elapsed after a vote of the city on the
ordinance.
SECTION 7.5. ACTION ON PETITIONS.
   (a)   Action by council. When an initiative or referendum petition has been
finally determined sufficient, the council shall promptly consider the proposed
initiative ordinance in the manner provided in section 6.2 or reconsider the
referred ordinance by voting its repeal. If the council fails to adopt a
proposed initiative ordinance without any change in substance within sixty (60)
days or fails to repeal the referred ordinance within thirty (30) days after
the date the petition was finally determined sufficient, it shall submit the
proposed or referred ordinance to the voters of the city.
   (b)   Submission to voters. The vote of the city of a proposed or referred
ordinance shall be held not less than thirty (30) days and not later than one
year from the date of the final council vote thereon. If no regular city
election is to be held within the period prescribed in this subsection, the
council shall provide for a special election; otherwise, the vote shall be held
at the same time as such regular election at an earlier date within the
prescribed period. Copies of the proposed or referred ordinance shall be made
available at the polls.
   (c)   Withdrawal of petitions. An initiative or referendum petition may be
withdrawn at any time prior to the fifteenth day preceding the day scheduled
for a vote of the city by filing with the city clerk a request for withdrawal
signed by a majority of the petitioners. Upon the filing of such request the
petition shall have no further force or effect and all proceedings thereon
shall be terminated.
SECTION 7.6. RESULTS OF ELECTION.
   (a)   Initiative. If a majority of the qualified electors voting on a
proposed initiative ordinance vote in its favor, it shall be considered adopted
upon certification of the election results and shall be treated in all respects
in the same manner as ordinances of the same kind adopted by the council. If
conflicting ordinances are approved at the same election, the one receiving the
greatest number of affirmative votes shall prevail to the extent of such
conflict.
   (b)   Referendum. If a majority of the qualified electors voting on a
referred ordinance vote against it, it shall be considered repealed upon
certification of the election results.
CHAPTER VIII. ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICERS
SECTION 8.1. [ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICERS.]
   (a)   The administrative officers of the city shall be a city manager, city
clerk, city treasurer, city attorney, city assessor, police chief and fire
chief. They shall subscribe to the constitutional oath of office and be
citizens of the United States. The city clerk, city treasurer, city assessor,
police chief and fire chief shall be nominated by the city manager and
appointed by the city council. Their compensation shall be set by the council
upon the recommendation of the manager.
   (b)   The council may, by ordinance, create additional administrative
offices; and may, by resolution, combine or in any other way alter any
administrative offices in any manner it deems necessary or advisable for the
proper and efficient operation of the city.
   (c)   In addition, the council may, by resolution, provide administrative
services or offices by contractual agreement.
SECTION 8.2. CITY MANAGER.
   (a)   Appointment, qualifications, compensation. The council shall appoint a
city manager for an indefinite term, shall fix the city manager’s compensation,
and provide him or her with a position description that shall be reviewed
periodically. The city manager shall be appointed solely on the basis of
executive and administrative qualifications. The city manager need not be a
resident of the city or state at the time of appointment; however, residency
must be established within the city limits within ninety (90) days of council
appointment or upon completion of a probationary period if applicable.
   (b)   [Vacancy.] The council shall appoint a city manager within one hundred
twenty (120) days after any vacancy exists in the position. They may appoint an
acting manager during the period of a vacancy in the office.
   (c)   Acting city manager. By letter filed with the city clerk, the manager
shall designate, subject to approval of the council, a qualified city
administrative officer to exercise the powers and perform the duties of manager
during a temporary absence or disability. During such absence or disability,
the council may revoke such designation at any time and appoint another officer
of the city to serve until the manager shall return or the disability shall
cease.
SECTION 8.3. REMOVAL OF CITY MANAGER.
   (a)   The city manager shall be appointed for an indefinite term and shall
serve at the pleasure of and be subject to removal by the council by a majority
vote of its members elect. If the council removes the city manager, it shall
enter upon the journal of its proceedings a statement of such removal, and the
city manager within two weeks after his or her removal may submit a statement
in reply to the statement of the council. The action of the council in removing
the city manager shall be final, it being the intent of this charter to vest
all authority for such removal in the council.
   (b)   The city manager shall not be removed from office during a period of
ninety (90) days following any regular city election except by the affirmative
vote of five (5) members of the council.
SECTION 8.4. POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE CITY MANAGER.
   The city manager shall be the chief administrative officer of the city. The
city manager shall be responsible to the council for the administration of all
city affairs placed in his or her charge by or under this charter. The city
manager shall have the following powers and duties:
   (a)   The city manager shall see that all laws, provisions of this charter,
ordinances, resolutions, and acts of the council, subject to enforcement by him
or her or by officers subject to his or her discretion and supervision are
faithfully executed.
   (b)   The city manager shall manage, supervise, and inventory all public
improvements, works, and undertakings of the city. He or she shall have charge
of the construction, repair, and maintenance of all public works, public
places, public buildings or other property belonging to the city. He or she
shall manage and supervise all city utilities and shall be responsible for the
preservation of city property.
   (c)   The city manager shall direct, supervise, and administer all
departments, offices and agencies of the city. The city manager shall establish
personnel policies and procedures acceptable to the council. The city manager
shall have the power to hire any city employee that does not require council
appointment, and to recommend for council approval the hiring of a city
employee that requires council appointment. The city manager shall have the
power to suspend from employment any city employee; to permanently remove from
employment any city employee that did not require council appointment; and to
recommend for council approval the permanent removal of a city employee that
required council appointment.
   (d)   The city manager shall attend all council meetings and shall have the
right to take part in discussion, but may not vote.
   (e)   The city manager shall prepare and submit the annual budget and
capital program to the council.
   (f)   The city manager shall submit to the council and make available to the
public a complete report on the finances and administrative activities in the
city as of the end of each fiscal year.
   (g)   The city manager shall make such other reports as the council may
require concerning the operations of city departments, offices, and agencies
subject to his or her direction and supervision.
   (h)   The city manager shall keep the city council fully advised concerning
the affairs of the city, the financial condition and future needs of the city.
   (i)   The city manager shall prohibit the use of city owned properties,
facilities, or services except for authorized city operations and agreements
with intergovernmental agencies. (It is not the intent of this section to
prohibit assistance to, or cooperation with community oriented non-profit, or
charitable groups, agencies, or projects: however, exceptions to this Section
must be approved by council.)
   (j)   The city manager shall implement a system of purchasing by approved
purchase order.
   (k)   The city manager shall perform such other duties as are specified in
this charter or may be required by the council.
SECTION 8.5. CITY CLERK.
   (a)   The clerk shall be the clerk and clerical officer of the council and
shall keep its journal. The clerk shall keep a record of all actions of the
council at its regular and special meetings. The clerk shall certify all
ordinances and resolutions adopted by the council.
   (b)   The clerk shall have the power to administer all oaths required by law
and by the ordinances of the city. The clerk shall be the custodian of the city
seal and shall affix the same to documents required to be sealed. The clerk
shall be the custodian of all papers, the treasurer’s bond, documents, and
records pertaining to the city, the custody of which is not otherwise provided
by this chapter. The clerk shall give the proper officials ample notice of the
expiration or termination of any official bonds, franchises, contracts, or
agreements to which the city is a part and shall notify the council of the
failure of any officer or employee required to take an oath of office or
furnish any bond required of them.
   (c)   The clerk shall perform such other duties in connection with the
office as may be required by law, the ordinances or resolutions of the council,
or by the city manager.
SECTION 8.6. CITY TREASURER.
   (a)   The treasurer shall have the custody of all monies of the city, the
clerk’s bond, and all evidences of value or indebtedness belonging to or held
in trust by the city. The treasurer shall keep and deposit all monies or funds
in such manner and only in such places as the council may determine, and shall
report the same to the city manager and council.
   (b)   The treasurer shall have such powers, duties and prerogatives in
regard to the collection and custody of state, county, school district, and
city taxes and monies as are provided by law.
   (c)   The treasurer shall perform such other duties in connection with the
office as may be required by law, the ordinances and resolutions of the council
or by the city manager.
SECTION 8.7. FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING.
   (a)   The city manager shall designate a person to act as a finance officer
from among the administrative officers of the city. However, when the council
feels that a separate official is required, they may so designate by ordinance
and the official will be an appointment of and under the supervision of the
city manager with the approval of the council.
   (b)   The finance officer shall be the general accountant of the city, shall
keep the books of account of the assets, receipts, and expenditure of the city,
and shall keep the council and city manager informed as to the financial
affairs of the city. The system of accounts of the city shall conform to such
uniform systems as may be required by law.
   (c)   The finance officer shall balance all the books of account of the city
at the end of each calendar month, and shall make a report thereon, as soon as
practical, to the city manager. The finance officer shall, upon direction of
the city manager, examine and audit all books of account kept by any official
or department of the city.
SECTION 8.8. CITY ATTORNEY.
   (a)   The city attorney shall be appointed by the council for an indefinite
term, shall be responsible to and serve at the pleasure of the council and have
his or her compensation fixed by the council.
   (b)   The city attorney shall act as legal advisor of and be responsible to
the council. The city attorney shall advise the city manager concerning legal
problems affecting the city administration and any officer or department head
of the city in matters relating to their official duties when so requested in
writing, and shall file with the clerk a copy of all his or her written
opinions.
   (c)   Prosecute ordinance violations and shall represent the city in cases
before the courts and other tribunals.
   (d)   Prepare or review all ordinances, regulations, deeds, contracts,
bonds, and such other instruments as may be required by this charter or by the
council, and shall promptly give an opinion as to the legality thereof.
   (e)   Defend all officers and employees in all actions arising out of the
performance of their official duties as directed by council.
   (f)   Perform such other duties as may be prescribed by this charter, the
city manager, or the council.
   (g)   Upon the attorney’s recommendation, or upon its own initiative, the
council may retain special legal counsel to handle any matter in which the city
has an interest, or to assist the city attorney.
SECTION 8.9. CITY ASSESSOR.
   The assessor shall possess all the power vested in and shall be charged with
the duties imposed upon assessing officers by law. The assessor shall make and
prepare all regular and special assessment rolls in the manner prescribed by
law or ordinances of the city. The assessor shall perform such other duties as
may be prescribed by law or the ordinances of the city, or by the city manager.
SECTION 8.10. ADDITIONAL ADMINISTRATIVE POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The council shall by ordinance establish departments of city government and
determine and prescribe the functions and duties of each department. In
addition, the council may combine, or in any other way alter, city departments
when deemed to be in the best interests of the city. Upon recommendation of the
city manager, the council may by ordinance prescribe additional powers and
duties and diminish any powers and duties in a manner not inconsistent with
this charter to be exercised and administered by appropriate officials and
departments of the city.
SECTION 8.11. CITY PLANNING.
   The council shall provide for and maintain a city planning commission which
shall possess all of the powers and perform the functions of planning
commissions as set forth by state statute. The citizen members of the planning
commission shall be appointed by the mayor, subject to confirmation by the
council.
SECTION 8.12. ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS.
   A zoning board of appeals shall be appointed by the mayor with the approval
of the council. The board shall have such powers and duties as are authorized
by statute. One member of the planning commission shall serve on the zoning
board of appeals; all other city officers and employees shall be ineligible to
serve on the zoning board of appeals.
CHAPTER IX. GENERAL FINANCE
SECTION 9.1. FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the city shall begin on the first day of July and end on
the last day of June.
SECTION 9.2. BUDGET PROCEDURE.
   Each officer, department and board of the city, shall submit to the city
manager an itemized estimate of its expected income, if any, and expenditures
for the next fiscal year, for the department or activities under its control.
The city manager shall compile and review such budget requests and shall then
prepare budget recommendations and submit them to the city council at its
second regular meeting in April of each year.
SECTION 9.3. BUDGET DOCUMENT.
   The budget document shall present a complete financial plan for the ensuing
fiscal year and shall include those items required by state law. Also to be
included shall be such other supporting schedules as the council may deem
necessary or the council may require.
SECTION 9.4. BUDGET HEARING.
   Before its final adoption, a public hearing on the budget proposal shall be
held as provided by law. Notice of the time and place of holding such hearing
shall be published by the clerk in a newspaper having general circulation in
the city at least one week in advance thereof. A copy of the proposed budget
shall be on file and available to the public during office hours at the office
of the clerk for a period of not less than one week prior to such public
hearing.
SECTION 9.5. ADOPTION OF THE BUDGET.
   The council shall, not later than the last day in May, adopt by resolution a
budget for the ensuing fiscal year and make appropriations therefor. After
consideration of probable other revenues, the council shall determine and
declare the amount of money necessary to be raised by property taxation, which
amount shall not be greater than otherwise limited in this charter or by
general law.
SECTION 9.6. BUDGET CONTROL.
   (a)   Except for purposes which are to be financed by the issuance of bonds
or by special assessment or for other purposes not chargeable to a budget
appropriation, no money shall be drawn from the treasury of the city except in
accordance with an appropriation thereof for such specific purposes, nor shall
any obligation for the expenditure of money be incurred without an
appropriation covering all payments which will be due under such obligation in
the current fiscal year. The council, by resolution, may transfer any
unencumbered appropriation balance, or any portion thereof, from one account,
department, fund or agency to another.
   (b)   The council may make additional appropriations during the fiscal year
for unanticipated expenditures required by the city, but such additional
appropriations shall not exceed the amount by which actual and anticipated
revenues of the year are exceeding the revenues as estimated in the budget,
unless the appropriations are necessary to relieve an emergency endangering the
public health, peace or safety.
   (c)   Except in those cases where there is no other logical account to which
expenditures can be charged, expenditures shall not be charged directly to the
contingency fund (or other similar fund). Instead, the necessary part of the
appropriation from the contingency fund (or other similar fund) shall be
transferred to the logical account, and the expenditure charged to such
account.
   (d)   At the beginning of each quarterly period during the fiscal year, and
more often if required by the council, the city manager shall submit to the
council data showing the relation between the estimated and actual revenues and
expenditures to date; and if it shall appear that the revenues are less than
anticipated, the council may reduce appropriations except amounts required for
debt and interest charges, to such a degree as may be necessary to keep
expenditures within the revenues.
   (e)   The balance in any budget appropriation which has not been encumbered
at the end of the fiscal year shall, subject to restrictions imposed or
permitted by law, revert to the general fund.
SECTION 9.7. INDEPENDENT AUDIT.
   An independent audit shall be made of all accounts of the city government
annually and more frequently if deemed necessary by the council. Such audit
shall be made by qualified accountants experienced in municipal accounting. The
results of such audit shall be made public in such manner as the council may
determine. An annual report of the city business shall be made available to the
public in such form as will disclose pertinent facts concerning the activities
and finance of the city government. The council shall provide the funds to
defray the cost of the annual audit and the report herein required in each
annual budget of the city.
CHAPTER X. TAXATION
SECTION 10.1. POWER TO TAX.
   The city shall have power to assess, levy and collect taxes, rents, tolls
and excises. The subject of ad valorem taxation shall be the same as for state,
county, and school purposes under general law. Except as otherwise provided by
this charter, city taxes shall be levied, collected and returned in the manner
provided by statute.
SECTION 10.2. TAX LIMITS.
   Exclusive of any levy for the payment of principal of and interest on
outstanding general obligation bonds, and exclusive of any other levies
authorized by law to be made beyond charter tax rate limitations, levy of ad
valorem taxes for general municipal purposes shall not exceed one and three-
quarters percent (1-3/4%), or seventeen and one-half (17.5) mills on the
assessed value of all real and personal property in the city.
SECTION 10.3. EXEMPTIONS.
   No exemptions from taxation shall be allowed except as expressly required or
permitted by law.
SECTION 10.4. TAX DAY.
   Subject to the exceptions provided or permitted by statute, the taxable
status of persons and property shall be determined as of the 31st day of
December, or such other day as may subsequently be required by law, which shall
be deemed tax day.
SECTION 10.5. ASSESSMENT ROLL.
   The assessor shall, in accordance with state law, make and certify an
assessment roll of all persons and property in the city liable to taxation.
SECTION 10.6. BOARD OF REVIEW.
   (a)   The board of review shall consist of three (3) residents who are
electors of the city, but not city officers or employees. The assessor is to be
the clerk of the board of review and nonvoting. The board shall be entitled to
such remuneration as shall be determined by the council.
   (b)   The board of review appointed under the provisions of this charter
shall be made up of three-year terms. The council shall appoint a member for a
three-year term at the first regular council meeting in January of each
succeeding year, however, the members of the first board shall be appointed to
one one-year term, one two-year term, and one three-year term. In the event
that a vacancy or vacancies occur during a term, the council shall appoint a
new member to fill the remainder of the unexpired term.
SECTION 10.7. DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS OF THE BOARD OF REVIEW.
   For the purpose of revising and correcting assessments, the board of review
shall have the same powers and perform like duties in all respects as are
conferred by law and required of boards of review. It shall hear the complaints
of all persons considering themselves aggrieved by assessment, and if it shall
appear that any person or property has been wrongfully assessed or omitted from
the rolls, the board shall correct the roll in such manner as it deems just. In
all cases the roll shall be reviewed according to the facts existing on the tax
day and no change in the status of any property after that day shall be
considered by the board in making its decision. Except as otherwise provided by
law, no person, other than the board of review, shall make or authorize any
change upon or addition or correction to the assessment roll. It shall be the
duty of the assessor to keep a permanent record of all the proceedings of the
board and to enter therein all resolutions and decisions of the board. Such
proceedings shall be filed in the office of the clerk.
SECTION 10.8. MEETINGS OF THE BOARD OF REVIEW.
   The board of review shall convene in accordance with statute each year to
review and correct the assessment roll and shall remain in session for not less
than two (2) days. It shall choose its own chairman and a majority of its
members shall constitute a quorum. On or before the first Monday in April the
board of review shall endorse the assessment roll as provided hereafter.
SECTION 10.9. NOTICE OF MEETINGS.
   Notice of the time and the sessions of the board of review shall be
published by the assessor at least fourteen (14) days prior to the meeting.
SECTION 10.10. CERTIFICATION OF ROLL.
   The board of review shall endorse the assessment roll as provided by
statute. Such roll shall be the assessment roll of the city for all tax
purposes.
SECTION 10.11. CLERK TO CERTIFY TAX LEVY.
   Within three (3) days after the council has adopted the budget for the
ensuing year, the clerk shall certify to the assessor the total amount which
the council determines shall be raised by the general ad valorem tax. The clerk
shall also certify all amounts of current or delinquent special assessments and
all other amounts which the council requires or orders to be assessed,
reassessed, or charged upon said roll against any property or any person in
accordance with the provisions of this charter or any ordinances of the city.
SECTION 10.12. CITY TAX ROLL.
   The assessor shall prepare a copy of the assessment roll, to be known as the
city tax roll, and upon receiving the certification of the several amounts to
be raised, the assessor shall spread upon said tax roll the several amounts
determined by the council to be charged, assessed, or reassessed against
persons or property. The assessor shall also spread thereon the amounts of the
general ad valorem city tax according to and in proportion to the several
valuations set forth in said assessment roll. To avoid fractions in computation
of any tax roll, the assessor may add to the amount of the several taxes to be
raised not more than the amount prescribed by law. Any excess created thereby
on any tax roll shall belong to the city.
SECTION 10.13. TAX ROLL CERTIFIED FOR COLLECTION.
   After spreading the taxes, the assessor shall certify the tax roll, and
shall annex his or her warrant thereto, directing and requiring the treasurer
to collect the several sums mentioned therein opposite their respective names
as a tax, charge, or assessment, and granting to the treasurer for the purpose
of collecting the taxes, assessments and charges of such roll, all the
statutory powers and immunities possessed by township treasurers for the
collection of taxes, except the treasurer shall not add any collection fee or
percentage for collection to such tax bills.
SECTION 10.14. TAX LIEN.
   On July 1st of each year the taxes thus assessed shall become a debt due to
the city from persons to whom assessed. The amounts and for all interest and
charges thereon and all personal taxes shall become a lien on all personal
property of such persons so assessed. Such lien shall take precedence over all
other claims, encumbrances, and liens to the extent provided by law, and shall
continue until such taxes, interest and charges are paid.
SECTION 10.15. TAXES DUE, NOTIFICATION THEREOF.
   City taxes shall be due on July 1st of each year. The treasurer shall not be
required to call upon persons named in the city tax roll nor make personal
demand for payment of taxes, but shall:
   (1)   Publish between June 15th and July 1st notice of the time when said
taxes will be due for collection and of the penalties and fees for the late
payment thereof; and
   (2)   Mail a tax bill to each person named in said roll. In cases of
multiple ownership of property only one bill need be mailed. Failure on the
part of the treasurer to publish said notice or mail such bills shall not
invalidate such taxes on said tax roll nor release the person or property
assessed from the penalties and fees provided in this chapter in case of late
or nonpayment of same.
SECTION 10.16. COLLECTION CHARGES ON LATE PAYMENT OF TAXES.
   No penalty shall be charged for city taxes paid on or before the 10th day of
August. The council may provide, by ordinance, for a discount on city taxes
paid on or before the 10th day of August in an amount not to exceed the limit
allowed by statute. The council shall provide, by ordinance, the tax payment
schedule for taxes paid after August 10th, and the amount of penalty,
collection fee, or interest charges, if any, to be paid thereafter in an amount
not to exceed the limit allowed by statute. Such charges shall belong to the
city and constitute a charge and shall be a lien against the property to which
the taxes apply, collectible in the same manner as the taxes to which they are
added.
SECTION 10.17. COLLECTION OF DELINQUENT TAXES.
   All city taxes on real property remaining uncollected by the treasurer on
the first day of March, or such date established by statute, following the date
when said roll was received by the treasurer shall be returned to the county
treasurer in the same manner and with like effect as returned by township
treasurers of township, school and county taxes. Such return shall be made upon
a delinquent tax roll to be prepared by the treasurer and shall include all the
additional charges and assessments hereinbefore provided, such charges shall be
added to the amount assessed in said tax roll against each description. Taxes
thus returned shall be collected in the same manner as other taxes returned to
the county treasurer in accordance with the provisions of the general laws of
the state, and shall be and remain a lien upon the property against which they
are assessed until paid.
SECTION 10.18. FAILURE OR REFUSAL TO PAY PERSONAL PROPERTY TAXES.
   If any person, firm, or corporation shall neglect or refuse to pay any
personal property tax assessed to them, the treasurer shall collect the same by
seizing the personal properties of such person, firm or corporation, to an
amount sufficient to pay such tax, fees and charges for subsequent sale,
wherever the same may be found in the state, and from which seizure no property
shall be exempt. The treasurer may sell the property seized to an amount
sufficient to pay the taxes and all charges in accordance with statutory
provisions. The treasurer may, if otherwise unable to collect a tax on personal
property, sue the person, firm, or corporation to whom it is assessed in
accordance with the statute.
SECTION 10.19. STATE, COUNTY, AND SCHOOL TAXES.
   The levy, collection and return of state, county and school taxes shall be
in conformity with the general laws of the state.
CHAPTER XI. SPECIAL ASSESSMENT
SECTION 11.1. SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS, GENERAL POWERS.
   The council shall have the power to determine that the whole or any part of
the cost of any public improvement shall be defrayed by special assessment upon
property in a special district and shall so declare by resolution or
resolutions which shall state the estimated cost of the improvement, what
proportion of the cost thereof shall be paid by special assessment, and what
part, if any, shall be a general obligation of the city, the number of
installments in which assessments shall be levied and whether the assessments
shall be based upon special benefits, frontage, area, valuation or other
factors permitted by law, or a combination thereof. The council shall also have
the power of reassessment with respect to any such public improvement.
SECTION 11.2. PROCEDURE FIXED BY ORDINANCE.
   The council shall prescribe by ordinance the complete special assessment or
reassessment procedure governing the initiation of projects, preparation of
plans and cost estimates, notice of hearings on necessity and on confirmation
of the assessment rolls, and making and confirming of the assessment rolls,
correction of errors, the collection of special assessments and any other
matters concerning the making and financing of improvements by special
assessment.
SECTION 11.3. IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CHAPTER.
   The city council shall have and is hereby given the power to pass ordinances
implementing the provisions of this chapter and detailing the procedure
relative thereto.
CHAPTER XII. BORROWING AUTHORITY
SECTION 12.1. GENERAL BORROWING.
   Subject to applicable provisions of law and this charter, the council may by
ordinance or resolution authorize the borrowing of money for any purpose within
the scope of powers vested in the city and permitted by law and may authorize
the issuance of bonds or other evidences of indebtedness therefor. Such bonds
or other evidences of indebtedness shall include, but not be limited to, the
following types:
   (a)   General obligation bonds which pledge the full faith, credit, and
resources of the city for payment of such obligations.
   (b)   Notes issued in anticipation of the collection of taxes, but the
proceeds of such notes may be spent only in accordance with appropriations as
provided in section 9.6.
   (c)   In case of fire, flood, windstorm, or other calamity, emergency loans
due in not more than five (5) years for the relief of inhabitants of the city
and for the preservation of municipal property.
   (d)   Special assessment bonds issued in anticipation of the payment of
special assessment made for the purpose of defraying the cost of any public
improvement, or in anticipation of payment of any combination of such special
assessments; such special assessment bonds may be an obligation of the special
assessment district or districts alone, or may be both an obligation of the
special assessment district or districts, and a general obligation of the city.
   (e)   Mortgage bonds for the acquiring, owning, purchasing, constructing,
improving, or operating of any public utility which the city is authorized by
this charter or by law to acquire or operate.
   (f)   Bonds for the refunding of the funded indebtedness of the city.
   (g)   Revenue bonds as authorized by law which are secured only by the
revenues from a public improvement or public utility and do not constitute a
general obligation of the city.
   (h)   Bonds issued in anticipation of future payments from the Motor Vehicle
Highway fund or any other fund of the state or federal government which the
city may be permitted by law to pledge for the payment of principal and
interest thereof.
   (i)   Budget bonds, which pledge the full faith, credit, and resources of
the city, in an amount which, in any year together with the taxes levied for
the same year, will not exceed the limit of taxation authorized by this
charter.
   (j)   Bonds which the city, by any general law of the state, authorized to
issue, now or hereafter, which shall pledge the full faith, credit, and
resources of the city or be otherwise secured or payable as provided by law.
SECTION 12.2. LIMITS OF BORROWING AUTHORITY.
   [(a)]   The net bonded indebtedness incurred for all public purposes shall
not at any time exceed the maximum amount permitted by law, provided that in
computing such bonded indebtedness there shall be excluded:
      (1)   Money borrowed on notes issued in the anticipation of the
collection of taxes.
      (2)   Special assessment bonds, even though they are a general obligation
of the city.
      (3)   Mortgage bonds, revenue bonds, bonds in anticipation of state-
returned revenues to the extent permitted by law, and
      (4)   Any other bonds or indebtedness excluded by law from such
limitation. The amount of funds accumulated for the retirement of any
outstanding bonds shall also be deducted from the amount of bonded
indebtedness.
   (b)   The amount of emergency loans which may be made under the provisions
of this charter may not exceed the maximum amount permitted by law, and such
loans may be made even if it causes the indebtedness of the city to exceed the
limit of the net bonded indebtedness fixed in this charter, or by law.
   (c)   No bonds shall be sold to obtain funds for any purpose other than that
for which they were specifically authorized, and if such bonds are not sold
within the time limited by law, such authorization shall be null and void.
   (d)   The issuance of any bonds not requiring the approval of the electorate
shall be subject to applicable requirements of law with reference to public
notice in advance of authorization of such issues, filing of petitions for a
referendum on such issuance, holding such referendum, and other applicable
procedural requirements.
SECTION 12.3. PREPARATION AND RECORD OF BONDS.
   Each bond or other evidence of indebtedness shall contain on its face a
statement specifying the purpose for which it is issued and it shall be
unlawful for any officer of the city to use the proceeds thereof for any other
purpose. Any officer who shall violate this provision shall be deemed guilty of
a violation of this charter, except that, whenever the proceeds of any bond
issue or parts thereof shall remain unexpended and unencumbered for the purpose
for which said bond issue was made, the council may authorize the use of said
funds for the retirement of bonds of such issue or for any other purpose
permitted by law. All bonds or other evidences of indebtedness issued by the
city shall be signed by the mayor and countersigned by the clerk, under the
seal of the city. The signatures of the mayor and the clerk, and the seal of
the city may be facsimiles in the case of fully-registered bonds. Interest
coupons may be executed with the facsimile signature of the mayor and the
clerk. A complete and detailed record of all bonds and other evidences of
indebtedness issued by the city shall be kept by the clerk or other designated
officer. Upon the payment of any bond or other evidence of indebtedness, the
same shall be canceled.
SECTION 12.4. DEFERRED PAYMENT CONTRACTS.
   The city may enter into installment contracts for the purchase of property
or capital equipment. Each such contract shall not extend over a period greater
than, nor shall the total amounts of principal payable under all such contracts
exceed a sum permitted by law. All such deferred payments shall be included in
the budget for the year in which the installment is payable.
CHAPTER XIII. FRANCHISES-CONTRACTS-PERMITS
SECTION 13.1. FRANCHISES.
   (a)   No franchise ordinance which is not revocable at the will of the
council shall be granted or become operative until the same shall have been
referred to the people at a regular or special election and has received the
approval of three-fifths (3/5) of the electors voting thereon at such election
or as required by statute.
   (b)   All irrevocable public utility franchises, and all renewals, extension
and amendments or any repeal thereof, shall be granted only by ordinance. No
such ordinance shall be adopted before thirty (30) days after application
therefor has been filed with the council, nor until a full public hearing has
been held thereon. No such ordinance shall become effective until it has been
submitted to the electors voting thereon. No such ordinances shall be submitted
to the electors at a general election to be held less than sixty (60) days
after the grantee named therein has filed unconditional acceptance of all terms
of such franchise, and it shall not be submitted to a special election unless
the expense of holding the election, as determined by the council, shall have
been paid to the city treasurer by the grantee.
   (c)   No exclusive franchise shall ever be granted, and no franchise shall
be granted for a longer term than thirty (30) years.
   (d)   No such franchise shall be transferable, directly or indirectly,
except with the approval of the council expressed by ordinance.
   (e)   Purchase of a franchised utility by the city shall require the
approval of three-fifths (3/5) of the electors voting thereon.
SECTION 13.2. RIGHT OF REGULATION.
   All public utility franchises, whether it be so provided in the granting
ordinance or not, shall be subject to the right of the city:
   (a)   To repeal the same for misuse or nonuse, or for failure to comply with
the provisions thereof;
   (b)   To require proper and adequate extension of plant and service and
maintenance thereof at the highest practicable standard of efficiency;
   (c)   To establish reasonable standards of service and quality of products,
and prevent unjust discrimination in service or rates;
   (d)   To make independent audit and examination of accounts at any time, and
to require reports annually;
   (e)   To require continuous and uninterrupted service to the public in
accordance with the terms of the franchise throughout the entire period
thereof;
   (f)   To impose such other regulations as may be determined by the council
to be conducive to safety, welfare, and accommodations of the public.
SECTION 13.3. RATES OF FRANCHISED UTILITIES.
   The rates charged by public utilities under the supervision of state
regulatory agencies shall be fixed by such agencies. The rates not pre-empted
by the state for public utilities shall be set, after public hearing, by the
city council.
SECTION 13.4. PURCHASE—CONDEMNATION.
   The city shall have the right to acquire by condemnation or otherwise the
property of any public utility in accordance with the general laws of the
state, provided that the price to be paid shall in no event include any value
predicated upon the franchise, goodwill, or prospective profits.
SECTION 13.5. REVOCABLE PERMITS.
   Temporary permits for public utilities, revocable at any time at the will of
the council, may be granted by the council by resolution on such terms and
conditions as it shall determine, provided that such permits, shall in no event
be construed to be franchises or amendments to franchises.
SECTION 13.6. USE OF STREETS BY UTILITY.
   Every public utility franchise shall be subject to the right of the city to
use, control and regulate the use of its streets, alleys, bridges, and public
places and the space above and beneath them. Every public utility shall pay
such part of the cost of improvement of maintenance of streets, alleys,
bridges, and public places, as shall arise from its use thereof and shall
protect and save the city harmless from all damages arising from said use and
may be required by the city to permit joint use of its property and
appurtenances located in the streets, alleys, and public places of the city by
the city and other utilities insofar as such joint use may be reasonably
practicable and upon payment of a reasonable rental therefor; provided, that,
in the absence of agreement, upon application by any public utility, the
council shall provide for arbitration of the terms and conditions of such joint
use and the compensation to be paid therefor, which award shall be final.
SECTION 13.7. LICENSE FEES.
   The city shall have the right to license and impose a license fee on
telephones, buses, gas meters, electric meters, water meters, or any other
device used for measuring service; also telephone, telegraph, and electric
light and power poles and wire located within the city; also gas, water and
other pipes or ducts which may be used to convey gas, water, or other utility
services within the city. All said license fees shall be exclusive of and in
addition to other lawful taxes upon the property of the holder or owner
thereof.
SECTION 13.8. PURCHASING PROCEDURE.
   The council shall establish by ordinance the procedures for the purchase or
sale of personal property and services for the city for the direction of the
city manager. The ordinance shall provide a dollar limit within which purchases
or property may be made without the necessity of securing competitive bids, and
the dollar limit within which the purchases may be made without the necessity
of prior council approval.
SECTION 13.9. PURCHASE AND SALE OF REAL PROPERTY.
   No real property shall be purchased, acquired, sold or given away by the
city whether within or without its corporate limits except upon the affirmative
vote of five-sevenths (5/7) of all the councilmembers elect after a public
hearing called for the purpose of considering such proposal to purchase,
acquire, sell or give away real property. Notice of such hearing shall be given
by publication in a newspaper published, mechanically printed and circulating
within the city, once in each week for three (3) consecutive weeks, the last
publication to be not more than seven (7) days before said hearing. Provided,
however, that nothing herein contained shall prohibit the city council from
leasing any real property owned by the city and not needed for municipal
purposes for a period not longer than ten (10) years and upon the affirmative
vote of five-sevenths (5/7) of the councilmembers elect, nor prohibit the use
of such real property for purposes beneficial to the city. Provided further
that no park or cemetery, as legally described upon adoption of this charter,
may be sold by the city unless approved by a majority of the electors voting
thereon at any general or special election.
SECTION 13.10. CONTRACTING AUTHORITY OF COUNCIL.
   The power to authorize the making of contracts on behalf of the city is
vested in the council, and shall be exercised in accordance with the provisions
of the law. All contracts, except as otherwise provided by ordinance in
accordance with the provisions of this charter, shall be authorized by the
council, and shall be signed on behalf of the city by the mayor and clerk.
SECTION 13.11. LIMITATIONS ON CONTRACTUAL POWERS.
   (a)   The council shall only have power to enter into contracts which, by
the terms thereof, will be fully executed within a period of ten (10) years,
unless such contract shall first receive the approval of the majority of the
qualified electors voting thereon at a regular or special election. This
qualification shall not apply to any contract:
      (i)   For services with a public utility;
      (ii)   With one or more other governmental units;
      (iii)   To lease city land or other city property at the city Airport; or
      (iv)   For debt secured by bonds or notes which are permitted to be
issued by the city by law.
   (b)   Except as provided by ordinance authorized in this charter, each
contract for construction of public improvements or for the purchase or sale of
personal property, shall be let after opportunity for competition.
   (c)   All bids shall be opened and read aloud in public by the city manager
or an authorized representative at the time designated in the notice of
letting, and shall be reported to the council at its next regular meeting. The
council may reject any or all bids if deemed advisable. If, after ample
opportunity for competitive bidding, no bids are received, or such bids as are
received are not satisfactory to the council, the council may either endeavor
to obtain new competitive bids or authorize the city manager, or other proper
officials of the city, to negotiate or contract on the open market.
(Res. 07.04, passed 2-14-2007)
SECTION 13.12. OFFICIAL INTEREST IN CONTRACTS.
   No person holding any elective or appointive office of the city shall take
any official action on any city contract in which he or she shall have a direct
personal interest in the profits to be derived therefrom or be a bondsman or
surety on any contractor bond given to the city. The provisions for handling
this shall be in accordance with state statutes. Any officer violating the
provisions of this section shall be deemed guilty of misconduct in office and
upon conviction shall forfeit his or her office.
CHAPTER XIV. UTILITIES
SECTION 14.1. GENERAL POWERS RESPECTING UTILITIES.
   The city shall possess and hereby reserves to itself all the powers granted
to cities by law to acquire, construct, own, operate, improve, enlarge, extend,
repair, and maintain, either within or without its corporate limits, including,
but not by way of limitation, public utilities for supplying water, light,
heat, power, gas, sewage treatment, transportation, and garbage and refuse
disposal facilities, or any of them to the municipality and its inhabitants
thereof; and also to sell, deliver water, light, heat, power, gas and other
public utility services without its corporate limits as authorized by law.
SECTION 14.2. ACQUISITION OF PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   Private property may be taken and appropriated either within or without the
city, for public use in connection with any acquisition, enlargement, or
extension of public utilities.
   (a)   For supplying water, light, heat, power, gas, sewage treatment, and
garbage and refuse disposal facilities, or any of them.
   (b)   For the purpose of opening, widening, altering and extending streets,
alleys, avenues or the construction of bridges.
   (c)   For public buildings and other public structures.
   (d)   For public grounds, parking spaces, parks, marketplaces and spaces.
   (e)   For the improvement of water and water courses within the city, the
sewers, drains, and ditches.
   (f)   For public hospitals and public cemeteries, and for other lawful and
necessary public uses.
   The ownership of such property shall be acquired by the city by negotiation
and purchase, or in any other manner permitted by the general laws of the state
for the taking of private property for public use.
SECTION 14.3. CONTROL OF UTILITIES.
   The council may enact such ordinances and adopt such resolutions as may be
necessary for the care, protection, preservation, control and operation of any
public utilities which the city may, in any manner acquire, own, or operate and
all fixtures, appurtenances, apparatus, buildings, and machinery connected
therewith or belonging thereto, and to carry into effect the powers conferred
upon the city by the provisions of this charter and by statute.
SECTION 14.4. RATES AND CHARGES.
   The council shall have the power to establish from time to time, such just
and equitable rates as may be deemed advisable for supplying the inhabitants of
the city and others with water or sewage disposal, with electricity for light,
heat, and power and with such other utility services as the city may acquire or
provide.
SECTION 14.5. UTILITY CHARGES—COLLECTION.
   The council shall provide, by ordinance, for the collection of all public
utility charges made by the city and for such purpose, shall have all the power
granted to cities by statute. When any person or persons, or any firm or
corporation shall fail or refuse to pay to the city any sums due on utility
bills, which are not covered by deposits, the utility service or services upon
which such delinquency exists may be shut off or discontinued and suit may be
instituted by the city for the collection of the same in any court of competent
jurisdiction.
SECTION 14.6. ACCOUNTS.
   Separate accounts shall be kept for each public utility owned or operated by
the city, distinct form other city accounts, and in such manner as to show the
true and complete financial result of such city ownership or operation, or
both, including all assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses. These accounts
shall show the actual cost to the city of each such public utility, the cost of
all extensions, additions, and improvements, all expenses of maintenance, the
amounts set aside for sinking fund purposes, and all operating expenses. They
shall show as nearly as possible, the value of any service furnished to or
rendered by any such public utility by or to any other city department. They
shall also show a proper allowance, for depreciation and insurance. The council
shall annually cause to be made a report showing the financial results of such
city ownership or operation, or both, which report shall give for each utility,
the information specified in this section, and such further information as the
council shall deem necessary.
SECTION 14.7. DISPOSAL OF PLANTS.
   The city shall not sell, exchange, lease, or in any way alien or dispose of
the property, easements, income or other equipment, privilege or asset
belonging to and appertaining to any utility which it now owns or may acquire,
unless and except the proposition for such purpose shall first have been
submitted, at a general or special election held for the purpose in the manner
provided in this charter, to the qualified voters of the city and approved by
them by a three-fifths vote of the electors voting thereon. All contracts,
negotiations, grants, leases or other forms of transfer in valuation of this
provision, shall be void and of no effect as against the city. The provisions
of this section shall not, however, apply to the sale or exchange of any
articles or equipment of any city-owned utility as are worn out or useless, or
which could, with advantage to the service, be replaced by new and improved
machinery or equipment.
SECTION 14.8. CAPITAL ASSET IMPROVEMENT SINKING FUND.
   Pursuant to a resolution adopted by the Allegan City Council January 9,
1967, prior to a special election held January 18, 1967, approving the sale of
the electric utility facilities of the City of Allegan, whereby the Council of
the City of Allegan expressed its intent and purpose not to use or dispose of
the proceeds realized from the sale of said facilities without first having
submitted the proposition at an election for approval by the electorate, the
City of Allegan hereby establishes the Capital Asset Improvement Sinking Fund
for the purpose of acquisition, purchase or exchange of or for capital assets,
improvements or additions for the City of Allegan as may be permissible by law
as hereinafter set forth. The Capital Asset Improvement Sinking Fund shall have
principal capital of one million seven hundred fifty thousand [$1,750,000.00]
dollars to be funded from the proceeds realized from the sale of the real and
personal property of the electric facility, as approved, at a special election
January 18, 1967. The city, acting through the council, shall collect, receive
and hold said principal capital and invest and reinvest said principal capital
and any accumulated income in: Bonds and other direct obligations of the United
States of America: certificates of deposit or depository receipts of any bank
which is a member of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation; bonds of the
Home Owners Loan Corporation; bonds of any federal home loan banks; or in such
bonds or other obligations of the successors or assigns of the above enumerated
institutions as may hereafter from time to time be permitted by law in the
State of Michigan. Provided however, that the total accumulated amount that may
be invested or reinvested with any single institution at any one time, except
in bonds or other direct obligations of the United States of America, shall not
exceed five hundred thousand [$500,000.00] dollars, nor shall any investment or
reinvestment be made which has a maturity date exceeding ten [10] years. The
city, acting through the council, shall collect, hold, invest and reinvest the
income from such capital asset improvement sinking fund under such terms and
conditions as are set forth herein, provided however, that annually, the net
income from said capital asset improvement sinking fund shall be distributed
and used as follows:
   (1)   One-third [1/3] of said net income shall be added to, considered a
part of, and disposed of as herein provided with respect to the principal
capital of the Capital Asset Improvement Sinking Fund from which said income is
derived until the total assets from all sources in said funds reaches three
million [$3,000,000.00] dollars.
   (2)   One-third [1/3] of said net income shall be paid to the Capital
Reserve Sinking Fund which is hereby established. The city, acting through the
council, shall collect, receive and hold said initial and all annual
distributions to said fund, and all income therefrom, and invest and reinvest
said initial and annual distributions to said fund, and all income accumulated
therefrom in: Bonds and other direct obligations of the United States of
America: certificates of deposit or depository receipts of any bank which is a
member of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation; bonds of the Home Owners
Loan Corporation; bonds of any federal home loan banks; or in such bonds or
other obligations of the successors or assigns of the above enumerated
institutions as may hereafter, from time to time, be permitted by law in the
State of Michigan until the total assets from all sources in said fund reaches
one million [$1,000,000.00] dollars. The assets of said Capital Reserve Sinking
Fund or any part thereof shall not be used, expended or pledged, or encumbered
in any manner whatsoever, except for investment and reinvestment as hereinafter
specifically provided, unless and except that said use, expenditure, pledge or
encumbrance be for the purpose of acquisition, purchase or exchange of or for a
capital asset, improvement or addition for the city, or that said assets are to
be transferred to and added to, considered as a part of the Capital Asset
Improvement Sinking Fund, after such a proposition shall first have been
submitted at a special or general election in the manner provided for in this
charter, to the qualified voters of the city and approved by them by a majority
vote of the electors voting thereon.
   (3)   One-third [1/3] of said income shall be appropriated to the general
fund of the city for any use permitted by law as may be made of general fund
monies.
   (4)   The distributions provided for in sub-paragraphs (1), (2), and (3)
shall continue until such time as the capital Asset Improvement Sinking Fund
has total assets from all sources in the amount of three million
[$3,000,000.00] dollars and at such time the net income from the Capital Asset
Improvement Sinking Fund, shall then be distributed two-fifths [2/5] to the
Capital Reserve Sinking Fund, two-fifths [2/5] to the general fund of the city
and one-fifth [1/5] shall be added to the Capital Asset Improvement Sinking
Fund from which said income is derived.
   The principal capital of said Capital Asset Improvement Sinking Fund, nor
any part thereof, shall not be used, expended, pledged or encumbered in any
manner whatsoever, except for investment or reinvestment as hereinbefore
specifically provided, unless and except that said use, expenditure, pledge or
encumbrance be for the purpose of acquisition, purchase or exchange of or for a
capital asset, improvement or addition for the city, after such a proposition
shall first have been submitted at a general or special election in the manner
provided for in this charter, to the qualified voters of the city and approved
by them by a three-fifths [3/5] majority vote of the electors voting thereon.
The city shall cause a system of accounts to be established and employed as
conforms to acceptable accounting procedures as practiced by the public
accountants licensed by the Michigan Board of Accountancy, and as permitted by
law in the State of Michigan, so as to disclose in full detail, a record of all
proceedings, transactions and dealings of all accounts of the Capital Asset
Improvement Sinking Fund and Capital Reserve Sinking Fund. Annually, an audit
of said records shall be made by a certified public accountant and a statement
of the condition of said Capital Asset Improvement Sinking Fund and Capital
Reserve Sinking Fund shall be prepared and published in a newspaper having
general circulation within the City of Allegan. The assets of said Capital
Asset Improvement Sinking Fund and the Capital Reserve Fund shall be kept
separate and segregated from each other and from all other accounts, funds and
assets of the city.
CHAPTER XV. MUNICIPAL RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES
SECTION 15.1. RIGHTS, LIABILITIES, REMEDIES.
   All rights and properties of any kind and description which were vested in
the City of Allegan at the time of the adoption of this charter shall continue,
and no rights or liabilities either in favor of or against the city at the time
of the adoption of this charter, and no suit or prosecution of any kind shall
be in any manner affected by the adoption of this charter, but the same shall
stand or progress as if no such change had been made, and all debts and
liabilities of the city and all taxes levied and uncollected at the time of the
adoption of this charter shall be collected the same as if such change had not
been made; provided that, when a different remedy is given in this charter,
which can be made applicable to any rights existing at the time of the adoption
of this charter, the same shall be deemed cumulative to the remedies before
provided, and may be used accordingly.
SECTION 15.2. LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES.
   The city shall not be liable for unliquidated damages for injuries to
persons or property unless the persons claiming such damages, or someone in his
or their behalf, shall file a claim in writing with the clerk. Such claim shall
be verified by the claimant or claimants, or some person having knowledge of
the facts, who shall specify the time and place, the nature and extent of the
injury sustained, the manner in which it occurred, the specific grounds upon
which the claim of liability on the part of the city shall be asserted, the
names, addresses of all known witnesses, the name of the attending physician,
if any, and an itemized statement of the amount claimed. Upon filing such
claim, the city shall investigate the same and may require the claimant to
produce all witnesses for examination under oath. No action shall be maintained
in any case unless the same be brought within the statutory period stated by
the general laws of the state after such injury or damages shall have been
received.
SECTION 15.3. STATEMENTS OF CITY OFFICERS.
   No officer of the city shall have power to make any representation or
recital of fact in any franchise, contract, document or agreement which is
contrary to any public record of the city. Any such representation shall be
void and of no effect as against the city.
CHAPTER XVI. GENERAL PROVISIONS AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION 16.1. PUBLIC RECORDS.
   All public records of the city shall be available to the public during
normal business hours in accordance with state law, except any of a personal
nature on personnel which may be protected by statute or decency, and shall be
in the English language.
SECTION 16.2. HEADINGS.
   The chapter and section headings used in this charter are for convenience
only and shall not be considered to be a part of this charter.
SECTION 16.3. EFFECT OF ILLEGALITY OF ANY PART OF CHARTER.
   Should any provision or section, or portion hereof, of this charter be held
by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, illegal, or
unconstitutional, such holding shall not be construed as affecting the validity
of this charter as a whole or any remaining portion of such provision or
section.
SECTION 16.4. AMENDMENTS.
   This charter may be amended at any time in the manner provided by statute.
Should two (2) or more amendments, adopted at the same election, have
conflicting provisions, the one receiving the highest vote shall prevail as to
those provisions.
SECTION 16.5. DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS.
   Except as otherwise specifically provided or indicated by the context of
this charter:
   (a)   The word “state” shall mean the State of Michigan;
   (b)   The word “city” shall mean the City of Allegan;
   (c)   The word “council” shall mean the City Council of the City of Allegan;
   (d)   The word “officer” shall include, but shall not be limited to the
mayor, the members of the council, the constable and, as herein provided, the
administrative officers, deputy administrative officers, and members of the
city boards and commissions created by or pursuant to this Charter;
   (e)   The word “person” may extend and be applied to bodies politic and
corporate and to partnerships and associations, as well as to individuals;
   (f)   The words “printed” and “printing” shall include printing, engraving,
stencil, duplicating, lithographing, typewriting, photostating, or any similar
method;
   (g)   Except in reference to signatures, the words “written” and “in
writing” shall include handwritten script, printing, typewriting, and teletype
and telegraphic communications;
   (h)   The words “publish” or “published” shall include publication of any
matter, required to be published, in the manner provided by law, or where there
is no applicable law, in one or more newspapers of general circulation in the
city, qualified by law for publication of legal notices or in accordance with
the charter;
   (i)   The words “public utility” shall include all common carriers in the
public streets; water, sewage disposal, electric light and power, gas,
telephone and telegraph lines and systems, cable television, garbage and refuse
collection and disposal and reduction plants, transportation, and such other
and different enterprises as the council may determine or designate;
   (j)   All words indicating the present tense shall not be limited to the
time of the adoption of this charter, but shall extend to and include the time
of happening of any event or requirement to which any provision of this charter
is applied;
   (k)   The singular shall include the plural, and plural shall include the
singular, the masculine gender shall extend to and include the feminine gender
and the neuter;
   (l)   All references to statutes shall be considered to be references to
such statutes as amended.
CHAPTER XVII. SCHEDULE
SECTION 17.1. ELECTION TO ADOPT CHARTER.
   This charter shall be submitted to a vote of the registered electors of the
territory comprising the City of Allegan at the regular city election to be
held on Tuesday, November 8, 1988. If at said election, a majority of the
electors voting thereon shall vote in favor of the adoption of this charter,
then the clerk shall perform all other acts required by law and this chapter to
carry this charter into effect.
SECTION 17.2. FORM OF BALLOT.
   The form of the question of submission of this charter shall be as follows:
“Shall the proposed charter of the City of Allegan, State of Michigan, drafted
by the Charter Revision Commission elected August 2, 1988, be adopted?”
   YES   
   NO      
SECTION 17.3. EFFECTIVE DATE OF CHARTER.
   If the canvass of the vote on the adoption of this charter shows that it has
been adopted, it shall take effect and become law as the charter of the City of
Allegan, State of Michigan, for all purposes on Sunday, January 1, 1989, at 12:
01 a.m. local time.
SECTION 17.4. ELECTION OF OFFICERS.
   (a)   If this charter shall be adopted, the council in office on the
effective date of this charter shall remain as then constituted and organized,
except for any necessary filling of vacancies in accordance with the provisions
of this charter, and shall be governed by the same rules of order and procedure
as are in effect and followed on the effective date of this charter. The
constable under the previous charter shall continue the office and duties of
constable under this charter.
   (b)   At the first regular city election to be held after the effective date
of this charter, in addition to the number of elective city officers to be
elected at the regular city election, there shall be two (2) additional city
councilmembers elected each for a two-year term and in accordance with the
provisions of this charter in order to increase the number of councilmembers
from five (5) to seven (7) members.
   (c)   Thereafter, the elections for city council and their terms of office
shall be in accordance with and at the times set forth in this charter. Where
applicable and appropriate, this election shall be conducted in compliance with
the provisions of chapter IV of this charter.
SECTION 17.5. CONTINUATION OF APPOINTIVE OFFICERS.
   Except as otherwise provided in this charter, all appointive officers and
employees of the City of Allegan shall continue in that city office or
employment that they now hold.
SECTION 17.6. BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS.
   The present boards and commissions of the City of Allegan shall continue as
now established under the terms of the ordinance establishing them and the
members of such boards and commissions shall continue for the term as
established in the ordinance creating them.
SECTION 17.7. CONTINUATION OF CONTRACTS AND OBLIGATIONS.
   All contracts and obligations of the City of Allegan shall continue as they
now exist until the terms of the contract or obligation are met as stated
elsewhere in this charter. This provision also applies to all intergovernmental
contracts and agreements now existing with the City of Allegan.
SECTION 17.8. COUNCIL ACTION.
   In all cases involving the transition of the City of Allegan to that under
this charter, which are not covered by this schedule, the council shall supply
the necessary details and procedures and may adopt such rules, regulations, and
ordinances as may be required therefor.
   General Provisions
CHAPTER 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
1-1   Code designated and cited
   
1-2   Definitions and rules of construction
   
1-3   Application to territorial boundaries only
   
1-4   Editor’s notes
   
1-5   Application to future legislation
   
1-6   Rules of separability
   
1-7   Reference to other sections
   
1-8   Reference to offices
   
1-9   Certain provisions saved from repeal
   
1-10   Codification of ordinances
   
1-11   General penalties and fines
§ 1-1 CODE DESIGNATED AND CITED.
   This codification of ordinances shall be known and cited as the “Code of
Ordinances, City of Allegan, Michigan”.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 1-2 DEFINITIONS AND RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   In the construction of this code and of all ordinances of the city, the
following definitions and rules of construction shall be observed, unless they
are inconsistent with the intent of the council or the context clearly requires
otherwise.
   CHARTER. The Charter of the City of Allegan, Michigan, adopted 11-8-1988,
and shall include any amendment to such Charter.
   CITY. The City of Allegan, Michigan.
   CODE. The Code of Ordinances, City of Allegan, Michigan, as designated in §
1-1 of this chapter, and as hereinafter modified by amendment, revision and by
the adoption of new chapters, articles, subsections or sections.
   COUNCIL. The Council of the City of Allegan.
   COUNTY. The County of Allegan in the State of Michigan.
   GENDER. Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders.
   JOINT AUTHORITY. All words purporting to give joint authority to three or
more public officers or other persons, shall be construed as giving such
authority to a majority of such officers or other persons unless it is
otherwise expressly declared in the ordinance granting the authority.
   MCL, M.S.A. The abbreviations MCL and M.S.A. refer to the Michigan Compiled
Laws and Michigan Statutes Annotated respectively, as amended.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   NUMBER. Words in the singular shall include the plural, and words in the
plural shall include the singular.
   OFFICER, EMPLOYEE, DEPARTMENT, BOARD, COMMISSION or OTHER AGENCY. Whenever
any officer, employee, department, board, commission or other agency is
referred to by title only, such reference shall be construed as if followed by
the words “of the City of Allegan, Michigan”. Whenever, by the provisions of
this code, any officer, employee, department, board, commission or other city
agency of the city is assigned any duty or empowered to perform any act or
duty, reference to such officer, employee, department, board, commission or
agency shall mean and include such officer, employee, department, board,
commission or agency, or any deputy or authorized subordinate.
   PERSON.
      (1)   The word PERSON and its derivatives and the word WHOEVER shall
include a natural person, partnership, association, legal entity or a corporate
body or any body of persons corporate or incorporate.
      (2)   Whenever used in any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the
term PERSON or WHOEVER, as applied to any unincorporated entity, shall mean the
partners or members thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers
thereof.
   STATE. The State of Michigan.
   TENSE. Words used in the present or past tense include the future as well as
the present and past.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 1-3 APPLICATION TO TERRITORIAL BOUNDARIES ONLY.
   All provisions of this code are limited in application to the territorial
boundaries of the municipal corporation unless expressly indicated otherwise.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 1-4 EDITOR’S NOTES.
   Editor’s notes are by way of explanation only and should not be deemed a
part of the text of any section.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 1-5 APPLICATION TO FUTURE LEGISLATION.
   All of the provisions of this chapter, not incompatible with future
legislation, shall apply to ordinances hereafter adopted amending or
supplementing this code unless otherwise specifically provided.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 1-6 RULES OF SEPARABILITY.
   Each chapter, article, subsection or section or, whenever divisible,
subsection of this code is hereby declared to be separable, and the invalidity
of any chapter, article, subsection, section or divisible subsection, shall not
be construed to affect the validity of any other chapter, article, subsection,
section or subsection of this code.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 1-7 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, such
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter be changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 1-8 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public officer shall be deemed to apply to any office,
officer or employee of the city, exercising the powers, duties or functions
contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of functions or
change in the official title of the functionary.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 1-9 CERTAIN PROVISIONS SAVED FROM REPEAL.
   Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall affect the
following when not inconsistent with this code:
   (A)   Any offense committed or penalty incurred or any right established
prior to the effective date of the code; and
   (B)   Any uncodified ordinance adopted prior to the effective date of this
code. Such ordinances are on file in the City Clerk’s office.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 1-10 CODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   (1)   The City Clerk shall be responsible for codifying this code and
making it available for inspection by the general public.
      (2)   Ordinances which are of a general and permanent nature shall be
included within such codification.
   (B)   In preparing a codification of this code, all portions of the code
which have been repealed shall be excluded from the code by the omission
thereof.
   (C)   When preparing a codification to this code, the Clerk may make formal,
non-substantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included insofar
as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified code. For example,
the codifier may:
      (1)   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subsections;
      (2)   Provide appropriate captions, headings and titles, for sections and
other subsections of the code printed in the supplement, and make changes in
such captions, headings and titles;
      (3)   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subsections to be
inserted in the code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change
existing section or other subsection numbers;
      (4)   Change the words “this ordinance” or words of the same meaning to
“this chapter”, “this article”, “this division” and the like, as the case may
be, or to “sections __________ to ___________” (inserting section numbers to
indicate the sections of the code which embody the substantive sections of the
ordinance incorporated into the code); and
      (5)   Make other non-substantive changes or correct typographical errors
as necessary to preserve the original meaning of ordinance sections inserted
into the code; but in no case shall the codifier otherwise make any change in
the meaning or effect of ordinance material.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 1-11 GENERAL PENALTIES AND FINES.
   (A)   Unless a violation of this code or any ordinance of the city is
specifically designated in the code or ordinance as a misdemeanor, the
violation shall be deemed to be a municipal civil infraction.
   (B)   The penalty of a misdemeanor violation shall be a fine not exceeding
$500 (plus costs of prosecution), or imprisonment not exceeding 90 days, or
both, unless a specific penalty is otherwise provided for the violation by this
code or any ordinance.
   (C)   The civil fines for a violation which is a municipal civil infraction
shall be as set forth in the provisions of this code or of any ordinance
adopted by the city, declaring a violation to be a municipal civil infraction
and prescribing fines, plus any costs, damages, expenses and other sanctions,
as authorized under Public Act 236, Chapter 87, of 1961, as amended, and other
applicable laws. If no such fine is provided, the applicable fine shall be $50
for a first violation, $150 for a second violation and $300 for a third or
subsequent violation. Such fines or any other applicable fines provided in this
code shall be payable by persons served with municipal ordinance violations to
the Municipal Ordinance Violations Bureau. Payment with the Municipal Ordinance
Violations Bureau shall require an admission of responsibility.
   (D)   A VIOLATION includes any act which is prohibited or made or declared
to be unlawful or an offense by this code or any ordinance and, any omission or
failure to act where the act is required by this code or any ordinance.
   (E)   Each day on which any violation of this code or any ordinance
continues constitutes a separate offense/violation and shall be subject to
penalties or sanctions as a separate offense.
   (F)   In addition to any remedies available at law, the city may bring an
action for an injunction or other process against a person, firm or corporation
to restrain, prevent or abate any violation of this code or any city ordinance.
   (G)   This section shall not apply to the failure of officers and employees
of the city to perform municipal duties required by this code or by any
ordinance.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
   Administration
CHAPTER 2: ADMINISTRATION
Section
Article I. City Council
   
2-1   Purpose and intent
   
2-2   Meetings
   
2-3   Council Code of Ethics
   
2-4   Compliance and enforcement
   
2-5   No invalidation
   
2-6   Implementation
   
2-7 — 2-10   Reserved
Article II. Purchasing and Unclaimed Property
   
2-11   Purchasing agent, duties and application
   
2-12   Purchases for items less than $5,000
   
2-13   Purchase for items more than $5,000 but less than $10,000
   
2-14   Purchase for items or services between $10,000 and $20,000
   
2-15   Purchases for items or services more than $20,000 and bid process
   
2-16   Purchases from approved vendors
   
2-17   Contracts for professional services
   
2-18   Purchases through state bid contracts
   
2-19   Purchasing order and change orders
   
2-20   Emergency purchases
   
2-21   Additional purchasing functions
   
2-22   Disposition of unclaimed property
   
2-23 — 2-30   Reserved
Article III. Municipal Ordinance Violations Bureau
   
2-31   Definitions
   
2-32   Commencement of a municipal civil infraction action
   
2-33   Municipal Ordinance Violations Bureau
   
2-34   Municipal Ordinance Violations Bureau; location; employees
   
2-35   Municipal Ordinance Violations Bureau; disposition of violations
   
2-36   Bureau limited to accepting admissions of responsibility
   
2-37   Municipal civil infraction violation notices
ARTICLE I. CITY COUNCIL
§ 2-1 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   City residents and property owners are entitled to have fair, ethical
and accountable local government that has earned the public’s full confidence
for integrity.
   (B)   The effective functioning of democratic government requires that
public officials, both elected and appointed, comply with both the letter and
spirit of the laws and policies affecting the operations of government; public
officials be independent, impartial and fair in their judgment and actions;
public office be used for the public good, not for personal gain; and public
deliberations and processes be conducted openly, unless legally confidential,
in an atmosphere of respect and civility.
   (C)   This article is intended to assure public confidence in the integrity
of local government and its effective and fair operation.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 2-2 MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Council shall hold its regular meetings on the second and fourth
Mondays of each month.
   (B)   All regular Council meetings shall be held in the City Hall in the
city or at such other place at the Council may from time to time designate by
resolution.
   (C)   Regular Council meetings shall begin at 7:00 p.m., unless the Council
shall, by resolution, from time to time designate a different hour for the
meeting.
   (D)   Special meetings shall be noticed out and held as provided by the
state’s Open Meetings Act, Public Act 267 of 1976, being MCL §§ 15.261 et seq.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 2-3 COUNCIL CODE OF ETHICS.
   Members of the Council shall:
   (A)   Act in the public interest. Recognizing that stewardship of the public
interest must be their primary concern, Council members will work for the
common good of the people of the city and not for any private or personal
interest, and they will assure fair and equal treatment of all persons, claims
and transactions coming before the Council. Council members shall also abide by
the model of excellence provided for below in subsection (C) below;
   (B)   Comply with applicable law.
      (1)   Council members shall comply with the laws of the nation, the state
and the city in the performance of their public duties. These laws include, but
are not limited to:
         (a)   The United States and Michigan constitutions;
         (b)   Federal and state statutes, rules and regulations;
         (c)   The City Charter;
         (d)   City ordinances;
         (e)   City policies;
         (f)   Council resolutions;
         (g)   City contractual obligations;
         (h)   Requirements of any permits or other approvals issued to the
city by federal or state agencies; and
         (i)   Orders of any courts or administrative agencies of competent
jurisdiction.
      (2)   This includes, without limitation, those pertaining to conflicts of
interest, contracts with public entities, election campaigns, financial
disclosures, employer responsibilities and open processes of government.
   (C)   Respect for process. Council members shall perform their duties in
accordance with the processes and rules of order established by the Council
governing the deliberation of public policy issues, meaningful involvement of
the public, and implementation of Council policy decisions by city staff;
   (D)   Prepare for and conduct public meetings. Council members shall prepare
for public issues, listen courteously and attentively to all public discussions
before the body and focus on the business at hand. They shall refrain from
interrupting other speakers, making comments not germane to the business of the
body or otherwise interfering with the orderly conduct of meetings;
   (E)   Communicate pertinent information. Council members shall publicly
share substantive information that is relevant to a matter under consideration
by the City Council which they may have received from sources outside of the
public decision-making process;
   (F)   Provide full disclosure.
      (1)   Council members in the performance of their public duties shall not
act upon any matter in which they have a material financial interest, or where
they have a legal or fiduciary duty to another organization or entity or
personal relationship that may give the appearance of a conflict of interest,
without disclosing the full nature and extent of the interest to the other
members of the Council on the official record. Such disclosure must be made
before the time to perform their duty or concurrently with the performance of
the duty.
      (2)   The disclosure required by this subsection (F) shall not supplant,
but instead shall supplement, any disclosure of a personal, contractual,
financial, business, employment or pecuniary interest required by law.
   (G)   Avoid inappropriate gifts, favors and loans.
      (1)   A Council member shall refrain from financial and business dealings
that would tend to reflect adversely on the Council member impartiality,
interfere with the performance of their public duties or exploit their official
position. A Council member should not take any special advantage of services,
goods or opportunity for personal gain that is not available to the public in
general.
      (2)   A Council member and any family member claimed as a dependent of
the Council member shall refrain from soliciting or accepting any gifts, loans
or favors; except that, a Council member and a family member claimed as a
dependent of the Council member may:
         (a)   Accept a gift or honorarium, not exceeding a value of $100, for
services rendered in the performance of their public duties or other activity
devoted to the improvement of cities, communities and the lives of citizens;
         (b)   Accept ordinary social hospitality; a gift, bequest, favor or
loan from a relative; a wedding or engagement gift; a loan in the regular
course of business from a lending institution on the same terms as generally
available to the public; and a scholarship, grant or fellowship awarded on the
same terms as applied to other applicants;
         (c)   Accept any other gift, favor or loan only if the donor is not a
person or entity whose interests have come or are likely to come before the
Council; and
         (d)   Solicit and accept campaign contributions.
   (H)   Properly treat confidential information. Council members shall respect
the confidentiality of information concerning the property, personnel or
affairs of the city. They shall neither disclose, nor divulge, to an
unauthorized person confidential information acquired in the course of their
duties in advance of the time prescribed for its authorized release to the
public without proper legal authorization, nor use such information to advance
their personal, financial or other private interests;
   (I)   Use city resources only for city purposes. Public resources, including
city staff time, equipment, supplies and facilities, not available to the
public in general shall only be used for the benefit of the public and not for
a Council member’s personal or private use;
   (J)   Refrain from representing private interests. In keeping with the role
of Council members as stewards of the public interest, a Council member shall
not appear on behalf of the private interests of third parties before the
council or any board, committee, commissions, city staff or any proceeding of
the city. For purposes of this section, the term THIRD PARTIES includes the
Council member’s spouse and family members. Notwithstanding the forgoing, a
Council member may represent his or her own interests, including in matters
involving property owned jointly with the Council member’s spouse or other
persons. For example, a Council member may appear before the city’s Historic
District Commission in a proceeding involving the Council member’s home;
   (K)   Accurately represent city actions and policies. Council members shall
represent the official policies or positions of the city and the Council to the
best of their ability when designated as delegates for this purpose. When
presenting their individual opinions and positions, Council members shall
neither state, nor imply, that they represent the opinions or positions of the
Council or the city;
   (L)   Act only within their Council role.
      (1)   Council members shall respect and adhere to the Council-Manager
structure of city government as provided the City Charter. In this structure,
the Council determines the policies of the city with the advice, information
and analysis provided by the public, subordinate boards, committees and
commissions and city staff.
      (2)   Council members, therefore, shall not seek to participate in or
interfere with the administrative functions of the city or the professional
duties of city staff; nor shall they impair the ability of staff to implement
Council decisions, actions or policies.
   (M)   Maintain the independence of city boards and commissions. Because of
the value of the independent advice of subordinate boards, committees,
commissions and other bodies to the public decision-making process, Council
members shall, except when the Council member is a member of the public body,
limit their participation in the proceedings of such subordinate public bodies
to the communication of requested information and providing factual information
relevant to the discussion at hand and shall not otherwise attempt to unduly
influence the deliberations or outcomes of the proceedings; and
   (N)   Maintain and support a positive workplace environment.
      (1)   Council members shall support the maintenance of a positive and
constructive workplace environment for city employees and for citizens and
businesses dealing with the city. Council members shall recognize their special
role in dealings with city employees so as to in no way create the perception
of inappropriate direction to staff nor, except for the purpose of inquiry,
give specific orders to subordinates of the City Manager or City Attorney.
      (2)   Because Council member actions and comments contribute to the
environment in which all city employees must work, in order to create and
promote a positive work environment under no circumstances shall a Council
member, either in public or private, intimidate, humiliate or otherwise abuse a
city employee.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 2-4 COMPLIANCE AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   This article establishes minimum standards of ethical conduct for
Council members. Violations, therefore, constitute official misconduct and
malfeasance in office.
   (B)   Council members each have the primary responsibility to assure that
they understand and meet the standards in this article and that the public can
continue to have full confidence in the integrity of government.
   (C)   Formal disciplinary procedures will be undertaken in serious
situations or those potentially so. When it appears that such measures may
become necessary, proper and tactful handling of the situation is of prime
importance. Therefore, efforts will first be undertaken to attain satisfactory
resolution of the matter quietly and informally.
   (D)   A Council member shall intervene when the Council member learns of
actions of another Council member that appear to violate this article. The
exclusive procedure for intervention shall be as follows.
      (1)   Within 30 days of acquiring reasonable suspicion of a violation,
the reporting Council member shall notify the Mayor and provide a detailed
written account of the facts giving rise to reasonable suspicion. In cases
where the Mayor is suspected of a violation, notice shall be given to the Mayor
Pro Tem. The notification and written account shall be sent via email, using
official city email accounts. Council members should be aware that all emails
and other written communications transmitted during this process may be subject
to disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act.
      (2)   Upon receiving notice of a suspected violation, the Mayor (or, in
the case of a suspected violation involving the Mayor, the Mayor Pro Tem) shall
arrange a meeting with the suspected Council member and the City Attorney as
soon as reasonably possible. The suspected Council member has an obligation to
participate in the meeting, and failure to do so shall be considered a
violation of this article.
      (3)   (a)   During the meeting, the Mayor or Mayor Pro Tem shall:
            1.   Explain the nature and factual basis for the suspected
violation;
            2.   Provide the suspected council member an opportunity to
respond; and
            3.   To the extent the circumstances allow, discuss possible ways
to informally resolve the matter without further proceedings.
         (b)   For example, the suspected Council member may offer to
apologize, retract a previous statement or take other corrective action. The
Mayor or Mayor Pro Tem shall be responsible for leading the discussion. The
role of the City Attorney is to answer any procedural or legal questions that
might arise during the discussion, and to assist the Mayor or Mayor Pro Tem in
preparing a summary of the meeting for purposes of subsection (D)(4) below.
      (4)   Following the meeting, the Mayor or Mayor Pro Tem shall, with the
help of the City Attorney, prepare a written summary of the meeting. The
summary shall be sent by email to the full City Council and the City Manager.
      (5)   After reviewing the summary, any three Council members may require
that the full Council hold a public hearing to determine whether a violation of
this article occurred and, if so, what sanctions shall be imposed for the
violation. To request a public hearing, a Council member shall send an email
addressed only to the City Manager, City Clerk and City Attorney. Reasons for
requesting a public hearing include:
         (a)   The suspected Council member refused to meet as required by
subsection (D)(3) above;
         (b)   The meeting with the Mayor or Mayor Pro Tem and the suspected
Council member has occurred without a satisfactory outcome;
         (c)   There is reason to believe the suspected Council member has
repeatedly violated this article; or
         (d)   The violation is viewed to be especially serious.
      (6)   If the City Manager receives requests for a public hearing from
three or more Council members, the City Manager shall schedule a public hearing
for a regular or special meeting of the City Council.
   (E)   During the public hearing, the following process shall be followed to
determine whether a violation has occurred and what sanctions, if any, shall be
imposed.
      (1)   All Council members, including the one accused of a violation,
shall be provided a written summary of the facts giving rise to the charge(s)
against the Council member believed to have violated this article at least ten
days prior to the date of the public hearing.
      (2)   The Mayor or, if the mayor is either the subject of the alleged
violation or is unavailable, the Mayor Pro Tem shall preside over the public
hearing. If both the Mayor and the Mayor Pro Tem are subjects of the perceived
violation, then the most tenured Council member shall preside over the public
hearing(s). If there is a question as to which Council member is most tenured,
then a majority vote of the remaining Council members shall determine who
between them shall preside.
      (3)   The presiding Council member may determine whether the evidence
presented against the Council member, or in defense of the Council member, is
germane to the charge(s) against the Council member and preclude its
consideration if he or she determines it. The presiding Council member may seek
guidance from the City Attorney regarding hearing procedural and evidentiary
issues.
      (4)   The hearing shall be conducted informally.
         (a)   Without usurping the power granted to the Council under City
Charter §
5.19, the Council is discouraged from issuing any subpoenas to compel witnesses
to testify at a hearing under this article.
         (b)   Witnesses shall be sworn by the City Clerk or the Clerk’s
designee if the designee is a notary public otherwise legally authorized to
administer oaths.
         (c)   The City Attorney shall be present at the hearing and shall
represent the Council as a whole. The City Attorney shall address procedural,
evidentiary or legal questions upon the request of the presiding Council
member, but shall not opine as to whether or not a violation of this article
has occurred.
         (d)   Neither the federal, nor state, rules of evidence or civil
procedure shall apply.
         (e)   Any Council member(s) may ask questions of witnesses, except as
otherwise provided in this subsection (E)(4).
         (f)   The accused Council member may present witnesses in his or her
defense after the presiding Council member has presented all evidence
supporting a violation. The accused Council member may not cross-examine
witnesses, but shall be provided ten minutes to present closing comments at the
conclusion of evidence to respond to the evidence presented against him or her.
The accused Council member may request and be granted not more than one
additional ten-minute period for closing comments (not to exceed 20 minutes
total) if a motion is made, supported and approved by majority vote of the
remaining Council members. The accused Council member may, at his or her own
expense, retain an attorney to perform or assist with the functions permitted
in this subsection (E).
         (g)   At the conclusion of the presentation of evidence or the closing
comments of the accused Council member, whichever is later, Council members
(except the accused Council member) shall vote to determine whether or not a
violation(s) of this article occurred by a simple majority vote of Council
members present being required to make the determination.
   (F)   The Council may impose sanctions on a Council member violating this
article. After a majority vote finding a violation of this article, a second
majority vote shall determine what sanctions, if any, shall be imposed.
      (1)   Sanctions may include reprimand, formal censure, loss of committee
assignment, restrictions on budget or travel and a request to the governor for
removal from office in the manner and for the causes provided by law.
      (2)   Sanctions shall be determined based upon the perceived severity
level (1, 2 or 3) of the violation, with the following guidance.
         (a)   For a Level 1 violation, penalty options shall include a verbal
reprimand during a conversation with the Mayor or Mayor Pro Tem, or an
additional and/or greater sanction as may be determined appropriate by the
majority of the Council voting. A violation of §
2-3(C), (D), (E), (G)(1), (G)(2), (I), (J), (K), (L)(1), (L)(2), (M) or (N) of
this chapter shall minimally result in a Level 1 sanction.
         (b)   For a Level 2 violation, the penalty options shall include
censure, which shall be defined as a formal Council resolution for specified
conduct and/or a greater sanction as may be determined appropriate by the
majority of the Council voting. A second Level 1 violation within six months of
a prior violation found by the Council, or a first violation of §
2-3(A), (F)(1), (G)(2) or (H) of this chapter, shall minimally result in a
Level 2 sanction. Depending upon the severity of the violation, a first
violation of §
2-3(G) of this chapter may result in a Level 2 sanction.
         (c)   For a Level 3 violation, the penalty options shall include
censure and/or a request to the Governor for removal. A third Level 1
violation, or a second Level 2 violation within six months of a prior violation
found by the Council, or a first violation of § 2-3(B) of this chapter may
result in a Level 3 sanction.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 2-5 NO INVALIDATION.
   A violation of this article shall not be a basis for invalidating a Council
decision or action.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 2-6 IMPLEMENTATION.
   (A)   Because Council member compliance with this article is expected and
all Council members are expected to engage in its enforcement, Council members
must be thoroughly familiar with this article. To aid this familiarity,
periodic workshops shall be held for training to be provided by Michigan
Municipal League (MML), the City Attorney or others retained by the city
regarding the role and duties of a Council members and the requirements of this
article. Unless excused by a majority vote of the remaining Council members,
all Council members shall attend this workshop or a make-up session as soon as
can be practicably scheduled.
   (B)   Every year, at the meeting during which the Council elects the Mayor
and Mayor Pro Tem, all Council members shall sign the following statement
affirming that they have read and understand this article. The statement signed
by each Council member and retained by the City Clerk.
 
 
As a member of the Allegan City Council, I agree to uphold the Code of Ethics in Chapter 2, Article I, of the Code of Ordinances, City of
Allegan, Michigan. In addition, I will:
 
•   Recognize the worth of individual members and appreciate their individual talents, perspectives and contributions;
•   Help create an atmosphere of respect and civility where individual members, city staff and the public are free to express their ideas
and work to their full potential;
•   Respect the dignity and privacy of individuals and organizations;
•   Respect and maintain the nature of confidential and privileged information and opinions acquired as a result of my position;
•   Conduct my public affairs with honesty, integrity, fairness and respect for others;
•   Avoid and discourage conduct that is divisive or harmful to the best interests of Allegan; and
•   Keep the common good as my highest purpose and focus on achieving constructive solutions for the public benefit.
 
I affirm that I have read and fully understand the Code of Ethics, Chapter 2, Article I, of the Code of Ordinances, City of Allegan,
Michigan.
 
                                                                      
Signature/Date
 
 
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§§ 2-7 — 2-10 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II. PURCHASING AND UNCLAIMED PROPERTY
§ 2-11 PURCHASING AGENT, DUTIES AND APPLICATION.
   (A)   Purchasing agent. The City Manager shall be the purchasing agent of
the city.
   (B)   Duties. The purchasing agent shall have the following powers and
duties:
      (1)   Bulk purchases. Exploit the possibilities of buying in bulk so as
to take full advantage of discounts;
      (2)   Encourage competition. Endeavor to obtain as full and open
competition as possible on all purchases and sales;
      (3)   State and federal tax exemptions. Act so as to procure for the city
all state and federal tax exemptions to which it is entitled;
      (4)   Forms. Prescribe and maintain such forms as are reasonable and
necessary for the operation of this article;
      (5)   Minimize expenditure. Act to procure for the city the highest
quality in supplies and contractual services at the least expense to the city;
      (6)   Purchasing analysis. Keep informed of current developments in the
field of purchasing, prices, market conditions and new products in the field of
purchasing by other governmental jurisdictions, national technical societies
and trade associations having national recognition and private businesses and
organizations;
      (7)   Rules and regulations. Establish and amend, when necessary, all
rules and regulations authorized by this article and any others necessary to
its operation;
      (8)   Approved vendors list. Prepare and maintain a vendor list as
approved by Council;
      (9)   Disqualification of bidders. Have the authority to recommend
Council to declare vendors who default on their quotations irresponsible
bidders and to disqualify them from receiving any business from the
municipality for a stated period of time;
      (10)   Cooperation with the department supervisors and Finance Director.
Cooperate with the department supervisors and Finance Director so as to secure
for the city the maximum efficiency in budgeting and accounting; and
      (11)   Other. Perform other duties as may be designated or ordained by
the City Council.
   (C)   Application. This article shall apply to all purchases and contracts
for procurement of articles, commodities, supplies, materials, equipment,
contractual services and professional services entered into by the city, unless
otherwise provided. It shall apply to every expenditure of public funds for
public purchasing regardless of its source. No procurement shall prevent any
public agency from complying with the terms and conditions of any grant, gift
or bequest which are otherwise consistent with law.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 2-12 PURCHASES FOR ITEMS LESS THAN $5,000.
   (A)   The City Manager or other employees designated by the City Manager
may, subject to budgetary appropriations, make and approve purchases of
articles, commodities, supplies, materials, equipment and contractual services
where the estimated cost is less than $5,000 in accordance with the purchasing
procedures set forth in subsections (B), (C) and (D) below, without further
approval of the City Council. When acting under this section, the employee
shall endeavor to purchase items at prices reflecting good value.
   (B)   Competitive bidding shall not be required for purchases under this
section. The employee shall make sure that an appropriation has first been
approved by the City Council, that a sufficient unencumbered balance remains in
the appropriation, and that sufficient funds will be available to cover the
claim or meet the obligation when it becomes due and payable.
   (C)   The employee shall promptly turn in a copy of the receipt for
purchased items to the Finance Department. The receipt will also require a
signature of the employee as well as the City Manager’s or department head’s
signature and general ledger account code.
   (D)   Any employee who shall split purchases or cause them to be split in
order to evade any of the provisions of this section shall be guilty of
misfeasance and such act shall be cause for dismissal or removal from office.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 2-13 PURCHASE FOR ITEMS MORE THAN $5,000 BUT LESS THAN $10,000.
   (A)   The City Manager may, subject to budgetary appropriations, make and
approve purchases of articles, commodities, supplies, materials, equipment and
contractual services where the estimated cost is less than $10,000 in
accordance with the purchasing procedures set forth in subsections (B), (C) and
(D) below, without further approval of the City Council. When acting under this
section, the City Manager shall endeavor to purchase items at prices reflecting
good value.
   (B)   Competitive bidding shall not be required for purchases under this
section. The City Manager shall make sure that an appropriation has first been
approved by the City Council, that a sufficient unencumbered balance remains in
the appropriation, and that sufficient funds will be available to cover the
claim or meet the obligation when it becomes due and payable.
   (C)   The City Manager shall promptly turn in a copy of the receipt for
purchased items to the Finance Department.
   (D)   Splitting purchases or causing them to be split in order to evade any
of the provisions of this section shall constitute misfeasance and such act
shall be cause for dismissal or removal from office.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 2-14 PURCHASE FOR ITEMS OR SERVICES BETWEEN $10,000 AND $20,000.
   (A)   For all purchases, subject to budgetary appropriations, of articles,
commodities, supplies, materials, equipment, contractual services and other
professional services where the estimated cost exceeds $10,000, but is less
than $20,000, and in accordance with the purchasing procedures set forth in
subsections (B), (C) and (D) below, the City Manager shall obtain at least two
competitive quotations and shall submit quotes to City Council with a
recommendation for its approval. No purchase order shall be released or voucher
drawn until the City Council has approved the purchase.
   (B)   All purchases should be made by soliciting competitive prices by
obtaining at least two written quotes to be submitted to the City Manager for
his or her authorization, unless such requirement is waived by the City
Council. Competitive bidding shall not be required for purchases under this
section. The City Manager shall make sure that an appropriation has first been
approved by the City Council, that a sufficient unencumbered balance remains in
the appropriation, and that sufficient funds will be available to cover the
claim or meet the obligation when it becomes due and payable.
   (C)   The City Manager shall promptly turn in a copy of the receipt for
purchased items to the Finance Department. The receipt will also require a
signature of the purchaser as well as the City Manager’s signature and general
ledger account code.
   (D)   Any employee who shall split purchases or cause them to be split in
order to evade any of the provisions of this section shall be guilty of
misfeasance and such act shall be cause for dismissal or removal from office.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 2-15 PURCHASES FOR ITEMS OR SERVICES MORE THAN $20,000 AND BID PROCESS.
   (A)   All contracts and purchases, where the estimated cost exceeds $20,000,
and in accordance with the purchasing procedures set forth in this section,
must be approved by City Council and shall be awarded on written contracts
using the following procedure.
      (1)   Notices inviting sealed competitive bids shall be published on the
city’s website and such other locations or publications as the City Manager
deems appropriate, which will reasonably notify any persons that might be
interested in bidding on the contract. Notices may also be sent to those
persons who would reasonably be expected to bid upon such purchases. Failure to
notify all such persons shall in no way invalidate any contracts entered into
hereunder.
      (2)   The notice inviting bids shall provide the following:
         (a)   Specifications of the articles or services to be purchased;
         (b)   The amount of surety to be submitted with the bid;
         (c)   The surety to be given with the contract;
         (d)   The time and place for opening bids;
         (e)   The conditions of the award of the contract, including any
preference and the amount of such preference expressed as a percentage of the
bid price which may be considered in determining the lowest and best bidder;
and
         (f)   The city reserves the right to reject any or all bids and to
award the contract in the city’s best interest, and the city may select a
bidder other than the lowest bidder in accordance with the terms stated in the
notice.
      (3)   At least five calendar days shall intervene between the date of
last publication of said notices and the final date for submitting the bids.
      (4)   All bids shall be submitted sealed to the City Clerk and shall be
accompanied by surety in the form of a certified check in such amount as the
City Manager shall prescribe in the public notice inviting bids. The bids shall
be opened in public at the time and place stated in the newspaper notices.
      (5)   When all bids received are for the same total amount or unit price,
and when the public interest will not permit the delay of re-advertising for
bids, the City Manager, at the direction of the City Council, may purchase the
commodity in the open market; provided, the price paid in the open market shall
not exceed any bid price submitted for the same commodity. Otherwise, the
contract shall be awarded to the lowest and best bidder whose bid is most
advantageous to the city. In determining which bidder is the most responsible
bidder, the City Manager and City Council may consider the following:
         (a)   The ability, capacity and skill of the bidder to perform the
contract or provide the service required;
         (b)   Whether the bidder can perform the contract or provide the
service promptly, or within the time specified, without delay or interference;
         (c)   The character, integrity, reputation, judgment, experience and
efficiency of the bidder;
         (d)   The quality of performance of previous contracts or services of
the bidder;
         (e)   The previous and existing compliance by the bidder with laws and
ordinances relating to the contract or services;
         (f)   The sufficiency of the financial resources and ability of the
bidder to perform the contract or provide the service;
         (g)   The amount of which is expressed as a percentage of the bid
price and stated in the notice inviting bids;
         (h)   The quality, availability and adaptability of the supplies or
contractual services to the particular use required;
         (i)   The ability of the bidder to provide future maintenance and
service for the use of the subject of the contract;
         (j)   The number and scope of conditions attached to the bid; and
         (k)   If the bidder is a local vendor who may be able to provide
services more efficiently or provide local jobs.
      (6)   The City Manager shall submit the lowest and best bid to City
Council with a recommendation for its approval. No purchase order shall be
released or voucher drawn until the City Council has approved the bid.
   (B)   Before any contract is executed, the successful bidder shall file with
the City Clerk a surety in the form of a certified check in an amount to be
determined by the City Manager. All surety bonds and contracts shall be
approved as to form by the City Attorney. If the successful bidder shall not,
within ten days after the award, enter into a contract and file the required
surety, the bidder shall forfeit the surety which accompanied the bid. A copy
of each contract shall be filed with the City Clerk.
   (C)   (1)   The City Council may waive the competitive bidding requirement
for purchases or articles, commodities, supplies, materials, equipment and
contractual services if the City Council determines that exigent circumstances
exist or that there is no advantage to the city to proceed by competitive bids.
      (2)   The City Council may also waive the competitive bidding requirement
when the interests of the city would be best served by participation in certain
procurement programs offered through the state that allow local communities to
benefit from the purchasing power of the state.
   (D)   Any employee who shall split purchases or cause them to be split in
order to evade any of the provisions of this section shall be guilty of
misfeasance and such act shall be cause for dismissal or removal from office.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 2-16 PURCHASES FROM APPROVED VENDORS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding the foregoing sections, purchases from approved
vendors for operational articles, commodities, supplies, materials, equipment
and contractual services may be made pursuant to the provisions of this
section.
   (B)   For each fiscal year, the City Council may approve a list of vendors
(the “approved vendor” or “approved vendors”) from whom the city may purchase
operational or maintenance articles, commodities, supplies, materials,
equipment and contractual services, other than professional services during
that fiscal year.
   (C)   The City Manager or his or her designee may authorize purchases from
approved vendors in accordance with the approved budget, without the need to
receive competitive bids for the purchases and without further approval of the
City Council.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 2-17 CONTRACTS FOR PROFESSIONAL SERVICES.
   (A)   As used in this chapter, PROFESSIONAL SERVICES shall mean services
typically performed by lawyers, accountants, financial advisors, architects,
engineers, consultants, design-build professionals and other similar
professionals hired to make judgments based on their specialized education and
knowledge. A contract for professional services may provide for the purchase of
all materials and construction or installation needed in order to complete the
service.
   (B)   The procurement of professional services shall be conducted by one of
the following methods.
      (1)   The city may request qualifications from any and all professionals
or entities authorized to perform the desired services and may select a
qualified candidate after conducting interviews.
      (2)   The City Manager may recommend a particular professional or entity
to the City Council along with an explanation of how such professional or
entity was selected for consideration.
   (C)   Contracts for professional services must be approved by majority vote
of the City Council.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 2-18 PURCHASES THROUGH STATE BID CONTRACTS.
   Whenever the city purchases items from a state bid contract, the provisions
of §§
2-12 through
2-17 of this chapter shall be deemed to have been complied with.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 2-19 PURCHASING ORDER AND CHANGE ORDERS.
   (A)   A city purchasing order shall be initiated by the department
supervisor, Finance Department and/or City Manager and forwarded to the vendor
on all items purchased or contracted under the authority of §§
2-12 through
2-15 of this chapter.
   (B)   The City Manager shall have the authority to execute the following
capital construction project change orders:
      (1)   Change orders which result in a reduction in cost, but do not alter
the general scope of the project;
      (2)   Change orders in emergency situations as provided in §
2-20 of this chapter; and
      (3)   Change orders within the budget of a capital construction project
which result in an additional contract amount if the accrued cost of all the
change orders to date relative to that contract do not exceed a 10% increase of
the original contract amount; provided, the general scope of work is not
altered.
   (C)   All change orders not included in subsection (B) above shall be
effective only after approval of the City Council. If such approval is given,
the City Manager is hereby authorized to execute change orders.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 2-20 EMERGENCY PURCHASES.
   (A)   In case of an emergency which requires immediate purchase of supplies
or contractual services, the City Manager shall be empowered to purchase or
authorize purchases on the open market, at the lowest obtainable price, any
necessary contractual services or supplies.
   (B)   A full report of the circumstances of any emergency purchase shall be
reported to the City Council by the City Manager at the next regularly
scheduled City Council meeting or otherwise as soon as reasonably possible.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 2-21 ADDITIONAL PURCHASING FUNCTIONS.
   (A)   Sales tax exemption certificates. The city is exempt from sales tax on
all purchases. However, some vendors want the municipality to provide a sales
tax exemption certificate. (MI Form 3372). A copy is available at City Hall.
The city’s tax identification number is printed on the purchase order.
   (B)   Request for taxpayer identification number and certifications. The
city is required to file an information return (MI Form 1099) with the IRS for
all vendors that are required to pay backup withholdings. All city employees
authorized to make purchases for the city shall request the MI form W-9 from
all vendors. A copy is available online or at City Hall. No payments will be
made without a completed W-9 filed with the Finance Department.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 2-22 DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED PROPERTY.
   The city shall report unclaimed property to the state as required by the
Uniform Unclaimed Property Act, Public Act 29 of 1995, as amended, being MCL
§§ 567.221 et seq. If the State Administrator declines to receive any abandoned
property reported by the city under the act, the City Manager may sell, donate
or otherwise dispose of the property by any reasonable means and shall deposit
the proceeds of any sale into the General Fund.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§§ 2-23 — 2-30 RESERVED.
ARTICLE III. MUNICIPAL ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
§ 2-31 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   ACT. Public Act 236 of 1961, as amended, being MCL §§ 600.101 et seq.
   AUTHORIZED CITY OFFICIAL. The City Manager, police officer, special police
officer, Fire Chief, Fire Inspector appointed by the Fire Chief, Zoning
Administrator, Building Official or other personnel of the city authorized by
the City Manager to issue municipal civil infraction citations or municipal
civil infraction violation notices.
   BUREAU. The City of Allegan Municipal Ordinance Violations Bureau, as
established by this article.
   MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION ACTION. A civil action in which the defendant is
alleged to be responsible for municipal civil infraction.
   MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION CITATION. A written citation or notice prepared
by an authorized city official, directing a person to appear in court regarding
the occurrence or existence of a municipal civil infraction violation by the
persons cited.
   MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION VIOLATION CITATION OR NOTICE. A written notice
prepared by an authorized city official, directing a person to appear at the
city’s Municipal Ordinance Violations Bureau and to pay the fine and costs, if
any, prescribed for the violation by the schedule of civil fines adopted by the
city, as authorized under the act.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 2-32 COMMENCEMENT OF A MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION ACTION.
   (A)   A municipal civil infraction may be commenced upon the issuance by an
authorized city official of:
      (1)   A municipal civil infraction citation directing the alleged
violator to appear in court; or
      (2)   A municipal civil infraction violation notice directing the alleged
violator to appear at the city’s Municipal Ordinance Violations Bureau.
   (B)   If an admission of responsibility is not made and the civil fine and
cost, if any, prescribed by the ordinance for the violation are not paid at the
Municipal Ordinance Violations Bureau, a citation may be filed with the court
and a copy of the citation may be served by first-class mail upon the alleged
violator at his or her last known address.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 2-33 MUNICIPAL ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU.
   A Municipal Ordinance Violations Bureau is established to accept admissions
of responsibility for municipal civil infractions and to collect and retain
civil fines and costs as prescribed by this code or any ordinance. The
Municipal Ordinance Violations Bureau shall be under the supervision and
control of the city’s Chief of Police, or his or her designee.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 2-34 MUNICIPAL ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU; LOCATION; EMPLOYEES.
   The Bureau shall be located within City Hall. A subsequent location for the
Bureau may be established by resolution of the City Council. The City Manager
shall appoint qualified city employees to administer the Bureau and adopt rules
and regulations for its operation.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 2-35 MUNICIPAL ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU; DISPOSITION OF VIOLATIONS.
   The Bureau may dispose only of municipal civil infraction violations for
which a fine has been scheduled and for which a municipal civil infraction
violation notice has been issued. The fact that a fine has been scheduled for a
particular violation shall not entitle any person to dispose of the violation
at the Bureau. Nothing in this article shall prevent or restrict the city from
issuing a municipal civil infraction citation for any violation or from
prosecuting any violation in a court of competent jurisdiction. No person shall
be required to dispose of a municipal civil infraction violation at the Bureau
and may have the violation processed before a court of appropriate
jurisdiction. The unwillingness of any person to dispose of any violation at
the Bureau shall not prejudice a person or in any way diminish the person’s
rights, privileges and protection accorded to that person by law.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 2-36 BUREAU LIMITED TO ACCEPTING ADMISSIONS OF RESPONSIBILITY.
   The scope of the Bureau’s authority shall be limited to accepting admissions
of responsibility for municipal civil infractions and collecting and retaining
civil fines and costs as a result of those admissions. The Bureau shall not
accept payment of a fine from any person who denies having committed the
offense or who admits responsibility only with explanation, and in no event
shall the Bureau determine, or attempt to determine, the truth or falsity of
any fact or matter relating to an alleged violation.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 2-37 MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION VIOLATION NOTICES.
   Municipal civil infraction violation notices shall specify the time by which
the alleged violator must appear at the Bureau, the methods by which an
appearance may be made, the address and telephone number of the Bureau, the
hours which the Bureau is open, the amount of the fine scheduled for the
alleged violation and the consequences for failure to appear and pay the
required fine within the required time.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
CHAPTER 3: ADVERTISING
Section
   
3-1   Purposes
   
3-2   Definitions
   
3-3   Posting prohibited in certain public places
   
3-4   Distribution in or upon vehicles
   
3-5   Distribution on vacant private premises
   
3-6   Distribution on posted private property
   
3-7   Method of distribution on private premises
§ 3-1 PURPOSES.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the distribution of handbills in
order to balance the free speech rights of individuals and organizations who
wish to advertise goods or events or otherwise distribute written information
with the needs of the community to maintain safe and unobstructed public spaces
and private property rights. This chapter seeks to ensure that the distribution
of handbills does not interfere with public safety, obstruct pedestrian or
vehicular traffic or create litter or blight in public areas. The regulation of
handbills also aims to protect the privacy and property rights of residents and
businesses by limiting unsolicited and unwanted distribution of handbills.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 3-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   HANDBILL. Any printed or written pamphlet, leaflet, magazine, paper, booklet
or other similar item not included in the definition of newspaper provided
below.
   NEWSPAPER. Any newspaper of general circulation, as defined by general law,
any news or advertising medium duly entered with the United States Post Office
in accordance with federal statutes or regulations, and any periodicals or
current magazine regularly published and circulated with not less than four
issues per year and sold to the general public.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 3-3 POSTING PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN PUBLIC PLACES.
   It shall be unlawful to hang, post, place, paste, put or in any other manner
affix any handbill on public infrastructure with city rights-of-way or other
city-owned property, including, but not limited to, lamp posts, electric poles,
telephone poles, trees, bridges, fire hydrants, water towers and the like,
except as may be authorized or required by the laws of the United States, the
state, or the ordinances of the city. This section shall not be construed as
prohibiting persons from distributing handbills on public property directly to
persons willing to accept them.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 3-4 DISTRIBUTION IN OR UPON VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to distribute any handbill in or upon
any motor vehicle. The provisions of this section shall not be deemed to
prohibit the distribution of any handbill to the owner or other occupant of any
motor vehicle who is willing to accept the same.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 3-5 DISTRIBUTION ON VACANT PRIVATE PREMISES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to distribute any handbill in or upon
any vacant private premises.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 3-6 DISTRIBUTION ON POSTED PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to distribute any handbill upon any
premises if there is posted on the premises in a conspicuous location a sign
bearing the words, “No Trespassing”, “No Peddlers or Agents”, “No
Advertisements” or any similar notice indicating in any manner that the
occupants or owners of the premises do not desire to have handbills left upon
the premises.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 3-7 METHOD OF DISTRIBUTION ON PRIVATE PREMISES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to distribute any handbill in or upon any private
premises, except by:
      (1)   Handing or transmitting the handbill directly to the owner,
occupant or any other person then present in or upon such private premises; or
      (2)   Placing or depositing any such handbill in or upon such private in
such a manner as to prevent the handbill from being blown or scattered to other
premises.
   (B)   If a receptacle for handbills is furnished (e.g., in a slot underneath
the U.S. postal mailbox), it shall be unlawful to deposit handbills in any
location on the premises other than such receptacle.
   (C)   Any person distributing handbills from house to house must follow the
walks and driveways on the premises and shall not cut across the yard to reach
the entrance to the house.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to distribute any handbill on
private premises on Sunday and between the hours of 8:00 p.m. of any weekday
and 8:00 a.m. of the following day.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
CHAPTER 4: ALCOHOLIC LIQUORS
Section
Article I. Liquor Licensing
   
4-1   Short title
   
4-2   Statement of purpose
   
4-3   Licensing policy
   
4-4   Application
   
4-5   Review procedures
   
4-6   Enforcement; annual license review
   
4-7   Revocation and non-renewal
   
4-8   Criteria for non-renewal, suspension or revocation
   
4-9   Termination of escrowed licenses
   
4-10   Fees
ARTICLE I. LIQUOR LICENSING
§ 4-1 SHORT TITLE.
   This article shall be known as the “Liquor Licensing Ordinance”.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 4-2 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   This article is intended to allow the city to establish and administer a
policy for issuance and transfer of liquor licenses, to determine when denial,
non-renewal or revocation are appropriate and to provide for the enforcement of
liquor law.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 4-3 LICENSING POLICY.
   No person or entity that operates an establishment in the city may sell
alcoholic liquor for on-premises consumption (including micro brewers, brewpubs
and wine makers) without the City Council’s express approval. The City Council
shall have sole discretion when considering liquor license applications, which
shall be required for new licenses, transfer of ownership of existing licenses,
transfers of licenses into the city, relocation of an existing licensed
establishment or expansion of an existing licensed establishment by more than
500 square feet or 10%.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 4-4 APPLICATION.
   Prior to or simultaneously with the submission of any corresponding
application to the state’s Liquor Control Commission, each applicant for a new
license or the transfer of a license, and any applicant seeking to relocate an
existing license premises or expand the physical structure of an existing
licensed premises by more than 500 square feet or 10% shall submit a written
application to the City Clerk, which application shall include the following
information:
   (A)   The name, age, Social Security number, address and driver’s license
number of the applicant in the case of an individual. In the case of a
partnership, the persons entitled to share in the profits thereof. In the case
of a corporation or limited liability company, the purposes for which the
entity is organized, the names and addresses of the officers and directors and,
if a majority interest in the stock of such corporation is owned by one person
or his or her nominee, the name and address of such person and a list of the
names of the shareholders;
   (B)   The citizenship of the applicant, the applicant’s place of birth and,
if a naturalized citizen, the time and place of the applicant’s naturalization;
   (C)   The character of business of the applicant and, in the case of a
corporation, the purpose for which it is formed;
   (D)   The length of time the applicant has been in business of that
character or, in the case of a corporation, the date when it was incorporated;
   (E)   The location and description of the premises or place of business
which is to be operated under such license;
   (F)   A statement whether the applicant has made application for a similar
or other license on premises other than described in this application and the
disposition of such application;
   (G)   A statement that applicant, its partners, members, officers and
directors have never been convicted of a felony;
   (H)   A statement that the applicant has met all of the qualifications
necessary to obtain a license as set forth in this chapter and state laws,
rules and regulations;
   (I)   The application shall be accompanied by building and plat plans
showing the entire structure and premises and, in particular, the specific
areas where the license is to be utilized. The plan shall demonstrate adequate
off-street parking, lighting, refuse disposal, screening and noise control;
   (J)   The proposed hours and days of the week the premises will be open to
the public;
   (K)   Whether food will be available to the patrons for purchase. If so, the
type of food and proposed hours available to the public;
   (L)   Whether entertainment will be provided. If so, the type of
entertainment and proposed hours;
   (M)   A statement as to whether the applicant has ever been denied an
application for a liquor license by the state’s Liquor Control Commission. If
so, the reason for the denial; and
   (N)   A statement as to whether the applicant has ever been the holder of a
liquor license which has been revoked or not renewed. If so, the reason for the
revocation or non-renewal.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 4-5 REVIEW PROCEDURES.
   (A)   New license unavailable. The city shall not be obligated to take any
action on an application for a new liquor license when there is no such license
available pursuant to state law or the terms of this article. The city may, at
its discretion, retain the application on file to consider it in the event that
a new liquor license becomes available in the future.
   (B)   City departmental review. Upon receiving an application for an
available new license, for the transfer of a license, or for the relocation or
alteration of the size of the physical structure of existing licensed premises,
the Clerk will refer the application to the Police Chief, Fire Chief, Public
Works Director and City Treasurer, who shall review and investigate the
application. The investigation shall include, but not be limited to, reviewing
the complete history of the applicant’s past business experience and liquor law
violations, and also inspecting the proposed premises. The applicant shall
provide all requested information to, and fully cooperate with, all city
departments requesting any and all additional information. The findings
resulting from such review and investigation shall be reported to the City
Council.
   (C)   Public hearing/review.
      (1)   Hearing required. The City Council shall hold a public hearing upon
all applications for an available new license, for the transfer of a license or
for the relocation or alteration of the size of the physical structure of
existing licensed premises.
      (2)   Notice and appearance. The applicant shall be given notice of the
hearing and the City Council may, at its discretion, require the applicant to
appear at the hearing and make a written and/or oral presentation concerning
the request.
      (3)   Grounds for denial. An application for an available new license,
for the transfer of a license or for the relocation or alteration of the size
of the physical structure of existing licensed premises may be denied if:
         (a)   The applicant was the holder of a liquor license, in the state,
which has been revoked or not renewed, by reason of applicant’s prior
violations;
         (b)   The applicant has been convicted of a violation of any federal
or state law or city ordinance concerning the manufacturing, possession or sale
of alcoholic liquor or controlled substances;
         (c)   The applicant does not own the premises for which such a license
is sought or does not have a lease thereof for a full period for which the
license is issued, or if the applicant does not have the financial assets to
carry on or maintain the business;
         (d)   The applicant is prohibited from holding a liquor license under
the state’s Liquor Control Code;
         (e)   There exists a violation of the applicable building, electrical,
mechanical, plumbing or fire codes, applicable zoning regulations, or
applicable public health regulations, or any other applicable city ordinance,
county regulation, state or federal law or regulation;
         (f)   It is determined by a majority of the City Council that the
premises do not or will not, reasonably soon after commencement of operations,
have adequate off-street parking, lighting, refuse disposal facilities,
screening, noise or nuisance control or where a nuisance does or will exist;
         (g)   The City Council determines and finds that the proposed location
is unreasonably detrimental and injurious to the surrounding properties and
persons, and/or does not have appropriate provision for: traffic safety;
accessibility to the site from abutting roads; capability of abutting roads to
accommodate the commercial activity; distance from inconsistent neighboring
zoning districts; capacity to control and monitor noise and amplified music;
accessibility from primary roads or state highways; and distance from public or
private schools;
         (h)   The applicant is a partnership and there would be grounds for
denying a license to any partner if he or she applied for a license as an
individual;
         (i)   The applicant is a corporation or limited liability company, and
there would be grounds for denying a license to any officer, manager, effective
manager, director thereof or stock owner or stockholders owning an aggregate of
more than 5% of the stock of such corporation, if such person applied for a
license as an individual;
         (j)   The applicant’s place of business is conducted by a manager or
agent and there would be grounds for denying a license to such manager or agent
if he or she applied for a license as an individual; and
         (k)   The City Council determines for any other reason that granting
the application would adversely impact the public health, safety or welfare.
      (4)   Competing applications. Where there are competing applications for
an available liquor license, the City Council shall use criteria including, but
not limited to, the following in determining which application, if any, should
be granted:
         (a)   Zoning of the parcel and adjacent parcels;
         (b)   Availability of utilities;
         (c)   Proposed utilities to be conducted with the license;
         (d)   Traffic on adjacent streets and the existence of any traffic
hazards in the area or produced by the applicant’s proposed use;
         (e)   Economic backing of applicant sufficient to conduct the proposed
use;
         (f)   Design and layout of improvements of the proposed use;
         (g)   Effect upon existing adjacent uses and uses in the vicinity;
         (h)   Location of other licensed establishments as relates to
potential traffic effects or hazards; and
         (i)   Any information contained in the application or requirements of
this chapter.
   (D)   Approval by resolution. The approval of liquor-related applications
shall be by resolution.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 4-6 ENFORCEMENT; ANNUAL LICENSE REVIEW.
   (A)   The Police Chief shall be responsible for the administration and
enforcement of this article and the state’s Liquor Control Code. No other city
official may investigate or enforce the provisions of this article or the
Liquor Control Code unless authorized by the Police Chief.
   (B)   The City Council may undertake an annual review of any license for the
purpose of making a recommendation to the state’s Liquor Control Commission
regarding license renewal. The City Council shall consider whether a licensed
establishment has been operated in a manner consistent with the provisions of
this article and all other applicable laws and regulations.
   (C)   Each year, the Police Chief may cause an investigation to be made
regarding each existing on-premises licensed establishment. The investigation
may include, but shall not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   An inspection of the premises to determine whether the licensee is
in compliance with all applicable city and state codes;
      (2)   An inspection of the premises to determine whether the licensee is
in compliance with the license itself, its approved site plan and plan of
operation, as well as any conditions imposed by the city or the state’s Liquor
Control Commission or representations made by the licensee at the time of
issuance or transfer of the license;
      (3)   An inspection to determine the general condition of the premises,
both interior and exterior;
      (4)   An inspection of city records to determine whether all taxes and
other moneys due the city are timely paid;
      (5)   An inspection of police files or other sources of information to
determine total calls for service and whether any activity in connection with
the licensed premises is in violation of the law, disturbs the public peace and
tranquility, constitutes a nuisance or contributes to the disruption of the
normal activities of those in the neighborhood of the licensed premises; and
      (6)   A review of the operation of the licensed establishment to
determine whether the business is being operated in compliance with any and all
representations made by the licensee to the city.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 4-7 REVOCATION AND NON-RENEWAL.
   (A)   Authority to make request. Each establishment within the city for
which a liquor license is granted shall be operated and maintained in
accordance with all applicable laws and regulations. Upon any violation of this
article, including the criteria in §
4-8 of this chapter, the City Council may, after notice and hearing, request
that the state’s Liquor Control Commission revoke a liquor license.
   (B)   Notice. Before filing an objection to renewal or request for
revocation of a license with the state’s Liquor Control Commission, the city
shall serve the licensee by certified mail, mailed not less than ten days prior
to the hearing, which notice shall contain the following:
      (1)   Notice of the proposed action;
      (2)   Reasons for the proposed action;
      (3)   Date, time and place of the hearing; and
      (4)   A statement that the licensee may present evidence and testimony
and confront adverse witnesses.
   (C)   Written statement. Upon completion of the hearing, the City Council
shall submit to the licensee and the state’s Liquor Control Commission a
written statement of its findings and determination.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 4-8 CRITERIA FOR NON-RENEWAL, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   The City Council may recommend non-renewal, suspension or revocation of a
license or permit to the state’s Liquor Control Commission upon a determination
based upon a preponderance of the evidence presented at the hearing that any of
the following exists:
   (A)   Existence of any of the grounds for denial set forth in §
4-5 of this chapter;
   (B)   Fraudulent information provided on the original application or the
application for renewal;
   (C)   The consumption of spirits, if licensed to sell only beer or wine, or
both beer and wine;
   (D)   Any disorderly conduct or action which disturbs the peace and good
order of the neighborhood;
   (E)   Any incidents of prostitution, solicitation for prostitution or
larceny;
   (F)   Any gambling activity or the placing or using of any gambling
apparatus or paraphernalia therein;
   (G)   Any unlawful possession, sale or use of any controlled substance;
   (H)   Any violation of any other provision of the city code, or any
violation of applicable laws, rules, regulations, order or directives of any
governmental entity or agency;
   (I)   Any violation of the state’s Liquor Control Act or any rule or
regulation promulgated by the state’s Liquor Control Commission;
   (J)   Non-payment of any federal, state or local tax or special assessment;
   (K)   Non-payment of bills outstanding and owing to the city;
   (L)   Any failure by the licensee, or the licensee’s agents or employees, to
fully cooperate with any federal, state, county or city official; or
   (M)   Any failure by the licensee, or the licensee’s agents or employees, to
fully cooperate with the Sheriff, or any Deputy Sheriff, police officer or
state police.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 4-9 TERMINATION OF ESCROWED LICENSES.
   The City Council may, by resolution, request that the state’s Liquor Control
Commission terminate an on- premises license that has been placed in escrow for
more than one year after its expiration.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 4-10 FEES.
   Each applicant for a new license or permit, for transfer of an existing
license or permit, for expansion of an existing establishment, and for renewal
of an existing license or permit shall pay a non-refundable application
investigation fee in an amount set by resolution of the City Council.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
CHAPTER 5: AMUSEMENTS AND ENTERTAINMENTS
Section
   
5-1   Purpose and intent
   
5-2   “Special event” defined
   
5-3   Permit required
   
5-4   Application
   
5-5   Approval of application
   
5-6   Fee
   
5-7   Bond, surety, and indemnification
   
5-8   Term; transfer; renewal
   
5-9   Revocation
§ 5-1 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose of this article is to facilitate and coordinate the review and
approval of special events within the city, thereby allowing the city to work
with organizers of proposed events to reduce adverse impacts such as noise,
traffic and parking problems, while guaranteeing the public’s rights to free
speech and assembly.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 5-2 “SPECIAL EVENT” DEFINED.
   (A)   For purposes of this article, SPECIAL EVENT means:
      (1)   A preplanned, single gathering or event or series of related,
consecutive daily gatherings or events of an entertainment, cultural,
recreational, political or sporting nature, to be held in whole or in part on
city property; or
      (2)   A preplanned, single gathering or event or series of related,
consecutive daily gatherings or events of an entertainment, cultural,
recreational, political or sporting nature to be held wholly on non-city
property, where:
         (a)   The event is expected to draw 500 or more people as
participants, attendees or spectators; or
         (b)   The person promoting or sponsoring the event requests or
requires one or more city services, including public safety equipment, event
sanitation, law enforcement presence or traffic management.
   (B)   Special events may include festivals, fundraisers, parades, runs,
walks, relays, marathons and other similar events.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 5-3 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Except as provided in subsection (B) below, any person desiring to
hold, sponsor or promote a special event shall apply for and obtain a special
event permit from the City Manager.
   (B)   Special event permits are not required for the following:
      (1)   An event put on, conducted or otherwise under the supervision of
the city or the public schools;
      (2)   An event located entirely on the premises of the County
Fairgrounds;
      (3)   A gathering located in an area in a city that is reservable under
applicable park policies (although such gathering may be subject to other
regulations pursuant to such policies);
      (4)   A sporting event located in a sport-specific facility (i.e.,
baseball and soccer field, basketball court and the like) in a city park
(although such gathering may be subject to other regulations pursuant to city
park policies); and
      (5)   A weekly service or other event held entirely indoors at a church
or other similar institution.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 5-4 APPLICATION.
   Applicants for a permit under this article must file with the City Clerk an
application in writing on a form furnished by the City Clerk, which shall, at a
minimum, include the following information, and shall be accompanied by payment
of the applicable fee:
   (A)   The name and permanent address of the applicant, as well as the local
address of the applicant, and phone numbers at which the applicant can be
contacted during regular business hours;
   (B)   If the applicant is an agent, employee or officer of another person
for whom the application is made, the applicant shall give the same information
for the principal as in subsection (A) above, and the principal shall also
designate a registered agent within the state upon whom process and all notices
may be served, with the name, address and telephone number thereof, indicating
the relation between applicant and principal;
   (C)   The same information shall be provided for all the sponsor(s),
promoter(s), manager(s) and performer(s) of the special events;
   (D)   The place where the special event is to be held;
   (E)   The number of persons who will participate in, be spectators for or
otherwise attend the special event, including the peak numbers anticipated to
be at the special event at any one time;
   (F)   The number, location and layout of the available parking (exclusive of
public parking) to service the special event;
   (G)   The date of the proposed special event and a brief description of the
event;
   (H)   Any proposed precautions to be taken, police protection or fire
protection to be furnished or needed. This must be a detailed appraisal of all
needs to minimize the impact of the special event upon the city;
   (I)   The public purpose, if any, to be advanced by or as a result of the
special event;
   (J)   An agreement to pay any costs incurred by the city as a result of the
special event unless such cost recovery (or portion thereof) is waived in
writing by the City Manager; and
   (K)   Such other information as may, from time to time, reasonably be
requested by action of the city.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 5-5 APPROVAL OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   The City Manager shall issue a special event permit as provided for in
this article when, from a consideration of the special event permit application
and such other information as may otherwise be obtained, the City Manager finds
that:
      (1)   The application allows for ample opportunity to properly plan and
prepare for the special event;
      (2)   Police, fire, other city services or the city’s residents will not
be unduly burdened or adversely affected by the conduct of the special event;
      (3)   The conduct of the special event is not reasonably likely to cause
injury to persons or property, to provoke disorderly conduct or to create a
disturbance;
      (4)   The conduct of the special event will meet the requirements of the
city for the safe and orderly movement of other pedestrian or vehicular traffic
contiguous to its route or location;
      (5)   The conduct of the special event will not require the diversion of
so great a number of city police officers to properly police the line of
movement and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police
protection of the city;
      (6)   The concentration of persons, animals or vehicles at the special
event will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection of, or
ambulance service to, areas contiguous to such special event areas;
      (7)   Adequate sanitation and other required health facilities are or
will be made available in or adjacent to any public assembly areas;
      (8)   The organizer has secured police, fire and medical protection based
on the standards in this article and as required by the city;
      (9)   No event is scheduled elsewhere in the city where the police, fire
or medical resources required for that event are so great that the deployment
of public safety services for the proposed event would have an immediate and
adverse effect upon the welfare and safety of persons and property; and
      (10)   The City Manager is aware of no other information that would
prevent it from making a fair determination that a permit should be issued.
   (B)   The City Manager may impose conditions on the issuance of a special
event permit when needed to protect the public health, safety or welfare.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 5-6 FEE.
   (A)   The fee for a permit under this article shall be set from time to time
by resolution of the City Council.
   (B)   However, in addition to any such fee, which shall be paid in full
prior to consideration of the application, the applicant shall pay all costs
actually, reasonably incurred by the city as a result of the special event,
including any costs of personnel, equipment, administration, outsourcing or
other costs.
   (C)   The City Manager may waive the fee or collection of costs for a
special event sponsored by a non-profit organization in the city that is judged
to be a community-wide event or which result in the contribution of funds to a
project or use from which the general public will directly benefit.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 5-7 BOND, SURETY AND INDEMNIFICATION.
   (A)   Unless waived by the City Manager, a bond or other surety shall be
required to secure payment of any claim or damage arising out of the special
event to reimburse the city for actual, reasonable expenses incurred in
protecting the health, safety and welfare of the public or persons attending
the special event.
   (B)   Such bond and/or other surety may be in cash and in an amount to
reasonably secure the city, the public and private owners as well as the county
and state, if their help is necessary, from any damage or personal injuries or
liability and any added costs rendered necessary by the special event, or by a
bond with sureties satisfactory to the city, and personal liability and
property damage policies may be required if necessary to protect the aforesaid
persons.
   (C)   As a condition of the issuance of a special event permit, the event
sponsor must agree to defend, indemnify and save harmless the city, its
appointed and elected officers and employees from and against all loss or
expense, including, but not limited to, judgments, settlements, attorney’s fees
and costs by reason of any and all claims and demands upon the city, its
elected officials or employees for damages because of personal or bodily
injury, including death at any time therefrom, sustained by any person or
persons and on account of damage to property or loss therefrom, arising out of
any activity under or in connection with the special event, except only such
injury as shall have been occasioned by the sole negligence of the city, its
appointed or elected officers or employees.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 5-8 TERM; TRANSFER; RENEWAL.
   The permit under this article shall set out the length of time it is valid
and shall not be assignable or renewable.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 5-9 REVOCATION.
   (A)   Permits issued under the provisions of this article may be revoked by
the City Manager after notice and hearing before the City Manager for any of
the following causes:
      (1)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement in the application for
the permit or during any meeting to consider issuance of the permit;
      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in the course of
carrying out the special event;
      (3)   Any violation of this article or any condition of any permit issued
pursuant to this article;
      (4)   Conviction of any crime or misdemeanor involving moral turpitude;
      (5)   Conducting the special event in an unlawful manner or in such
manner as to constitute a breach of peace, or to constitute a menace to the
health, safety or general welfare of the public; or
      (6)   The permittee has failed to comply with any of the terms or
conditions of this article, the special event permit, or any other city
ordinance, rule or regulation.
   (B)   Notice of the hearing for revocation of a permit shall be given in
writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of complaint and the time and
place of hearing. Such notice shall be mailed, postage prepaid, to the
permittee at his or her last known address at least five days prior to the date
set for hearing, unless the City Manager determines an emergency requiring a
shorter period.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
CHAPTER 6: ANIMALS
Section
Article I. General Regulations
   
6-1   Definitions
   
6-2   Keeping of animals on one’s property
   
6-3   License and inoculation tags required
   
6-4   Animals outside of property of owner
   
6-5   Noises prohibited
   
6-6   Destruction or damage of property or trespass
   
6-7   Animal cruelty prohibited
   
6-8   Animals in unattended motor vehicles
   
6-9 — 6-10   Reserved
Article II. Dangerous Animals
   
6-11   Ownership of dangerous and diseased animals prohibited
   
6-12   Duty to report dangerous and rabid animals
   
6-13   Impoundment
   
6-14 — 6-20   Reserved
Article III. Keeping of Chickens
   
6-21   Keeping of chickens
   
6-22   Permit application for keeping chickens
   
6-23   Issuance of permit
   
6-24   Grounds for revocation of permit
ARTICLE I. GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 6-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   ANIMALS. Dogs, cats and any other animals.
   HARBOR or KEEP. The practice of a person to permit or allow an animal to
remain or to be lodged or fed at a property, dwelling, building, enclosure or
premises owned or occupied by such person.
   NOISES. In the case of dogs, barking, howling, yelping, whining or growling.
NOISES in the animals other than dogs means such NOISES as are made by such
other animals.
   OWNER. Every person having a right of property in an animal and shall
include a person who harbors or keeps an animal or has an animal in his or her
custody.
   REASONABLE CONTROL OF AN ANIMAL. With respect to dogs and cats, restraining
the animal on a suitable leash in all places other than the property of the
owner or the property of another person who has specifically granted permission
for the animal to remain unleashed. Dogs and cats need not be leashed when on
private property with the permission of the property owner so long as they are
under the oral control of a responsible individual. With respect to any animal
other than a dog or cat, REASONABLE CONTROL shall mean confining such animal to
a dwelling, building, cage, motor vehicle or shipping receptacle.
(Ord. 508, passed 3-27-2023)
§ 6-2 KEEPING OF ANIMALS ON ONE’S PROPERTY.
   (A)   Domestic animals may be kept on the owner’s residential premises so
long as:
      (1)   The animal is being kept for a non-commercial purpose;
      (2)   The animal is a domestic animal of a type customarily kept for
personal pleasure, such as a dog, cat, small bird, small mammal or small
reptile;
      (3)   Any animal other than a dog or a cat is kept indoors; and
      (4)   No more than a total of three domestic animals, over two months of
age, are kept on any single residential premises within the city.
   (B)   Chickens may be kept on the owner’s residential premises in compliance
with the regulations set forth in Article III of this chapter.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to keep animals in the city, except as provided
in subsections (A) and (B) above.
(Ord. 508, passed 3-27-2023)
§ 6-3 LICENSE AND INOCULATION TAGS REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own any dog over the age of six
months within the city that does not at all times wear a collar with a license
tag attached thereto as provided for by state law, and with a required rabies
inoculation tag.
(Ord. 508, passed 3-27-2023)
§ 6-4 ANIMALS OUTSIDE OF PROPERTY OF OWNER.
   (A)   No person owning or having possession, charge, custody or control of
any animal shall:
      (1)   Allow such animal outside the boundaries of the property of the
owner or person having possession, charge, custody or control of that animal
unless the animal is under reasonable control, as that term is defined in § 6-
1 of this chapter;
      (2)   Bring or allow such animal to be in any area, whether publicly or
privately owned, where its presence is prohibited by posted signage; and
      (3)   Allow the animal’s feces to remain on the property of another. The
person having possession, charge, custody or control of the animal shall
promptly remove and sanitarily dispose of any feces deposited by the animal on
any such property, whether public or private.
   (B)   The prohibitions in subsections (A)(2) and (A)(3) above do not apply
when the animal is a fully trained service dog that is assisting a person.
(Ord. 508, passed 3-27-2023)
§ 6-5 NOISES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall own, harbor or keep, or have custody of an animal
which, by making loud and frequent or habitual noises, shall disturb the peace
and quiet or interfere with the sleep or repose of persons owning or occupying
other properties in the neighborhood; or which shall cause unreasonable
interference or annoyance to persons lawfully traversing upon the streets and
sidewalks.
   (B)   An animal may otherwise be under reasonable control shall not
constitute a defense to prosecution under this section.
(Ord. 508, passed 3-27-2023)
§ 6-6 DESTRUCTION OR DAMAGE OF PROPERTY OR TRESPASS.
   It shall be unlawful for a person who owns, harbors or keeps, or who is the
custodian of an animal to permit or allow such animal to destroy or damage, or
to trespass upon, the property of another person.
(Ord. 508, passed 3-27-2023)
§ 6-7 ANIMAL CRUELTY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a person who owns, harbors or keeps, or who
has custody of an animal to treat such animal, or to permit or allow such
animal to be treated, in a cruel or inhumane manner; deliberately or
negligently to cause, or to permit or allow to be caused, an animal to suffer
unnecessary pain; to cause, or permit or allow to be caused, an animal to go
without food, water or adequate shelter; or to deprive an animal of such care
and attention as may be reasonably necessary to preserve its life or health.
   (B)   No person shall maliciously taunt, provoke or harass an animal; nor
shall a person maliciously cause an animal to suffer pain or injury; nor shall
a person maliciously or cruelly kill an animal.
   (C)   (1)   A violation of this section shall be a criminal misdemeanor
punishable by a fine not exceeding $100, imprisonment not exceeding 30 days or
by both a fine and imprisonment.
      (2)   If the animal suffered great bodily injury or death, a violation of
this section shall be a criminal misdemeanor punishable by a fine not exceeding
$500, imprisonment not exceeding 90 days, or by both a fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. 508, passed 3-27-2023)
§ 6-8 ANIMALS IN UNATTENDED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall confine an animal in any unattended motor vehicle, or
leave an animal confined in any unattended motor vehicle, under conditions that
endanger the health or well-being of the animal due to heat, cold, lack of
adequate ventilation, or lack of food or water, or any other circumstances that
could reasonably be expected to cause suffering, disability or death to the
animal.
   (B)   A peace officer, animal control officer or first responder is
authorized to remove an animal from a motor vehicle if the animal’s safety
appears to be in immediate danger from heat, cold, lack of adequate
ventilation, lack of food or water or other circumstances that could reasonably
be expected to cause suffering, disability or death to the animal.
   (C)   A peace officer, animal control officer or first responder who removes
an animal from a motor vehicle shall take it to an animal shelter or other
place of safekeeping or, if the officer deems necessary, to a veterinary
hospital for treatment.
   (D)   A peace officer, animal control officer or first responder is
authorized to take all steps that are reasonably necessary for the removal of
an animal from a motor vehicle pursuant to this section, including, but not
limited to, breaking into the motor vehicle, after a reasonable effort to
locate the owner or other person responsible for the motor vehicle.
   (E)   A peace officer, animal control officer or first responder who removes
an animal from a motor vehicle shall, in a secure and conspicuous location on
or within the motor vehicle, leave written notice bearing his or her name and
office and the address of the location where the animal can be claimed. The
animal may be claimed by the owner only after payment of all charges that have
accrued for the maintenance, care, medical treatment or impoundment of the
animal.
   (F)   Nothing in this article shall be deemed to prohibit the transportation
of horses, cattle, pigs, sheep, poultry or other agricultural animals in motor
vehicles designed to transport such animals for agricultural purposes.
   (G)   A violation of subsection (A) above shall be a criminal misdemeanor,
subject to the following penalties.
      (1)   If the animal did not suffer great bodily injury or death, a
violation of this section is punishable by a fine not exceeding $100,
imprisonment not exceeding 30 days, or by both a fine and imprisonment.
      (2)   If the animal suffered great bodily injury or death, a violation of
this section is punishable by a fine not exceeding $500, imprisonment not
exceeding 90 days, or by both a fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. 508, passed 3-27-2023)
§§ 6-9 — 6-10 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II. DANGEROUS ANIMALS
§ 6-11 OWNERSHIP OF DANGEROUS AND DISEASED ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner to keep, harbor or have charge of any
animal when any one or more of the following conditions exist:
   (A)   The animal has a dangerous or ferocious disposition, shows vicious
habits or has without justification molested any person lawfully in or upon any
public street or place;
   (B)   The animal has without justification attacked or bitten any person or
animal, or has destroyed any property or any animal not posing a threat to the
offending animal; or
   (C)   The animal appears to be suffering from rabies, mange or other
infectious or dangerous disease. However, an owner shall not be deemed to be in
violation of this subsection (C) if the animal is under the care of a licensed
veterinarian for the condition and is properly quarantined.
(Ord. 508, passed 3-27-2023)
§ 6-12 DUTY TO REPORT DANGEROUS AND RABID ANIMALS,
   (A)   It shall be the duty of any person owning an animal which has been
attacked or bitten by another dog or animal showing symptoms of rabies to
immediately notify a police officer or animal control officer.
   (B)   It shall also be the duty of any person having knowledge of a vicious
or dangerous animal to report such animal to a police officer or animal control
officer.
(Ord. 508, passed 3-27-2023)
§ 6-13 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Police officers or other persons designated by the Chief of Police or
City Manager are authorized to impound:
      (1)   Animals that are at large;
      (2)   Animals that have bitten or threatened other humans or animals;
      (3)   Animals that appear to be suffering from rabies, mange or other
infectious or dangerous disease; or
      (4)   Animals that appear to be in severe physical distress.
   (B)   Any animal impounded shall be released to the owner only if the
following conditions are satisfied:
      (1)   The owner has paid the applicable impounding fee;
      (2)   The owner has paid the cost of boarding the animal, if the animal
was impounded for more than 24 hours; and
      (3)   The owner has presented proof of all required immunizations and
licenses.
(Ord. 508, passed 3-27-2023)
§§ 6-14 — 6-20 RESERVED.
ARTICLE III. KEEPING OF CHICKENS
§ 6-21 KEEPING OF CHICKENS.
   A person may keep chickens, other than roosters, at his or her residential
property in accordance with a permit issued by the city and subject to the
following terms and conditions.
   (A)   A maximum of four chickens may be kept per parcel if the parcel is
one-half acre in size or less, live chickens if the parcel is one-half to one
acre in size: and six chickens if the parcel is over one acre in size.
   (B)   The keeping of roosters is prohibited.
   (C)   The outdoor slaughtering of chickens is prohibited.
   (D)   Chickens shall be provided with a covered enclosure and must be kept
in the covered enclosure or an adjoining fenced enclosure at all times.
Chickens may be allowed to roam outside of the covered or fenced enclosure if
within a fully fenced side and/or rear yard and if supervised by a person in
the immediate vicinity of the chickens.
   (E)   All covered enclosures or fenced enclosures shall be located in the
rear yard, shall be no closer than five feet to any property line of an
adjacent property and shall be located no closer than 25 feet to any
residential structure on an adjacent property.
   (F)   The total square footage of any covered enclosure and fenced enclosure
shall not exceed 80 square feet and shall be a maximum of eight feet in height.
   (G)   All covered enclosures shall be constructed in such a way as to
prevent rats, mice or other rodents from being harbored underneath or within
the walls of the enclosure. The enclosure shall be constructed in a workmanlike
manner. The coop and pen must be completely enclosed with a top and/or cover.
   (H)   All feed and other items associated with the keeping of chickens
likely to attract rats, mice or other rodents or vermin shall be secured and
protected in sealed containers.
   (I)   Egg-laying chickens shall be kept in compliance with the state’s
Department of Agriculture “Generally Accepted Agricultural and Management
Practices for the Care of Farm Animals”, as amended, except as otherwise
provided in this section.
   (J)   Eggs or meat produced from chickens kept under this chapter may be
consumed by the property owner or sold to others, so long as any such sales
occur off-premises (e.g., via delivery or as part of a farmers market). This
section does not authorize the operation of farm stands on residential
property.
(Ord. 508, passed 3-27-2023)
§ 6-22 PERMIT APPLICATION FOR KEEPING CHICKENS.
   (A)   Any person desiring to keep chickens at his or her residence shall
make application in writing to the City Clerk, describing particularly the
following:
      (1)   The place where the applicant proposes to keep the chickens;
      (2)   The number of chickens proposed;
      (3)   The distance from such place of keeping to the public streets and
the boundary lines of such applicant’s premises;
      (4)   The distance from the closest residential structure on adjacent
properties; and
      (5)   A description and/or depiction of the outdoor enclosure in which
the animal will be kept.
   (B)   Applications shall be accompanied by a fee in an amount set by
resolution of the City Council.
(Ord. 508, passed 3-27-2023)
§ 6-23 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The City Clerk shall approve the application if the application is complete
and the requirements set forth in this chapter are satisfied. Upon approving
the application, the City Clerk shall issue a permit setting forth the place
where the chickens may be kept, the number thereof and any other conditions
needed to protect the public health, safety and welfare. It shall be unlawful
for any person to violate the terms and conditions of the permit. An initial
permit shall be valid for three years from the date of issuance. A renewal
permit shall be valid for two years from the date of issuance.
(Ord. 508, passed 3-27-2023)
§ 6-24 GROUNDS FOR REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The City Clerk may revoke any permit issued under this article due to
failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the permit.
(Ord. 508, passed 3-27-2023)
CHAPTER 7: BUILDINGS AND PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
Section
Article I. Construction Code
   
7-1      Administration and enforcement of Michigan Construction Code
   
7-1 — 7-4   Reserved
Article II. Rental Registration
   
7-5      Registration of the operation of rental units, rental dwellings,
multiple dwellings and rooming houses
   
7-6 — 7-10   Reserved
Article III. Property Maintenance
Division 1. Blight
   
7-11      Short title
   
7-12      Definitions
   
7-13      Blighted structures or buildings prohibited
   
7-14      Blighted exterior and maintenance requirement of property
   
7-15      Enforcement and penalties
   
7-16      Appeal of notification of violation
   
7-17      Interpretation
   
7-18 — 7-20   Reserved
Division 2. Dangerous Buildings
   
7-21      Dangerous building and structures ordinance
   
7-22      Dangerous building unlawful
   
7-23      “Dangerous building” defined
   
7-24      Notice of dangerous building
   
7-25      Hearings and other proceedings
   
7-26      Enforcement of judgment against other assets
   
7-27      Penalties
   
7-28      Appeal of circuit court
   
7-29 — 7-30   Reserved
Division 3. International Property Maintenance Code
   
7-31      Enforcement of the International Property Maintenance Code, 2015
Edition
   
7-32 — 7-50   Reserved
Division 4. Grass and Noxious Weeds
   
7-51      Definitions
   
7-52      Duty to remove noxious weeds and maintain grass
   
7-53      Enforcement and abatement
   
7-54 — 7-60   Reserved
Division 4. Freestanding Outdoor Furnaces
   
7-61      Purpose
   
7-62      Definition
   
7-63      Existing outdoor furnaces
   
7-64      Installation and operation prohibited
ARTICLE I. CONSTRUCTION CODE
§ 7-1 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT OF MICHIGAN CONSTRUCTION CODE.
   The city has assumed responsibility for the administration and enforcement
of the Michigan Construction Code, including the building, electrical, plumbing
and mechanical codes, throughout its corporate limits. The city’s Building
Official is principally charged with the administration and enforcement of the
codes. Any fees provided for in the codes shall be as prescribed by resolution
of the City Council.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§§ 7-2 — 7-4 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II. RENTAL REGISTRATION
§ 7-5 REGISTRATION OF THE OPERATION OF RENTAL UNITS, RENTAL DWELLINGS, MULTIPLE
DWELLINGS AND ROOMING HOUSES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly requires a different
meaning.
      BUILDING OFFICIAL. The city’s Building Official and his or her designees.
      DWELLING. Any building which is wholly or partly used or intended to be
used for living or sleeping by human occupants; provided that, temporary
housing shall not be regarded as a DWELLING.
      DWELLING UNIT. One room or suite of two or more rooms providing complete
independent living facilities for one or more persons, including permanent
provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation.
      RENTAL UNIT. Any dwelling or dwelling unit, multiple dwelling or rooming
house occupied by a person or persons who is/are not the owner(s) of the
property in which the dwelling or dwelling unit is located.
   (B)   Registration required. No person shall operate a rental unit unless he
holds a current registration issued by the Building Official in his or her name
for the specifically named dwelling, multiple dwelling or rooming houses.
   (C)   Required inspection. No rental unit may be registered or re-registered
unless it is first inspected by the Building Official or designee. If the
rental unit does not comply with all applicable federal, state and local
requirements, including the city’s blight ordinance and other applicable
property maintenance regulations, the Building Official or designee may refuse
to register or re-register the rental unit, or may register or re-register the
rental unit subject to certain specified conditions which shall be met in order
for the registration or re-registration to remain valid.
   (D)   Registration validity.
      (1)   Except as set forth in subsection (L) below, every registration
(including registration renewals) shall be issued for a period of three years
unless:
         (a)   Such registration is revoked sooner pursuant to this section; or
         (b)   The City Council provides, by resolution, for a longer period of
validity.
      (2)   Registrations shall be issued for those units and dwellings which
conform to all federal, state and local requirements, including the city’s
blight ordinance and other applicable property maintenance regulations.
   (E)   Building Official. The Building Official is hereby authorized, upon
application therefor, to issue new operating registrations, and renewals
thereof, in the names of applicant owners or operators of rental dwellings,
multiple dwellings and rooming houses. No such registrations shall be issued
unless such premises for which the registration is sought, is found, after
inspection, to meet all requirements of this article and applicable rules and
regulations pursuant thereto.
   (F)   Application. No registration shall be issued or renewed unless the
applicant owner or operator has first made application therefor on an
application form provided by the Building Official. The Building Official shall
develop such forms and make them available to the public.
   (G)   Consent to inspections. No registration shall be issued or renewed
unless the applicant owner or operator agrees in his or her application to such
inspections as the Building Official may require to determine whether the
premises is in compliance with the provisions of this article and with
applicable rules and regulations pursuant thereto.
   (H)   Registration and inspection fee. No registration shall be issued or
renewed unless the completed application form is accompanied by the payment of
a registration and inspection fee as prescribed in the officially adopted
resolutions of this city.
   (I)   Required information. No registration shall be provided or renewed
unless the owner annually provides the Building Official with the current
occupant name, indicating dwelling unit address, phone number, as well as the
owner’s name, address and telephone number. The owner may designate in writing
to the Building Official the name of an agent for the receipt of services of
notice that there is a violation of the provisions of this article and for
service of process pursuant to this article. Whenever the name, address or
telephone number of the occupant, owner or his or her agent changes such
information shall be provided to the Building Official immediately.
   (J)   Renewals. All applications for a registration renewal must be
submitted to the Building Official, or his or her designee, 30 days prior to
the date on which the registration expires. The City Manager may extend the
deadline for submission of the registration application.
   (K)   Late filing fee. For any rental dwelling for which a timely
application has not been filed, a late filing fee per unit shall be charged. No
registration shall be issued until all filing fees have been paid. Prior to
charging a late fee, the last known owner of record shall be notified in
writing at his or her last known address of the need for a registration
application, and given 48 hours to provide the city with the information
necessary for registration.
   (L)   Conducting of inspection. Following the receipt of an application for
registration, or renewal thereof, accompanied by the filing fee, if applicable,
the Building Official or his or her authorized agent shall make an initial
interior and exterior inspection. Upon initial inspection, if the Building
Official finds that the dwelling in question meets all requirements of this
article and all other applicable ordinances of the city and there are no
outstanding violation notices concerning the dwelling, the Building Official
shall direct that the registration or registration renewal be issued for the
applicable period of validity. If the Building Inspector, upon initial
inspection, finds that the interior or exterior of the unit in question does
not meet all the requirements of this article and all other applicable
ordinances of the city, the owner, agent or landlord of the rental dwelling
shall be notified in writing of the nature of the violations and the date by
which the violations must be corrected. Upon finding that each unit and the
interior and exterior of the dwelling meets all the requirements of this
article and all other applicable ordinances of the city, the Building Official
shall issue a registration for each dwelling.
   (M)   Transfer. If ownership of the dwelling is transferred during the time
that the registration is valid, the registration shall transfer to the new
owner upon receipt by the Building Official of the name, address and telephone
number of the new owner. A registration that has been transferred shall expire
or be renewed at the same time as if it had not been transferred.
   (N)   Period for registration of rental units. Rental units required to be
registered pursuant to this article shall comply with the following
requirements, to the extent applicable.
      (1)   Each newly constructed or newly converted rental unit shall be
registered within 30 days after the city issues a certificate of occupancy or
an occupancy permit.
      (2)   Each rental unit which is sold, transferred or otherwise conveyed
in whole or in part shall be re-registered within 30 days after the date of the
deed, land contract or other instrument of conveyance.
      (3)   Each newly converted rental unit which is so converted without the
issuance of a certificate of occupancy or an occupancy permit shall be
registered within 30 days after the date the rental unit is first occupied for
rental purposes.
      (4)   Each rental unit shall be scheduled for inspection and re-
registered within 30 days after the expiration of its then-current
registration.
   (O)   Supplemental inspection. In addition to the inspection required in
subsection (D) above when a rental unit is registered or re-registered, the
Building Official or designee may also inspect a rental unit upon the
occurrence of any of the following events:
      (1)   Upon receipt of a complaint from an owner or an occupant of the
rental unit that it is in violation of this article;
      (2)   Upon receipt of a complaint from any law enforcement department or
other public agency or any other individual having personal knowledge that the
rental unit is in violation of this article;
      (3)   Upon the Building Official or designee’s reviewing the exterior of
the rental unit and determining that there is probable cause to believe that
the rental unit is in violation of this article;
      (4)   Upon receipt of information that the rental unit is not currently
registered as required by this article;
      (5)   Upon being directed by resolution of the City Council to initiate a
city-wide rental unit inspection program; and
      (6)   Upon receipt of a request from an owner of a rental unit for an
advisory inspection.
   (P)   Investigation in response to complaint. Whenever a complaint is filed
with the Building Official alleging that there is a violation of this article
or related provisions of this article, the Building Official or his or her
designee shall investigate the complaint. Such investigation shall include, if
necessary, inspection of the interior of the dwelling. Prior to inspection of
the interior of a dwelling, the Building Official shall notify the owner, agent
or landlord, and also the tenant, of the time and date of the inspection at
least 48 hours prior to said inspection. The Building Official does not need to
give prior notice for inspections of the exterior, and the Building Official
shall have the right to conduct unannounced exterior inspections during
daylight hours of any day, except for Saturday and Sunday. All complaints
requesting an interior inspection of a rental dwelling must be dated and signed
by the owner or occupant specify the nature of the alleged violation and the
means by which the complainant acquired direct, first-hand knowledge of the
alleged violation.
   (Q)   Scheduling of inspection. Prior to occupancy by tenants, all rental
units must have interior and exterior inspections completed by the Building
Official or his or her authorized agent, and must be issued a registration.
Such inspection shall be scheduled within ten working days following
notification by the owner to the Building Official that the building is ready
for inspection.
   (R)   Appeals. An aggrieved property owner, agent, landlord or city resident
may appeal any order, requirement, determination or decision of the Building
Official pertaining to the registration of rental dwellings. A fee shall be
paid for each appeal to the Construction Board of Appeals.
   (S)   Notices of violation. Whenever, upon inspection of the registered
premises, or of the records required to be kept hereunder, the Building
Official finds that conditions or practices exist which are in violation of the
provisions of this article or of any applicable rules and regulations pursuant
thereto, he or she shall serve the owner or operator with notice of the
violation in the manner provided by:
      (1)   Mailing the notice to the owner or operator by first-class mail; or
      (2)   Personally delivering the notice to the owner or operator.
   (T)   Re-inspections. At the end of the time, he or she has allowed for
correction of any violation cited, the Building Official or designee shall re-
inspect the premises, and if he or she determines that such conditions have not
been corrected, he or she may issue an order suspending the registration.
   (U)   Orders of suspension; reconsideration. Any person whose license to
operate a rental dwelling, multiple dwelling or rooming house, has been
suspended, shall be entitled to a reconsideration of the order or a formal
hearing, in the manner provided by this subsection (U). If no request for
reconsideration or petition for hearing reaches the Building Official within 21
days following the issuance of the order of suspension, the registration shall
be revoked; except that, prior to revocation any person whose registration has
been suspended may request re-inspection upon a showing that the violation or
violations cited in the notice have been corrected.
   (V)   Reissuance following successful reinspection. If, upon re-inspection,
the Building Official finds that the premises in connection with which the
notice was issued is now in compliance with this subsection (V) and with
applicable rules and regulations issued pursuant thereto, he or she shall
reinstate the registration. A request for re-inspection shall not extend the
suspension period, unless the Building Official grants the request.
   (W)   Establishing registration and inspection fees. The City Council shall
establish by resolution any fee or fees to be charged for the registration and/
or inspection of each rental unit. Any such fee may be collected by the
Building Official or designee.
   (X)   Payment of registration fees. Any registration fee shall be paid by
the owner(s) of each rental unit to the city’s Building Official. In the event
a rental unit has more than one owner, each owner shall be jointly and
severally liable for the registration fee. A late payment charge may be
established by the City Council if the registration fee is not paid within 30
days after its billing date.
   (Y)   Payment of inspection fees.
      (1)   All inspection fees under this article shall be the responsibility
of the owner(s) of each rental unit, except as follows.
         (a)   If the inspection is based upon a complaint filed by an owner of
the rental unit, and the inspection reveals to the Building Official that a
violation was caused by the occupant(s)/tenants of the rental unit, the
occupant/tenant shall be responsible for payment of the inspection fee (if the
Building Official cannot definitely determine that the violation was caused by
the occupant(s) of the rental unit, then the owner(s) shall be liable for the
inspection fee).
         (b)   If the inspection is based upon a complaint made by the person
other than the owner, and the inspection reveals to the Building Official no
violation of this article, the complainant(s) shall be responsible for the
payment of the inspection fee.
         (c)   The inspection is part of a city-wide rental unit inspection
program initiated by the City Council; in which case, the city shall be
responsible for the inspection fee.
      (2)   In the event a rental unit has more than one owner and the owners
are liable for the inspection fee, or in the event a rental unit has more than
one occupant and the occupants are liable for the inspection fee, or in the
event more than one complainant files a complaint and the complainants are
liable for the inspection fee, each owner or each occupant or each complainant
(as the case may be) shall be jointly and severally liable for the inspection
fee. A late payment charge may be established by the City Council if the
inspection fee is not paid within 30 days after the billing date.
   (Z)   Lack of valid registration. No owner shall lease, rent or otherwise
allow a rental unit to be occupied unless the rental unit is properly and
currently registered as required by this article.
   (AA)   Order to vacate. No person shall occupy a rental unit if the Building
Official or designee orders that it be vacated due to one or more violations of
this article.
   (BB)   Termination of registration.
      (1)   If the owner(s) of a rental unit fail to comply (or to force the
occupant(s) of such rental unit to comply) with a notice received from the
Building Official, or if the owner(s) or occupant(s) (as the case may be) of a
rental unit fail to pay within 30 days a billed and outstanding registration
fee and/or inspection fee assessed pursuant to this article, the Building
Official may suspend registration for such rental unit. In such event, the
Building Official may post the rental unit and request the city’s legal counsel
to proceed at law to order the premises in violation to be vacated.
      (2)   Also, in the event the Building Official suspends the registration
for a rental unit, the Building Official shall notify the occupant(s) thereof
that the occupant(s) may pay rent into a self-established escrow account until
vacating the rental unit or until the registration of the rental unit is either
reinstated or renewed. A terminated, but not yet expired, registration shall be
reinstated for a rental unit once the requirements of the Building Official’s
notice are met and all outstanding registration fees and inspection fees and
late payment charges thereon have been paid in full.
   (CC)   Administrative liability. No officer, agent, employee, contractor or
member of the City Council shall be personally liable for any damage that may
accrue to any person as a result of any act, decision or other consequence or
occurrence arising out of the discharge of his or her duties and
responsibilities pursuant to this article.
   (DD)   Savings clause. This article shall not affect any suit or proceeding
pending in any court, or any rights acquired or liability incurred, or any
cause of action acquired or existing, under any portion of the code of
ordinances superseded by this article; neither shall any just or legal right or
remedy be lost, impaired or affected by this article.
   (EE)   Enforcement. The City Council shall designate by resolution the
person whose duty it shall be to administer and enforce the provisions of this
section within the city.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§§ 7-6 — 7-10 RESERVED.
ARTICLE III. PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
DIVISION 1. BLIGHT
§ 7-11 SHORT TITLE.
   This division shall be known and may be designated as “The Blight Ordinance
of the City of Allegan”.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 7-12 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this division, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   BLIGHTED STRUCTURE OR BUILDING. Any dwelling, garage, accessory or
outbuilding, or any factory, shop, store, office building, warehouse, fence or
any other structure or part of a structure which:
      (1)   Because of fire, wind, other natural disaster, or physical
deterioration, is no longer habitable as a dwelling or useful for the purpose
for which it was originally intended;
      (2)   Is partially completed and which is not presently being constructed
under an existing, valid building permit issued by or under the authority of
the city;
      (3)   Is not structurally sound, weather-tight, water-proof or vermin-
proof;
      (4)   Is not covered by a water-resistant paint or other water-proof
covering so as to protect said structure from the adverse effects of the
elements or from physical deterioration;
      (5)   Causes or tends to cause devaluation of the subject property or
other properties in the area; or
      (6)   Has any of the following conditions:
         (a)   Peeling paint;
         (b)   Sagging and deteriorating roof;
         (c)   Missing and/or damaged siding;
         (d)   Broken or deteriorating windows or doors;
         (e)   Unfinished exterior;
         (f)   Collapsing porch or deck;
         (g)   Cracked and broken foundation/chimney; and/or
         (h)   Graffiti.
      (7)   Has veneer, cornices, belt courses, corbels, trim, wall facings or
other similar decorative features not properly anchored or that are anchored
with connections not capable of supporting nominal loads and resisting all load
effects.
   BUILDING MATERIAL. Any lumber, bricks, concrete, cinder blocks, plumbing
materials, electrical wiring or equipment, heating ducts or equipment,
shingles, mortar, cement, nails, screws or other materials commonly used in the
construction or repair of any buildings or structures.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. The City Manager, City Building Officials, Community
Development Coordinator and any other individual that has been given
enforcement duties by the City Manager.
   GRAFFITI. Any mark or marks on any surface or structure made without the
prior permission of the property owner and made in any manner, including, but
not limited to, writing, inscribing, drawing, tagging, sketching, spray-
painting, painting, etching, scratching, carving, engraving, scraping or
attaching. Chalk marks on sidewalks are not GRAFFITI.
   INOPERABLE VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle which is inoperative for any reason
such as being in a state of disassembly, disrepair, stripped, dismantled or
which cannot be operated under its own power or cannot function as it was
intended and designed to function legally on the roadway, but shall exclude
vehicles in process at auto sales and dealership service facilities and auto
engine and body repair shops which are to be repaired and made operable within
90 days.
   ISSUANCE OF THE NOTICE. Any of the following events:
      (1)   Mailing the notice to the responsible party’s last known address by
first class mail;
      (2)   Personal delivery of the notice to the responsible party;
      (3)   The responsible party’s receipt of the notice by email, as
indicated in a notification of receipt; or
      (4)   The reading of the notice to the responsible party over the phone.
   JUNK. Any abandoned, discarded, unusable objects or equipment, any object or
equipment unused for its originally intended purpose, including, but not
limited to, furniture, furniture intended for indoor use which is placed
outdoors, stoves, refrigerators, freezers, cans, barrels, farm implements,
parts of motor vehicles, machinery, cloth, rubber, bottles, any metals, boxes,
cartons or crates.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY. A person who violates any of the provisions of this
division, whether as owner, occupant, lessee, agent, operator, servant or
employee, except as herein otherwise provided.
   TRASH and RUBBISH. Any and all forms of debris not herein otherwise
identified, except domestic refuse stored in appropriate containers prior to
periodic collection for proper disposal and domestic refuse stored in
appropriate containers for composting purposes. The terms TRASH, RUBBISH or
REFUSE shall also include any combustible and non-combustible waste material,
including, but not limited to, animal or vegetable waste resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food, leafs, brush, tree
limbs, wood, lumber, grass or other yard waste.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 7-13 BLIGHTED STRUCTURES OR BUILDINGS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain any blighted or
vacant structure, building, dwelling, garage, outbuilding, factory, shop, store
or warehouse in the city.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 7-14 BLIGHTED EXTERIOR AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENT OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to improve and maintain all
property under the person’s control so as to comply with the following minimum
requirements.
   (A)   All exterior property areas shall be properly maintained in a clean
and sanitary condition, free from debris, brush, severed tree limbs, junk,
rubbish, physical hazards, rodent harborage and infestation.
   (B)   All stored firewood shall be in neat, orderly stacks, unless shielded
from the ground level view from all adjoining properties.
   (C)   The storage and accumulation of any building material in a visible
exterior area shall only be for a period that is reasonably necessary for the
future use of such materials, which shall in no event be longer than 90 days.
Building materials must be piled off the ground so as not to become a suitable
environment for rats, rodents or similar vermin.
   (D)   In no case shall usable or unusable machinery, building materials or
other items be stored on a permanent basis in a truck trailer or other type of
trailer, with or without its wheels, unless the trailer is enclosed.
   (E)   Scaffolding may remain on a building only for a period that is
reasonably necessary for the completion of the construction or maintenance
activities for which it is erected, which shall in no event be longer than 90
days or the length of the related building permit, whichever is longer.
   (F)   Conditions or activities that produce disagreeable or obnoxious odors
or stenches or dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas, soot or cinders in unreasonable
qualities are prohibited.
   (G)   Exterior surfaces, including but not limited to, doors, door and
window frames, cornices, porches, trim, balconies, decks and fences, shall be
maintained in good condition. Exterior wood surfaces, other than decay-
resistant woods, shall be protected from the elements and decay by painting or
other protective covering or treatment. Peeling, flaking and chipped paint
shall be eliminated and surfaces repainted. Siding and masonry joints, as well
as those between the building envelope and the perimeter of windows, doors and
skylights, shall be maintained weather-resistant and water-tight. Metal
surfaces subject to rust or corrosion shall be coated to inhibit such rust and
corrosion, and surfaces with rust or corrosion shall be stabilized and coated
to inhibit future rust and corrosion. Oxidation stains shall be removed from
exterior surfaces. Surfaces designed for stabilization by oxidation are exempt
from this requirement.
   (H)   Buildings shall have approved address numbers placed in a position to
be plainly legible and visible from the street or road fronting the property.
These numbers shall contrast with their background. Address numbers shall be
Arabic numerals or alphabet letters. Numbers shall be not less than four inches
(102 mm) in height with a minimum stroke width of one-half inch (12.7 mm).
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 7-15 ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any person that violates this division shall be responsible for a
municipal civil infraction. Each day that a violation continues shall be deemed
to be a separate violation.
   (B)   Before commencing enforcement under this division, the enforcement
officer shall issue notice to the responsible party charged with the violation,
setting forth the violation specifics. The notice shall state the name of the
person that the city considers to be the responsible party, and shall specify
that failure to remedy the violation within no fewer than ten days of the
issuance of the notice may result in the issuance of a municipal civil
infraction citation. The notice shall also state that the recipient has the
right to appeal the notice to the Construction Board of Appeals.
   (C)   If the responsible party fails to abate the blight within the required
time frame, the city may take action to abate the blight and may charge the
cost of such abatement to the responsible party. The City Treasurer shall bill
the cost, plus an administration fee of 25%, to the responsible party. Such
bills shall become due within 30 days of issuance, and it shall be a violation
of this division to fail to pay a bill when due. The city may levy a single-lot
special assessment in accordance with this code of ordinances as a means of
recovering the full cost of abatement.
   (D)   Abating the nuisance is not in lieu of, or an alternative to, pursuing
the civil infraction in district court. Both civil infraction and abatement of
the nuisance may be pursued by the city.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 7-16 APPEAL OF NOTIFICATION OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   A person receiving a notification of violation under §
7-5 of this chapter may appeal to the City Manager or his or her designee by
filing an appeal form with the City Clerk no later than ten days after the
issuance of the notice. The appeal must be submitted on a standard appeal
application form available in on the city’s website or in the office of the
City Clerk. The appeal application must include a thorough description of the
reason for appealing and shall be accompanied by any fee that may be required
by the City Council from time to time.
   (B)   The City Manager or his or her designee shall set a reasonable time
for hearing of the appeal within 30 days from the date on which the application
form is received. The Construction Board of Appeals shall provide the
appellant, by first-class mail, one notice of the public hearing date, time and
location.
   (C)   The City Manager or his or her designee shall hear and decide appeals,
and review on appeal any order, requirement, decision or determination, made by
the enforcement officer in applying the requirements of this division. Upon
such appeal, the City Manager or his or her designee may reverse or affirm the
enforcement officer’s determination in whole or in part.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 7-17 INTERPRETATION.
   Nothing in this division shall be interpreted to prohibit conduct or
conditions expressly permitted under the city’s zoning ordinance.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§§ 7-18 — 7-20 RESERVED.
DIVISION 2. DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
§ 7-21 DANGEROUS BUILDING AND STRUCTURES ORDINANCE.
   This division is specifically authorized by the Housing Law, Public Act 167
of 1917, as amended, and shall be known and cited as the “City of Allegan
Dangerous Buildings Ordinance”.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 7-22 DANGEROUS BUILDING UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner, agent, lessee or party in interest to
keep or maintain any building or part thereof which is a dangerous building or
structure as defined in this division.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 7-23 “DANGEROUS BUILDING” DEFINED.
   As used in this division, the term DANGEROUS BUILDING means any building or
structure, residential or otherwise, which has any of the following defects or
is in any of the following conditions:
   (A)   A door, aisle, passageway, stairway or other means of exit does not
conform to the requirements of the city’s Fire Code;
   (B)   A portion of the building or structure is damaged by fire, wind,
flood, deterioration, neglect, abandonment, vandalism or other cause so that
the structural strength or stability of the building or structure is
significantly impaired and the structure does not meet the minimum requirements
of the Housing Law or the Michigan Building Code for a new building or
structure, purpose or location;
   (C)   A part of the building or structure is likely to fall, become detached
or dislodged or collapse and injure persons or damage property;
   (D)   A portion of the building or structure has settled to an extent that
walls or other structural portions of the building or structure have materially
less resistance to wind than is required in the case of new construction by the
Housing Law or the Michigan Building Code;
   (E)   The building or structure, or a part of the building or structure,
because of dilapidation, deterioration, decay, faulty construction, the removal
or movement of some portion of the ground necessary for the support, or for
other reason, is likely to partially or completely collapse, or some portion of
the foundation or underpinning of the building or structure is likely to fall
or give way;
   (F)   The building, structure or a part of the building or structure is
manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is used;
   (G)   The building or structure is damaged by fire, wind or flood, is
dilapidated or deteriorated and becomes an attractive nuisance to children who
might play in the building or structure to their danger, becomes a harbor for
vagrants, criminals or immoral persons, or enables persons to resort to the
building or structure for committing a nuisance or an unlawful act;
   (H)   A building or structure used or intended to be used for dwelling
purposes, including the adjoining grounds, because of dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction or arrangement, or for other reason, is unsanitary
or unfit for human habitation, is in a condition likely to cause sickness or
disease, or is likely to injure the health, safety or general welfare of people
living in the dwelling; and/or
   (I)   A building or structure is vacant, dilapidated and open at door or
window, leaving the interior of the building exposed to the elements or
accessible to entrance by trespassers.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 7-24 NOTICE OF DANGEROUS BUILDING.
   (A)   The city’s Building Official may issue a notice pursuant to this
section upon finding that a building or structure is a dangerous building. The
notice shall be served on the owner, agent or lessee registered with the city.
If an owner, agent or lessee is not registered with the city, the notice shall
be served on each owner of or party in interest in the building or structure in
whose name the property appears on the last local tax assessment records.
   (B)   The notice shall specify the time and place of a hearing on whether
the building or structure is a dangerous building. The person to whom the
notice is directed shall have the opportunity to show cause at the hearing why
the hearing officer should not order the building or structure to be
demolished, otherwise made safe or properly maintained.
   (C)   The hearing officer shall be appointed by the Mayor to serve at his or
her pleasure. The hearing officer shall be a person who has expertise in
housing matters including, but not limited to, an engineer, architect, building
contractor, building inspector or member of a community housing organization.
An employee of the city shall not be appointed as hearing officer. The city
shall file a copy of the notice that the building or structure is a dangerous
building with the hearing officer.
   (D)   The notice shall be in writing and shall be served upon the person to
whom the notice is directed either personally or by certified mail, return
receipt requested, addressed to the owner or party in interest at the address
shown on the tax records. If a notice is served on a person by certified mail,
a copy of the notice shall also be posted upon a conspicuous part of the
building or structure. The notice shall be served upon the owner or party in
interest at least ten days before the date of the hearing included in the
notice.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 7-25 HEARINGS AND OTHER PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   At the hearing, the hearing officer shall take testimony of the city,
the owner of the property, and any interested party. Not more than five days
after completion of the hearing, the hearing officer shall render a decision
either closing the proceedings or ordering the building or structure
demolished, otherwise made safe or properly maintained.
   (B)   If the hearing officer determines that the building or structure
should be demolished, otherwise made safe or properly maintained, the hearing
officer shall enter an order that specifies what action the owner, agent, or
lessee shall take and sets a date by which the owner, agent or lessee shall
comply with the order. If the building is a dangerous building under the
provisions of this division, the order may require the owner or agent, to bring
and maintain the exterior of the building and adjoining grounds into compliance
including, but not limited to, the maintenance of lawns, trees and shrubs.
   (C)   If the owner, agent or lessee fails to appear or neglects or refuses
to comply with the order issued under subsection (B) above, the hearing officer
shall file a report of the findings and a copy of the order with the city’s
Construction Board of Appeals not more than five days after the date for
compliance set in the order and request that necessary action be taken to
enforce the order. A copy of the findings and order of the hearing officer
shall be served on the owner, agent or lessee in the manner prescribed in § 7-
23 of this chapter.
   (D)   The Construction Board of Appeals shall set a date not less than 30
days after the hearing prescribed in subsection (A) above for an appellate
hearing on the findings and order of the hearing officer. The Construction
Board of Appeals shall give notice to the owner, agent or lessee in the manner
prescribed in § 7-23 of this chapter of the time and place of the hearing. At
the hearing, the owner, agent or lessee shall be given the opportunity to show
cause why the order should not be enforced. The Construction Board of Appeals
shall either approve, disapprove or modify the order. If the Construction Board
of Appeals approves or modifies the order, the city shall take all necessary
action to enforce the order. If the order is approved or modified, the owner,
agent or lessee shall comply with the order within 60 days after the date of
the hearing under this subsection (D). For an order of demolition, if the
Construction Board of Appeals of the city determines that the building or
structure has been substantially destroyed by fire, wind, flood, deterioration,
neglect, abandonment, vandalism or other cause, and the cost of repair of the
building or structure will be greater than the state equalized value of the
building or structure, the owner, agent or lessee shall comply with the order
of demolition within 21 days after the date of the hearing under this
subsection (D). If the estimated cost of repair exceeds the state equalized
value of the building or structure to be repaired, a rebuttable presumption
that the building or structure requires expedited demolition exists.
   (E)   The cost of demolition includes, but is not limited to, fees paid to
hearing officers, costs of title searches or commitments used to determine the
parties in interest, recording fees for notices and liens filed with the
county’s Register of Deeds, demolition and dumping charges, court reporter
attendance fees and costs of the collection of the charges authorized under
this division. The cost of the demolition, of making the building safe or of
maintaining the exterior of the building or structure or grounds adjoining the
building or structure incurred by the city to bring the property into
conformance with this division shall be reimbursed to the city by the owner or
party in interest in whose name the property appears.
   (F)   The owner or party in interest in whose name the property appears upon
the last local tax assessment records shall be notified by the Assessor of the
amount of the cost of the demolition, of making the building safe, or of
maintaining the exterior of the building or structure or grounds adjoining the
building or structure by first- class mail at the address shown on the records.
If the owner or party in interest fails to pay the cost within 30 days after
mailing by the Assessor of the notice of the amount of the cost, the city shall
have a lien for the cost incurred by the city to bring the property into
conformance with this division. The lien shall not take effect until notice of
the lien has been filed or recorded as provided by law. A lien provided for in
this subsection (F) does not have priority over previously filed or recorded
liens and encumbrances. The lien for the cost shall be collected and treated in
the same manner as provided for property tax liens under the General Property
Tax Act, Public Act 206 of 1893, as amended.
   (G)   In addition to the other remedies provided under this division, the
city may bring an action against the owner of a dangerous building or structure
for the full cost of demolition, of making the building safe or of maintaining
the exterior or grounds adjoining a dangerous building or structure. The city
shall have a lien on the property for the amount of a judgment obtained under
this subsection (G). The lien provided for in this subsection (G) shall not
take effect until notice of the lien is filed or recorded as provided by law.
The lien does not have priority over prior filed or recorded liens and
encumbrances.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 7-26 ENFORCEMENT OF JUDGMENT AGAINST OTHER ASSETS.
   (A)   A judgment in an action brought pursuant to § 7-25(G) of this chapter
may be enforced against assets of the owner other than the building or
structure.
   (B)   The city shall have a lien for the amount of a judgment obtained
pursuant to § 7-25(G) of this chapter against the owner’s interest in all real
property located in this state that is owned in whole or in part by the owner
of the building or structure against whom the judgment is obtained. A lien
provided for in this section does not take effect until notice of the lien is
filed or recorded as provided by law, and the lien does not have priority over
prior filed or recorded liens or encumbrances.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 7-27 PENALTIES.
   (A)   A person who violates any provision of this division shall be
responsible for a municipal civil infraction.
   (B)   A person who fails or refuses to comply with an order approved or
modified by the Construction Board of Appeals is guilty of misdemeanor
punishable by imprisonment for not more than 120 days or a fine of not more
than $1,000 or both.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 7-28 APPEAL OF CIRCUIT COURT.
   An owner or party in interest aggrieved by any final decision of the
Construction Board of Appeals may appeal the decision or order to the County
Circuit Court by filing an appeal within 20 days from the date of such
decision.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§§ 7-29 — 7-30 RESERVED.
DIVISION 3. INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
§ 7-31 ENFORCEMENT OF THE INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE, 2015
EDITION.
   (A)   Adoption of code. The International Property Maintenance Code, 2015
Edition, including Appendix A, as promulgated and published by the
International Code Council, Inc., is adopted by reference as the “Property
Maintenance Code of the City of Allegan”, and made a part of this chapter as if
fully set forth in this article, subject to the modifications provided in this
article and subject to such further modifications as the city shall adopt from
time to time.
   (B)   Definitions. Whenever the words “city”, “jurisdiction” or
“governmental unit” are used in the International Property Maintenance Code,
2015 Edition, they shall mean the “City of Allegan”. Whenever the word “state”
is used in the International Property Maintenance Code, 2015 Edition, it shall
mean the “State of Michigan”.
   (C)   Amendments to the Property Maintenance Code. The International
Property Maintenance Code, 2015 Edition, including Appendix A, is amended as
follows:
      (1)   Section 101.1 is amended to read in its entirety as follows:
101.1. Title. These regulations shall be known and may be cited as the
“Property Maintenance Code of the City of Allegan”, and will be referred to in
this article as this “Code”.
      (2)   Section 102.3 is amended to read in its entirety as follows:
102.3. Application of other codes. Repairs, additions, or alterations to a
structure, or changes of occupancy, shall be done in accordance with the
procedures and provisions of the Michigan Building Code, the Michigan
Residential Code, the Michigan Mechanical Code, the Michigan Plumbing Code, the
Michigan Electrical Code and the City of Allegan Fire Code. Nothing in this
Code shall be construed to cancel, modify or set aside any provision of the
City of Allegan Zoning Ordinance.
      (3)   Section 102.3.1 is added to read in its entirety:
102.3.1. Reference to other codes. Whenever the “International Building Code”
or “building code” is referenced in this Code it shall mean the Michigan
Building Code. Whenever the “International Mechanical Code” is referenced in
this Code it shall mean the Michigan Mechanical Code. Whenever the
“International Plumbing Code” is referenced in this Code it shall mean the
Michigan Plumbing Code. Whenever the “International Electrical Code” or “NFPA
70” is referenced in this Code it shall mean the Michigan Electrical Code.
Whenever the “International Fire Code”, “fire code” or “NFPA 25” is referenced
in this Code it shall mean the City of Allegan Fire Code. Whenever the
“International Zoning Code” is referenced in this Code it shall mean the City
of Allegan Zoning Ordinance.
      (4)   Section 103.1 is amended to read in its entirety as follows:
103.1. General. Whenever the terms “code official” or “building official” are
used in this Code it shall mean the designated building inspector of the city.
      (5)   Section 103.4 is amended to read in its entirety as follows:
103.4. Liability. The code official, member of the City of Allegan Construction
Board of Appeals or city employee charged with the enforcement of this Code,
while acting for the city, in good faith and without malice in the discharge of
the duties required by this Code or other pertinent law or ordinance, shall not
be rendered liable personally, and is relieved from all personal liability for
any damage accruing to persons or property as a result of an act or by reason
of an act or omission in the discharge of official duties. Any suit instituted
against any officer or employee because of an act performed by that officer or
employee in the lawful discharge of duties and under the provisions of this
Code shall be defended by legal representative of the city until the final
termination of the proceedings. The code official or any subordinate shall not
be liable for costs in an action, suit or proceeding that is instituted in
pursuance of the provisions of this Code.
      (6)   Section 103.5 is amended to read in its entirety as follows:
103.5. Fees. The city council shall by resolution from time to time, establish
a fee schedule for permits under this Code.
      (7)   Section 106.3 is amended to read in its entirety as follows:
106.3. Prosecution of violation. Any person failing to comply with a notice of
violation or order served in accordance with Section 107 shall be deemed
responsible for a municipal civil infraction, and the violation shall be deemed
a strict liability offense. If the notice of violation is not complied with,
the code official shall institute the appropriate proceeding at law or in
equity to restrain, correct or abate such violation, or to require the removal
or termination of the unlawful occupancy of the structure in violation of the
provisions of this Code or of the order or direction made pursuant to this
Code. Any action taken by the City of Allegan on such premises shall be charged
against the real estate upon which the structure is located and shall be a lien
upon such real estate.
      (8)   Section 106.4 is amended to read in its entirety as follows:
106.4. Violation penalties. Any violation of this Code shall be punishable as a
municipal civil infraction as provided in and subject to the fines and
penalties provided under Section 1-14 of the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Allegan.
      (9)   Section 111.1 is amended to read in its entirety as follows:
111.1. Construction Board of Appeals. All appeals under this Code shall be
brought before the City of Allegan Construction Board of Appeals which board is
authorized and has jurisdiction to hear and decide appeals of orders,
decisions, or determinations made by the code official relative to the
application and interpretation of this Code, using the rules of procedures
adopted by the Construction Board of Appeals.
      (10)   Section 111.2 is deleted in its entirety.
      (11)   Section 111.2.1 is deleted in its entirety.
      (12)   Section 111.2.2 is deleted in its entirety.
      (13)   Section 111.2.3 is deleted in its entirety.
      (14)   Section 111.2.4 is deleted in its entirety.
      (15)   Section 111.2.5 is deleted in its entirety.
      (16)   Section 111.3 is deleted in its entirety.
      (17)   Section 111.4 is deleted in its entirety.
      (18)   Section 111.4.1 is deleted in its entirety.
      (19)   Section 111.5 is deleted in its entirety.
      (20)   Section 111.6 is deleted in its entirety.
      (21)   Section 111.6.1 is deleted in its entirety.
      (22)   Section 111.6.2 is deleted in its entirety.
      (23)   Section 111.7 is deleted in its entirety.
      (24)   Section 111.8 is deleted in its entirety.
      (25)   Section 112.4 is amended to read in its entirety as follows:
112.4. Failure to comply. Any person who shall continue any work after having
been served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is directed
to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be in violation of
this Code.
      (26)   Section 201.3 is amended to read in its entirety as follows:
201.3. Terms defined in other codes. Where terms are not defined in this Code
and are defined in the Michigan Building Code, the Michigan Residential Code,
the Michigan Mechanical Code, the Michigan Plumbing Code, the Michigan
Electrical Code, the City of Allegan Fire Code or the City of Allegan Zoning
Ordinance, such terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them as stated in
those codes or ordinances.
      (27)   Section 302.4 insert “eight (8) inches in height.”
      (28)   Section 304.14 insert “May 1 to October 31.”
      (29)   Section 602.2 is amended to read in its entirety as follows:
602.2. Residential occupancies. Dwellings shall be provided with heating
facilities capable of maintaining a room temperature of 68°F (20°C) in all
habitable rooms, bathrooms and toilet rooms based on the winter outdoor design
temperature as provided within the Michigan Plumbing Code. Cooking appliances
shall not be used to provide space heating to meet the requirements of this
section.
      (30)   Section 602.3 is amended to read in its entirety as follows:
602.3. Heat supply. Every owner or operator of any building who rents, leases,
or lets one or more dwelling unit, rooming unit, dormitory or guestroom on
terms, either expressed or implied, to furnish a heating system to the
occupants thereof shall supply heat during the period from October 1 to May 1
to maintain a temperature of not less than 65 degrees F. (18 degrees C.) in all
habitable rooms, bathrooms, and toilet rooms.
Exception: When the outdoor temperature is below the winter outdoor design
temperature for the locality, maintenance of the minimum room temperature shall
not be required provided that the heating system is operating at its full
design capacity. The winter outdoor design temperature for the City of Allegan
shall be 6 degrees F.
      (31)   Section 602.4 is amended to read in its entirety as follows:
602.4. Occupiable work spaces. Indoor occupiable work spaces shall be supplied
with heat during the period from October 1 to May 1 to maintain a temperature
of not less than 65 degrees F during the period the spaces are occupied.
Exceptions: Processing, storage and operation areas that require cooling or
special temperature conditions or areas in which persons are primarily engaged
in vigorous physical activities.
   (D)   Copies of code. A complete copy of the International Property
Maintenance Code, 2015 Edition, including Appendix A, is available for public
use, inspection and purchase at the offices of the City Clerk.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§§ 7-32 — 7-50 RESERVED.
DIVISION 4. GRASS AND NOXIOUS WEEDS
§ 7-51 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this division, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   GROUND-COVER VEGETATION. Any of a variety of low-growing or trailing plants
used to cover patches of ground.
   ISSUANCE OF THE NOTICE. Posting of a notice on the property or personally
serving notice on the responsible party.
   NOXIOUS WEEDS. The following plants only: Canada thistle (Cirsium arvense),
dodders (any species of Cuscuta), mustards (charlock, black mustard, and Indian
mustard, species of Brassica or Sinapis), wild carrot (Daucus carota), bindweed
(Convolvulus arvensis), perennial sowthistle (Sonchus arvensis), hoary alyssum
(Berteroa incana), giant hogweed (Heracleum mantegazzianum), ragweed (Ambrosia
elatior I.), and poison ivy (Rhus toxicodendron), and poison sumac
(Toxicodendron vernix).
   PROPERTY OWNER. A person who holds record title to a parcel of real estate.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY. Generally means the property owner; except that:
      (1)   A tenant or other person shall be a responsible party (in addition
to the property owner) upon expressly assuming responsibility in a written
contract with the property owner; and
      (2)   The manager of a business shall be a responsible party (in addition
to the property owner) with respect to the property on which the business is
situated. For purposes of this section, the term “manager” means the individual
that exercises the most control over the day-to-day operations of the business
on the property.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 7-52 DUTY TO REMOVE NOXIOUS WEEDS AND MAINTAIN GRASS.
   The responsible party for each private property in the city shall be
required to keep the property free from noxious weeds and ensure that grass and
other ground-cover vegetation on the property does not grow in excess of eight
inches in height. The duties established under this section extend to the
portions of the abutting public right-of-way that would become part of the
property if the right-of-way were vacated. The responsible party shall have
discretion in determining how to landscape and maintain the vegetation in the
abutting right-of-way, so long as the landscaping and maintenance complies with
all applicable laws, regulations and ordinances and so long as it does not
overhang any sidewalk or other public way in a manner that will interfere or
brush against any person using that public way and as long as it does not
interfere with the clear vision of vehicle drivers or pedestrians entering and
exiting the property.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 7-53 ENFORCEMENT AND ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Any person that violates this division shall be responsible for a
municipal civil infraction. Each day that a violation continues shall be deemed
to be a separate violation.
   (B)   (1)   Before commencing enforcement under this division, the
enforcement officer shall issue notice to the responsible party charged with
the violation, setting forth the violation specifics.
      (2)   The notice shall state the name of the person that the city
considers to be the responsible party, and shall specify that failure to remedy
the violation may result in the issuance of a municipal civil infraction
citation if such remedy is not complete within 48 hours after the issuance of
the notice.
      (3)   The notice shall also state that the recipient has the right to
appeal the notice to the City Manager.
   (C)   (1)   If the responsible party fails to abate the blight within the
required time frame, the city may take action to abate the violation and may
charge the cost of such abatement to the responsible party.
      (2)   The City Treasurer shall bill the cost, plus an administration fee
of 25%, to the responsible party.
      (3)   Such bills shall become due within 30 days of issuance, and it
shall be a violation of this division to fail to pay a bill when due.
      (4)   The city may levy a single-lot special assessment in accordance
with this code of ordinances as a means of recovering the full cost of
abatement.
   (D)   (1)   Abating the nuisance is not in lieu of, or an alternative to,
pursuing the civil infraction in district court.
      (2)   Both civil infraction and abatement of the nuisance may be pursued
by the city.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§§ 7-54 — 7-60 RESERVED.
DIVISION 4. FREESTANDING OUTDOOR FURNACES
§ 7-61 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this division to ban the construction and operation of
outdoor furnaces within the limits of the city for the purpose of securing and
promoting the public health, comfort, convenience, safety, welfare and
prosperity of the city and its inhabitants. The types of fuel used and the
scale and duration of the burning by such furnaces create noxious and hazardous
smoke, soot, fumes, odors, air pollution, particles and other products of
combustion that can be detrimental to citizens’ health and can deprive
neighboring residents of the enjoyment of their property or premises. Moreover,
the restricted airflow, low operating temperatures, lack of emission controls
and large fuel loads associated with these units frequently result in excessive
smoke. Under some conditions smoke can cause both acute and chronic health
problems to other residents if they are exposed to the smoke.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 7-62 DEFINITION.
   The term FREESTANDING OUTDOOR FURNACE shall mean any device, appliance,
equipment, apparatus or structure that:
   (A)   Is designed, intended and/or used to provide hot water heat and/or hot
water to any associated structure;
   (B)   Operates by burning wood or any other solid fuel including, but not
limited to: coal, paper pellets and agricultural products; and
   (C)   Is not located within the structure to be heated.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 7-63 EXISTING OUTDOOR FURNACES.
   (A)   Any outdoor furnace existing as of 6-25-2007, which was registered
with the city within 30 days of that date may continue in operation except as
provided in this section.
   (B)   If an existing outdoor furnace is not operated for 12 consecutive
months, it may not be used again and must be dismantled or otherwise be removed
from the property.
   (C)   No new or replacement of existing outdoor furnace shall be installed
or put into use.
   (D)   This section shall not be deemed as specific authorization for the use
of any preexisting freestanding outdoor furnace designed for structure heat and
shall not be deemed to bar, limit or otherwise affect the rights of any person
to take private or legal action regarding damage or nuisance caused by the use
of a freestanding outdoor furnace designed for structure heat.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 7-64 INSTALLATION AND OPERATION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
7-63 of this chapter, it shall be unlawful to install, maintain or operate
freestanding outdoor furnaces designed for structure heat and to cause or
permit the installation or operation of freestanding outdoor furnaces within
the city.
   (B)   Nothing contained herein shall authorize any installation that is a
public or private nuisance, regardless of compliance herewith.
   (C)   This division shall not be a defense to any civil claims.
   (D)   Any person who violates this section shall be responsible for a
municipal civil infraction. Further, violations shall be deemed a nuisance per
se.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
CHAPTER 8: CEMETERIES
Section
   
8-1   Declaration as public burying grounds; determination of necessity
   
8-2   Proper interments
   
8-3   Rules and regulations
   
8-4   Enforcement by City Manager
   
8-5   Purchase of lots
   
8-6   Rights of grave or lot purchasers
   
8-7   Reclamation of vacant cemetery lots or burial spaces
   
8-8   Cemetery Perpetual Care Fund
   
8-9   Refunds on lot purchase
   
8-10   Number of graves per lot; markers, monuments; grade
   
8-11   Foundations for monumental structures; approval of vaults
   
8-12   Use of vaults
   
8-13   Burial permits; disinterments
   
8-14   Use of water for sprinkling or watering
   
8-15   Reserved
   
8-16   Pedestrian and vehicular traffic
   
8-17   Reserved
   
8-18   Reserved
   
8-19   Disturbance
   
8-20   Injuring or taking vegetation or structures
Charter reference:
   Authority concerning cemeteries, see §
3.5
Statutory reference:
   Municipal control and perpetual maintenance of cemetery lots, see MCL §§
128.1 et seq.
§ 8-1 DECLARATION AS PUBLIC BURYING GROUNDS; DETERMINATION OF NECESSITY.
   All cemeteries now owned or which may hereafter be acquired by the city,
wherever located, are hereby declared to be public burying grounds, and no
person shall establish or locate any other cemetery within the limits of the
city unless the necessity or desirability for the establishment of such
cemetery has been affirmatively determined by the Council and it has approved
the location of such proposed cemetery.
(Ord. 11, passed 5-2-1949)
§ 8-2 PROPER INTERMENTS.
   No interment of any deceased person shall be made in any other place than
within cemeteries devoted to that purpose; nor shall the interment of anything
other than human bodies be permitted therein.
(Ord. 11, passed 5-2-1949)
§ 8-3 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The cemetery shall be open to the public from dawn to dusk.
   (B)   Urns and containers should be no larger than 12 inches (square or
diameter) and must be placed to the side of the grave marker. No more than two
urns or containers per grave site is permitted.
   (C)   All objects must be contained within a grave site and placed within 18
inches of the grave marker. The city reserves the right to regulate grave site
decoration for beauty and safety. The city cannot store or save decorations
removed from grave sites.
   (D)   Flowers, plants and shrubs may be planted in the ground and must be
contained within the grave site. The city is not responsible for flowers and
plantings that may prohibit grounds care activities.
   (E)   The city reserves the right to remove trees, shrubs, flowers and
faded, disintegrated or broken artificial flowers. The city has the right to
trim, cut down or remove any plantings that are in poor condition.
   (F)   Pets must be kept to paved paths, must be leashed and their waste
picked up after. Failure to do so will result in a fine. Excessive fines will
result in a ban from the cemetery.
   (G)   Funerals are under the exclusive direction of the city cemetery
management.
(Ord. 11, passed 5-2-1949; Ord. 239, passed 2-22-1988; Ord. 515, passed 11-13-
2023)
§ 8-4 ENFORCEMENT BY CITY MANAGER.
   The City Manager shall have charge of the city cemeteries and he or she
shall enforce the rules and regulations that may from time to time be adopted
by the Council. He or she shall maintain order in the cemeteries and make
complaints for every violation of this chapter. Any exceptions to these rules
must be approved by the City Manager or an authorized representative.
(Ord. 11, passed 5-2-1949; Ord. 425, passed 1-9-2012)
§ 8-5 PURCHASE OF LOTS.
   Any person wishing to purchase a lot or fraction of a lot in any cemetery
belonging to the city may do so by paying to the City Clerk such sum as the
Council may have from time to time established by resolution and, upon such
payment, shall receive a certificate of purchase therefor, signed by the Clerk,
which shall grant exclusive license and privilege of burial only, subject to
all the ordinances, rules and regulations as may be adopted by the Council for
the care, management and preservation of such cemetery and grounds, the
monuments, memorials and vaults therein. Such money shall be credited to the
Cemetery Fund. No lot or fraction thereof shall be considered sold or reserved
until a receipt in full for the purchase price thereof has been obtained from
the City Clerk and no interment will be allowed until payment has been made for
the grave, opening of grave and marker.
(Ord. 11, passed 5-2-1949)
§ 8-6 RIGHTS OF GRAVE OR LOT PURCHASERS.
   The purchaser of any single grave or lot in the cemetery shall acquire
thereby only the privilege or license to make interments in the grave or lot
purchased. The owner of any lot shall not allow interment to be made therein
for remuneration to himself or herself, nor shall a lot be used for any other
purpose than a place for burial of the dead. All interments in lots shall be
restricted to members of the owner’s family and relatives unless special
permission to the contrary shall have been obtained in writing from the City
Manager.
(Ord. 11, passed 5-2-1949)
§ 8-7 RECLAMATION OF VACANT CEMETERY LOTS OR BURIAL SPACES.
   (A)   Cemetery lots or burial spaces sold after the effective date of the
ordinance codified herein and remaining vacant for 40 years or more from the
date of their sale shall revert to the city upon the occurrence of the
following events.
      (1)   Notice shall be sent by the city by first-class mail to the last
known address of the last burial rights holder of record informing him or her
of the expiration of the 40-year period and that all rights with respect to
said lots or spaces will be forfeited if he or she does not affirmatively
indicate in writing to the city within 60 days from the date of mailing of such
notice of his or her desire to retain such burial rights.
      (2)   No written response to said notice indicating a desire to retain
the cemetery lots or burial spaces in question is received by the city from the
last burial rights holder of record of said lots or spaces, or his or her heirs
or legal representative, within 60 days from the date of mailing of said
notice.
   (B)   Cemetery lots or burial spaces sold before the effective date of the
ordinance codified herein may be reclaimed by the city, pursuant to the
statutory procedure in Public Act 46 of 1931.
(Ord. 11, passed 5-2-1949; Ord. 54, passed 12-17-1962; Ord. 425, passed 1-9-
2012; Ord. 515, passed 11-13-2023)
§ 8-8 CEMETERY PERPETUAL CARE FUND.
   (A)   Any person shall deposit with the city treasurer, in irrevocable
trust, for the purpose of keeping in perpetual order and care any grave, lot or
fraction of a lot in any cemetery owned by the city, such a sum as shall be
prescribed by resolution of the Council, which moneys shall be maintained in a
fund separate from all other funds of the city and which shall be known as the
“Cemetery Perpetual Care Fund”, and such depositors shall designate the
particular lot or fraction of a lot to be cared for from the trust fund.
   (B)   The City Clerk, under the corporate seal of the city, shall issue a
receipt to such depositor for the amount so deposited, upon which shall be
noted the description of a lot or fraction of a lot to be cared for, which
receipt shall be signed by the City Clerk and the amount so deposited shall be
duly recorded in the Cemetery Perpetual Care Fund, and together with a
description of the lot or fraction of a lot to be maintained, and the City
Treasurer and the surety on his or her bond shall be liable for the safe
keeping of the funds so deposited.
   (C)   The Council shall, by resolution, direct the investment of the
principal thereof; provided that, such fund is in accordance with state law.
   (D)   The City Treasurer shall cause a separate account to be kept of the
Cemetery Perpetual Care Fund and of the income therefrom and the same shall be
accounted for in the City Treasurer’s annual statement and included in the
annual audit of the city.
   (E)   Perpetual care is hereby defined to include watering and mowing at
reasonable intervals, raking leaves, reseeding and fertilizing, trimming trees
and shrubs when necessary, bringing sunken graves to grade, trimming grass
around monuments or markers and sodding or seeding after burials. It does not
include watering and care of plants and flowers, repairing and resetting of
monuments and markers nor any repairs of damage caused by the elements.
   (F)   The entire revenue received from the investment of Cemetery Perpetual
Care Fund shall be expended annually for the care and maintenance of the
respective lots and burial spaces for which deposits were made and in
accordance with the provisions thereof.
   (G)   This section shall stand as a continuing contract with all persons who
shall make deposits to the Cemetery Perpetual Care Fund, as herein provided
for, any willful diversion or misappropriation of the funds so deposited shall
constitute a breach of trust and shall subject the offender to the penalties
provided by the laws of the state.
(Ord. 11, passed 5-2-1949; Ord. 241, passed 2-22-1988; Ord. 318, passed 8-12-
1996)
§ 8-9 REFUNDS ON LOT PURCHASE.
   The city may refund the purchase price of any lot without interest, upon
surrender of the deed or lease agreement, except such lot or fraction of lot in
which a body has been buried or a memorial of any kind erected.
§ 8-10 NUMBER OF GRAVES PER LOT; MARKERS, MONUMENTS; GRADE.
   The number of graves to be allowed in lots shall be as determined by the
Council. Not more than one monument or vault above ground shall be allowed on
any one lot, nor more than one marker or index stone on any one grave. No lot
or part thereof shall be enclosed by a fence, railing, coping, hedge,
embankment or ditch. Grave mounds shall not be allowed and no lot shall be
raised above the grade established by the Council.
(Ord. 11, passed 5-2-1949)
§ 8-11 FOUNDATIONS FOR MONUMENTAL STRUCTURES; APPROVAL OF VAULTS.
   All foundations for monumental structures must be built of concrete and of
depth and size provided for in the rules and regulations, and no vault above
ground for the reception of the dead shall be built within the limits of any
cemetery belonging to the city until a plan of such vault showing location,
dimensions, the construction material to be used and the manner of construction
thereof shall have first been submitted to the Council and approved by it.
(Ord. 11, passed 5-2-1949)
§ 8-12 USE OF VAULTS.
   (A)   If and when a receiving vault is available it shall be used when, in
the opinion of the City Manager, weather conditions make it necessary or
advisable. In case earth burial is demanded during this period, an extra charge
will be made in accordance with that set forth in the rules and regulations.
   (B)   Persons owning private vaults are expressly forbidden to charge for
the use of their vault for other than their own family or relatives. Bodies of
persons dying of infectious or contiguous diseases shall not be permitted to be
deposited in the public vaults.
(Ord. 11, passed 5-2-1949)
§ 8-13 BURIAL PERMITS; DISINTERMENTS.
   No interment will be permitted, nor dead body received, without a burial
permit and all interments and removals of deceased persons from the city shall
be made subject to such rules and regulations as may from time to time be
adopted by the Council. No person shall disinter any body without permission of
the City Manager and all transfers or assignments of rights of owners in and to
any unused portion of any lot shall be recorded with the City Clerk.
(Ord. 11, passed 5-2-1949)
§ 8-14 USE OF WATER FOR SPRINKLING OR WATERING.
   No person shall use water from any hydrants or fixtures in the cemetery for
the purpose of sprinkling or watering lots, flowers, shrubs or trees, without
first having received a permit to do so from the City Clerk, and paying
therefor such reasonable sum per lot per year, annually in advance prior to May
15, as provided by rules and regulations.
(Ord. 11, passed 5-2-1949)
§ 8-15 RESERVED.
(Ord. 11, passed 5-2-1949; Ord. 166, passed 11-12-1979; Ord. 425, passed 1-9-
2012; Ord. 515, passed 11-13-2023)
§ 8-16 PEDESTRIAN AND VEHICULAR TRAFFIC.
   All pedestrian traffic shall use avenues or drives in going about the
cemetery and they shall not trespass upon burial spaces where interment has
been made. Vehicular traffic shall be confined to the avenues or drives and the
speed of same shall not exceed 15 mph. Bicycles and motorcycles shall be
classed as vehicular traffic and shall be subject to this section. The
excessive sounding of horns or the use of a muffler cutout shall not be
permitted.
(Ord. 166, passed 11-12-1979)
§ 8-17 RESERVED.
(Ord. 515, passed 11-13-2023)
§ 8-18 RESERVED.
(Ord. 425, passed 1-9-2012)
§ 8-19 DISTURBANCE.
   No person shall create a disturbance of any kind at any time in any cemetery
and shall, at all times, conduct himself, herself or themself in a manner
showing proper respect for the dead and the bereaved.
§ 8-20 INJURING OR TAKING VEGETATION OR STRUCTURES.
   No person shall cut, remove, injure or carry away any flowers, trees,
shrubs, plants or vines being in or growing upon any cemetery lots or grounds
and for cemetery purposes, or deface, injure or write upon any markers,
monuments, headstones, fence or structure within any of the city-owned
cemeteries, nor shall any person injure or destroy, take or carry away any
vases, flower pots or other ornaments that may have been placed upon graves or
grounds plotted for cemetery purposes, unless by permission of the City
Manager. If the trees or shrubbery situated in any lot, by means of their
roots, branches or otherwise, or because they have died, become detrimental to
the adjacent lots or avenues, or have grown to a height of over ten feet, or
have become unsightly or inconvenient to passersby, it shall be the right of
the Council to authorize the city to enter the lot and to remove such trees and
shrubbery or any part thereof; provided, however, that, the owner of the lot
shall first have been notified in writing to remove the same within one week
after receipt of notice and shall have refused or neglected so to do.
(Ord. 11, passed 5-2-1949; Ord. 166, passed 11-12-1979)
Statutory reference:
   Malicious mischief, see MCL §§ 750.377 et seq.
CHAPTER 9: COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
Section
Article I. In General
   
9-1 — 9-15   Reserved
Article II. Economic Development Corporation
   
9-16   Approval of application
   
9-17 — 9-19   Reserved
Article III. Downtown Development Authority
   
9-20   Title
   
9-21   Determination of necessity; purpose
   
9-22   Definitions
   
9-23   Creation of Authority
   
9-24   Termination
   
9-25   Description of Downtown District
   
9-26   Board of Directors
   
9-27   Powers of Authority
   
9-28   Fiscal year; adoption of budget
   
9-29   Development and tax increment financing plan
Cross-reference:
   Administration, see
Chapter 2
   Buildings and Building Regulations, see
Chapter 7
   Zoning, see
Chapter 31
Statutory reference:
   Housing and slum clearance projects, see MCL §§ 125.651 et seq.
   Housing corporation law, see MCL §§ 125.601 et seq.
   Rehabilitation of blighted areas, see MCL §§ 125.71 et seq.
   Urban redevelopment corporations, see MCL §§ 125.901 et seq.
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
§§ 9-1 — 9-15 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II. ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
§ 9-16 APPROVAL OF APPLICATION.
   The application, under date of 4-6-1977, filed by John Kyes, Norman Smith
and James Burnett to incorporate the city’s Economic Development Corporation
and the proposed articles of incorporation for the corporation are hereby
approved.
(Ord. 119, passed 8-22-1977)
§§ 9-17 — 9-19 RESERVED.
ARTICLE III. DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
§ 9-20 TITLE.
   This article shall be known as the “Downtown Development Authority Ordinance
of the City of Allegan”.
(Ord. 271, passed 1-14-1991)
§ 9-21 DETERMINATION OF NECESSITY; PURPOSE.
   The City Council hereby determines that it is necessary for the best
interest of the public to create a public body corporate, which shall operate
to halt property value deterioration, eliminate the causes of that
deterioration, increase property tax valuation where possible in the business
district of the city and promote economic growth, pursuant to Public Act 197 of
1975, as amended, being MCL §§ 125.1651 through 125.1680.
(Ord. 271, passed 1-14-1991)
§ 9-22 DEFINITIONS.
   The terms used in this article shall have the same meanings as given to them
in Public Act 197 of 1975, as amended, being MCL §§ 125.1651 through 125.1680,
or as hereinafter in this section provided unless the context clearly indicates
to the contrary. For the purpose of this article, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   ACT 197. Public Act 197 of 1975, as amended, being MCL §§ 125.1651 through
125.1680.
   AUTHORITY. The Downtown Development Authority of the city created by this
article.
   BOARD or BOARD OF DIRECTORS. The Board of Directors of the Authority; the
governing body of the Authority.
   CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER. The Mayor of the city.
   CITY. The City of Allegan, Michigan.
   COUNCIL or CITY COUNCIL. The City Council of the city.
   DOWNTOWN DISTRICT. The Downtown District designated by this article, as now
existing or hereafter amended, and within which the Authority shall exercise
its powers.
(Ord. 271, passed 1-14-1991)
§ 9-23 CREATION OF AUTHORITY.
   (A)   There is hereby created, pursuant to Public Act 197 of 1975, as
amended, being MCL §§ 125.1651 through 125.1680, the Downtown Development
Authority for the city.
   (B)   The Authority shall be a public body corporate and shall be known and
exercise its powers under title of the “Downtown Development Authority of the
City of Allegan”. The Authority may adopt a seal, may sue and be sued in any
court of the state and shall possess all of the powers in this article and
Public Act 197 of 1975, as amended, being MCL §§ 125.1651 through 125.1680.
   (C)   The enumeration of a power in this article or in Public Act 197 of
1975, as amended, being MCL §§ 125.1651 through 125.1680, shall not be
construed as a limitation upon the general powers of the Authority.
(Ord. 271, passed 1-14-1991)
§ 9-24 TERMINATION.
   Upon completion of its purposes, the Authority may be dissolved by the
Council. The property and assets of the Authority, after dissolution and
satisfaction of its obligations, shall revert to the city.
(Ord. 271, passed 1-14-1991)
§ 9-25 DESCRIPTION OF DOWNTOWN DISTRICT.
   The Downtown District shall consist of the territory in the city described
in Exhibit A1, attached to Ord. 377 and made a part hereof, subject to such
changes as may hereinafter be made pursuant to this ordinance and Public Act
197 of 1975, as amended, being MCL §§ 125.1651 through 125.1680.
(Ord. 271, passed 1-14-1991; Ord. 377, passed 6-27-2005)
§ 9-26 BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
   The Authority shall be under the supervision and control of the Board. The
Board shall consist of the chief executive officer and not less than eight or
more than 12 members. Members shall be appointed by the chief executive
officer, subject to approval by the Council. Not less than a majority of the
members shall be persons having an interest in property located in the Downtown
District. Not less than one of the members shall be a resident of the Downtown
District, if the Downtown District has 100 or more persons residing within it.
Members shall be appointed to serve for a term of four years; except that, the
members first appointed shall serve for terms of one year, two years, three
years and four years. A member shall hold office until the member’s successor
is appointed and qualified. Before assuming the duties of office, a member
shall qualify by taking and subscribing to the constitutional oath of office.
An appointment to fill a vacancy shall be made by the chief executive officer
for the unexpired term only. Members of the Board shall serve without
compensation, but shall be reimbursed for actual and necessary expenses. The
Chairperson of the Board shall be elected by the Board. The Board shall adopt
bylaws governing its procedures subject to the approval of the Council. In the
event that the Board determines to employ a Director of the Authority, such
Director shall furnish a bond in the penal sum of $50,000 payable to the
Authority for use and benefit of the authority and shall file the same with the
City Clerk.
(Ord. 271, passed 1-14-1991)
§ 9-27 POWERS OF AUTHORITY.
   Except as specifically otherwise provided in this article, the Authority
shall have all powers provided by law subject to the limitations imposed by law
and herein.
(Ord. 271, passed 1-14-1991)
§ 9-28 FISCAL YEAR; ADOPTION OF BUDGET.
   (A)   The fiscal year of the Authority shall begin on July 1 of each year
and end on June 30 of the following year, or such other fiscal year as may
hereafter be adopted by the Council.
   (B)   The Board shall prepare, annually, a budget and shall submit it to the
Council for approval in the manner and at the time, and which budget shall
contain the information, required of municipal departments. The Board shall not
finally adopt a budget for any fiscal year until the budget has been approved
by the Council. The Board may, however, temporarily adopt a budget in
connection with the operation of any improvements which have been financed by
revenue bonds where required to do so by the ordinance authorizing the revenue
bonds.
   (C)   The Authority shall submit financial reports to the Council at the
same time and on the same basis as departments of the city are required to
submit reports. The Authority shall be audited annually by the same independent
auditors auditing the city and copies of the audit report shall be filed with
the Council.
(Ord. 271, passed 1-14-1991)
§ 9-29 DEVELOPMENT AND TAX INCREMENT FINANCING PLAN.
   Pursuant to Public Act 197 of 1975, as amended, being MCL §§ 125.1651
through 125.1680, the city’s Downtown Development Authority Development Plan
No. 1 and Tax Increment Financing Plan No. 1, as amended and restated, dated
January 2005, page 8, Table 1-A, through page 13, “Redevelopment Strategies”,
is hereby amended by reference.
(Ord. 278, passed 4-22-1991; Ord. 376, passed 6-7-2005; Ord. 405, passed 1-14-
2008)
CHAPTER 10: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
Article I. In General
   
10-1   Short title
   
10-2   Purpose
   
10-3   Definitions
   
10-4   Interpretation
   
10-5 — 10-10   Reserved
Article II. Emergency Management
   
10-11   Coordinator
   
10-12   Municipal authority
   
10-13   Mayor’s duties and powers
   
10-14   State declaration and assistance
   
10-15 — 10-20   Reserved
Article III. Personnel
   
10-21   Volunteers; appointment
   
10-22   Personnel and liability
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
§ 10-1 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be designated as the “Allegan City
Emergency Management Ordinance”.
(Ord. 323, passed 11-11-1996; Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 10-2 PURPOSE.
   This emergency management chapter is intended to provide for the mitigation
of, preparedness for, response to and recovery from natural and human-made
disasters within the city; to establish the position and duties of emergency
management coordinator; to provide means for coordinating city resources and
responses with those of the county; and to provide a means through which the
Mayor, the City Council and the Emergency Management Coordinator may exercise
the authority and discharge the responsibilities vested in them by this chapter
and the Act.
(Ord. 323, passed 11-11-1996; Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 10-3 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The state’s Emergency Management Act, Public Act 390 of 1976, as
amended.
   CITY. The City of Allegan, Michigan.
   DEPARTMENT. The Michigan Department of State Police.
   DISASTER. An occurrence or threat of widespread or severe damage, injury or
loss of life or property resulting from a natural or human-made cause,
including, but not limited to, fire, flood, snowstorm, ice storm, tornado,
windstorm, wave action, oil spill, water contamination, utility failure,
hazardous peacetime radiological incident, major transportation accident,
hazardous materials incident, epidemic, air contamination, blight, drought,
infestation, explosion or hostile military action or paramilitary action or
similar occurrence resulting from terrorist activities, riots or civil
disorders.
   DISTRICT COORDINATOR. The Michigan Department of State Police District
Emergency Coordinator.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT COORDINATOR. The person appointed to coordinate
emergency management within the city.
   LOCAL STATE OF EMERGENCY. A declaration or proclamation by the Mayor or City
Council that activates the response and recovery aspects of any and all
applicable local or inter-jurisdictional emergency operations plans and
authorizes the furnishing of aid, assistance and directives under those plans.
(Ord. 323, passed 11-11-1996; Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 10-4 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   In case of any conflict between this chapter and the act, the
provisions of the act shall control.
   (B)   This chapter shall not be interpreted or construed to do any of the
following:
      (1)   Interfere with the course or conduct of a labor dispute. However,
actions otherwise authorized by this act or other laws may be taken when
necessary to forestall or mitigate imminent or existing danger to public health
or safety;
      (2)   Interfere with the dissemination of news or comment on public
affairs. However, air communications facility or organization, including radio
and television stations, wire services and newspapers, may be requested to
transmit or print public service messages furnishing information or
instructions in connection with a disaster or emergency;
      (3)   Affect the jurisdiction or responsibilities of law enforcement
agencies, firefighting forces and units or personnel of the armed forces of the
United States when on active duty. However, the city’s emergency operations
plans shall place reliance upon the forces available for performance of
functions related to disasters or emergencies;
      (4)   Relieve any city official, department head or agency of its normal
responsibilities; and
      (5)   Limit or abridge the power, duty or responsibility of the Mayor or
City Manager to act in the event of a disaster or emergency except as expressly
set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 323, passed 11-11-1996; Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§§ 10-5 — 10-10 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II. EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
§ 10-11 COORDINATOR.
   (A)   The Mayor shall, with the consent of the City Council, appoint an
Emergency Management Coordinator, who shall serve at the direction of the Mayor
and of the City Council and at the direction of the county’s Emergency
Management Coordinator on matters pertaining to emergency management.
   (B)   The Mayor, with the consent of the City Council, shall appoint to
serve at the will of the City Council, a first alternate and a second alternate
to the position of Emergency Management Coordinator. The first alternate shall
act as Emergency Management Coordinator, in the case of the Emergency
Management Coordinator’s unavailability during an emergency because of absence
from the city, death, disability or incapacity. The second alternate may act as
the Emergency Management Coordinator, when both the Emergency Management
Coordinator and the first alternate are unavailable for such reasons.
   (C)   A person shall be ineligible for appointment as an Emergency
Management Coordinator or alternate because that person holds another public
office or trust and that person shall not forfeit that office or trust by
reason of appointment as the Emergency Management Coordinator or alternate.
(Ord. 323, passed 11-11-1996; Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 10-12 MUNICIPAL AUTHORITY.
   When an Emergency Management Coordinator has been appointed, the city may do
one or more of the following:
   (A)   Direct and coordinate the development of emergency operations plans
and programs in accordance with the policies and plans established by state and
federal agencies. Each city department which is required by the emergency
operations plan to provide an annex to that plan shall propose and continuously
update the annex providing for emergency management activities by that
department and those other emergency activities that department is directed by
that plan to coordinate;
   (B)   Appropriate and expend funds, make contracts and obtain and distribute
equipment, materials and supplies for disaster purposes;
   (C)   Direct and coordinate the local multi-agency response to emergencies
within the city;
   (D)   Provide for the health and safety of persons and property, including
emergency assistance to the victims of a disaster;
   (E)   Appoint, employ, remove or provide, with or without compensation,
rescue teams, auxiliary fire and police personnel and other disaster workers;
   (F)   Appoint a local emergency management advisory council;
   (G)   If a state of disaster or emergency is declared by the Governor,
assign and make available for duty the employees, property or equipment of the
city relating to firefighting; engineering; rescue; health, medical and related
services; police; transportation; construction; and similar items or service
for disaster relief purposes within or without the physical limits of the city
as ordered by the Governor or the State Police; and/or
   (H)   In the event of a foreign attack upon the state, waive procedures and
formalities otherwise required by law pertaining to the performance of public
work, entering into contracts, the incurring of obligations, the employment of
permanent and temporary workers, the utilization of volunteer workers, the
rental of equipment, the purchase and distribution with or without compensation
of supplies, materials and facilities and the appropriation and expenditure of
public funds.
(Ord. 323, passed 11-11-1996; Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 10-13 MAYOR’S DUTIES AND POWERS.
   The duties and powers of the Mayor shall be as follows.
   (A)   The Mayor may declare a local state of emergency if circumstances
within the city indicate that the occurrence or threat of occurrence of
widespread or severe damage, injury or loss of life or property from natural or
human-made cause exists and, under a declaration of a local state of emergency,
issue directives as to travel restrictions on local roads.
   (B)   The declaration shall be filed promptly with the Emergency Management
Division of the State Police, unless circumstances attendant upon the disaster
prevent or impede its prompt filing.
   (C)   This power shall not be continued or renewed for a period in excess of
seven days, except with the consent of the City Council.
   (D)   If the Mayor invokes such power and authority, the Mayor shall, as
soon as reasonably expedient, convene the City Council for one or more
emergency meetings in accordance with the Open Meetings Act to perform its
normal, legislative and administrative duty as the situation demands and will
report to that body relative to emergency activities.
   (E)   If a disaster or state of emergency exists within the city and is
beyond the control of local public or private agencies, the Mayor may request
the Governor to declare that a state of disaster or state of emergency exists
in the city using the procedure in §
10-14 of this chapter.
(Ord. 323, passed 11-11-1996; Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 10-14 STATE DECLARATION AND ASSISTANCE.
   If a disaster or emergency occurs that has not yet been declared to be a
state of disaster or state of emergency by the Governor, and the disaster or
emergency is considered by the Mayor or City Council to be beyond the control
of the city, the Emergency Management Coordinator shall immediately contact the
District Coordinator. The District Coordinator, in conjunction with the
Emergency Management Coordinator, shall assess the nature and scope of the
disaster or emergency, and they shall recommend the personnel, services and
equipment that will be required for its prevention, mitigation or relief.
(Ord. 323, passed 11-11-1996; Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§§ 10-15 — 10-20 RESERVED.
ARTICLE III. PERSONNEL
§ 10-21 VOLUNTEERS; APPOINTMENT.
   The Mayor and the City Manager may appoint, employ, remove or provide, with
or without compensation, rescue teams, auxiliary fire and police personnel and
other disaster workers.
(Ord. 323, passed 11-11-1996; Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 10-22 PERSONNEL AND LIABILITY.
   (A)   Personnel of disaster relief forces while on duty shall, if they are
employees of the city, have the powers, duties, rights, privileges and
immunities and receive the compensation incidental to their employment.
   (B)   The city or its agents or representatives shall not be liable for
personal injury or property damage sustained by any person appointed or acting
as a volunteer disaster relief worker, or a member of any agency engaged in
disaster relief activity. In addition, a volunteer disaster relief worker or a
member of any agency engaged in disaster relief activity shall not be liable in
a civil action for damages resulting from an act or omission arising out of and
in the course of the person’s good faith rendering of that activity, unless the
person’s act or omission was the result of that person’s gross negligence or
willful misconduct. This chapter shall not affect the right of a person to
receive benefits or compensation to which he or she may otherwise be entitled
to under the Workers’ Compensation Law, any pension law or any act of Congress.
   (C)   Subsection (B) above does not apply to a person engaged in disaster
relief activity for remuneration beyond reimbursement for out-of-pocket
expenses in connection with the activity.
   (D)   The city or, except in cases of willful misconduct, gross negligence
or bad faith, its employees, agents or representatives, or any volunteer or
auxiliary disaster relief worker or member of any agency engaged in any
disaster relief activity, complying with or reasonably attempting to comply
with this chapter and the act, or any order, rule promulgated pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter or the act, shall not be liable for the death of or
injury to persons, or for damage to property, as a result of that activity.
   (E)   A person licensed to practice medicine or osteopathic medicine and
surgery, or a licensed hospital, registered nurse, practical nurse, dentist,
veterinarian or paramedical person, whether licensed in this or another state
or by the Federal Government or a branch of the Armed Forces of the United
States, or a student nurse undergoing training in a licensed hospital in this
or another state, that renders services during a state of disaster declared by
the Governor is considered an authorized disaster relief worker or facility,
and is not liable for an injury sustained by a person by reason of those
services, regardless of how or under what circumstances or by what cause those
injuries are sustained. The immunity granted by this subsection (E) does not
apply in the event of a willful act or omission. If a civil action for
malpractice is filed alleging a willful act or omission resulting in injuries,
the services rendered which resulted in those injuries shall be judged
according to the standards required of persons licensed in this state to
perform those services.
(Ord. 323, passed 11-11-1996; Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
CHAPTER 11: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
Article I. Fire Code
   
11-1   Adoption by reference
   
11-2   Definitions
   
11-3   Amendments to the Fire Code
   
11-4 — 11-25   Reserved
Article II. Supplemental Regulations
   
11-26   Reserved
   
11-27   Ash
   
11-28   Reserved
   
11-29   Public burning
   
11-30   Violations
   
11-31 — 11-40   Reserved
Article III. Escrow Account Proceeds from Fire Insurance Payments
   
11-41   Statement of purpose
   
11-42   Amount put in escrow
   
11-43   Escrow procedure
   
11-44   Deposit in trust or escrow account; release of proceeds to mortgagee
   
11-45   Release of deposited proceeds to the mortgagee
   
11-46   Release of deposited proceeds to insured
   
11-47   Commingling of funds and use of retained proceeds
   
11-48 — 11-50   Reserved
Article IV. Cost Recovery
   
11-51   Scope and purpose
   
11-52   Responsible parties
   
11-53   Assessable costs
ARTICLE I. FIRE CODE
§ 11-1 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The NFPA 1: Fire Code, 2015 Edition, including its Annex, as promulgated and
published by the National Fire Protection Association, copies of which are on
file in the office of the City Clerk and available for public inspection, is
adopted by reference as the “Fire Code of the City of Allegan, State of
Michigan” (“Fire Code”), and made a part of this chapter as if fully set forth
in this article, subject to the modifications provided in this article and
subject to such further modifications as the city shall adopt from time to
time.
(Ord. 450 of 2016, passed 8-22-2016)
§ 11-2 DEFINITIONS.
   Whenever the words “city”, “jurisdiction” or “governmental unit” are used in
the NFPA 1: Fire Code (2015 Edition), they shall mean the “City of Allegan,
Michigan”. Whenever the word “state” is used in the NFPA 1: Fire Code (2015
Edition), it shall mean the “State of Michigan”.
(Ord. 450 of 2016, passed 8-22-2016)
§ 11-3 AMENDMENTS TO THE FIRE CODE.
   The following sections of NFPA 1: Fire Code (2015 Edition), as adopted are
revised as follows:
   (A)   Chapter 1. The Allegan Fire District Fire Board and its Fire Chief,
and his or her designee; the City of Allegan; the City of Allegan police
department; and any other individual designated by the City Manager as having
code enforcement authority, shall be the Authority Having Jurisdiction (“AHJ”)
as designated in the NFPA 1: Fire Code (2015 Edition).
   (B)   Section 1.16.4.2 Penalties shall read:
      (a)   First violation. Unless a section in this code specifically
provides otherwise, a first violation of any provision of this code is a
municipal civil infraction which shall, upon a determination of responsibility,
be punishable by a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00).
      (b)   Second violation. Unless a section in this code specifically
provides otherwise, a first violation of any provision of this code is a
municipal civil infraction which shall, upon a determination of responsibility,
be punishable by a fine of not less than one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00).
      (c)   Third violation. Unless a section in this code specifically
provides otherwise, a first violation of any provision of this code is a
municipal civil infraction which shall, upon a determination of responsibility,
be punishable by a fine of not less than three hundred dollars ($300.00).
      (d)   Fourth and subsequent violations as misdemeanor. The fourth and any
subsequent violation of any provision of this code is a misdemeanor which
shall, upon conviction, be punishable in accordance with Section 1-13 of this
Code of Ordinances of the City of Allegan.
      (e)   Failure to Comply. Any person who shall continue any work after
having been served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is
directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, punishable as set forth in Section
1-13 of this Code of Ordinances of the City of Allegan.
   (C)   Section 10.10.4.2 Open Fires. The following language shall be added to
section 10.10.4.2:
      (a)   Permitted open fires, excluding recreational, ceremonial, or
cooking fires, shall not allow for burning to occur prior to sunrise or after
sunset.
   (D)   Section 10.10.4.3 Open Fires. The following language shall be added to
section 10.10.4.3:
      (a)   An operational permit is required for the kindling or maintaining
of an open fire on any public or private ground; provided, however, that small
(3’ by 3’ by 3’) recreational or ceremonial fires conducted outdoors, such as
cookouts or campfires, shall not require a permit so long as maintained in
compliance with this section and all other applicable provisions of this code.
   (E)   Section 10.10.4.5 shall read:
      (a)   No burning of plastics, rubber, roofing, automobiles, furniture or
dead animals: nor highly flammable, toxic, or explosive materials; nor
materials that emit dense smoke or anything that interferes with the use of
city streets or the health, safety, comfort or public welfare of the public is
permitted.
(Ord. 450 of 2016, passed 8-22-2016)
§§ 11-4 — 11-25 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II. SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS
§ 11-26 RESERVED.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 11-27 ASH.
   No person shall place or cause to be placed any ashes, clinkers, smoldering
coal or embers or similar residue from any heating appliance in any other than
metal or non-inflammable containers, nor shall such ashes, clinkers and the
like be piled against any combustible floor; provided, however, such ashes may
be placed in paper cartons or boxes when placed out-of-doors to await the
pickup of such ashes, clinkers and the like, with other household debris. When
such ashes and clinkers are placed out-of-doors in containers as herein
provided, such containers must be placed at least three feet from any wood
wall, fence, building or combustible material.
(Ord. 361, passed 4-8-2002)
§ 11-28 RESERVED.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 11-29 PUBLIC BURNING.
   No person, regardless of whether such person shall have obtained an open
burning permit pursuant to the Fire Code, shall burn or cause to be burned on
any of the paved streets or alleys of the city, any leaves, brush, dried or
decayed vegetation or other type of household debris or to build or cause to be
built any bonfires on any of the streets or alleys.
(Ord. 361, passed 4-8-2002)
§ 11-30 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Unless a section in this article specifically provides otherwise, a
first violation of any provision of this article is a municipal civil
infraction which shall, upon a determination of responsibility, be punishable
by a fine of not less than $50.
   (B)   Unless a section in this chapter specifically provides otherwise, a
second violation of any provision of this chapter is a municipal civil
infraction which shall, upon a determination of responsibility, be punishable
by a fine of not less than $150.
   (C)   Unless a section in this chapter specifically provides otherwise, a
third violation of any provision of this chapter is a municipal civil
infraction which shall, upon a determination of responsibility, be punishable
by a fine of not less than $300.
   (D)   In addition to a fine, a person determined to be responsible for a
municipal civil infraction under this chapter shall be assessed the cost of
prosecution of not less than $9, but not to exceed $500. In addition to the
penalties provided by this section, the district court shall have equitable
jurisdiction to enforce any judgment, writ or order necessary to enforce any
provision, the violation of which is a municipal civil infraction, including,
but not limited to, abatement of the violating condition or the granting of any
injunctive relief.
   (E)   The fourth and any subsequent violation of any provision of this
chapter is a misdemeanor which shall, upon conviction, be punishable in
accordance with § 1-13 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 361, passed 4-8-2002)
§§ 11-31 — 11-40 RESERVED.
ARTICLE III. ESCROW ACCOUNT PROCEEDS FROM FIRE INSURANCE PAYMENTS
§ 11-41 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this article is to put into effect escrow procedure
provisions for insured real property in accordance with Public Act 495 of 1980,
being MCL § 500.2845.
(Ord. 407, passed 7-14-2008)
§ 11-42 AMOUNT PUT IN ESCROW.
   When an insured files a claim with an insurer for a loss to insured real
property due to fire or explosion and a final settlement is reached, the
insurer shall withhold from payment 25% of the actual cash value of the insured
real property at the time of the loss or 15% of the final settlement, whichever
is less. Upon withholding of the percentage, the insurer shall give notice of
the withholding to the City Treasurer.
(Ord. 407, passed 7-14-2008)
§ 11-43 ESCROW PROCEDURE.
   The city shall use the following procedure to escrow and retain the amount
withheld by the insurer.
   (A)   The Fire Chief, City Manager or Building Official shall prepare an
affidavit stating that the damaged insured structure violates the building code
provisions under §§ 7-36 and 7-37 of this chapter. The affidavit shall require
the escrow of the withheld amount as surety for the damaged structure’s repair,
replacement or removal.
   (B)   In the case of a settlement, the Fire Chief or Building Official shall
send the affidavit to the insurer, the insured and any mortgagees. Upon receipt
of the affidavit, the insurer shall forward the withheld amount to the City
Treasurer.
   (C)   In the case of a judgment, the Fire Chief or Building Official shall
send the affidavit to the insurer, the insured, any mortgagees and the count in
which the judgment was entered. The city shall then make a motion to the court
for the withheld amount to be transmitted to the City Treasurer.
   (D)   Within 30 days after the escrowing of the withheld amount, the city
may apply to the circuit court for declaratory relief to establish its rights
to the escrow proceeds. The city shall show that the health, safety and welfare
of its inhabitants will be jeopardized unless such proceeds are retained. If
declaratory relief is granted, the court shall issue an order permitting the
city to retain the proceeds as requested. If the city fails to apply for
declaratory relief within the 30-day period, or if the declaratory relief is
denied, the city shall immediately return the proceeds held on escrow to the
insured.
(Ord. 407, passed 7-14-2008)
§ 11-44 DEPOSIT IN TRUST OR ESCROW ACCOUNT; RELEASE OF PROCEEDS TO MORTGAGEE.
   Upon receipt from an insurer, the City Treasurer shall record the
information and the date of receipt of the money. The City Treasurer shall then
immediately deposit the money into a trust or escrow account established for
purposes of this article. The account may be interest bearing and the city may
retain any interest earned to defray expenses incurred under this article.
(Ord. 407, passed 7-14-2008)
§ 11-45 RELEASE OF DEPOSITED PROCEEDS TO THE MORTGAGEE.
   If the mortgage on the insured property is in default, the City Treasurer
shall give the first mortgagee any or all of the policy proceeds received by
the city with respect to that property to the extent necessary to satisfy any
outstanding lien of the mortgagee. The City Treasurer shall release the
proceeds only after written request by a first mortgagee of the property and no
later than ten days after the receipt of the written request.
(Ord. 407, passed 7-14-2008)
§ 11-46 RELEASE OF DEPOSITED PROCEEDS TO INSURED.
   (A)   The City Treasurer shall immediately forward the insurance policy
proceeds to the insured when the insured shows the city’s Fire Chief or City
Manager reasonable proof that:
      (1)   The damaged or destroyed portions of the insured structures have
been repaired or replaced, except to the extent that the amount withheld is
needed to complete repair or replacement; or
      (2)   The damaged or destroyed structure and all remnants of the
structure have been removed from the land on which the structure or the
remnants were situated, in compliance with the Building Code.
   (B)   If the insured has hired a contractor to perform repaid, replacement
or removal services upon the damaged property, the City Treasurer shall
immediately and directly forward the insurance policy proceeds to the
contractor. But, the City Treasurer shall forward the funds to the contractor
only after the insured has shown reasonable proof to the fire chief or city
manager of the existing agreement between the insured and contractor.
   (C)   Reasonable proof includes:
      (1)   Originals or copies of pertinent contracts, invoices, receipts and
other similar papers evidencing the work performed or to be performed and the
materials used or to be used by all contractors;
      (2)   An affidavit by the contractor who has performed the greatest
amount of work on the structure or property. The contractor shall attach all
pertinent contracts, invoices and receipts and shall swear that these attached
papers correctly indicate the nature and extent of the work performed to date;
and
      (3)   An inspection of the insured real property to verify that repair,
replacement or clearing has been completed in compliance with this section.
(Ord. 407, passed 7-14-2008)
§ 11-47 COMMINGLING OF FUNDS AND USE OF RETAINED PROCEEDS.
   The City Treasurer shall establish a separate account to keep the money
deposited into trust or escrow under this article. The City Treasurer shall
keep this account separate from the city’s funds. But, if reasonable proof is
not shown to the necessary parties within 445 days after the City Treasurer
received the policy proceeds, the city shall use the proceeds to secure, repair
or demolish the damaged structure and clear the property in questions so that
the structure and property are in compliance with the Building Code provisions
under §§ 7-36 and 7-37 of this code of ordinances. The City Treasurer shall
return any unused portion of the retained proceeds to the insured.
(Ord. 407, passed 7-14-2008)
§§ 11-48 — 11-50 RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV. COST RECOVERY
§ 11-51 SCOPE AND PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this article is to allow the Allegan Fire District Fire
Department, jointly funded by the city, to recover costs incurred to provide
certain emergency services provided within the Allegan Fire District’s response
area and to provide for its enforcement. This article provides for charges for
certain services, defines responsibility for such charges, clarifies that any
party benefitting from Allegan Fire District’s services shall be liable for
payment of services rendered, allows for billing through the Allegan Fire
District for other departments or agencies providing assistance within the
Allegan Fire District’s response area.
(Ord. 386, passed 6-26-2006)
§ 11-52 RESPONSIBLE PARTIES.
   The district shall bill persons, entities or corporations determined to be
responsible for certain assessable services, as defined in this article,
provided by or through the Allegan Fire District. The following beneficiaries
or other parties shall also be jointly and severally liable for any such
billing; provided however, this list does not create any right of the
responsible party to obtain any indemnification or contribution from the
following parties, but only creates rights for the Allegan Fire District to
collect from such parties.
   (A)   Any party benefitting from such services shall be jointly and
severally liable for payment of the final charge for such services rendered.
   (B)   When a particular service rendered directly benefits more than one
person or property, the owner of each property so benefitted and/or each person
so benefitted, if property protection is not involved, shall each be jointly
and severally liable for the payment of the full charge for services.
   (C)   Such beneficiaries shall also be responsible jointly and severally for
charges.
   (D)   Parents and/or guardians shall be responsible for payment for
assessable services incurred by minors who caused the condition or event
leading to the charges.
(Ord. 386, passed 6-26-2006)
§ 11-53 ASSESSABLE COSTS.
   For purposes of this article, costs associated with the following actions or
services shall be “assessable costs” and include costs incurred by the city
include, but are not limited to, materials, equipment, manpower, administration
and other costs incurred by the Allegan Fire District, by departments of
Allegan City, Allegan Township or by outside sources or contractors; costs
resulting from injuries or damage to people or property which arising from
responses to the situation to which the Allegan Fire District responded; and
any other costs incurred by the Allegan Fire District, Allegan City and/or
Allegan Township arising from or related to that situation. Without limiting
the generality of the foregoing, the following are specific examples, but not
an exclusive list of such costs:
   (A)   To the extent they may be permitted to be recovered by law, costs
incurred to halt, abate, remediate or remedy any spill, containment or release
of any hazardous materials and any liabilities resulting from such activity;
   (B)   Extraordinary costs incurred to extinguish or fight any fire in or at
a structure or on a property, including, but not limited to, overhauling
equipment, fire extinguishers and foam. To include any demolition costs if the
structure must be demolished to protect the public safety following the fire,
and any liabilities resulting from such;
   (C)   Costs incurred in connection with a utility line or facility failure
or problem and any liabilities resulting from such;
   (D)   Costs incurred in connection with any water rescue or recovery attempt
and any liabilities resulting from such;
   (E)   Costs incurred in connection with any technical rescue unit and any
liabilities resulting from such. Technical rescue unit means the equipment and/
or specially trained rescue and/or recovery team provided by governmental or
private emergency response service to provide emergency service in situations
involving a technical rescue and/or recovery situation) and any liabilities
resulting from such; and
   (F)   Costs associated with a motor vehicle accident, extrication of
individuals from a vehicle, or motor vehicle fire, including, but not limited
to, “spill cleanup”, foam, fire extinguishers, oil dry and any liabilities
resulting from such incidents.
(Ord. 386, passed 6-26-2006)
CHAPTER 12: GARBAGE AND OTHER SOLID WASTE
Section
Article I. General Provisions
   
12-1   Definitions
   
12-2   Enforcement
   
12-3   Regulations
   
12-4 — 12-10   Reserved
Article II. Downtown Garbage Collection Program
   
12-11   Definitions
   
12-12   Participation, services and prohibited uses of downtown receptacles
   
12-13   Program fees
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 12-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   BULK ITEM. An item of garbage (e.g., a worn-out appliance of furniture item)
that is over 60 pounds in weight or over four feet in length, width or height.
   GARBAGE. The items that people use or generate and then dispose of or
recycle. Examples include product packaging, furniture, clothing, bottles, food
scraps, newspapers, appliances and the like. GARBAGE does not include yard
waste or downed trees or tree limbs.
   NEIGHBORHOOD RESIDENTIAL PARCEL. A parcel containing a single-family
dwelling, a two-family dwelling or a multiple-family dwelling with no more than
four dwelling units.
   NON-RESIDENTIAL PARCEL. Any parcel other than a neighborhood residential
parcel, including, but not limited to, a parcel containing a commercial use,
industrial use or multiple-family dwelling with more than four dwelling units.
   YARD WASTE. Items like leaves, grass clippings, vegetable or other garden
debris, shrubbery or brush or tree trimmings.
(Ord. 513, passed 10-23-2023)
§ 12-2 ENFORCEMENT.
   The City Manager, in order to protect the public health and safety, is
authorized to implement and enforce the provisions of this chapter and is
hereby given control of the collection of garbage and other solid waste within
the city. Further, the City Manager shall have the authority to make
regulations concerning the collection of garbage and other solid waste as the
City Manager finds necessary; provided that, such regulations are not contrary
to the provisions of this chapter. Any person who violates any such regulation
or any provision of this chapter shall be responsible for a municipal civil
infraction. In addition, any violation of this chapter is hereby determined to
be a nuisance per se, and the city may obtain an order from a court of
competent jurisdiction ordering the abatement of such nuisance and, if the
danger to the health, safety and/or welfare of the public or persons at or near
the property is imminent, the city may enter upon the premises without a court
order, for the limited purpose of abating the nuisance.
(Ord. 513, passed 10-23-2023)
§ 12-3 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Accumulation on premises. It shall be unlawful to allow garbage, yard
waste, downed trees or tree limbs or any other solid waste to accumulate on a
premises within the city for more than seven days.
   (B)   Providing for collection. The owner, occupant and/or any other person
who manages or is otherwise in control of any premises within the city shall
provide for the collection and disposal of garbage and other solid waste as
necessary to avoid a violation of subsection (A) above.
   (C)   Neighborhood residential regulations. The following regulations apply
to neighborhood residential parcels.
      (1)   Garbage shall be stored in a portable water-tight and vermin-proof
receptacle of substantial construction with handles and a tight-fitting cover.
Receptacles must have a capacity of at least ten gallons, but not more than 96
gallons.
      (2)   Dumpsters and other receptacles exceeding 96 gallons are prohibited
on neighborhood residential premises, except when necessary to dispose of
construction debris from work being performed on the premises pursuant to a
valid building permit.
      (3)   Garbage receptacles shall generally be stored in an appropriate
location in the side or rear yard of the property, except as provided in
subsection (C)(4) below. Receptacles shall not be stored in the front yard.
      (4)   Garbage receptacles may be set out for collection in the right-of-
way after 8:00 a.m. on the day preceding collection. After such receptacles are
emptied, they shall, on the same day collections are made, be removed from the
street right-of-way no later than 8:00 p.m.
   (D)   Non-residential regulations. The following regulations apply to non-
residential parcels.
      (1)   Non-residential parcels must be equipped with a sufficient
receptacle or receptacles to accommodate the garbage generated on-site.
      (2)   Such receptacles shall be stored on the premises they serve and
shall be at least 25 feet from the road, behind a primary or accessory
structure or reasonably enclosed within a opaque fence or barrier.
      (3)   Where portable receptacles are used, such receptacles may set out
for collection in the right-of-way after 8:00 a.m. on the day preceding
collection. After such receptacles are emptied, they shall, on the same day
collections are made, be removed from the street right-of-way no later than 8:
00 p.m.
   (E)   Bulk items.
      (1)   To the extent a premise is served by a provider that offers bulk-
item collection, such items may be set out for collection in the right-of-way
for no more than 24 hours.
      (2)   No person shall deposit bulk items in the public rights-of-way, or
upon the traveled portion of any public street, alley or sidewalk or within any
public place, except as permitted by this subsection (E).
   (F)   Prohibited waste disposal. It shall be unlawful for any person to
place any material in a receptacle which might endanger the collection
personnel, or to deposit or deliver to a disposal site any hazardous material
or waste material which would be detrimental to the normal operation of
collection, incineration, recycling or disposal, such as gaseous, solid or
liquid poison, dead animals, ammunition, explosives, flammable liquid,
undrained garbage of a liquid or semi-liquid nature, whether in containers or
not, concrete, dirt, automobile or equipment parts, or any material that
possesses heat sufficient to ignite any other collected materials.
(Ord. 513, passed 10-23-2023)
§§ 12-4 — 12-10 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II. DOWNTOWN GARBAGE COLLECTION PROGRAM
§ 12-11 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   DESIGNATED DOWNTOWN COLLECTOR. A person or entity awarded a contract by the
city to engage in the business of collecting garbage from designated downtown
receptacles pursuant to the designated downtown collector contract.
   DESIGNATED DOWNTOWN COLLECTOR CONTRACT. An agreement between the city and a
garbage collector to serve as the designated downtown collector.
   DESIGNATED DOWNTOWN RECEPTACLE. A garbage receptacle owned or under the
control of the city that may be used for the disposal and collection of garbage
originating from any downtown generation site.
   DOWNTOWN GENERATION SITE. Any parcel located in the downtown program area or
any parcel that opts into the downtown garbage collection program pursuant to
§ 12-12(B)(2) of this chapter.
   DOWNTOWN PROGRAM AREA. The area between Cutler Street on the north, Chestnut
Street on the west, Kalamazoo River and Second and State Streets on the south
and Kalamazoo River on the east.
(Ord. 513, passed 10-23-2023)
§ 12-12 PARTICIPATION, SERVICES AND PROHIBITED USES OF DOWNTOWN RECEPTACLES.
   (A)   Program services. Commencing on the date set forth in the designated
downtown collector contract, the city shall provide for the routine collection
and disposal of garbage originating from downtown generation sites pursuant to
the terms and conditions of such contract.
   (B)   Program participation.
      (1)   Mandatory participation. The owners of all parcels within the
downtown program area shall participate in the downtown garbage collection
program by complying with the provisions of this article and any applicable
terms of this article. No owner may opt out of the program. However, the owner
of a downtown generation site may apply for a waiver of the program usage fee
subject to the standards and procedures provided in §
12-13(B) of this chapter.
      (2)   Voluntary participation. The owner of any parcel on Hubbard or
Trowbridge Street within one block of the downtown program area, that is
smaller than one-half acre or is owned by the city or Allegan District Library
that wishes to participate in the program may opt in by filing a written
application with the City Clerk, on a form available in the City Clerk’s
office. Opt-in participants may withdraw from the program at any time by
submitting written notice to the City Clerk.
   (C)   Program benefits. Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter,
a property owner’s participation in the downtown garbage collection program
shall satisfy any obligation the owner would otherwise have to provide for on-
premises garbage storage and collection.
   (D)   Non-exclusivity. The provisions of this article shall not prohibit
property owners in the downtown program area from obtaining garbage collection
services from persons or companies other than the designated downtown
collector. However, the procurement of any such additional services shall not
excuse the property owner from participation in the program or from the payment
of any applicable fees imposed thereunder, except as provided in §
12-13(B) of this chapter.
   (E)   Restrictions on use of designated downtown receptacles. It shall be
unlawful to do any of the following:
      (1)   Deposit a bulk item in a designated downtown receptacle;
      (2)   Deposit garbage, bulk items or any other solid waste that was
generated outside the downtown program area (or outside of an otherwise
participating parcel) into a designated downtown receptacle; and/or
      (3)   Deposit an item into a designated downtown receptacle in violation
of rules promulgated by the City Manager pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 513, passed 10-23-2023)
§ 12-13 PROGRAM FEES.
   (A)   Fees established by resolution. Each program participant shall pay
applicable fees as established by resolution of the City Council from time to
time, which shall consist of two components:
      (1)   Ready-to-serve fee. A fee covering the fixed costs of the downtown
garbage collection program including administration costs, the costs of
obtaining and maintaining the designated downtown receptacles program design
and implementation costs and the like; and
      (2)   Usage fee. A fee designed to be proportionate to the average
garbage disposal needs of each participating parcel based on the use of such
parcel. The resolution establishing program fees shall delineate different fee
amounts for various types of land uses.
   (B)   Waiver of usage fees. The owner of a downtown generation site may
apply for a waiver of the usage fee (but not the ready-to-serve fee) by
submitting a written application to the City Clerk on a form available in the
City Clerk’s office. The City Manager shall review such applications and shall
grant a requested waiver upon finding that:
      (1)   The applicant’s parcel is non-residential parcel as described
above;
      (2)   The applicant’s parcel has a suitable location for the placement of
a private garbage disposal receptable of sufficient size to accommodate the
amount of garbage likely to be generated on-site. The location must be screened
from view from pedestrians on the public street and must be readily accessible
by a private garbage collection service, without the need to relocate the
receptacle for purposes of collection; and
      (3)   The applicant has arranged for, or is proposing to arrange for, a
private garbage disposal service that will collect garbage from the receptacle
at regular and appropriate intervals.
   (C)   Billing. Program fees shall be billed by the city’s utility billing
department through its usual billing procedures. All bills for solid waste
collection and disposal services must be paid within 30 days from the date of
the bill. Any bill not so paid on a timely basis will be subject to the
addition of a penalty of 1.5% per month of the total amount payable.
   (D)   Delinquent charges as single-lot special assessments. If any account
remains delinquent for more than 30 days, the city may levy a single-lot
special assessment for the amounts owed pursuant to Chapter 27, Article II,
Division 3, of the city code.
(Ord. 513, passed 10-23-2023)
CHAPTER 13: RESERVED
CHAPTER 14: MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
Article I. General
   
14-1   Definitions
Article II. Permanent Business Types
   
14-2   Authorization required
   
14-3   Application process
   
14-4   Relocation of businesses, transfers of licenses and expansion of grow
operations
   
14-5   General regulations
   
14-6   Violations and penalties
   
14-7 — 14-9   Reserved
Article III. Temporary Marijuana Events
   
14-10   Temporary marijuana events prohibited
ARTICLE I. GENERAL
§ 14-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   CO-LOCATED BUSINESS. A marijuana business with two or more types of state
operating licenses operating within a single location.
   DESIGNATED CONSUMPTION ESTABLISHMENT. A business licensed as a designated
consumption facility under the MRTMA.
   EXCESS MARIJUANA GROWER. A business licensed as an excess marijuana grower
under the MRTMA.
   GROWER. A business licensed as a grower under either the MMMFLA, the MRTMA
or both.
   LARA. The Department of Licensing and Regulatory Affairs and any successor
agency to the Department.
   LOCATION-SPECIFIC STEP. The portion of the application for a state operating
license under the MMMFLA and the MRTMA that follows the pre-qualification step
and pertains to the details of the proposed location.
   MARIJUANA. Depending on the context, the same thing as MARIHUANA, as defined
in the MMMFLA, the MRTMA or both.
   MARIJUANA BUSINESS or BUSINESS. A business involving one or more licenses
issued under the MMMFLA, the MRTMA or both.
   MICROBUSINESS. A business a business licensed as a marijuana microbusiness
under the MRTMA.
   MMMA. The Michigan Medical Marihuana Act, 2008 IL 1, as amended, being MCL
§§ 333.26424 et seq.
   MMMFLA. The Michigan Medical Marihuana Facilities Licensing Act, Public Act
281 of 2016, as amended, being MCL §§ 333.27102 et seq.
   MRTMA. The Michigan Regulation and Taxation of Marihuana Act, 2018 IL 1, as
amended, being MCL §§ 333.27951 et seq.
   PRE-QUALIFICATION STEP. The portion of the application for a state operating
license under the MMMFLA or MRTMA pertaining to the applicant’s financial
background and the criminal history of the applicant and other associated
persons.
   PROCESSOR. A business licensed as a processor under either the MMMFLA, the
MRTMA or both.
   PROVISIONING CENTER. A business licensed as a provisioning center under the
MMMFLA. A non- commercial location used by a primary caregiver to assist a
qualifying patient connected to the caregiver through LARA’s marijuana
registration process in accordance with the MMMA is not a PROVISIONING CENTER
for purposes of this section.
   RETAILER. A person licensed under the MRTMA to obtain marijuana from
marijuana establishments and to sell or otherwise transfer marijuana to
marijuana establishments and to individuals who are 21 years of age or older.
   SAFETY COMPLIANCE BUSINESS. A person licensed as a safety compliance
facility under the MMMFLA, the MRTMA or both.
   SECURE TRANSPORTER. A person licensed as a secured transporter under the
MMMFLA, the MRTMA or both.
   STACKED GROWER LICENSES. Two or more grower licenses issued to a single
person to under the MMMFLA or MRTMA.
   STATE OPERATING LICENSE or LICENSE. A license that is issued under the
MMMFLA or MRTMA to operate as a grower, processor, secure transporter,
provisioning center, retailer, safety compliance facility or microbusiness.
   TEMPORARY MARIJUANA EVENT. An event where the on-site sale or consumption of
marijuana products, or both, are authorized at the location indicated on a
state operating license issued under the MRTMA during the specified dates.
(Ord. 485, passed 3-9-2020)
ARTICLE II. PERMANENT BUSINESS TYPES
§ 14-2 AUTHORIZATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   The following marijuana businesses may be authorized to operate in the
city, pursuant to this division: growers; excess growers; microbusinesses;
processors; provisioning centers; retailers; safety compliance facilities; and
secure transporters. Designated consumption facilities are prohibited in the
city.
   (B)   No business listed in subsection (A) above may operate in the city
without a final authorization granted by the City Clerk pursuant to § 14-3 of
this chapter. A proposed business is not eligible for a state operating license
until the Clerk grants final authorization.
(Ord. 485, passed 3-9-2020)
§ 14-3 APPLICATION PROCESS.
   (A)   Submission. A person may apply for authorization to operate a
marijuana business listed in § 14-2 of this chapter within the city by
submitting the following items to the city on a standardized application form
prepared by the City Clerk. These items may be submitted to the Clerk before
applying for requisite zoning approvals:
      (1)   A copy of official paperwork issued by LARA indicating that the
applicant has successfully completed the prequalification step of the
application for a state operating license;
      (2)   A signed statement from the applicant indicating:
         (a)   The current property owner of record for the proposed business
location;
         (b)   If the current property owner is different than the applicant
(e.g., where the applicant has a lease, option, land contract or other future
interest in the property), the property owner’s signature is required in
addition to the applicant’s. Only one application shall be submitted per
property. Co-located businesses may be requested on a single application;
         (c)   The address, tax identification number and zoning designation of
the proposed business location;
         (d)   The type or types of state operating licenses that the applicant
is seeking at the proposed business location (e.g., medical grower, adult-use
grower, provisioning center and the like); and
         (e)   If the proposed business involves stacked grower licenses, the
number of licenses sought.
      (3)   An advance of the annual administrative fee established in § 31-5
(D) of this chapter.
   (B)   Initial receipt period set by resolution. For provisioning centers,
retailers and microbusinesses, the city shall establish, by resolution, an
initial application receipt period at least one month in length.
   (C)   Clerk action upon receipt. The City Clerk will accept and receive any
application that includes the required items listed above, unless the city has
already received an application for the same location (other than an
application for a proposed co-located business) from another applicant. Upon
receiving a complete application, the Clerk will time- and date-stamp the
application and inform the applicant of the date, time and location of any
drawing that may be conducted pursuant to subsections (D) and (E) below.
   (D)   Conditional authorization. The City Clerk will conditionally authorize
applications as follows.
      (1)   If, after close of business on the end date of the initial receipt
period, the city has received complete applications for two or more locations
proposed as provisioning centers, retailers or microbusinesses such that, if
all were granted, there would be a violation of the 1,000-foot separation
requirement in § 1707.33 of the Zoning Ordinance, the Clerk will conduct a
drawing or drawings to randomly select one or more of those applications for
conditional authorization. The drawings shall be conducted in accordance with
subsection (E) below. Additionally, any application received during the initial
receipt period for a location not within 1,000 feet of another location
proposed as a provisioning center, retailer or microbusiness shall be
conditionally authorized immediately following the initial receipt period. The
city will reimburse the advance of the annual administrative fee paid by any
applicant that is not selected in the drawing process.
      (2)   After the initial receipt period, the Clerk will continue to accept
complete applications for provisioning centers, retailers or microbusinesses
and will conditionally authorize such application if the proposed location is
not within 1,000 feet of another conditionally authorized location for a
provisioning center, retailer or microbusiness.
      (3)   For any business type other than provisioning centers, retailers or
microbusinesses, the clerk will conditionally authorize complete applications
upon receipt.
   (E)   Drawing procedure. The drawings described in subsection (D)(1) above
will be noticed and conducted as a public meeting. The first drawing shall
include all applications with proposed locations that are within 1,000 feet of
a location proposed in another application, and will randomly select one of all
such applications for conditional authorization. Any application with a
proposed location within 1,000 feet of the location proposed in the selected
application will then be eliminated from contention. If there are any
applications remaining in contention following this elimination procedure, an
additional drawing will then be conducted. This process will continue until
there are no remaining applications in contention. For purposes of the drawing,
proposed co-located businesses shall be given a single entry in each drawing.
   (F)   Final authorization. The Clerk will grant final authorization for the
business if the conditionally authorized applicant:
      (1)   Obtains all required zoning approvals for the business within 12
months of receiving conditional authorization; and
      (2)   Obtains the requisite state operating license within 18 months of
receiving conditional authorization.
   (G)   Expiration or withdrawal of conditional authorization.
      (1)   If the applicant for a conditionally authorized business fails to
satisfy any of the deadlines established above in subsection (F) above, the
conditional authorization will expire. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the City
Council may, by resolution, grant a three-month extension to either deadline if
the applicant demonstrates to the satisfaction of the City Council that there
is good cause for doing so.
      (2)   A conditionally authorized business may withdrawal its pending
application at any time by sending a written notice to the City Clerk.
      (3)   Upon the expiration or termination of a conditionally application,
the advance of the annual administrative fee will not be returned to the
conditionally authorized business.
      (4)   Whenever a conditional authorization that was issued through the
drawing process in subsection (D)(1) above expires or is withdrawn the
applicant, the city shall:
         (a)   Notify all applicants whose applications were eliminated from
the drawing by the selection of the expired or withdrawn application;
         (b)   Post a public notice that the application has expired or has
been withdrawn at City Hall and on the city’s website; and
         (c)   For 45 days following the expiration of the application, process
any application for a proposed provisioning center, retailer and microbusiness
located within 1,000 feet of the location that was the subject to the expired
or withdrawn application in the same manner as applications received during the
initial receipt period. In other words, the City Clerk shall conduct an
additional drawing to the extent necessary to select between applications
received during the 45-day period that, if simultaneously granted, would result
in a violation of the 1,000-foot separation requirement in § 1707.33 of the
Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. 485, passed 3-9-2020; Ord. 492, passed 6-14-2021)
§ 14-4 RELOCATION OF BUSINESSES, TRANSFERS OF LICENSES AND EXPANSION OF GROW
OPERATIONS.
   (A)   An existing business may be moved to a new location in the city,
subject to applicable zoning regulations and required approvals by LARA.
   (B)   A license for an existing business may be transferred to a new
licensee that intends to continue operating at the same location, subject to
approval by LARA.
   (C)   No further city approvals are required for the relocations and license
transfers described in this section.
   (D)   A licensee may expand growing operations by upgrading the class of the
license (e.g., from Class A to Class B, or from Class B to Class C, or from
Class C to excess grower), or by obtaining a stacked license. To do so, the
licensee must submit a new application to the city satisfying the requirements
in § 14-3(A) of this chapter, which shall include payment of any additional
annual administrative fee that will be owed due to the addition of stacked
licenses. The application shall be conditionally approved upon receipt of all
required materials.
(Ord. 485, passed 3-9-2020)
§ 14-5 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Submission of supplementary information to the city. Applicants who
have received conditional authorization and licensees operating in the city
must provide the Clerk with copies of all documents submitted to LARA in
connection with the license application, subsequent renewal applications or
investigations conducted by LARA. The documents must be provided to the Clerk
within seven days of submission to LARA and may be submitted by electronic
media unless otherwise requested by the Clerk.
   (B)   Compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Marijuana businesses
must be operated in compliance with the MMMFLA and/or MRTMA, as applicable, all
applicable rules promulgated by LARA, all conditions of the business’s state
operating licenses, and all applicable ordinances and codes, including the
city’s Zoning Ordinance. Compliance with the foregoing does not create immunity
from prosecution by federal authorities or other authorities of competent
jurisdiction.
   (C)   No consumption on premises. No smoking, inhalation or other
consumption of marijuana shall take place on or within the premises of any
marijuana business approved under this division, except for designated
marijuana consumption establishments. It shall be a violation of this chapter
to engage in such behavior, or for a person to knowingly allow such behavior to
occur. Evidence of all of the following gives rise to a rebuttable presumption
that a person allowed the consumption of marijuana on or within a premises is
in violation of this section:
      (1)   The person had control over the premises or the portion of the
premises where the marijuana was consumed;
      (2)   The person knew or reasonably should have known that the marijuana
was consumed; and
      (3)   The person failed to take corrective action.
   (D)   Annual fee. A licensee must pay a fee an annual fee, set by resolution
of the City Council, for each license used within the city in order to help
defray administrative and enforcement costs. The initial annual fee(s) must be
paid to the Clerk when the application for approval is submitted. In each
subsequent year, fees are due on the date on which the licensee submits an
application to LARA for renewal of the state operating license.
(Ord. 485, passed 3-9-2020)
§ 14-6 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Request for revocation of state operating license. If, at any time, an
authorized business violates this chapter or any other applicable ordinance,
the city may request that LARA revoke or refrain from renewing the business’s
state operating license.
   (B)   Civil infraction. It is unlawful to disobey, neglect or refuse to
comply with any provision of this chapter. A violation of this chapter is a
municipal civil infraction and a nuisance per se. Each day the violation
continues shall be a separate offense. Notwithstanding any other provision of
this chapter to the contrary, violators shall be subject to a fine of up to
$500.
   (C)   Other remedies. The foregoing sanctions are in addition to the city’s
right to seek other appropriate and proper remedies, including actions in law
or equity.
(Ord. 485, passed 3-9-2020)
§§ 14-7 — 14-9 RESERVED.
ARTICLE III. TEMPORARY MARIJUANA EVENTS
§ 14-10 TEMPORARY MARIJUANA EVENTS PROHIBITED.
   Temporary marijuana events are prohibited in the city.
(Ord. 485, passed 3-9-2020)
CHAPTER 15: NOISE
Section
   
15-1   Findings and purpose
   
15-2   Noise disturbances prohibited
   
15-3   Exceptions
   
15-4   Variances
   
15-5   Enforcement
§ 15-1 FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
   The city determines that excessive noise, sound and vibration constitute a
hazard to the public health and welfare. Excessive noise also adversely affects
the comfort and repose of persons in the community, adversely affects the
quality of life and adversely affects the desirability of the community as a
place to live, work or recreate. The purpose of this article is to provide
regulations to restrict and abate certain loud, unnecessary, unnatural or
unusual noises and other disturbances.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 15-2 NOISE DISTURBANCES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   General noise disturbances. No person shall make, cause to be made or
allow to be made from a premises under such person’s control, any sound that
unreasonably disturbs a person of normal sensitivities or unreasonably
interferes with the peaceful enjoyment of the premises of another, where such
sound:
      (1)   Can be heard due to the volume or intensity of the sound; and/or
      (2)   Can be heard distinctly and discretely above the ambient sound of
the surrounding area.
   (B)   Loud speech or screaming after hours. No person shall make any noise
by human speech so as to be plainly audible, for a period of at least five
minutes, at a distance of 25 feet in any direction between the hours of 10:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m., as measured from the property line if the sound emanates
from private property or as measured from the source of the sound in other
circumstances.
   (C)   Radios, televisions, musical instruments and similar devices. No
person shall operate or play, or permit the operation or playing of, any radio,
television, phonograph, drum, musical instrument, stereo (including vehicle
stereos), loudspeaker or similar device which emits sound other than the speech
of the operator in such a manner as to:
      (1)   Be plainly audible at a distance of 25 feet in any direction
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., as measured from the property
line if the sound emanates from private property or as measured from the source
of the sound in other circumstances; or
      (2)   Be plainly audible at a distance of 50 feet in any direction
between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m., as measured from the property
line if the sound emanates from private property or as measured from the source
of the sound in other circumstances.
   (D)   Heavy equipment. Except for work on essential services, no person
shall use any pile driver, shovel, hammer, derrick, hoist, tractor, roller or
other construction apparatus between 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. of the following
day, within 600 feet of a residential area.
   (E)   Loading and unloading. No person shall load, unload, open, close or
otherwise handle boxes, crates, containers, building materials, garbage trucks,
garbage cans or similar objects between 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of the
following day in such a manner as to be plainly audible at a distance of 50
feet in any direction, as measured from the property line if the sound emanates
from private property or as measured from the source of the sound in other
circumstances.
   (F)   Stationary non-emergency signaling devices. No person shall permit the
sounding of any electronically amplified signal from any stationary bell,
chime, siren, whistle or similar device for non-emergency purposes. The
sounding of bells or chimes to signify the time of day (between 7:00 a.m. and
9:00 p.m.) shall be exempt from this subsection (F), so long as the sounding
occurs consistently at scheduled intervals not more than once per hour.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 15-3 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Emergencies. This chapter shall not apply to creating sound for the
purpose of alerting persons to the existence of an emergency or to creating
sound in the performance of emergency work.
   (B)   Lawn maintenance equipment. The use of customary lawn maintenance
equipment (such as lawn mowers, leaf blowers and chainsaws), if in good working
order, on residential property between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.
shall not constitute a violation of this chapter.
   (C)   Residential snow removal. The use of snow blowers, if in good working
order, on residential property shall not constitute a violation of this chapter
when:
      (1)   The use occurs between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.; and/or
      (2)   The use occurs at any time of day or night, when there has been
more than six inches of snowfall within the last 24 hours.
   (D)   Commercial snow removal. Snow removal from commercial or industrial
property by any internal combustion device is permitted at all times if the
snow removal equipment has a properly functioning muffler. However, commercial
or industrial property within 600 feet of a residence shall not have snow
removal undertaken by commercial equipment in excess of 15,000 gvw between the
hours of 9:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. the following day, unless:
      (1)   Permission is granted by the occupant of that residence;
      (2)   The establishment opens for business at or before 7:00 a.m.; or
      (3)   There has been more than 6 inches of snowfall within the last 12
hours.
   (E)   Municipal, school district and hospital equipment. This chapter shall
not apply to sound made by municipal street and sidewalk maintenance equipment
or snow removal equipment used by the city, the county, a school district, a
hospital or their agents.
   (F)   Community-wide events. This chapter shall not apply to sounds produced
at community-wide events hosted by the city or a school (such as parades,
festivals or outdoor sporting events), or to sound produced as part of events
held at the County Fairgrounds.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 15-4 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Application process. Any person seeking a variance from the
requirements of this chapter may file an application with the City Clerk. The
application shall contain information which demonstrates that bringing the
source of sound or activity for which the variance is sought into compliance
with this chapter would constitute an unreasonable hardship on the applicant,
on the community or on other persons. Upon receiving such application, the City
Clerk shall post a notice of the application at City Hall and on the city’s
website and shall mail written notice to all property owners owning land within
100 feet of the boundaries of the subject parcel. Any individual who claims to
be adversely affected by the allowance of the variance may file a statement to
that effect with the City Clerk, containing any information to support his or
her claim.
   (B)   Consideration by City Manager. The City Manager shall consider
variance applications after allowing reasonable time for the filing of public
comments, and in doing so shall balance the interests of the applicant, the
community and other persons of not granting the variance against the adverse
impact on the health, safety and welfare of persons affected, the adverse
impact on property affected and any other adverse impacts of granting the
variance. Applicants for a variance and persons contesting the variance may be
required to submit any information that the City Manager may reasonably
require.
   (C)   Form of decision. In granting or denying an application, the City
Manager shall place on public file a copy of the decision and the reasons for
denying or granting the variance. If the variance is granted, the City Manager
shall provide a notice to the applicant containing all necessary conditions,
including the time limit on the permitted activity. The variance shall not
become effective until all conditions are agreed to by the applicant. Non-
compliance with any condition of the variance shall terminate it and subject
the person holding it to the provisions of this chapter regulating the source
of sound or activity for which the variance was granted.
   (D)   Appeals. Any person aggrieved by a variance decision under may appeal
that decision to the City Council at any time by filing a notice of appeal with
the City Clerk. Upon the filing of a notice of appeal, the City Council shall
set a public hearing for the appeal within 30 days from the date on which the
notice is received. The City Council shall provide the appellant, by first-
class mail, one notice of the public hearing date, time and location. The City
Council may reverse, affirm or modify the City Manager’s determination in whole
or in part, applying the same standards of review as provided in subsection (B)
above.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 15-5 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   This chapter shall be administered and enforced by the Chief of Police
of the city, who shall have the authority to delegate the responsibility to
enforce this chapter to the city’s law and code enforcement officers.
   (B)   The administration and enforcement of noise control shall be
controlled by the following standards:
      (1)   Detection of a noise disturbance shall be by means of the law
enforcement officers’ and other properly delegated enforcement officials’
ordinary auditory senses of hearing not enhanced by any electronic or
mechanical device. Decibel readings may be taken as additional evidence
demonstrating a noise disturbance;
      (2)   An enforcing officer or other witness need not determine the
particular words or phrases being produced or the name of any song or artist
producing the sound; and
      (3)   The detection of any rhythmic base or reverberating type of sound
is sufficient to constitute a plainly audible sound which may constitute a
noise disturbance.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
CHAPTER 16: RESERVED
CHAPTER 17: OFFENSES
Section
Article I. In General
   
17-1   Abolition of distinction between accessory and principal
   
17-2   Attempts
   
17-3   Violations as misdemeanors
   
17-4 — 17-20   Reserved
Article II. Offenses Against the Person
   
17-21   Harassment
   
17-22   Window peeping
   
17-23 — 17-30   Reserved
Article III. Offenses Against Property
   
17-31   Littering
   
17-32 — 17-40   Reserved
Article IV. Offenses Against Public Peace
   
17-41   Disorderly intoxication
   
17-42   Nuisance gathering
   
17-43   Curfew for minors
   
17-44   Curfew exceptions
   
17-45   Public urination and defecation
   
17-46 — 17-50   Reserved
Article V. Offenses Against Public Safety
Division 1. Projectiles; Fireworks
   
17-51   Throwing projectiles from or at motor vehicles
   
17-52   Fireworks
   
17-53 — 17-54   Reserved
Division 2. Weapons
   
17-55   Definitions
   
17-56   Discharge of dangerous weapons
   
17-57   Toy shooting apparatuses
   
17-58   Seizure of weapons
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
§ 17-1 ABOLITION OF DISTINCTION BETWEEN ACCESSORY AND PRINCIPAL.
   Every person concerned in the commission of an offense under this code,
whether he or she directly commits the act constituting the offense or
procures, counsels, aids or abets in its commission may hereafter be
prosecuted, indicted, tried and on conviction shall be punished as if he or she
had directly committed such offense.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 17-2 ATTEMPTS.
   Any person who shall attempt to commit an offense prohibited by this code,
and in such attempt shall do any act towards the commission of such offense,
but shall fail in the perpetration, or shall be intercepted or prevented in the
execution of the same, shall be guilty of a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 17-3 VIOLATIONS AS MISDEMEANORS.
   Each violation of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor unless otherwise
indicated.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§§ 17-4 — 17-20 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II. OFFENSES AGAINST THE PERSON
§ 17-21 HARASSMENT.
   A person commits the offense of harassment if, with intent to harass, annoy
or alarm another person, he or she:
   (A)   Follows a person in or about a public place; and/or
   (B)   Engages in a course of conduct or repeatedly commits acts that alarm
or seriously annoy another person and that serve no legitimate purpose.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 17-22 WINDOW PEEPING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to be found looking into the windows or
doors of any house, apartment or other residence in the city, in such a manner
as would be likely to interfere with the occupant’s reasonable expectation of
privacy and without the occupant’s express or implied consent.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§§ 17-23 — 17-30 RESERVED.
ARTICLE III. OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
§ 17-31 LITTERING.
   (A)   The term LITTER, as used in this section, means all rubbish, refuse,
waste material, garbage, offal, paper, glass, cans, bottles, trash, debris or
other foreign substances of every kind and description.
   (B)   It is unlawful for a person knowingly, without the consent of the
public authority having supervision of public property or the owner of private
property, to dump, deposit, place, throw or leave, or cause or permit the
dumping, depositing, placing, throwing or leaving of litter on public or
private property or water other than property designated and set aside for such
purposes or on city streets as directed by the city during designated city-wide
clean-up periods. The phrase "public or private property or water" includes,
but is not limited to, the right-of-way of a road or highway, a body of water
or watercourse or the shore or beach thereof, including the ice above the
water; a park, playground, building, refuge or conservation or recreation area;
and residential or farm properties or timberlands. It is unlawful for a person
who removes a vehicle, wrecked or damaged in an accident on a highway, road or
street, to fail to remove all glass and other injurious substances dropped on
the highway, road or street as a result of the accident.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly cause any litter or
any object to fall or to be thrown into the path of or to hit a vehicle
traveling the highway.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§§ 17-32 — 17-40 RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV. OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
§ 17-41 DISORDERLY INTOXICATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to be under the influence of any
controlled substance in any public place or to be intoxicated in a public place
to either endanger directly the safety of another person or of property, or in
a manner that causes a public disturbance.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 17-42 NUISANCE GATHERING.
   (A)   Purpose. The City Council finds that there are parties or gatherings
on premises in the city that are unsafe or are a public nuisance. These
gatherings can involve alcoholic beverages that are illegally sold and/or
provided to individuals in attendance, including underage individuals. These
gatherings can result in excessive noise and traffic, excessive consumption of
alcohol, overcrowding of the premises and other ordinance and state law
violations. The City Council desires to protect the public from such public
nuisances.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      NUISANCE GATHERING. A gathering, party or meeting that is conducted on or
within any premises located within the city and which, by reason of the conduct
of persons hosting or attending, results in one or more of the following
conditions or occurrences:
         (a)   The drinking or possession of alcohol in public or intoxication
that would warrant involuntary commitment under MCL § 330.1276, as amended;
         (b)   The illegal use or possession of any controlled substance, drug
or immediate precursor enumerated in Schedules 1-5 of §§ 7201 to 7231 of the
Public Health Code, Public Act 368 of 1978, being MCL §§ 333.1101 et seq.;
         (c)   Indecent exposure or public nudity in violation of MCL
§ 750.335a, as amended;
         (d)   Public urination or defecation, as provided in § 17-45 of this
chapter;
         (e)   The unlawful sale, furnishing, possession or consumption of
alcoholic or intoxicating beverages in violation of MCL § 436.1703, as amended;
         (f)   The unlawful dumping, placing or depositing of trash or litter
on public or private property-in violation of MCL § 750.552a, as amended, or §
17-31 of this chapter;
         (g)   The damage or destruction of public or private property;
         (h)   The generation of pedestrian or vehicular traffic which
obstructs the free flow of traffic within the public rights-of-way or
interferes with the ability to render police or other emergency services;
         (i)   The generation of noise regulations provided in Chapter 15 of
this code or ordinances;
         (j)   Public disturbances, brawls, fights, quarrels or similar
disturbances of the peace; and
         (k)   Violation of the Fire Code, Building Code or Zoning Ordinance
due to the over-occupancy or overcrowding of a building, structure or dwelling
unit, or any adjacent deck or patio, or the obstruction of stairway or entries
to a building, structure or dwelling unit.
      PREMISES. Any building, structure or dwelling unit, either commercial or
residential, including adjacent exterior property, common areas, yards and
parking lots. The term premises does not include an establishment operating
with a liquor license issued by the state’s Liquor Control Commission, or a
successor agency.
   (C)   Nuisance gathering prohibited.
      (1)   Nuisance gatherings are declared to be public nuisances and are
prohibited in the city.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any person, being the owner, occupant, tenant or
otherwise having any possessory control, individually or jointly with others,
of any premises, to sponsor, conduct, host, invite, suffer, permit, continue or
allow to continue a nuisance gathering at such premises. In any prosecution for
a violation of this section, proof of specific of intent shall not be required
as a necessary element.
      (3)   It is unlawful for any person to attend a nuisance gathering,
whether or not such person has any possessory control over the premises.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 17-43 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in §
17-44 of this chapter, it shall be unlawful for:
      (1)   A person 15 years of age and under to idle, congregate, traverse or
remain in or upon any public street, highway, alley or other public place
between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m., Friday through Saturday, and 10:
00 p.m. through 6:00 a.m., Sunday through Thursday, unless the minor is
accompanied by a parent, guardian or any other person 21 years of age or older
who is authorized by a parent or guardian as the caretaker for the minor;
      (2)   A person who is 16 years of age or over to assist, aid, abet or
encourage a person who is 15 years of age and under to violate the provisions
of this chapter; and
      (3)   A parent, guardian or other person having the legal care or custody
of a person 15 years of age and under to knowingly allow, permit or encourage
that minor to violate the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any operator or employee of an establishment
in the city to knowingly permit any person 15 years of age and under to remain
upon the premises in violation of the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      ESTABLISHMENT. Any privately-owned place or business carried on for
profit or any place of entertainment to which the public is invited.
      OPERATOR. Any individual, firm, association, partnership or corporation,
managing or conducting any establishment; and, whenever used in any clause
prescribing a penalty, the term OPERATOR, as applied to the associations or
partnerships, shall include the members or partners thereof, and as applied to
corporations, shall include the officers thereof.
   (D)   A violation of this section shall be a municipal civil infraction;
except that, if an individual is found responsible for three or more offenses
occurring on separate days, the third such offense and each subsequent offense
shall be a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 17-44 CURFEW EXCEPTIONS.
   Notwithstanding the provisions in §
17-43 of this chapter, it shall not be a violation of this chapter for a minor
to be in or upon any public street, highway, alley or other public place if the
minor is:
   (A)   On an errand, without any detour or stop, at the direction of the
minor’s parent, guardian or caretaker;
   (B)   In a vehicle involved in interstate travel;
   (C)   Engaged in lawful employment activity, or going to or from employment,
without any detour or stop;
   (D)   On the sidewalk in front of or alongside the minor’s or the next-door
neighbor’s residence, if the neighbor has not complained to the police; and/or
   (E)   Engaging in or in route to the following authorized activities:
      (1)   A school or a school-sanctioned event or activity. For purposes of
this subsection (E)(1), SCHOOL means a public or private school;
      (2)   A sporting event or activity, or extracurricular event or activity,
that is not school-sanctioned, but that is part of an official sports league or
association or an official extracurricular club, or that is paid for as a
service offered by a business specializing in those events or activities or
training for those events or activities;
      (3)   A class or program of vocational instruction offered by a college,
community college, non-profit association or unit of government or by a
business specializing in vocational training;
      (4)   An event or activity sponsored by a religious organization;
      (5)   Transporting an individual in need of immediate emergency care or
personal protection to a health care professional, hospital, police station,
domestic violence shelter or public safety location; and/or
      (6)   Attending a community event approved by the City Council or held at
the County Fair Grounds.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 17-45 PUBLIC URINATION AND DEFECATION.
   It shall be unlawful to urinate or defecate on or about any property, public
or private, outside of an appropriate sanitary facility. This section shall
apply to property including, but not limited to, streets, sidewalks, alleys,
parks, parking lots and public buildings.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§§ 17-46 — 17-50 RESERVED.
ARTICLE V. OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC SAFETY
DIVISION 1. PROJECTILES; FIREWORKS
§ 17-51 THROWING PROJECTILES FROM OR AT MOTOR VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to wrongfully throw or propel any
snowball, missile or object from or at any moving motor vehicle.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 17-52 FIREWORKS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly requires a different
meaning.
      ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. As that term as defined in the Michigan Vehicle Code,
Public Act 300 of 1949, as amended, being MCL §§ 257.1 et seq.
      APA STANDARD 87-1. 2001 APA standard 87-1, standard for construction and
approval for transportation of fireworks, novelties and theatrical
pyrotechnics, published by the American Pyrotechnics Association of Bethesda,
Maryland.
      CONSUMER FIREWORKS. Fireworks devices that are designed to produce
visible effects by combustion, that are required to comply with the
construction, chemical composition and labeling regulations promulgated by the
United States Consumer Product Safety Commission under 16 C.F.R. parts 1500 and
1507, as amended, and that are listed in APA Standard 87-1, 3.1.2, 3.1.3 or
3.5. CONSUMER FIREWORKS do not include low-impact fireworks.
      CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. As that term as defined in the Michigan Vehicle
Code, Public Act 300 of 1949, as amended, being MCL §§ 257.1 et seq.
      DISPLAY FIREWORKS. Large fireworks devices that are explosive materials
intended for use in fireworks displays and designed to produce visible or
audible effects by combustion, deflagration or detonation, as provided in 27
C.F.R. § 555.11, 49 C.F.R. part 172 and APA standard 87-1.4.1.
      FIREWORK. Any composition or device, except for a starting pistol, a
flare gun or a flare, designed for the purpose of producing a visible or
audible effect by combustion, deflagration or detonation.
      LOW-IMPACT FIREWORKS. Ground and handheld sparkling devices as that
phrase is defined under APA standard 87-1, 3.1. 3.1.1.1 to 3.1.1.8 and 3.5.
   (B)   Permissible dates for igniting, discharging or using consumer
fireworks.
      (1)   A person may ignite, discharge or use consumer fireworks within the
city during the following times only:
         (a)   Between 11:00 a.m. on December 31 and 1:00 a.m. on the
immediately following January 1;
         (b)   Between 11:00 a.m. and 11:45 p.m. on the Saturday immediately
preceding Memorial Day;
         (c)   Between 11:00 a.m. and 11:45 p.m. on the Sunday immediately
preceding Memorial Day;
         (d)   Between   11:00 a.m. and 11:45 p.m. on June 29, June 30, July 1,
July 2, July 3 and July 4;
         (e)   Between   11:00 a.m. and 11:45 p.m. on July 5, if that date is a
Friday or a Saturday;
         (f)   Between   11:00 a.m. and 11:45 p.m. on the Saturday immediately
preceding Labor Day; and
         (g)   Between   11:00 a.m. and 11:45 p.m. on the Sunday immediately
preceding Labor Day.
      (2)   The ignition, discharge and use of consumer fireworks within the
city is prohibited on all other days of the year.
   (C)   Other prohibited conduct.
      (1)   No person under the age of 18 years shall use, possess, explode or
cause to explode any fireworks within the city.
      (2)   A person shall not ignite, discharge or use consumer fireworks or
low-impact fireworks while under the influence of alcoholic liquor, a
controlled substance or a combination of alcoholic liquor and a controlled
substance.
      (3)   A person shall not ignite, discharge or use consumer fireworks or
low-impact fireworks on public property, school property, church property or
the property of another person without that organization’s or person’s express
permission.
      (4)   A person shall not ignite, discharge or use of low-impact fireworks
inside any building or structure at any time without a license or permit issued
by the City Council.
   (D)   Display fireworks permits. Upon application in writing to the city by
any association or group of individuals for the public display of fireworks,
the City Council may grant permission for such display, subject to such
conditions as the City Council and/or the Fire Chief may impose to properly
safeguard the public, both as to persons and property; and subject to the
provisions of the state’s Fireworks Safety Act. Applicants shall furnish proof
of financial responsibility by a bond or insurance in an amount, character and
form deemed necessary by the city to satisfy claims for damages to property or
personal injuries arising out of an act or omission on the part of the person,
firm or corporation or an agent or employee of the person, firm or corporation
and to protect the public.
   (E)   Violations, fines and penalties.
      (1)   Civil infraction. Persons who violate a provision of this section
or fail to comply with any of the requirements thereof shall be responsible for
a municipal civil infraction punishable by a fine of $1,000, and shall be
subject to any other relief that may be imposed by a court for such conduct,
which shall also be considered a nuisance per se. Each act of violation and
each day upon which such violation occurs shall constitute a separate
violation.
      (2)   Seizure. If a sworn law enforcement officer determines that a
violation of this section has occurred, the officer may seize the fireworks as
evidence of the violation.
      (3)   Disposal. Following final disposition of a finding of
responsibility for violating this section, the city may dispose of or destroy
any fireworks retained as evidence in that prosecution.
   (F)   Local, state and federal law requirements. Nothing contained within
this section shall be construed to relieve a person of any duties and
obligations imposed under any local, state or federal laws, rules, regulations,
license or permit requirements.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§§ 17-53 — 17-54 RESERVED.
DIVISION 2. WEAPONS
§ 17-55 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this division, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   APPROVED RANGE. A gun or archery range with:
      (1)   A license, permit or other approval issued by the state; or
      (2)   An approval for a personal range issued by the city’s Police
Department pursuant to appropriate regulations promulgated by the Police Chief
(which shall address matters such as setbacks from property line, backstop
composition and the like).
   BB GUN. A smooth bore rifle or handgun designed and manufactured exclusively
for propelling by a spring, or by gas or air, BBs not exceeding .177 caliber.
   BOW. A device for propelling an arrow from a string drawn, held and released
by hand if the force used to hold the string in the drawn position is provided
by the archer’s muscles.
   CONCEAL. To intentionally hide, put out of sight, disguise or do any other
act to keep an object out of sight and to avoid its being discovered or
observed.
   CROSSBOW. A weapon consisting of a bow, with a draw weight of 100 pounds or
more, mounted transversely on a stock or frame and designed to fire an arrow,
bolt or quarrel by the release of a bow string controlled by a mechanical or
electric trigger with a working safety.
   FIREARM. A weapon from which a dangerous projectile may be propelled by an
explosive or by gas or air. The term FIREARM does not include BB guns.
   PUBLIC BUILDING. A building owned and/or controlled by the city and located
in the city.
   TOY SHOOTING APPARATUS. A BB gun, slingshot, catapult or similar toy item
designed to shoot projectiles.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 17-56 DISCHARGE OF DANGEROUS WEAPONS.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge any firearm, bow or crossbow, with the
following exceptions.
   (A)   Authorized law enforcement officers are permitted to discharge
firearms in the performance of their duties.
   (B)   A person may discharge a firearm, bow or crossbow for the lawful
protection of life or property.
   (C)   A person may discharge a firearm, bow or crossbow for target practice
purposes, in a safe manner upon an approved range.
   (D)   A person may discharge a bow or crossbow to bow fish in accordance
with applicable regulations promulgated by the state’s Department of Natural
Resources.
   (E)   A person may discharge such weapons as the City Council may allow as
part of a wildlife control hunt authorized by the City Council.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 17-57 TOY SHOOTING APPARATUSES.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge a toy shooting apparatus in a manner
likely to result in the damage or destruction of life or property.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 17-58 SEIZURE OF WEAPONS.
   City police officers are authorized to seize any weapon involved in a
violation of this division. Once a weapon has been seized, the Police
Department shall release the weapon to the violator (or legal guardian of a
violator under 18 years of age) upon request, except when there is a pending
prosecution for the violation. Nothing in this section shall be construed as
affecting the authority of city police officers with respect to weapons seized
for violations of state law.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
CHAPTER 18: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
Article I. Public Spaces Commission
   
18-1   Public Spaces Commission established
   
18-2   Purpose
   
18-3   Composition
   
18-4   Vacancies
   
18-5   Removal from office
   
18-6   Compensation
   
18-7   Meetings
   
18-8   Quorum
   
18-9   Chairperson
   
18-10   Execution of contracts and commitment of funds
   
18-11 — 18-20   Reserved
Article II. Rules and Regulations
   
18-21   Possession of alcoholic liquor
   
18-22   Littering
   
18-23   Vandalism
   
18-24   Building fires
   
18-25   Use of motor vehicles
   
18-26   Hours
   
18-27   Overnight parking
   
18-28   Rules and regulations
ARTICLE I. PUBLIC SPACES COMMISSION
§ 18-1 PUBLIC SPACES COMMISSION ESTABLISHED.
   The city shall have a Public Spaces Commission with the powers, duties and
responsibilities set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 18-2 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The Public Spaces Commission shall advise and make recommendations to
the City Council on the city parks system’s management, operation and use. Such
responsibilities shall include:
      (1)   Preparation, recommendation to the City Council for adoption and
continual evaluation of a master plan for development of the city park system;
      (2)   Annually reviewing and commenting on a budget prepared by the City
Manager covering the acquisition, development, maintenance and operation of the
city park system;
      (3)   Recommending to the City Council capital improvement projects and
grants for the city park system;
      (4)   Recommending to the City Council policies, rules and regulations
related to the use, operation and maintenance of the city park system; and
      (5)   Preparing an annual report to the City Council on the management,
operation and use of the city park system.
   (B)   When undertaking its responsibilities, the Commission shall recognize
that coordinated recreation efforts are needed to provide recreation programs
and facilities for all citizens. The Commission shall cooperate with community
service organizations in providing recreation programs.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 18-3 COMPOSITION.
   (A)   As of the effective date of the ordinance that last amended this
section, the Public Spaces Commission shall consist of the nine members that
were previously appointed to the city’s Parks Commission, which was the
predecessor entity established by prior versions of this article and renamed by
resolution of the City Council. Notwithstanding any prior ordinance or
resolution to the contrary, the terms of all nine of those members shall expire
on 12-31-2023.
   (B)   (1)   No later than 12-31-2023, the City Council shall appoint or
reappoint a Public Spaces Commission that consists of nine members and shall,
as of 1-1-2024, be constituted as follows:
         (a)   One member of the City Council serving for a term of one year or
until such member is no longer a member of the City Council, whichever comes
first;
         (b)   One member of the Downtown Development Authority Board serving
for a term of one year or until such member is no longer a member of the
Downtown Development Authority Board, whichever comes first;
         (c)   Two qualified electors serving for terms of one year;
         (d)   Two qualified electors serving for terms of two years; and
         (e)   Three qualified electors serving for terms of three years.
      (2)   All voting members shall be appointed by the mayor and confirmed by
a majority of the members elected and serving on the City Council.
   (C)   After the initial appointments provided for in subsection (B) above,
the seven members of the Public Spaces Commission who are eligible solely
because of their status as registered electors shall be appointed to three-year
terms.
   (D)   If a Commission member’s term has expired, and a successor has not
been appointed, the Commission members shall continue to serve until a
successor is appointed.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 18-4 VACANCIES.
   Vacancies on the Public Spaces Commission shall be filled in the same manner
as initial appointments for the remainder of the unexpired term of the
appointment vacated.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 18-5 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   Commission members serve at the pleasure of the City Council and may be
removed by the City Council at any time for cause.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 18-6 COMPENSATION.
   Members of the Public Spaces Commission shall receive no compensation, but
shall be entitled to their actual and necessary expenses incurred in the
performance of their duties with prior approval from the City Manager. This
provision does not apply to the legal consumption of alcoholic liquor, beer,
wine or spirits in a commons area of a social district established by the City
Council in compliance with MCL § 436.1551, or to such beverages sold pursuant
to a special liquor licenses issued by the state’s Liquor Control Commission
with the approval of the City Council.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 18-7 MEETINGS.
   All meetings of the Public Spaces Commission, except as otherwise permitted
by law, shall be open to the public and held in compliance with Public Act 267
of 1976, as amended, being MCL §§ 15.261 through 15.27, and as may be amended.
Regular meetings of the Commission shall be scheduled at regular intervals by
resolution and special meetings may be called by the Commission Chairperson or
any two of its members.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 18-8 QUORUM.
   A majority of the members of the Public Spaces Commission shall constitute a
quorum for conducting the business of the Commission.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 18-9 CHAIRPERSON.
   The members of the Public Spaces Commission shall, in January of each year,
elect one of its members as Chairperson. The Chairperson shall be responsible
for conducting all meetings of the Commission. Another member of the
Commission, selected by Commission members present, may serve as Temporary
Chairperson for a meeting from which the Chairperson is absent.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 18-10 EXECUTION OF CONTRACTS AND COMMITMENT OF FUNDS.
   The Public Spaces Commission may advise and make recommendations to the City
Council regarding the entering into of contracts or the expenditure of city
funds in connection with the city park system, but may not itself enter into
contracts or commit city funds.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§§ 18-11 — 18-20 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II. RULES AND REGULATIONS
§ 18-21 POSSESSION OF ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess any alcoholic liquor in a
container which is open, uncapped or upon which the seal is broken, or consume
any alcoholic liquor in any parks owned or operated by the city; provided,
however, that, the alcoholic liquor may be sold, possessed and consumed in the
public parks during the period of a special license with a specific approval of
the Council and in conformance with the conditions of such approval and
condition of a special license granted by the state’s Liquor Control
Commission.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 18-22 LITTERING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to litter in a public park.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or deposit any garbage,
glass, tin cans, papers or miscellaneous waste in any park or playground,
except in containers provided for that purpose.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 18-23 VANDALISM.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit an act of vandalism in any
city park. VANDALISM means the intentional destruction, damage or defacement of
any public or private property, real or personal, without the consent of the
owner or person having lawful custody of the property. The offense shall
include, but not be limited to, actions taken by cutting, tearing, breaking,
marking, painting or drawing when such actions have the effect of destroying,
damaging or defacing the property. A violation of this section shall be a
misdemeanor offense.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 18-24 BUILDING FIRES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to kindle or build a fire in any park or
playground, except in fireplaces or stoves in any park provided for that
purpose, or in portable grills or outdoor cooking devices not exceeding 36
inches in either width or length (except when such portable grills or cooking
devices are prohibited by signage or applicable park rules). Upon leaving such
fire, it shall be the duty of the person last using it to see that the fire is
extinguished and that any charcoal used in setting the fire is properly
disposed of. Notwithstanding the forgoing, the City Manager is authorized to
issue temporary permits for the setting of other fires and use of other cooking
devices for special events (e.g., an annual community pig roast) upon
determining that doing so will not endanger the public and that the benefits to
the public outweigh any such risk or other public detriments. A violation of
this section shall be a misdemeanor offense.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 18-25 USE OF MOTOR VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or park any motor vehicle in
any park or playground, except in spaces set aside and designated as parking
areas. Driving and parking on all streets and public ways within any park or
bordering on the same shall be subject to the provisions of the Uniform Traffic
Code.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 18-26 HOURS.
   Public parks shall be open from dawn to dusk, or as otherwise provided by
resolution of the City Council. It shall be unlawful for any person to enter
upon or remain in a park other than during times when the same are open, unless
given permission by the City Manager.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 18-27 OVERNIGHT PARKING.
   Overnight parking in parks is hereby forbidden; except that, a person may
apply to the City Manager for permission to remain in a park overnight, and
such permit shall be in writing issued by the City Manager and shall not exceed
72 hours.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 18-28 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall interfere with any city employee in the discharge of
his or her duties or refuse to obey any lawful command of a city employee or
law officer.
   (B)   No person shall sell, use or have in his or her possession any
controlled substance for sale or use that is prohibited by law.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in violent, abusive,
loud, vulgar, lewd, wanton, obscene or otherwise disorderly conduct; or to
lounge, sit or lie upon walks, roads or as to obstruct free passage of others.
It shall be unlawful for any persons to be intoxicated and to directly endanger
the safety of another or of property or to act in a manner causing a public
disturbance.
   (D)   The maximum speed limit for all vehicles shall be 15 mph, except where
otherwise posted. Motor vehicles shall be driven only on designated park roads
and in designated parking areas.
   (E)   No person shall possess, use, explode, expose for sale, offer for sale
or sell fireworks or any device or container containing gunpowder in a city
park. (This section shall not apply to law enforcement officers.)
   (F)   Any exceptions to these rules must be approved by the City Manager or
an authorized representative.
(Ord. 511, passed 10-9-2023)
CHAPTER 19: PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
Section
Article I. In General
   
19-1   Penalty
   
19-2 — 19-15   Reserved
Article II. Peddlers
Division 1. Generally
   
19-16   Defined
   
19-17   Loud noises and speaking devices
   
19-18   Use of streets
   
19-19   Duty of police to enforce
   
19-20   Records
   
19-21   Standard weights and measures
   
19-22   Exemptions
   
19-23 — 19-35   Reserved
Division 2. License
   
19-36   Required
   
19-37   Application
   
19-38   Investigation and issuance
   
19-39   Health of licensee
   
19-40   Fees
   
19-41   Display
   
19-42   Transfer
   
19-43   Expiration
   
19-44   Revocation
   
19-45   Appeal
   
19-46 — 19-60   Reserved
Article III. Solicitors and Canvassers
Division 1. Generally
   
19-61   Defined
   
19-62   Duty of police to enforce
   
19-63   Records
   
19-64 — 19-75   Reserved
Division 2. License
   
19-76   Required
   
19-77   Application
   
19-78   Investigation and issuance
   
19-79   Fees
   
19-80   Bond
   
19-81   Badges
   
19-82   Exhibition
   
19-83   Expiration
   
19-84   Revocation
   
19-85   Appeal
   
19-86   Exclusion
   
19-87 — 19-100   Reserved
Article IV. Transient Merchants, Itinerant Merchants and Itinerant Vendors
Division 1. Generally
   
19-101   Defined
   
19-102   Loud noises and speaking devices
   
19-103   Duty of police to enforce
   
19-104   Records
   
19-105 — 19-115   Reserved
Division 2. License
   
19-116   Required
   
19-117   Application
   
19-118   Investigation and issuance
   
19-119   Fees
   
19-120   Bond
   
19-121   Service of process
   
19-122   Exhibition
   
19-123   Transfer
   
19-124   Expiration
   
19-125   Revocation
   
19-126   Appeal
   
19-127   Exclusion
Article V. Mobile Food Vehicles
   
19-128   Intent
   
19-129   Definitions
   
19-130   Scope
   
19-131   Permit required
   
19-132   Application for permit
   
19-133   Regulations
   
19-134   Locations permitted
   
19-135   Appeals
   
19-136   Enforcement
Cross-reference:
   Sales, see
Chapter 22
   Streets, Sidewalks and Other Public Places, see
Chapter 25
   Traffic and Motor Vehicles, see
Chapter 28
Statutory reference:
   Exemption for a veteran’s license, see MCL § 35.441
   Home solicitations sales, see MCL §§ 445.111 et seq.
   Transient merchants, see MCL §§ 445.371 et seq.
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
§ 19-1 PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless a section in this chapter specifically provides otherwise, a
first violation of any provision of this chapter, by any person, is a municipal
civil infraction which shall, upon a determination of responsibility, be
punishable by a fine of not less than $50.
   (B)   Unless a section in this chapter specifically provides otherwise, a
second violation of any provision of this chapter, by any person, is a
municipal civil infraction which shall, upon a determination of responsibility,
be punishable by a fine of not less than $150.
   (C)   Unless a section in this chapter specifically provides otherwise, a
third violation of any provision of this chapter, by any person, is a municipal
civil infraction which shall, upon a determination of responsibility, be
punishable by a fine of not less than $300.
   (D)   In addition to a fine, a person determined to be responsible for a
municipal civil infraction under this chapter shall be assessed the cost of
prosecution of not less than $9, but not to exceed $500.
   (E)   The fourth and any subsequent violation of any provision of this
chapter, by any person, is a misdemeanor which shall, upon conviction, be
punishable in accordance with § 1-13 of this code of ordinances.
   (F)   In addition to the penalties provided by this section, the district
court shall have equitable jurisdiction to enforce any judgment, writ or order
necessary to enforce any provision, the violation of which is a municipal civil
infraction, including, but not limited to, abatement of the violating condition
or the granting of any injunctive relief.
(Ord. 319, passed 8-12-1996)
§§ 19-2 — 19-15 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II. PEDDLERS
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
§ 19-16 DEFINED.
   (A)   The word PEDDLER, when used in this article, shall include any person,
whether a resident of the city or not, traveling by foot wagon, motor vehicle
or any other type of conveyance, from place to place, from house to house or
from street to street, carrying, conveying or transporting goods, wares,
merchandise, meats, fish, vegetables, fruits, garden truck, farm products or
provisions, offering and exposing same for sale or making sales and delivering
articles to purchasers, or who without traveling from place to place shall sell
or offer the same for sale from a wagon, motor vehicle, railroad car or other
vehicle or conveyance.
   (B)   The word PEDDLER shall include the words HAWKER and HUCKSTER.
(Ord. 39, passed 3-23-1959)
§ 19-17 LOUD NOISES AND SPEAKING DEVICES.
   (A)   No peddler, nor any person employed thereby, shall shout, make any cry
out, blow a horn, ring a bell upon any of the streets, alleys, parks or other
public places of the city or upon any private premises in the city where sound
of sufficient volume is emitted or produced therefrom to be capable of being
plainly heard upon the streets, avenues, alleys, parks or other public places,
for the purpose of attracting attention to any goods, wares or merchandise
which such licensee proposes to sell; nor shall any peddler or person employed
thereby use any sound device, including any loud-speaking radio or sound-
amplifying system, in such a manner as can be plainly heard in such locations,
except:
      (1)   Between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m.; and
      (2)   To the extent that such sound device cannot be heard in any one
location for a period of more than 15 minutes in any 24 hour-period.
   (B)   In other words, an ice cream truck or other similar vehicle used by a
peddler shall not be in violation of this article if it moves from place to
place during the regular daytime hours described in the proceeding sentence.
(Ord. 39, passed 3-23-1959; Ord. 516, passed 11-27-2023)
§ 19-18 USE OF STREETS.
   (A)   No peddler shall have any exclusive right to any location in the
public streets, nor shall any be permitted a stationary location, nor shall he
be permitted to operate in any congested area where his or her operations might
impede or inconvenience the public.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the judgment of a police officer
exercised in good faith shall be deemed conclusive as to whether the area is
congested or the public impeded or inconvenienced.
(Ord. 39, passed 3-23-1959)
§ 19-19 DUTY OF POLICE TO ENFORCE.
   It shall be the duty of any police officer of the city to require any person
seen peddling, and who is not known by such officer to be duly licensed, to
produce his or her peddler’s license, and to enforce the provisions of this
chapter against any person found to be violating the same.
(Ord. 39, passed 3-23-1959)
§ 19-20 RECORDS.
   The Chief of Police shall maintain a record of all convictions for
violations of this chapter and for each license issued and record the reports
of violations thereon.
(Ord. 39, passed 3-23-1959; Ord. 400, passed 12-26-2007)
§ 19-21 STANDARD WEIGHTS AND MEASURES.
   It shall be unlawful for any peddler to sell or deliver any goods, wares,
merchandise or foodstuffs which are ordinarily sold by weight or measure, by
the use of any other than standard weight or measure.
(Ord. 39, passed 3-23-1959)
§ 19-22 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Farmers growing and offering for sale the product of their own farms
or orchards; artisans offering for sale their own handicraft; war veterans; and
blind persons, shall comply with the provisions of this article, except that
the license fees provided herein shall not be charged such persons in
accordance with state and federal laws.
   (B)   Nothing contained in this article shall apply to the delivery or sale
of daily, weekly or semi-weekly newspapers, to regularly scheduled milk
deliveries, or to the delivery and sale of meats, meat products, foodstuffs,
fruit, vegetables and/or any other goods, wares or merchandise to established
wholesale or retail stores and merchants in the city.
(Ord. 39, passed 3-23-1959)
Statutory reference:
   Exemption for veteran’s license, see MCL § 35.441
§§ 19-23 — 19-35 RESERVED.
DIVISION 2. LICENSE
§ 19-36 REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for a peddler to engage in such business within the
corporate limits of the city without first obtaining a license to conduct such
business and in full compliance with the provisions of this division.
(Ord. 39, passed 3-23-1959)
§ 19-37 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Applicants for a license under this division shall file a written
sworn application in duplicate, signed by the applicant if an individual, by
all partners if a partnership and by the president if a corporation, with the
Chief of Police upon forms furnished by him or her and giving the following
information:
      (1)   Name and description of the individual making the application, and
if the applicant is other than an individual, the name of the copartnership, or
corporation, and the name of the individual having local management or
supervision;
      (2)   Permanent address and full local address of the applicant;
      (3)   A statement of the nature, character and quality of the goods,
wares or merchandise to be sold or offered for sale and, in the case of
products of farm or orchard, whether produced or grown by the applicant;
      (4)   The length of time for which the right to do business is desired
and for which a license is sought;
      (5)   The vehicle or vehicles to be used, with a description of same and,
if a motor vehicle, the license number of same;
      (6)   A photograph of the individual applicant, or if a copartnership or
corporation a photograph of the individual who will have local supervision or
management. This photograph must have been taken not more than 60 days prior to
the date of filing the application and shall be two inches by two inches,
showing head and shoulders only of the applicant in a clear and distinguishable
manner;
      (7)   The fingerprints of the applicant and the names of three character
references, or such other available evidence as to character of applicant as
will enable an investigator to properly evaluate the character and business
responsibility of the applicant;
      (8)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted
of any felony, misdemeanor or violation of any local ordinance, the nature of
the offense and punishment or penalty assessed therefor;
      (9)   A statement of the nature, character and quality of the goods,
wares or merchandise to be sold or offered for sale by the applicant in the
city.
   (B)   At the time of filing the application, a fee as prescribed by
resolution of the Council shall be paid to the Chief of Police to cover the
cost of the investigation.
(Ord. 39, passed 3-23-1959; Ord. 400, passed 12-26-2007)
§ 19-38 INVESTIGATION AND ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application under this division, the original shall
be referred to the Chief of Police, who shall cause such investigation of the
applicant’s business and moral character to be made as he or she deems
necessary for the protection of the public good.
   (B)   If, as a result of such investigation, the applicant’s character and
business responsibility are found to be unsatisfactory, the Chief of Police
shall endorse on the application his or her disapproval and his or her reasons
for same and notify the applicant that his or her application has been
disapproved and that no license will be issued.
   (C)   If, as a result of such investigation, the character and business
responsibility of the applicant are found to be satisfactory, the Chief of
Police shall endorse on the application his or her approval, and who shall,
upon payment of the prescribed license fee, issue to the applicant his or her
license. Such license shall contain the signature and seal of the issuing
officer and shall show the name, address and photograph of the licensee, the
class of license issued and the kind of goods to be sold thereunder, the amount
of fee paid, the date of issuance and the length of time the same shall be
operative, as well as the license number and other identifying description of
any vehicle used in such peddling.
(Ord. 39, passed 3-23-1959; Ord. 400, passed 12-26-2007)
§ 19-39 HEALTH OF LICENSEE.
   No person who is afflicted with any infectious disease or with any venereal
disease in a communicable form shall be issued a license under this division,
or be permitted to work at the business for which he may have been licensed
under this division, and any person so licensed may be required to submit to an
examination by the health officer or by some physician approved by him or her
when the health officer, by information or complaint, deems such examination
necessary.
(Ord. 39, passed 3-23-1959)
§ 19-40 FEES.
   License fees under this division shall be as prescribed by resolution of the
Council.
(Ord. 39, passed 3-23-1959)
§ 19-41 DISPLAY.
   The Chief of Police shall issue with each license given to a peddler a badge
or emblem, to be worn conspicuously at all times by the licensee, having
endorsed thereon the type of license issued, to whom issued and the number
thereof, together with the period of time for which the license was issued. The
license shall be carried by the licensee at all times while engaging in
businesses and, failure to do so or to wear and prominently display badge at
all times, shall be deemed sufficient cause for suspension or revocation of
such license by the proper official.
(Ord. 39, passed 3-23-1959; Ord. 400, passed 12-26-2007)
§ 19-42 TRANSFER.
   No license, badge, card or certificate issued under the provisions of this
division shall be used or worn at any time by any person other than the one to
whom it was issued by the Chief of Police.
(Ord. 39, passed 3-23-1959; Ord. 400, passed 12-26-2007)
§ 19-43 EXPIRATION.
   All annual licenses issued under the provisions of this division shall
expire on December 31 in the year when issued. Other than annual licenses shall
expire on the date specified in the license.
(Ord. 39, passed 3-23-1959)
§ 19-44 REVOCATION.
   (A)   Licenses issued under the provisions of this division may be revoked
by the Chief of Police after notice and hearing, for any of the following
causes:
      (1)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for a license;
      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in the course of
carrying on his or her business as the licensee;
      (3)   Any violation of this article;
      (4)   Conviction of any crime or misdemeanor involving moral turpitude;
and/or
      (5)   Conducting the business of the licensee in an unlawful manner or in
such a manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or to constitute a menace
to the health, safety or general welfare of the public.
   (B)   Notice of the hearing for revocation of a license shall be given in
writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of complaint and the time and
place of hearing. Such notice shall be mailed, postage prepaid, to the licensee
at his or her last known address at least five days prior to the date set for a
hearing.
(Ord. 39, passed 3-23-1959; Ord. 400, passed 12-26-2007)
§ 19-45 APPEAL.
   Any person aggrieved by the action of the Chief of Police in the denial of
an application for a license as provided in §
19-38 of this chapter, or in the decision with reference to the revocation of a
license as provided in § 19-44 of this chapter, shall have the right to appeal
to the Council. Such appeal shall be taken by filing with the Council, within
14 days after notice of the action complained of has been mailed to such
person’s last known address, a written statement setting forth fully the
grounds for the appeal. The Council shall set a time and place for a hearing on
such appeal and notice of such hearing shall be given to the appellant in the
same manner as provided in §
19-44 of this chapter for notice of hearing on revocation. The decision and
order of the Council on such appeal shall be final and conclusive.
(Ord. 39, passed 3-23-1959; Ord. 400, passed 12-26-2007)
§§ 19-46 — 19-60 RESERVED.
ARTICLE III. SOLICITORS AND CANVASSERS
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
§ 19-61 DEFINED.
   A CANVASSER OR SOLICITOR, for purposes of this article, means any
individual, whether resident of the city or not, traveling either by foot,
wagon, motor vehicle or any other type of conveyance, from place to place, from
house to house or from street to street, taking or attempting to take orders
for the sale of goods, wares and merchandise, personal property of any nature
whatsoever for future delivery or for services to be furnished or performed in
the future, whether or not such individual has, carries or exposes for sale a
sample of the subject of such sale, or whether he or she is collecting advance
payments on such sales or not; provided that, such definition shall include any
person, who for himself, herself or for another person, firm or corporation,
hires, leases, uses or occupies any building, structure, tent, railroad boxcar,
boat or hotel room, lodging house, apartment, shop or any place within the city
for the sole purpose of exhibiting samples and taking orders for future
delivery.
(Ord. 42, passed 4-27-1959)
§ 19-62 DUTY OF POLICE TO ENFORCE.
   It shall be the duty of the police officers of the city to require any
person seen soliciting or canvassing and who is not known by such officer to be
duly licensed, to produce his or her license and to enforce the provisions of
this article against any person found to be violating the same.
(Ord. 42, passed 4-27-1959)
§ 19-63 RECORDS.
   The Chief of Police shall maintain a record of all convictions for
violations of this article and for each license issued and record the reports
of violations thereon.
(Ord. 42, passed 4-27-1959; Ord. 401, passed 12-26-2007)
§§ 19-64 — 19-75 RESERVED.
DIVISION 2. LICENSE
§ 19-76 REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any solicitor or canvasser to engage in such
business within the corporation limits of the city without first obtaining a
license therefor in compliance with the provisions of this division.
(Ord. 42, passed 4-27-1959)
§ 19-77 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Applicants for a license under this division must file with the Chief
of Police a sworn application in writing, and in duplicate, on forms furnished
by the Chief of Police, which shall give the following information:
      (1)   Name and description of the applicant;
      (2)   Permanent home address and full local address of the applicant;
      (3)   A brief description of the nature of the business and the goods to
be sold;
      (4)   If employed, the name and address of the employer, together with
the credentials establishing the exact relationship;
      (5)   The length of time for which the right to do business is desired;
      (6)   The place where the goods or property proposed to be sold, or
orders taken for the sale thereof, are manufactured or produced, where such
goods or products are located at the time the application is filed and the
proposed method of delivery;
      (7)   A photograph of the applicant, taken within 60 days immediately
prior to date of the filing of the application, which picture shall be two
inches by two inches, showing the head and the shoulders of the applicant in a
clear and distinguishing manner;
      (8)   The fingerprints of the applicant and the names of three character
references or such other available evidence as to the good character and
business responsibility of the applicant as will enable an investigator to
properly evaluate such character and business responsibility; and
      (9)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted
of any crime, misdemeanor or violation of any municipal ordinance, the nature
of the offense and the punishment or penalty assessed therefor.
   (B)   At the time of filing the application, a fee as prescribed by
resolution of the Council shall be paid to the Chief of Police to cover the
cost of the investigation of the facts stated therein.
(Ord. 42, passed 4-27-1959; Ord. 401, passed 12-26-2007)
§ 19-78 INVESTIGATION AND ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application under this division, the original shall
be referred to the Chief of Police, who shall cause such investigation of the
applicant’s business and moral character to be made as he or she deems
necessary for the protection of the public good.
   (B)   If, as a result of such investigation, the applicant’s character and
business responsibility are found to be unsatisfactory, the Chief of Police
shall endorse on the application his or her disapproval and his or her reasons
for same, and notify the applicant that his or her application has been
disapproved and that no license will be issued.
   (C)   If, as a result of such investigation, the character and business
responsibility of the applicant are found to be satisfactory, the Chief of
Police shall endorse on the application his or her approval, and who shall,
upon payment of the prescribed license fee, issue to the applicant his or her
license. Such license shall contain the signature and seal of the issuing
officer and shall show the name, address and photograph of the licensee, the
class of license issued and the kind of goods to be sold thereunder, the amount
of fee paid, the date of issuance and the length of time the same shall be
operative, as well as the license number and other identifying description of
any vehicle used in such soliciting or canvassing.
(Ord. 42, passed 4-27-1959; Ord. 401, passed 12-26-2007)
§ 19-79 FEES.
   License fees under this division shall be as prescribed by resolution of the
Council.
(Ord. 42, passed 4-27-1959)
§ 19-80 BOND.
   Every applicant under this division shall file with the Chief of Police a
surety bond, running to the city, in the amount as prescribed by resolution of
the Council with surety acceptable to and approved by the City Manager,
conditioned that the applicant shall comply fully with all the provisions of
the ordinances of the city and the statutes of the state regulating and
concerning the business of the solicitor and guaranteeing to any citizen of the
city that all money paid as a down payment will be accounted for and applied
according to the representations of the solicitor. Action on such bond may be
brought in the name of the city to the use or benefit of the aggrieved person.
(Ord. 42, passed 4-27-1959; Ord. 401, passed 12-26-2007)
§ 19-81 BADGES.
   The Chief of Police shall issue to each licensee at the time of delivery to
him or her of his or her license, a badge which shall contain the words
“licensed solicitor”, the period for which the license issued and the number of
the license, in letters and figures easily discernible. Such badge shall,
during the time such licensee is engaged in soliciting, be worn constantly by
the licensee on the front of his or her outer garment in such a way as to be
conspicuous.
(Ord. 42, passed 4-27-1959; Ord. 401, passed 12-26-2007)
§ 19-82 EXHIBITION.
   Solicitors and canvassers are required to exhibit their license at the
request of any citizen.
(Ord. 42, passed 4-27-1959)
§ 19-83 EXPIRATION.
   All annual licenses issued under the provisions of this division shall
expire on December 31 in the year when issued. Other than annual licenses shall
expire on the date specified in the license.
(Ord. 42, passed 4-27-1959)
§ 19-84 REVOCATION.
   (A)   Licenses issued under the provisions of this division may be revoked
by the Chief of Police after notice and hearing, for any of the following
causes:
      (1)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for a license;
      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in the course of
carrying on his or her business as a solicitor or as a canvasser;
      (3)   Any violation of this article;
      (4)   Conviction of any crime or misdemeanor involving moral turpitude;
and/or
      (5)   Conducting the business of soliciting, or of canvassing, in an
unlawful manner or in such a manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or
to constitute a menace to health, safety or general welfare of the public.
   (B)   Notice of the hearing for revocation of a license shall be given in
writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of complaint and the time and
place of hearing. Such notice shall be mailed, postage prepaid, to the licensee
at his or her last known address at least five days prior to the date set for
the hearing.
(Ord. 42, passed 4-27-1959; Ord. 401, passed 12-26-2007)
§ 19-85 APPEAL.
   Any person aggrieved by the action of the Chief of Police in the denial of
an application for a license as provided in §
19-38 of this chapter, or in the decision with reference to the revocation of a
license as provided in § 19-44 of this chapter, shall have the right to appeal
to the Council. Such appeal shall be taken by filing with the Council, within
14 days after notice of the action complained of has been mailed to such
person’s last known address, a written statement setting forth fully the
grounds for the appeal. The Council shall set a time and place for a hearing on
such appeal and notice of such hearing shall be given to the appellant in the
same manner as provided in §
19-44 of this chapter for notice of hearing on revocation. The decision and
order of the Council on such appeal shall be final and conclusive.
(Ord. 42, passed 4-27-1959; Ord. 401, passed 12-26-2007)
§ 19-86 EXCLUSION.
   This section shall not apply to any representative of a religious,
patriotic, political, charitable or civic organization.
(Ord. 383, passed 5-8-2006)
§§ 19-87 — 19-100 RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV. TRANSIENT MERCHANTS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND ITINERANT VENDORS
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
§ 19-101 DEFINED.
   A TRANSIENT MERCHANT, ITINERANT MERCHANT or ITINERANT VENDOR, for the
purposes of this article, means any person, whether as owner, agent, consignee
or employee, whether a resident of the city or not, who engages in a temporary
business of selling and delivering goods, wares and merchandise within the
city, and who, in furtherance of such purpose, hires, leases, uses or occupies
any building, structure, motor vehicle, tent, railroad boxcar or boat, public
room in hotels, lodging houses, apartments, shops or other place within the
city, for the exhibition and sale of such goods, wares and merchandise, either
privately or at public auction; provided that, such definition shall not be
construed to include any person, who while occupying such temporary location,
does not sell from stock, but exhibits samples only for the purpose of securing
orders for future delivery only. The person so engaged shall not be relieved
from complying with the provisions of this article merely by reason of
associating temporarily with any local dealer, trader, merchant or auctioneer,
or by conducting such transient business in connection with, as a part of, or
in the name of any local dealer, trader, merchant or auctioneer.
(Ord. 40, passed 3-23-1959)
§ 19-102 LOUD NOISES AND SPEAKING DEVICES.
   No licensee under this article, nor anyone in his or her behalf, shall
shout, make any outcry, blow a horn, ring a bell or use any other sound device
including any loud-speaking radio or amplifying system upon any of the streets,
alleys, parks or other public places of the city or upon any private premises
in the city where sound of sufficient volume is emitted or produced therefrom
capable of being plainly heard upon the streets, avenues, alleys or parks or
other public places, for the purpose of attracting attention to any goods,
wares or merchandise which such license proposes to sell.
(Ord. 40, passed 3-23-1959)
§ 19-103 DUTY OF POLICE TO ENFORCE.
   It shall be the duty of the police officers of the city to examine all
places of business and persons in their respective territories subject to the
provisions of this article, to determine if this article has been complied with
and to enforce the provisions of this article against any person found to be
violating the same.
(Ord. 40, passed 3-23-1959)
§ 19-104 RECORDS.
   The Chief of Police shall maintain a record of fingerprints of the licensee,
together with a license number. The Chief of Police shall keep a record of any
complaints against any person licensed under the provisions of this article and
any conviction for violation of this article.
(Ord. 40, passed 3-23-1959; Ord. 402, passed 12-26-2007)
§§ 19-105 — 19-115 RESERVED.
DIVISION 2. LICENSE
§ 19-116 REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for a transient merchant, itinerant merchant or
itinerant vendor to engage in such business within the city, without first
obtaining a license therefor in compliance with the provisions of this
division.
(Ord. 40, passed 3-23-1959)
§ 19-117 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Applicants for a license under this division whether a person, firm or
corporation, shall file a written sworn application signed by the applicant, if
an individual; by all partners, if a partnership; and by the president, if a
corporation, with the Chief of Police, showing:
      (1)   The name of the person having the management or supervision of
applicant’s business during the time that it is proposed that it will be
carried on in the city; the local address or addresses of such person while
engaged in such business; the permanent address or addresses of such person;
the capacity in which such person will act (that is, whether as proprietor,
agent or otherwise); the name and address of the person for whose account the
business will be carried on, if any; and if a corporation, under the laws of
what state the same is incorporated;
      (2)   The fingerprints of the person having the management or supervision
of applicant’s business, three character references, or other evidence which
establishes to the satisfaction of the City Manager, the good character and
responsibility of such person;
      (3)   The place in the city where it is proposed to carry on applicant’s
business, and the length of time during which it is proposed that the business
shall be conducted;
      (4)   The place, other than the permanent place of business of the
applicant where the applicant within the six months next preceding the date of
application conducted a transient business, stating the nature thereof and
giving the post office and street address of any building or office in which
such business was conducted;
      (5)   A statement of the nature, character and quality of the goods,
wares or merchandise to be sold or offered for sale by the applicant in the
city, the invoice value and quality of such goods, wares and merchandise,
whether the same are proposed to be sold from stock in possession or from stock
in possession and by sample; at auction, by direct sale or by direct sale and
by taking orders for future deliver; where the goods or property proposed to be
sold are manufactured or produced and where such goods or products are located
at the time the application is filed;
      (6)   A brief statement of the nature and character of the advertising
done or proposed to be done in order to attract customers and, if required by
the City Clerk, copies of all the advertising whether by handbills, circular,
newspaper advertising or otherwise, shall be attached to the application as
exhibits thereto;
      (7)   Whether or not the person having the management or supervision of
the applicant’s business has been convicted of a crime, misdemeanor or the
violation of any municipal ordinance, the nature of such offense and the
punishment assessed therefor;
      (8)   Credentials from the person for which the applicant proposed to do
business, authorizing the applicant to act as such representative; and
      (9)   Such other reasonable information as to the identity or character
of the person having the management or supervision of applicant’s business or
the method or plan of doing such business as the City Clerk may deem proper to
fulfill the purpose of this article in the protection of the public good.
   (B)   A fee as prescribed by resolution of the Council shall be paid to the
Chief of Police at the time of filing the application to defray the cost of
making the investigation.
(Ord. 40, passed 3-23-1959; Ord. 402, passed 12-26-2007)
§ 19-118 INVESTIGATION AND ISSUANCE.
   Upon receipt of an application under this division:
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall cause such investigation of such person’s
business responsibility or moral character to be made as he or she deems
necessary to the protection of the public good;
   (B)   If, as a result of the investigation, the applicant’s character and
business responsibility are found to be unsatisfactory, the application shall
be denied;
   (C)   If, as a result of the investigation, the character and business
reputation appear to be satisfactory, the Chief of Police shall so certify in
writing, and a license shall be issued by the City Clerk; and
   (D)   The license shall contain the number of the license, the date the same
is issued, the nature of the business authorized to be carried on, the amount
of the license fee paid, the expiration date of the license, the place where
the business may be carried on under the license and the name or names of the
person authorized to carry on the same.
(Ord. 40, passed 3-23-1959)
§ 19-119 FEES.
   (A)   License fees under this division shall be as prescribed by resolution
of the Council.
   (B)   Any such fee paid prior to the statutory “tax day” or in a year in
which no assessment for personal taxes was made upon the goods, wares and
merchandise of such business, shall become the property of the city. Any
license fee paid after such “tax day” and in a year for which an assessment for
personal taxes has been or will be made upon such stock, shall constitute a
credit upon the summer (city) and winter (county and school) taxes payable, in
the tax year.
(Ord. 40, passed 3-23-1959)
§ 19-120 BOND.
   Before any license, as provided by this division, shall be issued for
engaging in a transient or itinerant business in the city, such applicant shall
file with the Chief of Police a bond running to the city in the sum as
prescribed by resolution of the Council executed by the applicant, as
principal, and two sureties upon which service of process may be made in the
state; the bond to be approved by the City Attorney, conditioned that the
applicant shall comply fully with all of the provisions of the ordinances of
the city and the statutes of the state, regulating and concerning the sale of
goods, wares and merchandise, and will pay all judgments rendered against the
applicant for any violation of the ordinances or statutes, or any of them,
together with all judgments and costs that may be recovered against him or her
by any person or persons for damage growing out of any misrepresentation or
deception practiced on any person transacting such business with such
applicant, whether the misrepresentations or deceptions were made or practiced
by the owners or by their servants, agents or employees, either at the time of
making the sale or through any advertisement of any character whatsoever,
printed or circulated with reference to the goods, wares and merchandise sold
or any part thereof. Action on the bond may be brought in the name of the city
to the use of the aggrieved person. Such bond must be approved by the City
Attorney, both as to form and as to the responsibility of the sureties thereon.
(Ord. 40, passed 3-23-1959; Ord. 402, passed 12-26-2007)
§ 19-121 SERVICE OF PROCESS.
   Before any license shall be issued under this division for engaging in
business as an itinerant merchant in the city, the applicant shall file with
the Chief of Police an instrument nominating and appointing the City Clerk, or
the person performing the duties of such position, his or her true and lawful
agent with full power and authority to acknowledge service or notice of process
for and on behalf of the applicant in respect to any matters connected with or
arising out of the business transacted under the license and the bond given as
required by § 19-120 of this chapter, or for the performance of the conditions
of the bond or for any breach thereof, which the instrument shall also contain
recitals to the effect that the applicant for the license consents and agrees
that service of any notice or process may be made upon the agent, and when so
made shall be taken and held to be as valid as if personally served upon the
person or persons applying for the license under this division, according to
the law of this or any other state, and waiving all claim or right of error by
reason of such acknowledgment of service or manner of service. Immediately upon
service of process upon the Chief of Police, as herein provided, the City Clerk
shall send to the licensee at his or her last known address, by registered
mail, a copy of the process.
(Ord. 40, passed 3-23-1959; Ord. 402, passed 12-26-2007)
§ 19-122 EXHIBITION.
   The license issued under this division shall be posted conspicuously in the
place of business named therein. If the person applying for the license shall
desire to do business in more than one place within the city, separate licenses
may be issued for each place of business and shall be posted conspicuously in
each place of business.
(Ord. 40, passed 3-23-1959)
§ 19-123 TRANSFER.
   No license shall be transferred without written consent from the Chief of
Police as evidenced by an endorsement on the face of the license by the City
Clerk showing to whom the license is transferred and the date of the transfer.
(Ord. 40, passed 3-23-1959; Ord. 402, passed 12-26-2007)
§ 19-124 EXPIRATION.
   All annual licenses issued under the provisions of this division shall
expire on December 31 in the year when issued. Other than annual licenses shall
expire on the date specified in the license.
(Ord. 40, passed 3-23-1959)
§ 19-125 REVOCATION.
   (A)   The licenses issued pursuant to this division may be revoked by the
Chief of Police, after notice and hearing, for any of the following causes:
      (1)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for a license;
      (2)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in connection
with the selling of goods, wares or merchandise;
      (3)   Any violation of this article;
      (4)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony or of a misdemeanor
involving moral turpitude; and/or
      (5)   Conducting the business licensed under this division in an unlawful
manner or in such a manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or to
constitute a menace to the health, safety or general welfare of the public.
   (B)   Notice of the hearing for revocation of a license shall be given in
writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time
and place of the hearing. The notice shall be mailed, postage prepaid, to the
licensee, at his or her last known address at least five days prior to the date
set for the hearing.
(Ord. 40, passed 3-23-1959; Ord. 402, passed 12-26-2007)
§ 19-126 APPEAL.
   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Chief of Police in regard to the
denial of application for license as provided for in §
19-118 of this chapter or in connection with the revocation of a license as
provided for in §
19-125 of this chapter, shall have the right to appeal to the Council. The
appeal shall be taken by filing with the Council within 14 days after notice of
the decision by the City Clerk has been mailed to such person’s last known
address, a written statement setting forth the grounds for the appeal. The
Council shall set the time and place for a hearing on such appeal and notice of
such hearing shall be given to such person in the same manner as provided in
§ 19-125 of this chapter for notice of hearing on revocation. The order of the
Council on such appeal shall be final.
(Ord. 40, passed 3-23-1959; Ord. 402, passed 12-26-2007)
§ 19-127 EXCLUSION.
   This section shall not apply to any representative of a religious,
patriotic, political, charitable or civic organization.
(Ord. 384, passed 5-8-2006)
ARTICLE V. MOBILE FOOD VEHICLES
§ 19-128 INTENT.
   In the interest of encouraging mobile food vendors who add to the vibrancy
and desirability of the city of Allegan, while providing a framework under
which such businesses operate, this article is established.
(Ord. 478, passed 8-12-2019)
§ 19-129 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   BRICK AND MORTAR RESTAURANT. A business located in a permanent structure
that offers food, which is prepared on site, and drink to the public in a face-
to-face setting and is not part of a grocery store or a membership-based
institution.
   MOBILE FOOD VEHICLE. A vehicle which, upon issuance of a permit by the City
Clerk and conformance with the regulations established by the ordinance, may
temporarily park upon a public street or public park and engage in the service,
sale or distribution of ready-to-eat food for individual portion service to the
general public directly from the vehicle.
   MOBILE FOOD VENDING. Vending, serving or offering for sale food and/or
beverages from a mobile food vending unit which meets the definition of a “food
service establishment” under Public Act 92 of 2000, which may include ancillary
sales of branded items consistent with the food, such as a tee shirt that bears
the name of the organization engaged in MOBILE FOOD VENDING.
   OPERATE. All activities associated with the conduct of business, including
set up and take down and/or actual hours where the mobile food vending unit is
open for business.
   VENDOR. The registered owner of a mobile food vehicle or the owner’s agent
or employee.
(Ord. 478, passed 8-12-2019)
§ 19-130 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this article apply to mobile food vehicles engaged in the
business of cooking, preparing and distributing food or beverage with or
without charge upon or in public and private restricted spaces. This article
does not apply to vehicles which dispense food and that move from place to
place and are stationary in the same location for no more than 15 minutes at a
time, such as ice cream trucks.
(Ord. 478, passed 8-12-2019)
§ 19-131 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No vendor shall engage in mobile food vending without an annual permit
authorizing such vending. The annual permit issued under this article shall not
be transferable from person to person. The annual permit shall not be
transferred between vehicles. The annual permit shall expire on December 31 of
each year. This permit is not required for city-sponsored events and festivals.
(Ord. 478, passed 8-12-2019)
§ 19-132 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Every vendor desiring to engage in mobile food vending shall make a
written application, supplied by the city, for a permit. The applicant shall
truthfully state, in full, all information requested and be accompanied by a
non-refundable fee of $10. Additionally, the applicant shall provide all
documentation, such as insurance, as required by the city.
   (B)   Application information required shall include the following:
      (1)   Name of the applicant and business, signature, phone number, email
contact and business address of the applicant;
      (2)   Information on the mobile food vehicle, including the year, make
and model of the vehicle and dimensions, which shall not exceed 24 feet in
length or ten feet in width;
      (3)   A general description of the food products offered for sale;
      (4)   Information setting forth the proposed hours of operation and area
of operation;
      (5)   Copies of all necessary licenses or permits issued by the county's
Health Department and/or the state;
      (6)   Proof of insurance coverage; and
      (7)   A signed statement that the licensee shall indemnify and hold
harmless the city, its officers and employees for any claims, damages or
injuries to persons or property, which arise out of any activity by the
licensee, its employees or agents carried on under the terms of the license.
(Ord. 478, passed 8-12-2019)
§ 19-133 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No operator of a mobile food vehicle shall park, stand or move a
vehicle and conduct business within areas of the city where the license holder
has not been authorized to operate.
   (B)   The customer service area for mobile food vehicles shall be on the
side of the truck that faces a curb, lawn or sidewalk when parked. No food
service shall be provided on the driving-lane side of the truck. No food shall
be prepared, sold or displayed outside of mobile food vehicles.
   (C)   Customers shall be provided with a waste and recycling containers for
public use, which the vendor shall empty at its own expense. All trash and
garbage originating from the operation of mobile food vehicles shall be
collected and disposed of off-site by the operators each day. Spills of food or
food byproducts shall be cleaned up, and no dumping of gray water on streets is
allowed.
   (D)   No mobile food vehicle shall make or cause to be made any unreasonable
or excessive noise. The operation of all mobile food vehicles shall meet the
requirements of Chapter 15 of this code of ordinances, including generators.
   (E)   Signage is permitted on mobile food vehicles. One separate
freestanding sign is allowed within two feet of the mobile food vehicle, not to
exceed dimensions of 50 inches by 30 inches.
   (F)   A mobile food vehicle shall not be parked on the street overnight or
left unattended and unsecured at any time food is in the vehicle.
   (G)   A mobile food vendor may only operate between the hours of 7:00 a.m.
and 2:00 a.m.
   (H)   A vendor shall not operate a mobile food vehicle within 1,000 feet of
any fair, festival, special event or civic event boundary that is licensed or
sanctioned by the city unless the vendor has obtained permission from the event
sponsor.
   (I)   A vendor shall not operate a mobile food vehicle within 50 feet of the
front door of an existing brick and mortar restaurant during the hours when
such restaurant is open to the public for business.
   (J)   A vendor shall not park on the southern side of Trowbridge Street,
between Chestnut Street and the alleyway immediately west of the Regent
Theatre; this is otherwise known as the area in front of the City Hall at 231
Trowbridge Street.
   (K)   The issuance of a mobile food vehicle license does not grant or
entitle the vendor to the exclusive use of any service route or parking space
to the license holder.
   (L)   Power required for the mobile food vehicle shall be self-contained. If
mobile food vehicle requires use of utilities drawn from public right-of-way, a
temporary hook-up may be granted with the payment of a flat rate as established
by a resolution adopted by City Council. No power cable or equipment shall be
extended across any city sidewalk or road, without being secured so as to not
create a danger or impedance to the public.
   (M)   No part of the mobile food vehicle shall extend into the travel lane
when parked.
   (N)   No flashing or blinking lights, or strobe lights, are allowed on
mobile food vehicles or related signage at any time. All exterior lights with
over 60 watts shall contain opaque hood shields to direct the illumination
downward.
   (O)   Mobile food vehicles shall be in accordance with
Chapter 15 of this code of ordinances.
   (P)   Awnings for mobile food vehicles shall have a minimum clearance of
seven feet between the ground level and the lowest point of the awning.
Seating, tables, waste disposal or cleaning apparatus of the vendor shall be
located within 20 feet of the mobile food vehicle and shall not constitute a
danger or impedance to the public.
(Ord. 478, passed 8-12-2019)
§ 19-134 LOCATIONS PERMITTED.
   (A)   Mobile food vendors are permitted to operate on city streets, where on
street parking is available, in areas with zoning classifications of C1 and C2.
   (B)   Mobile food vendors are only permitted to park on city streets with
parallel parking spaces.
   (C)   There are two spots located on the downtown Riverfront Park area
available to mobile food vendors. One spot is designed for larger mobile food
vehicles, while the other spot is designed for smaller mobile food vehicles. A
map depicting these locations shall be provided by the city with the
application for permit. Only one vendor at a time is permitted to park in
either designated area. These spots are filled on first come, first serve
basis.
      (1)   For smaller mobile food vehicles, there is a 13-foot (length) by
ten-foot (wide) designated area located on the concrete plaza east of the
landscape circle and north of the eastern most picnic table, at the west of the
turning circle. This spot is reserved only for mobile food vehicles that are
trailers or carts.
      (2)   For larger mobile food vehicles, there is a 24-foot (length) by 13-
foot (width) designated area located on the brick pavers just south of the
sculpture and north of the picnic tables, at the east end of the turning
circle.
   (D)   Mobile food vendors may operate on private property that is in an area
with a commercial zoning classification. Permission from owner of private
property is required. No permit is needed from the city if the mobile food
vendor is operating on private property.
(Ord. 478, passed 8-12-2019)
§ 19-135 APPEALS.
   If a permit is denied or revoked, the applicant or holder of a permit may
appeal to and have a hearing before the City Manager. The City Manager shall
make a written determination. If the City Manager denial or revocation is
supported, the applicant may appeal the City Manager’s decision to City
Council.
(Ord. 478, passed 8-12-2019)
§ 19-136 ENFORCEMENT.
   Any license holder operating a mobile food vehicle in violation of any
provision of this article may be subject to revocation of his, her or their
permit. Permits may also be revoked if the vendor makes a false statement on
their application, or conducts activity in a manner that is adverse to the
protection of the public health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. 478, passed 8-12-2019)
CHAPTER 20: PLANNING COMMISSION
Section
   
20-1   Planning Commission established
   
20-2   Composition
   
20-3   Officers; meetings; rules and records
   
20-4   Employees; contracts for special services; source and limit on
expenditures
   
20-5   Powers and duties
§ 20-1 PLANNING COMMISSION ESTABLISHED.
   The city has created a Planning Commission, as required by §
8.11 of the City Charter.
(Ord. 516, passed 11-27-2023)
§ 20-2 COMPOSITION.
   The Planning Commission shall consist of the Mayor as a member ex officio,
one member of the Council to be selected by it as a member ex officio and seven
persons who shall be appointed by the Mayor. Commission members appointed by
the Mayor may be compensated at a rate determined by the Council, and such
members shall hold no other municipal office, except that one member may also
serve on the Zoning Board of Appeals. The Mayor’s term as an ex officio member
of the Planning Commission shall correspond with his or her tenure as Mayor.
The additional Council member serving as an ex officio member of the Planning
Commission shall serve for a term of one year, but may be selected for
additional terms at the discretion of the Council. The term of each appointed
member shall be three years or until a successor takes office. Vacancies
occurring other than through the expiration of a term shall be filled for the
unexpired term by the Mayor in the case of a member appointed by the Mayor, and
by the Council in the case of ex officio members selected by the Council. The
Council may remove a member of the Planning Commission for misfeasance,
malfeasance or non-feasance in office upon written charges and after a public
hearing.
(Ord. 516, passed 11-27-2023)
§ 20-3 OFFICERS; MEETINGS; RULES AND RECORDS.
   The Planning Commission shall choose from among its members a Chairperson
and Secretary, each of whom shall hold office for a term of one year or until a
successor is chosen and takes office. The Commission shall hold at least one
meeting a month, which meetings shall be open to the public, shall adopt its
own rules of procedure for the transaction of business and it shall keep a full
and complete record of its resolutions, transactions, findings and
determinations. This record shall be available to the Council upon request. It
shall be responsible for the discipline of its members.
(Ord. 516, passed 11-27-2023)
§ 20-4 EMPLOYEES; CONTRACTS FOR SPECIAL SERVICES; SOURCE AND LIMIT ON
EXPENDITURES.
   The Planning Commission, with the approval of the Council, may request the
City Manager for such services and data by the various city departments as it
may deem necessary. The Commission may recommend to the Council the procurement
of such professional and consulting services as it may deem necessary;
provided, however, that, no expenditure of funds shall be made, nor contracts
entered into for providing such professional or consulting services, unless the
same shall first have been approved and authorized by the Council. The Planning
Commission may request appropriations from the City Council as needed from time
to time, and such request shall include an estimate and description proposed
expenditures. The City Council may grant such appropriation at its sole
discretion. No funds shall be expended by the Planning Commission in excess of
any amounts appropriated for its use.
(Ord. 516, passed 11-27-2023)
§ 20-5 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Planning Commission shall have the powers and duties as set forth by
state statute and applicable city ordinances.
(Ord. 516, passed 11-27-2023)
CHAPTER 21: RESERVED
CHAPTER 22: SALES
Section
   
22-1   Defined
   
22-2   Duration
   
22-3   Number of sales
   
22-4   Arrangement, signage and location of sale
   
22-5   Eligibility to conduct a residential sale
   
22-6 — 22-20   Reserved
   
22-21   Penalty; violation as nuisance per se
§ 22-1 DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this chapter, RESIDENTIAL SALES shall include barn sales,
garage sales, yard sales basement sales, porch sales, patio sales, and any
other sales where tangible personal property of a resident of the premises,
including clothing, utensils, appliances, equipment and all other tangible
personal property commonly used in and about the residence for the personal use
of a resident, is sold by that resident.
(Ord. 516, passed 11-27-2023)
§ 22-2 DURATION.
   Each residential sale shall be limited to no more than three consecutive
days of operation. Sales may be conducted only between the hours of 9:00 a.m.
and 7:00 p.m. each day.
(Ord. 516, passed 11-27-2023)
§ 22-3 NUMBER OF SALES.
   No person shall have more than six sales in any one year and no more than
once a calendar month.
(Ord. 516, passed 11-27-2023)
§ 22-4 ARRANGEMENT, SIGNAGE AND LOCATION OF SALE.
   (A)   All tangible personal property to be sold shall be arranged in an
orderly manner on the premises, shall not be placed in such a way as to be a
nuisance to adjoining property, shall in no way be arranged so as to obstruct
the vision of persons using driveways or entering and exiting within the
neighborhood and shall be carried on behind the setback line for that zone, as
provided in the Zoning Ordinance.
   (B)   All signage advertising a residential sale shall comply with
applicable provisions of this code of ordinances, including, but not limited
to, provisions regulating temporary signs, handbills and posters.
(Ord. 516, passed 11-27-2023)
§ 22-5 ELIGIBILITY TO CONDUCT A RESIDENTIAL SALE.
   No person, firm, corporation or organization other than the homeowner or
occupant shall conduct a residential sale, and no merchandise of any nature
shall be brought in from any other source to supplement such sale.
(Ord. 516, passed 11-27-2023)
§§ 22-6 — 22-20 RESERVED.
§ 22-21 PENALTY; VIOLATION AS NUISANCE PER SE.
   (A)   Violations of this chapter shall be deemed a municipal civil
infraction, subject to the penalties of Chapter 1 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   In addition to the other remedies and charges under this chapter, any
violation of this chapter is hereby determined to be a nuisance per se and the
city may forthwith obtain an order from a court of competent jurisdiction
ordering the abatement of such nuisance and, if the danger to the health,
safety and/or welfare of the public or persons at or near the property is
imminent, the city may forthwith enter upon the premises and abate the
nuisance.
(Ord. 516, passed 11-27-2023)
CHAPTER 23: RESERVED
CHAPTER 24: RESERVED
CHAPTER 25: STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND OTHER PUBLIC PLACES
Section
Article I. In General
   
25-1   Public improvement financing
   
25-2   Public improvement standards and specifications
   
25-3 — 25-20   Reserved
Article II. Construction and Repair of Sidewalks
   
25-21   Grades and specifications
   
25-22   Permit
   
25-23   Construction
   
25-24   Revocation of permit
   
25-25 — 25-30   Reserved
Article III. Construction, Maintenance and Use of Mains, Service Pipes,
Conductors,
Conduits, Poles or Other Appliances
   
25-31   Filing plans
   
25-32   Permit required
   
25-33   Permit application process and standards
   
25-34   Permit fees
   
25-35   Public liability and property damage insurance
   
25-36   Mains, service pipes, conduits and cable underground
   
25-37   Order of removal
   
25-38 — 25-40   Reserved
Article IV. Removal of Snow and Ice from Sidewalks
   
25-41   Responsibility for sidewalks adjacent to properties
   
25-42   Depositing of snow
   
25-43   Enforcement and penalty
   
25-44   No additional duty of enforcement
   
25-45 — 25-50   Reserved
Article V. Business Use of Downtown Sidewalks
   
25-51   “Downtown sidewalks” defined
   
25-52   Open hours (A-frame and T-frame) signs
   
25-53   Sidewalk café service
   
25-54   Sales racks and sidewalk furniture
   
25-55 — 25-71   Reserved
Article VI. Telecommunications Providers
   
25-72   Purpose
   
25-73   Conflict
   
25-74   Terms defined
   
25-75   Permit required
   
25-76   Issuance of permit
   
25-77   Construction/engineering permit
   
25-78   Conduit or utility poles
   
25-79   Route maps
   
25-80   Repair of damage
   
25-81   Establishment and payment of maintenance fee
   
25-82   Modification of existing fees
   
25-83   Savings clause
   
25-84   Use of funds
   
25-85   Annual report
   
25-86   Cable television operators
   
25-87   Existing rights
   
25-88   Compliance
   
25-89   Reservation of police powers
   
25-90   Severability
   
25-91   Authorized city officials
   
25-92   Municipal civil infraction
   
25-93 — 25-99   Reserved
Article VII. Small Cell Wireless Communication Facility Permits
   
25-100   Purpose
   
25-101   Definitions
   
25-102   Permit required
   
25-103   Application process
   
25-104   Review standards; issuance and denial of permits; resubmittal
   
25-105   Permit conditions
   
25-106   Reservation of rights
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
§ 25-1 PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT FINANCING.
   (A)   All public improvements constructed by the city which specially
benefit a parcel or parcels of land within the city shall be financed by
special assessment levied against the land specially benefitted in accordance
with Chapter 27, Article II, of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   All public improvements constructed by the city which benefit the city
at large shall be financed from funds derived from the city at large.
   (C)   All public improvements constructed by the city which benefit both
specified areas of the city and the city at large shall be financed as provided
in subsection (A) above to the extent that a specified area is specially
benefitted, and as provided in subsection (B) above to the extent that the city
at large is benefitted, as respectively determined by resolution of the City
Council.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 25-2 PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   All public improvements constructed by the city shall be constructed in
accordance with applicable state’s Department of Transportation “Standard
Specifications for Construction” and standard plans, as amended from time to
time.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§§ 25-3 — 25-20 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II. CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR OF SIDEWALKS
§ 25-21 GRADES AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   All new, reconstructed or repaired sidewalks shall be constructed in strict
conformity with alignment and grade specifications as established by the City
Manager. Further, all sidewalk improvements constructed in the city, whether by
the city or by other parties, shall be constructed in accordance with
applicable State Department of Transportation standards and standard road
plans, as amended from time to time.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 25-22 PERMIT.
   No new sidewalks, reconstruction of existing sidewalks, nor repairs for same
shall hereinafter be constructed in the right-of-way without a construction
permit therefor having been obtained from the City Manager or designee. The
City Manager or designee is hereby authorized to issue such permits, upon
application and payment of an applicable fee as established by the City
Council, and the permit shall contain the date issued, the name of owner of
property where the sidewalk is to be constructed, a description of the
property, the estimated square feet of sidewalk to be constructed and a
statement to be signed by the owner agreeing to conform in every way to
applicable grade specifications and the regulations in this article.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 25-23 CONSTRUCTION.
   All sidewalk construction, including new sidewalks, reconstruction or
repairs thereto, shall be done by experienced and qualified contractors.
Qualifications shall include adequate financial stability, insurance, proper
equipment and experience in like construction work. The City Manager or
designee may refuse to issue a construction permit if, in his or her opinion,
the contractor lacks the proper qualifications to do satisfactory work or if
past performance has been unsatisfactory. Nothing in this section shall be
construed to prevent the owner of adjacent or abutting property from
constructing, reconstructing or repairing sidewalks adjacent to or abutting
upon his or her property, upon obtaining a permit under this section, if
qualified to do so.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 25-24 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The City Manager or designee may revoke any permit issued under this
article for any of the following reasons: unsatisfactory workmanship, failure
to comply with and adhere to grades, alignment and specifications, failure to
commence work within six months of the permits approval; cessation of work for
a period of more than six months; and any other violation of this article.
   (B)   To invoke the terms of this section, the City Manager or designee may
cause all work under a construction permit to be temporarily stopped to allow
time to consider and examine the work.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§§ 25-25 — 25-30 RESERVED.
ARTICLE III. CONSTRUCTION, MAINTENANCE AND USE OF MAINS, SERVICE PIPES,
CONDUCTORS, CONDUITS, POLES OR OTHER APPLIANCES
§ 25-31 FILING PLANS.
   All persons owning, constructing, maintaining or proposing to own, construct
or maintain any mains, service pipes, conduits, conductors, poles or other
appliances pertinent thereto in the city shall file with the City Manager or
designee a plan or map drawn to a scale not smaller than 400 feet to one inch,
showing thereon by standard symbols, the location of all mains, service pipes,
conduits, conductors, poles or other appliances owned by the person in the
city. The plan or map shall remain a part of the permanent files of the city.
In the case of electrical installations, the provisions of State Public Service
Commission Order No. 1679, and amendments thereto, shall suffice.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 25-32 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall lay, construct, repair, extend or alter the location of any
main, service pipe or appliance pertinent thereto in any street, alley or
public place in the city before having obtained a permit therefor from the City
Manager or designee: and no person shall lay, construct, extend or alter the
location of any conduits, conductors, poles or pertinent appliances before
having obtained a permit therefor from the City Manager or designee. The
provisions of this section shall not apply to service wire connections to serve
a consumer where no additional poles are required. The provisions of this
section shall not apply in the case of unforeseen emergencies.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 25-33 PERMIT APPLICATION PROCESS AND STANDARDS.
   (A)   Any person desiring a permit under the provisions of this article
shall file an application with the City Manager or designee, upon forms
prepared by him or her for that purpose, and shall attach a detailed plan with
specifications showing the nature, object and location of the work for which a
permit is desired.
   (B)   The City Manager or designee may deny a permit application for any of
the following reasons:
      (1)   The applicant does not have a franchise or license authorizing use
of the right-of-way where the proposed work is to be done;
      (2)   The applicant has failed to comply with a permit issued by the city
under this section within the last two years;
      (3)   The proposed addition would interfere with a present or future use
of the right-of-way;
      (4)   The proposed addition would impair clear vision or otherwise create
a traffic hazard; and
      (5)   The proposed work does not comply with construction or installation
standards established by the Department of Public Works.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 25-34 PERMIT FEES.
   The Council may, by resolution, determine and fix fees and charges
sufficient to meet the cost of the issuance of any permit required under the
provisions of this article. No permit shall be issued until such fees or
charges shall have been paid to the city.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 25-35 PUBLIC LIABILITY AND PROPERTY DAMAGE INSURANCE.
   Each person making application for a permit under the provisions of this
article agrees to do no injury to any pavement, except as otherwise provided
herein, nor to any sidewalk, parkway, shade tree, shrub, lawn or other
improvements in any public street, alley or public place; nor injure or
interfere with any sewer, water main, service pipe, conduit or any other public
or private appliance now or hereafter laid or constructed by any authorized
person, and shall fully indemnify and save harmless the city from any and all
claims and damages for which the city might be made or become liable to pay by
reason of the work authorized to be done under the permit. The person making
application for a permit shall furnish to the City Manager or designee
satisfactory evidence of public liability and property damage insurance in the
sum as prescribed by resolution of the Council, or satisfactory evidence of
financial responsibility.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 25-36 MAINS, SERVICE PIPES, CONDUITS AND CABLE UNDERGROUND.
   (A)   All operating and conducting mains, service pipes, conduits and cables
which are laid below the surface of the ground, in any street, alley or public
place shall be thoroughly coated and wrapped or otherwise insulated in a manner
satisfactory to the City Manager or designee to the end that it will
satisfactorily withstand abrasion, corrosion and mechanical injury and be
impervious to water where deemed necessary. All of the mains, conduits and
cables laid in streets, alleys and public places shall be parallel to the axis
of the street, alley or public place and at such distance from center of same
as shall be designated by the City Manager or designee, and of such reasonable
depth as he or she may specify. All service pipes to consumers shall be
connected only to the nearest main source of supply in the street, alley or
place nearest to the consumer.
   (B)   Wherever it becomes necessary to break an opening into pavement, or to
break a sidewalk, for the purpose of installing, repairing or extending any
main, service pipe, conduit, cable or appliance pertinent thereto, or to make
any excavation in any street, alley or public place, the entity performing the
work shall maintain suitable barriers at a place where work is being done, and
the barriers shall be suitably lighted by night until such time as the pavement
has been repaired and until excavation has been properly filled and the hazard
removed. The work of patching holes cut into pavements as outlined above shall
be done by the city and all costs incurred therein shall be charged to the
person to whom a permit for the work was issued, and he or she shall pay such
sum as charged forthwith. The restoration of backfill and the removal of debris
and excess material shall be done by and at the expense of the person to whom
the permit was issued for the work done and in a manner satisfactory to the
City Manager or designee.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 25-37 ORDER OF REMOVAL.
   When any mains, service pipes, conduits, conductors, poles or appliances
laid or constructed under the provisions of this article, or which may have
been laid or constructed prior to the adoption hereof, interfere in any way
with the use, improvement or alteration of any street, alley or public place by
the city, the Council may direct and order the removal of same, or such
alterations in relation thereto as will obviate such interference; failure to
so alter or remove the same shall be considered a violation of this article.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§§ 25-38 — 25-40 RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV. REMOVAL OF SNOW AND ICE FROM SIDEWALKS
§ 25-41 RESPONSIBILITY FOR SIDEWALKS ADJACENT TO PROPERTIES.
   The owner or occupant of every property within the city, occupied or vacant,
on which a sidewalk abuts, shall keep the abutting portion of the sidewalk free
and clear of snow, ice or other obstructions which could impair or impede
public travel. For purposes of this section, any accumulation of two or more
inches of snow on a sidewalk shall be presumed to impair or impede public
travel. Such accumulation shall be removed within 48 hours of the cessation of
snowfall.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 25-42 DEPOSITING OF SNOW.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, in removing snow or ice from public or
private property, to deposit the same on any sidewalk or on the roadway portion
of any street in a manner that impedes pedestrian or vehicular traffic or
creates a pedestrian or traffic hazard.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 25-43 ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTY.
   City Police Department personnel and such other individuals as authorized by
the City Manager shall enforce this article and shall be authorized to issue
and serve citations with respect to violations. A violation of this section is
a municipal civil infraction punishable in accordance with § 1-14 of this code
of ordinances.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 25-44 NO ADDITIONAL DUTY OF ENFORCEMENT.
   Nothing in this article shall create any additional duty on the city, its
Police Department, its police officers or other individual authorized to
enforce this article to remove snow and/or ice or to inspect public sidewalks
for snow and/or ice. However, the city may, at its discretion, remove snow or
ice from any sidewalk within a public right-of-way, either as part of a regular
plowing program or on an ad hoc basis.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§§ 25-45 — 25-50 RESERVED.
ARTICLE V. BUSINESS USE OF DOWNTOWN SIDEWALKS
§ 25-51 “DOWNTOWN SIDEWALKS” DEFINED.
   For purposes of this article, the term DOWNTOWN SIDEWALK means a sidewalk
abutting the following street segments:
   (A)   Hubbard Street, from Walnut Street to Water Street;
   (B)   Brady Street, from State Street to Hubbard Street;
   (C)   State Street, from Brady Street to Water Street;
   (D)   Water Street, from State Street to Cutler Street;
   (E)   Locust Street, from Hubbard Street to Water Street;
   (F)   Trowbridge Street, from Water Street to Walnut Street;
   (G)   Chestnut Street, from Trowbridge Street to Hubbard Street; and
   (H)   Walnut Street, from Trowbridge Street to Hubbard Street.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 25-52 OPEN HOURS (A-FRAME AND T-FRAME) SIGNS.
   Open hours signs are permitted on certain downtown sidewalks subject to the
regulations provided in the city’s Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 25-53 SIDEWALK CAFÉ SERVICE.
   Sidewalk café service on downtown sidewalks may be operated by a restaurant
or other food establishment that sells food for on-premises consumption,
subject to a permit granted by the City Manager that imposes the following
conditions:
   (A)   A sidewalk café must be located directly adjacent to the
establishment;
   (B)   A minimum of five feet of unobstructed, pedestrian access along the
sidewalk shall be maintained;
   (C)   Sidewalk café service shall be allowed only during the normal
operating hours of the establishment;
   (D)   The exterior of the premises shall be kept clean, orderly and
maintained or the permit may be revoked. All food preparation shall be inside
of the premises;
   (E)   The city shall not be held liable or responsible for any type of
damage, then or personal injury which may occur as a result of a sidewalk café
operation. Applicant shall submit a certificate of insurance to meet
requirements of the City Attorney;
   (F)   All sidewalk cafés shall comply with applicable regulations of the
county’s Health Department and the state; and
   (G)   Any other conditions deemed appropriate by City Manager or designee.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 25-54 SALES RACKS AND SIDEWALK FURNITURE.
   Temporary movable sales racks and movable sidewalk furniture (i.e., chairs
of tables where patrons can sit, but where food or drink service is not
provided) are permitted on the public sidewalk; provided that:
   (A)   Such items are associated with a permanent business operating in a
building immediately adjacent to the sidewalk where the items are placed;
   (B)   Such items are placed as close to the building as is reasonably
possible:
   (C)   A minimum of five feet of unobstructed, pedestrian access along the
sidewalk is maintained;
   (D)   Sales racks do not exceed 150 square feet or 20 linear feet of
frontage and are only present in the right-of-way during operating hours. These
limitations do not apply during community events authorized by the city; and
   (E)   Property owners shall be required to first obtain a right-of-way
encroachment permit from City Hall before placing movable sales racks or
movable sidewalk furniture on downtown sidewalks.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§§ 25-55 — 25-71 RESERVED.
ARTICLE VI. TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDERS
§ 25-72 PURPOSE.
   The purposes of this article are to regulate access to and ongoing use of
public rights-of-way by telecommunications providers for their
telecommunications facilities while protecting the public health, safety and
welfare and to exercise reasonable control of the public rights-of-way in
compliance with the Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
Oversight Act (Public Act 48 of 2002) and other applicable law, and to ensure
that the city qualifies for distributions under the Act by modifying the fees
charged to providers and complying with the Act.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 25-73 CONFLICT.
   Nothing in this article shall be construed in such a manner as to conflict
with the Act or other applicable law.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 25-74 TERMS DEFINED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      ACT. The Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
Oversight Act (Public Act 48 of 2002), as amended from time to time.
      AUTHORITY. The Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
Oversight Authority created pursuant to the Act.
      CITY. The City of Allegan.
      CITY COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Allegan or its designee.
This section does not authorize delegation of any decision or function that is
required by law to be made by the City Council.
      CITY MANAGER. The City Manager or his or her designee.
      PERMIT. A non-exclusive permit issued pursuant to the Act and this
article to a telecommunications provider to use the public rights-of-way in the
city for its telecommunications facilities.
   (B)   All other terms used in this article shall have the same meaning as
defined or as provided in the Act, including without limitation, the following.
      MPSC. The Michigan Public Service Commission in the Department of
Consumer and Industry Services, and shall have the same meaning as the term
“Commission” in the Act.
      PERSON. An individual, corporation, partnership, association,
governmental entity or any other legal entity.
      PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on, below or above a public roadway,
highway, street, alley, easement or waterway. PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY does not
include a federal, state or private right-of-way.
      TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES or FACILITIES. The equipment or personal
property, such as copper and fiber cables, lines, wires, switches, conduits,
pipes and sheaths, which are used to or can generate, receive, transmit, carry,
amplify or provide telecommunication services or signals. TELECOMMUNICATION
FACILITIES or FACILITIES do not include antennas, supporting structures for
antennas, equipment shelters or houses and any ancillary equipment and
miscellaneous hardware used to provide federally licensed commercial mobile
service as defined in § 332(d) of Part 1 of Title III of the Communications Act
of 1934, Ch. 652, 48 Stat. 1064, 47 U.S.C. § 332 and further defined as
commercial mobile radio service in 47 C.F.R. § 20.3, and service provided by
any wireless, two-way communication device.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER, PROVIDER and TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES.
Those terms as defined in § 102 of the state’s Telecommunications Act, Public
Act 179 of 1991, being MCL § 484.2102. TELECOMMUNICATION PROVIDER does not
include a person or an affiliate of that person when providing a federally
licensed commercial mobile radio service as defined in § 332(d) of Part 1 of
the Communications Act of 1934, Ch. 652, 48 Stat. 1064, 47 U.S.C. § 332, and
further defined as “commercial mobile radio service” in 47 C.F.R. § 20.3, or
service provided by any wireless, two-way communication device. For the purpose
of the Act and this article only, a provider also includes all of the
following:
         (a)   A cable television operator that provides a telecommunications
service;
         (b)   Except as otherwise provided by the Act, a person who owns
telecommunication facilities located within a public right-of-way; and
         (c)   A person providing broadband internet transport access sendee.
   (C)   Nothing in this article shall be construed in such a manner as to
conflict with the Act or other applicable law.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 25-75 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Permit required. Except as otherwise provided in the Act, a
telecommunications provider using or seeking to use public rights-of-way in the
city for its telecommunications facilities shall apply for and obtain a permit
pursuant to this article.
   (B)   Application. Telecommunications providers shall apply for a permit on
an application form approved by the MPSC in accordance with the Act. A
telecommunications provider shall file one copy of the application with the
City Clerk, one copy with the City Manager, and one copy with the City
Attorney. Applications shall be complete and include all information required
by the Act, including, without limitation, a route map showing the location of
the provider’s existing and proposed facilities in accordance with the Act.
   (C)   Confidential information. If a telecommunications provider claims that
any portion of the route maps submitted by it as part of its application
contain trade secret, proprietary or confidential information, which is exempt
from the state’s Freedom of Information Act, Act 442 of 1976, as amended,
pursuant to § 6(5) of the Act, the telecommunications provider shall
prominently so indicate on the face of each map.
   (D)   Application fee. Except as otherwise provided by the Act, an
application shall be accompanied by a one-time non-refundable application fee
in the amount of $500.
   (E)   Additional information. The City Manager may request an applicant to
submit such additional information which the City Manager deems reasonably
necessary or relevant. The applicant shall comply with all such requests in
compliance with reasonable deadlines for such additional information
established by the City Manager. If the city and the applicant cannot agree on
the requirement of additional information requested by the city, the city or
the applicant shall notify the MPSC as provided in § 6(2) of the Act.
   (F)   Previously issued permits. Pursuant to § 5(1) of the Act,
authorizations or permits previously issued by the city under § 251 of the
state’s Telecommunications Act, Public Act 179 of 1991, as amended, and
authorizations or permits issued by the city to telecommunications providers
prior to the 1995 enactment of § 251 of the state’s Telecommunications Act, but
after 1985, shall satisfy the permit requirements of this article.
   (G)   Existing providers. Pursuant to § 5(3) of the Act, within 180 days
from 11-1-2002, the effective date of the Act, a telecommunications provider
with facilities located in a public right-of-way in the city as of such date,
that has not previously obtained authorization or a permit under § 251 of the
state’s Telecommunications Act, Public Act 179 of 1991, as amended, shall
submit to the city an application for a permit in accordance with the
requirements of this article. Pursuant to § 5(3) of the Act, a
telecommunications provider submitting an application under this subsection (G)
is not required to pay the $500 application fee required under subsection (D)
above. A provider under this subsection (G) shall be given up to an additional
180 days to submit the permit application if allowed by the City Manager or
designee for good cause, as provided in § 5(4) of the Act.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 25-76 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Approval or denial. The authority to approve or deny an application
for a permit is delegated to the City Manager. Pursuant to § 15(3) of the Act,
the City Manager shall approve or deny an application for a permit within 45
days from the date a telecommunications provider files an application for a
permit in accordance with subsection (B) below for access to a public right-of-
way within the city. The City Manager shall notify the MPSC when the City
Manager has granted or denied a permit, including information regarding the
date on which the application was filed and the date on which permit was
granted or denied. The City Manager shall not unreasonably deny an application
for a permit.
   (B)   Form of permit. If an application for permit is approved, the City
Manager shall issue the permit in the form approved by the MPSC, with or
without additional or different permit terms, in accordance with §§ 6(1), 6(2)
and 15 of the Act.
   (C)   Conditions. Pursuant to § 15(4) of the Act, the City Manager may
impose conditions on the issuance of a permit, which conditions shall be
limited to the telecommunications provider’s access and use of the public
right-of-way.
   (D)   Bond requirement. Pursuant to § 15(3) of the Act, and without
limitation on subsection (C) above, the City Manager may require that a bond be
posted by the telecommunications provider as a condition of the permit. If a
bond is required, it shall not exceed the reasonable cost to ensure that the
public right-of-way is returned to its original condition during and after the
telecommunications provider’s access and use.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 25-77 CONSTRUCTION/ENGINEERING PERMIT.
   A telecommunications provider shall not commence construction upon, over,
across or under the public rights-of-way in the city without first obtaining a
construction or engineering permit as required under this code, as amended, for
construction within the public rights-of-way. No fee shall be charged for such
a construction or engineering permit.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 25-78 CONDUIT OR UTILITY POLES.
   In accordance with the Act, obtaining a permit or paying the fees required
under the Act or under this article does not give a telecommunications provider
a right to use conduit or utility poles.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 25-79 ROUTE MAPS.
   Pursuant to § 6(7) of the Act, a telecommunications provider shall, within
90 days after the substantial completion of construction of new
telecommunications facilities in the city, submit route maps showing the
location of the telecommunications facilities to both the MPSC and to the city.
The route maps should be in electronic format unless and until the MPSC
determines otherwise, in accordance with § 6(8) of the Act.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 25-80 REPAIR OF DAMAGE.
   A telecommunications provider undertaking an excavation or construction or
installing telecommunications facilities within a public right-of-way or
temporarily obstructing a public right-of-way in the city, as authorized by a
permit, shall promptly repair all damage done to the street surface and all
installations under, over, below or within the public right-of-way and shall
promptly restore the public right-of-way to its preexisting condition.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 25-81 ESTABLISHMENT AND PAYMENT OF MAINTENANCE FEE.
   In addition to the non-refundable application fee paid to the city set forth
in §
25-75(D) of this chapter, a telecommunications provider with telecommunications
facilities in the city’s public rights-of-way shall pay an annual maintenance
fee pursuant to § 8 of the Act.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 25-82 MODIFICATION OF EXISTING FEES.
   In compliance with the requirements of § 13(1) of the Act, the city hereby
modifies, to the extent necessary, fees charged to telecommunications providers
after 11-1-2002, the effective date of the Act, relating to access and use of
the public rights-of-way, to an amount not exceeding the amounts of fees and
charges required under the Act, which shall be paid to the Clerk. In compliance
with the requirements of § 13(4) of the Act, the city also hereby approves
modification of the fees of providers with telecommunication facilities in
public rights-of-way within the city’s boundaries, so that those providers pay
only those fees required under § 8 of the Act. The city shall provide each
telecommunications provider affected by the fee a copy of this article, in
compliance with the requirement of § 13(4) of the Act. To the extent any fees
are charged telecommunications providers in excess of the amounts permitted
under the Act, or which are otherwise inconsistent with the Act, such
imposition is hereby declared to be contrary to the city’s policy and intent,
and upon application by a provider or discovery by the city, shall be promptly
refunded as having been charged in error.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 25-83 SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   Pursuant to § 13(5) of the Act, if § 8 of the Act is found to be invalid or
unconstitutional, the modification of fees under §
25-82 of this chapter shall be void from the date the modification was made.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 25-84 USE OF FUNDS.
   Pursuant § 10(4) of the Act, all amounts received by the city from the Clerk
shall be used by the city solely for rights-of-way related purposes. In
conformance with that requirement, all funds received by the city from the
Clerk shall be deposited into the major street fund and/or the local street
fund maintained by the city under Public Act 51 of 1951.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 25-85 ANNUAL REPORT.
   Pursuant to § 10(5) of the Act, the City Manager may, but is not required
to, file an annual report with the Clerk on the use and disposition of funds
annually distributed by the Clerk.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 25-86 CABLE TELEVISION OPERATORS.
   Pursuant to § 13(6) of the Act, the city shall not hold a cable television
operator in default or seek any remedy for its failure to satisfy an
obligation, if any, to pay after November 1.2002, the effective date of this
Act, a franchise fee or similar fee on that portion of gross revenues from
charges the cable operator received for cable modem services provided through
broadband internet transport access services.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 25-87 EXISTING RIGHTS.
   Pursuant to § 4(2) of the Act, except as expressly provided herein with
respect to fees, this article shall not affect any existing rights that a
telecommunications provider or the city may have under a permit issued by the
city or under a contract between the city and a telecommunications provider
related to the use of the public rights-of-way.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 25-88 COMPLIANCE.
   The city declares that its policy and intent in adopting this article is to
fully comply with the requirements of the Act and the provisions of this
article should be construed in such a manner as to achieve that purpose. The
city shall comply in all respects with the requirements of the Act, including,
but not limited to, the following:
   (A)   Exempting certain route maps from disclosure consistent with the Act
and state law as provided in §
25-75(C) of this chapter;
   (B)   Allowing certain previously issued permits to satisfy the permit
requirements hereof, in accordance with §
25-75(F) of this chapter;
   (C)   Approving or denying an application for a permit within 45 days from
the date a telecommunications provider files an application for a permit for
access to and usage of a public right-of-way within the city, in accordance
with §
25-76(A) of this chapter;
   (D)   Notifying the MPSC when the city has granted or denied a permit, in
accordance with §
25-76(A) of this chapter;
   (E)   Not unreasonably denying an application for a permit, in accordance
with §
25-76(A) of this chapter;
   (F)   Issuing a permit in the form approved by the MPSC. with or without
additional or different permit terms, as provided in §
25-76(B) of this chapter;
   (G)   Limiting the conditions imposed on the issuance of a permit to the
telecommunications provider’s access and use of the public right-of-way, in
accordance with §
25-76(C) of this chapter;
   (H)   Not requiring a bond of a telecommunications provider which exceeds
the reasonable cost to ensure that the public right-of-way is returned to its
original condition during and after the telecommunication provider’s access and
use, in accordance with §
25-76(D) of this chapter;
   (I)   Not charging any telecommunications providers any additional fees for
construction or engineering permits, in accordance with §
25-77 of this article;
   (J)   Providing each telecommunications provider affected by the city’s
right-of-way fees with a copy of this article, in accordance with §
25-82 of this chapter; and
   (K)   Not holding a cable television operator in default for a failure to
pay certain franchise fees, in accordance with §
25-86 of this chapter.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 25-89 RESERVATION OF POLICE POWERS.
   Pursuant to § 15(2) of the Act, this article shall not limit the city’s
right to review and approve a telecommunication provider’s access to and
ongoing use of a public right-of-way or limit the city’s authority to ensure
and protect the health, safety and welfare of the public.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 25-90 SEVERABILITY.
   The various parts, sentences, paragraphs, sections and clauses of this
article are hereby declared to be severable. If any part, sentence, paragraph,
section or clause of this article is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a
court or administrative agency of competent jurisdiction, the
unconstitutionality or invalidity shall not affect the constitutionality or
validity of any remaining provisions of this article.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 25-91 AUTHORIZED CITY OFFICIALS.
   The City Manager or his or her designee is hereby designated as the
authorized city official to issue municipal civil infraction citations
(directing alleged violators to appear in court) or municipal civil infraction
violation notices (directing alleged violators to appear at the Municipal
Violations Bureau) for violations under this article as provided by the city
code.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 25-92 MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION.
   A person who violates any provision of this article or the terms or
conditions of a permit is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, and
shall be subject to such civil infraction fines and costs as provided for in
the city code. Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the remedies
available to the city in the event of a violation by a person of this article
or a permit.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§§ 25-93 — 25-99 RESERVED.
ARTICLE VII. SMALL CELL WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITY PERMITS
§ 25-100 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this article is to regulate and provide a permitting process
for the deployment of small wireless communications facilities in conformance
with the Small Wireless Communication Facilities Deployment Act, Public Act 365
of 2018, as amended (the “Act”), and the FCC Declaratory Ruling and Third
Report and Order entitled “Accelerating Wireless and Wireline Broadband
Deployment by Removing Barriers to Infrastructure Investment” (the “Order”). In
doing so, the city wishes to ensure the reasonable and fair control and
management of public rights-of-way, support new technology, avoid interference
with right-of-way use. and protect the public, health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 25-101 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, words and phrases used in
this article shall have the same meanings as ascribed to them in the Act.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 25-102 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   A permit from the city is required in order to:
      (1)   Co-locate a small cell wireless facility in a right-of-way in the
city; or
      (2)   Install, modify or replace a utility pole or wireless support
structure in a right-of-way in the city on which a small cell wireless facility
will be located.
   (B)   The foregoing shall not be construed as requiring a permit for any of
the following:
      (1)   The replacement of a small cell wireless facility with a small cell
wireless facility that is not larger or heavier, in compliance with applicable
codes;
      (2)   Routine maintenance of a small cell wireless facility, utility pole
or wireless support structure; and
      (3)   The installation, placement, maintenance, operation or replacement
of a micro wireless facility that is suspended on cables strung between utility
poles or wireless support structures in compliance with applicable codes.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 25-103 APPLICATION PROCESS.
   (A)   To apply for a permit, the applicant shall submit the following to the
City Clerk:
      (1)   A dimensioned and annotated photograph or drawing of each proposed
small cell wireless facility, including the utility pole or wireless support
structure, enclosure installation and all other related equipment;
      (2)   A site location map, such as a color satellite or aerial
photograph, with appropriate dimensions and annotations showing all proposed
facilities;
      (3)   A document listing all proposed locations and indicating for each:
         (a)   Whether the location is within a city right-of-way, within the
right-of-way of another government authority, or on private property.
         (b)   Whether the proposed small cell wireless facility would involve
an existing structure or a new structure; and
         (c)   A description of any construction or improvements that may be
required, including makeready work, earthwork, grading, slope flattening,
vegetation and/or trimming removal and the like.
      (4)   Whenever a new utility pole or wireless support structure is
proposed, a description of the analytical effort taken to determine that co-
location on an existing utility pole or wireless support structure is not
feasible;
      (5)   Signed verification that the applicant will defend, indemnify and
hold the city harmless to the full extent authorized by § 29 of the Act, being
MCL § 460.1329;
      (6)   Signed verification that the applicant will obtain insurance
satisfying the same insurance requirements as specified in the standard
unilateral permit form promulgated by the state’s Public Service Commission,
pursuant to the Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Right-of-Way
Oversight Act, Public Act 48 of 2002, as amended;
      (7)   For any proposal to attach a small cell wireless communications
facility to a utility pole or wireless support structure not owned by the
applicant or the city, signed verification from the owner that the owner
approves of the proposed attachment;
      (8)   A certificate of compliance with FCC rules related to radio
frequency emissions from a small cell wireless facility;
      (9)   Proof of other necessary permits, permit applications or easements
to ensure all necessary permissions for the proposed activity are obtained;
      (10)   An application fee in the following amounts:
         (a)   Two hundred dollars for each small cell wireless facility alone;
         (b)   Three hundred dollars for each small cell wireless facility and
a new utility pole to which it will be attached; and
         (c)   Every five years after the effective date of the Act, the fees
required in this subsection (A)(10) will automatically increase by 10% and
rounded to the nearest dollar.
      (11)   Any other items or information reasonably required by the city.
   (B)   After receiving an application, the Clerk shall provide copies to the
City Manager and City Attorney to ensure compliance with the review deadlines
provided in the Act.
   (C)   The City Manager and City Attorney shall review the application to
verify that it includes all of the items listed in subsection (A) above. If any
required item has been omitted, the city shall inform the applicant that the
application is incomplete and that the city’s response deadline is tolled until
the applicant provides all required information.
   (D)   An applicant may file an application and receive a single permit for
the collocation of up to 20 substantially similar small cell wireless
installations. The city may approve or deny one or more small cell wireless
facilities included in such consolidated application.
   (E)   The Clerk is authorized, but not required, to promulgate a standard
application form that must be used when applying for a permit under this
section.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 25-104 REVIEW STANDARDS; ISSUANCE AND DENIAL OF PERMITS; RESUBMITTAL.
   (A)   Upon receiving a complete application, the City Manager shall issue
the requested permit(s) to the applicant within the deadlines specified in the
Act unless the applicant’s proposal would do any of the following:
      (1)   Materially interfere with the safe operation of traffic-control
equipment;
      (2)   Materially interfere with sight lines or clear zones for
transportation or pedestrians;
      (3)   Materially interfere with compliance with the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990, Pub. Law No. 101-336, or similar federal, state or
local standards regarding pedestrian access or movement;
      (4)   Materially interfere with maintenance or full unobstructed use of
public utility infrastructure under the city’s jurisdiction;
      (5)   Materially interfere with maintenance or full unobstructed use of
drainage infrastructure under the jurisdiction of the drain commissioner
pursuant to the Drain Code of 1956, Public Act 40 of 1956, being MCL §§ 280.1
to 280.630;
      (6)   (a)   Involve the installation of new utility’ poles or wireless
support structures in area of the city designated solely for underground or
buried cable and utility facilities if all of the following apply.
            1.   The city has required all cable and utility facilities, other
than city poles, along with any attachments, or poles used for street lights,
traffic signals or other attachments necessary for public safety, to be placed
underground by a date that is not less than 90 days before the submission of
the application.
            2.   The city does not prohibit the replacement of city poles by a
wireless provider in the designated area.
         (b)   Applicants may request a waiver from the provisions of this
subsection (A)(6), which shall be granted if the applicant can show that:
            1.   Placement of a new utility pole or wireless support structure
in the undergrounding area is essential to serving wireless customers in that
area; and
            2.   The proposed location is the most preferable to the city among
any feasible alternatives with respect to its impact on aesthetics and traffic
safety.
      (7)   For proposals involving new utility poles or wireless support
structures, adversely affect the aesthetics of the city or the public health,
safety or welfare more than a possible alternate location (either within the
right-of-way or on property or structures owned or controlled by the city)
within 75 feet of the proposed location. The city may require the applicant to
use the alternate location on reasonable terms and conditions if the alternate
location does not impose unreasonable technical limits or significant
additional costs;
      (8)   Fail to comply with the following dimensional requirements provided
in the Act. As of the effective date of this article, those requirements
include:
         (a)   A utility pole in the ROW installed or modified on or after the
effective date of the Act shall not exceed 40 feet above ground level, unless
the City Manager waives this requirement;
         (b)   A small cell wireless facility installed or modified after the
effective date of the Act shall not extend more than five feet above a utility
pole or wireless support structure on which the small cell wireless facility is
co-located;
         (c)   Each antenna is located inside an enclosure of not more than six
cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has exposed elements,
the antenna and all of its exposed elements would fit within an imaginary
enclosure of not more than six cubic feet; and
         (d)   All other wireless equipment associated with the facility is
cumulatively not more than 25 cubic feet in volume. The following types of
associated ancillary equipment are not included in the calculation of equipment
volume: electric meters, concealment elements, telecommunications demarcation
boxes, grounding equipment, power transfer switches, cut-off switches, vertical
cable runs for the connection of power and other services and concealment
measures required by this article.
      (9)   Fail to comply with the following spacing requirements.
         (a)   No new utility pole or wireless support structure shall be
located within 150 feet of an existing facility where collocation is feasible.
Feasibility will be determined by the city based on information provided by the
applicant.
         (b)   A new utility pole or wireless support structure shall be
located at the midpoint of the average spacing for city street lights, (e.g.,
if the street light spacing along one side of the street is 150 feet on center,
the small wireless communications facility shall not be closer than 75 feet to
any street light pole).
         (c)   A new utility pole or wireless support structure shall be
located on the centerline (parallel to the curb line) of the nearest two city-
owned poles on either side of the proposed installation.
         (d)   To the extent reasonably possible, a new utility pole or
wireless support structure shall be located on center with the extension of a
lot line that runs perpendicular to the street or curb line.
      (10)   For any proposed installation in the city’s Downtown Development
District or any residential zoning district, fail to comply with the following
design and concealment criteria.
         (a)   Each small cell wireless antenna shall be located entirely
within a shroud or cannister type enclosure.
         (b)   The diameter of the enclosure at its widest point should not be
wider than two times the diameter of the narrowest point on the utility pole or
wireless support structure.
         (c)   Each antenna enclosure shall either be: mounted to the top of
the utility pole or wireless support structure and aligned with the centerline
of such structure; or mounted to the side of the utility pole or wireless
support structure such that the vertical centerline of the antenna enclosure
shall be parallel with such structure, with the height of the side mounted
antenna being at least six feet above ground level at its lowest point. The
City Manager may, in his or her discretion, waive or modify the height
requirement for side-mounted antennas to the extent doing so would not
interfere with clear vision for vehicles.
         (d)   All cables, wires and connectors related to the small cell
wireless facility must be fully concealed on the utility pole or wireless
support structure and shall match the color of such structure.
         (e)   There shall be no external cables or wires related to the small
cell wireless facility hanging off or otherwise exposed on the utility pole or
wireless support structure.
         (f)   The colors of antenna enclosures and equipment cabinets shall
match the color of the utility pole or wireless support structure on which they
are located. However, in situations where a small cell wireless facility is
mounted on an existing wood utility pole, finishes of conduit shall be zinc,
aluminum or stainless steel or colored to match those metal finishes, and
equipment cabinets shall be the color of brushed aluminum.
         (g)   Ground-mounted equipment shall incorporate concealment elements
into the proposed design matching color and materials of the utility pole or
wireless support structure, unless other materials or colors are approved by
the city. Concealment may include, but shall not be limited to, landscaping and
strategic placement in less obtrusive locations.
         (h)   The small cell wireless facility permittee shall post its name,
location identifying information and emergency telephone number in an area on
the cabinet of the small wireless facility that is visible to the public.
Signage required under this section shall not exceed four inches by six inches,
unless otherwise required by law (e.g., radio-frequency (RF) ground
notification signs) or the city. If no cabinet exists, the signage shall be
placed at the base of the pole.
         (i)   The small cell wireless facility permittee shall remove or paint
over unnecessary equipment manufacturer decals. The color shall match or shall
be as approved by the city. Small cell wireless facilities, utility poles, and
wireless support structures shall not include advertisements and may only
display information required by a federal, state or local agency. The small
cell wireless facility permittee shall utilize the smallest and lowest
visibility RF warning sticker required by government or electric utility
regulations. Placement of the RF sticker shall be as close to the antenna as
possible.
      (11)   Fail to comply with other applicable codes.
   (B)   The City Manager shall deny the application if any of the criteria
above are not satisfied.
   (C)   If an application is denied, the City Manager’s notice of denial shall
explain the reasons for the denial and, if applicable, cite the specific
provisions of applicable codes on which the denial is based. The applicant may
cure the deficiencies identified by the city and resubmit the application
within 30 days after the denial without paying an additional application fee.
The city shall approve or deny the revised application within 30 days. The city
shall limit its review of the revised application to the deficiencies cited in
the denial.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 25-105 PERMIT CONDITIONS.
   Permits issued under this article shall be subject to the following
conditions.
   (A)   Before commencing installation of a small cell wireless facility, the
permittee shall provide the city with certificates of insurance satisfying the
coverage requirements specified in §
25-103 of this chapter.
   (B)   If deemed appropriate for a particular installation, the City Manager
may require a bond to be provided prior to installation for one or more of the
following purposes:
      (1)   For the removal of abandoned or improperly maintained small cell
wireless facilities, including those that the city determines should be removed
to protect public health, safety or welfare;
      (2)   To repair the right-of-way; and/or
      (3)   To recoup rates or fees that have not been paid by a wireless
provider in more than 12 months, if the wireless provider has received 60-day
advance notice from the city of the non-compliance.
   (C)   A wireless provider is responsible for arranging and paying for the
electricity used to operate the small cell wireless facility.
   (D)   The city may revoke the permit, upon 30 days’ notice and an
opportunity to cure, if the permitted small cell wireless facilities and any
associated utility pole is in such a state that it does not satisfy the
approval criteria in §
25-104 of this chapter.
   (E)   (1)   For each utility pole or wireless support structure in a city
right-of-way on which a wireless provider has installed a small cell wireless
facility, the permittee shall pay a fee in the following amounts:
         (a)   Twenty dollars per year; or
         (b)   One hundred twenty-five dollars per year, if the utility pole or
wireless support structure was erected by or on behalf of the wireless provider
on or after the effective date of the Act. This subsection (E)(1)(b) does not
apply to the replacement of a utility pole that was not designed to support
small cell wireless facilities.
      (2)   Every five years after the effective date of the Act, the fee
amounts shall automatically increase by 10%, rounded to the nearest dollar.
   (F)   A permittee shall complete collocation of the small cell wireless
facility within one year after the permit is granted. Permits shall be deemed
void after one year if the installation is not complete.
   (G)   Before discontinuing its use of a small cell wireless facility,
utility pole or wireless support structure, a wireless provider shall notify
the city in writing. The notice shall specify when and how the wireless
provider intends to remove the small cell wireless facility, utility pole or
wireless support structure. When discontinuance occurs, the wireless provider
shall return the property to its pre-installation condition. If the wireless
provider does not complete the removal within 45 days after the discontinuance
of use, the city may complete the removal and assess the costs of removal
against the wireless provider. A permit issued under this article shall be
deemed terminated upon removal of the small cell wireless facility.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 25-106 RESERVATION OF RIGHTS.
   The city reserves the right to amend and or terminate this article and all
related permits, agreements, policies and procedures undertaken in furtherance
thereof if a court of competent jurisdiction rules that any material provision
of the Act or the order fail to comply with applicable federal or state laws,
including, but not limited to, the state or federal constitution.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
CHAPTER 26: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
Article I. General Provisions
   
26-1   Short title
   
26-2   Purpose
   
26-3   Legal basis
   
26-4   Scope
   
26-5   Compliance with applicable state, county and city statutes and
ordinances
   
26-6   Administration
   
26-7   Schedule of fees
   
26-8 — 26-10   Reserved
Article II. Platting Procedure and Data Required
   
26-11   Pre-preliminary plats
   
26-12   Preliminary plats
   
26-13   Final plats
   
26-14 — 26-16   Reserved
Article III. Subdivision Design Standards
   
26-17   Trafficway, streets and roads
   
26-18   Intersections
   
26-19   Pedestrianways
   
26-20   Easements
   
26-21   Blocks
   
26-22   Lots
   
26-23   Planting strips and reserve strips
   
26-24   Public sites and open spaces
   
26-25   Large scale developments
   
26-26   Commercial and industrial developments
   
26-27 — 26-29   Reserved
Article IV. Subdivision Improvements
   
26-30   Purpose
   
26-31   Responsibility for plans
   
26-32   Submittal procedure
   
26-33   Required public improvements
   
26-34   Optional public improvements
   
26-35   Guarantee of completion of improvements required by the city
   
26-36 — 26-38   Reserved
Article V. Further Partitions, Divisions, Combinations or Boundary Lines
Changes Within Platted Subdivisions
   
26-39   General
   
26-40   Application
   
26-41   Approval
   
26-42   Limitations
   
26-43 — 26-45   Reserved
Article VI. Division of Unplatted Parcels
   
26-46   General
   
26-47   Application
   
26-48   Approval
   
26-49   Limitations
   
26-50 — 26-52   Reserved
Article VII. Enforcement
   
26-53   Enforcement
   
26-54   Penalties
   
26-55 — 26-57   Reserved
Article VIII. Variances
   
26-58   General
   
26-59   Topographical-physical limitation variance
   
26-60   Planned unit development variance
   
26-61 — 26-63   Reserved
Article IX. Amendments and Review
   
26-64   Procedures
   
26-65   Comprehensive review
   
26-66 — 26-68   Reserved
Article X. Definitions
   
26-69   Interpretation
   
26-70   Definitions (“A, B, C”)
   
26-71   Definitions (“D, E, F”)
   
26-72   Definitions (“G, H, I”)
   
26-73   Definitions (“J, K, L”)
   
26-74   Definitions (“M, N, O”)
   
26-75   Definitions (“P, Q, R”)
   
26-76   Definitions (“S, T, U”)
   
26-77   Definitions (“V, W, X, Y, Z”)
   
26-78 — 26-80   Reserved
Article XI. Severability Clause; Effective Date
   
26-81   Severability clause
   
26-82   Effective date
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 26-1 SHORT TITLES.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “City of Allegan,
Michigan Subdivision Ordinance”.
§ 26-2 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate and control the subdivision
of land within the city, in order to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare of the community.
   (B)   These regulations are specifically designed to:
      (1)   Protect and provide for the public health, safety and general
welfare of the city;
      (2)   Guide the future growth and development of the city in accordance
with the adopted Comprehensive Plan for the city;
      (3)   Provide for adequate light, air, privacy, to secure safety from
fire, flood and other danger and to prevent overcrowding of the land and undue
congestion of population;
      (4)   Protect the character and the social and economic stability of all
parts of the city and to encourage the orderly and beneficial development of
all parts of the city;
      (5)   Protect and conserve the value of land throughout the city and the
value of buildings and improvements upon the land and to minimize the conflicts
among the uses of land and buildings;
      (6)   Guide public and private policy and action in order to provide
adequate and efficient transportation, water, sewage, schools, parks,
playgrounds, recreation and other public requirements and facilities;
      (7)   Provide the most beneficial relationship between the uses of land
and buildings and the circulation of traffic throughout the city, having
particular regard to the avoidance of congestion in the streets and highways
and the pedestrian traffic movements appropriate to the various uses of land
and buildings and to provide for the proper location and width of streets and
building lines;
      (8)   Establish reasonable standards of design and procedures for
subdivisions and resubdivisions, in order to further the orderly layout and use
of land; and to ensure proper legal descriptions and monumenting of subdivided
land;
      (9)   Ensure that public facilities are available and will have a
sufficient capacity to serve the proposed subdivision;
      (10)   Prevent the pollution of air, streams and ponds; to assure the
adequacy of drainage facilities; to safeguard the water table; and to encourage
the wise use and management of natural resources throughout the city in order
to preserve the integrity, stability and beauty of the community and the value
of land;
      (11)   Preserve the natural beauty and topography of city and to ensure
appropriate development with regard to these natural features; and
      (12)   Provide for open spaces through the most efficient design and
layout of the land, including the use of average density in providing for
minimum width and area of lots, while preserving the density of land as
established in the zoning ordinance of the city.
§ 26-3 LEGAL BASIS.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to the statutory authority granted by the
Subdivision Control Act of 1967, being MCL §§ 560.101 et seq., as amended, the
state’s Home Rule Act, Public Act 279 of 1967, being MCL §§ 117.1 et seq., as
amended, and the Zoning Enabling Act, Public Act 207 of 1921, being MCL §
125.581, as amended.
§ 26-4 SCOPE.
   This chapter shall not apply to any lot or lots forming a part of a
subdivision created and recorded prior to the effective date of this chapter,
except for the further dividing of lots. Nor is it intended by this chapter to
repeal, abrogate, annul or in any way impair or interfere with existing
provisions of other laws, ordinances or regulations or with private
restrictions laced upon property by deed, covenant or other private agreements,
or with restrictive covenants, or other private agreements, or with restrictive
covenants running with the land to which the city is a party. Where this
chapter imposes a greater restriction upon land than is imposed or required by
such existing provision of any other ordinance of the city, the provisions of
this chapter shall control.
§ 26-5 COMPLIANCE WITH APPLICABLE STATE, COUNTY AND CITY STATUTES AND
ORDINANCES.
   Notwithstanding any other applicable state, county or city statues or
ordinance regulating the development and/or uses of land within the city, any
subdivider shall be required to comply with the following:
   (A)   Goemaere-Anderson Wetland Protection Act, Public Act 203 of 1979, as
amended, as administered by the State Department of Natural Resources;
   (B)   Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Control Act, Public Act 347 of 1972,
being MCL §§282.101 through 282.117, as administered by the city; and
   (C)   U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development Federal Flood
Insurance Administration regulations as administered by the city through the
city zoning ordinance.
§ 26-6 ADMINISTRATION.
   The approval provisions of this chapter shall be administered by the City
Council in accordance with Public Act 288 of 1967, as amended, being MCL §§
560.101 through 560.293.
§ 26-7 SCHEDULE OF FEES.
   The schedule of fees for review of plats shall be established by the City
Council and shall be publicly displayed in the office of the City Clerk,
Building Official and Zoning Administrator.
§§ 26-8 — 26-10 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II. PLATTING PROCEDURE AND DATA REQUIRED
§ 26-11 PRE-PRELIMINARY PLATS.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   To provide guidelines for the subdivider concerning development
policies of the city;
      (2)   To acquaint the subdivider with the platting procedures and
requirements of:
         (a)   The city;
         (b)   The county’s Plat Committee; and
         (c)   Other agencies.
      (3)   To provide the Planning Commission and other affected agencies with
general information concerning the proposed development; and
      (4)   Acceptance of the sketch plan does not assure acceptance of the
preliminary plat.
   (B)   Requirements.
      (1)   Pre-preliminary plat or sketch plan. The plan shall show the
subdivision’s entire development scheme in schematic form including the area
for immediate development, and shall include the following:
         (a)   General layout of streets, blocks and lots in sketch form;
         (b)   Existing conditions and characteristics of the land on and
adjacent to the site; and
         (c)   Any general area set aside for schools, parks and other
community facilities.
      (2)   Engineering letter. A letter from a surveyor or engineer concerning
the general feasibility of the land for subdividing.
      (3)   Ownership. The City Council and Planning Commission may require
such proof of ownership of the land proposed to be subdivided as they deem
necessary.
   (C)   Procedure.
      (1)   The subdivider shall submit two copies of the pre-preliminary plat
to the City Clerk ten days before the next meeting of the Planning Commission.
      (2)   The City Clerk shall promptly transmit the two copies of the pre-
preliminary plat to the Planning Commission.
      (3)   The Planning Commission or a Subdivision Committee of the
Commission will review the plan with subdivider or his or her agent.
      (4)   The Planning Commission shall inform the subdivider or his agent of
the city development policies and make appropriate comments and suggestions
concerning the proposed development scheme.
      (5)   The Planning Commission shall inform the City Council of the
results of the review of the pre-preliminary plat.
      (6)   Seven copies of the pre-preliminary plat shall be filed with the
county’s Plat Committee at the County Courthouse, Register of Deeds office.
§ 26-12 PRELIMINARY PLATS.
   (A)   Purpose. To provide guidelines for the subdivider concerning tentative
and final approval procedures under §§ 112 to 120 of the Subdivision Control
Act.
   (B)   Requirements.
      (1)   Submittal. The subdivider shall submit four copies of the
preliminary plat on a topographic map to the City Clerk at least ten days
before a meeting of the Planning Commission.
      (2)   Size and scale. The preliminary plat may be on paper and shall be
not less than 24 inches by 36 inches, at a scale of at least one inch to 100
feet showing the date and north arrow.
      (3)   Information required. The following shall be shown on the
preliminary plat or submitted with it:
         (a)   The name of the proposed subdivision;
         (b)   Names, addresses and telephone numbers of the subdivider and the
surveyor preparing the plat;
         (c)   Location of the subdivision, giving the numbers of section,
township and range and the name of the township and county;
         (d)   The names of abutting subdivisions;
         (e)   Statement of intended use of the proposed plat, such as,
residential single-family, two-family and multiple housing; commercial;
industrial; recreational; or agricultural. Also proposed site, if any, for
multi-family dwellings, shopping centers, churches, industry and other non-
public uses exclusive of single-family dwellings. Also, any sites proposed for
parks, playgrounds, schools or other public uses;
         (f)   A map of the entire area scheduled for development, if the
proposed plat is a portion of a larger holding intended for subsequent
development;
         (g)   A location map showing the relationship of the proposed plat to
the surrounding area;
         (h)   The land use and existing zoning of the proposed subdivision and
the adjacent tracts;
         (i)   Streets, street names, right-of-way and roadway widths;
         (j)   Lot lines and the total number of lots by block;
         (k)   Existing and proposed topography with topographic contour
intervals of not more than two feet;
         (l)   Location of wetlands areas subject to the provisions of the
Goeamere-Anderson Wetland Protection Act, Public Act 203 of 1979, as amended,
as determined by the state’s Department of Nature [Natural] Resources or a
private consultant acceptable to the city;
         (m)   The 100-year flood elevation as determined by the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development, Federal Flood Insurance
Administration or the state’s Department of Natural Resources, Water Resources
Commission, if any portion of the property is within a flood-prone area as
determined by the above agencies;
         (n)   Natural feature such as woodlots, trees of more than one foot in
diameter measured (4) from the ground level, streams, lakes or ponds and human-
made features such as existing roads and structures, with indication as to
which features are to be retained and which removed or altered;
         (o)   A site report as described in the rules of the state’s
Department of Public Health. The requirement for a site report shall be waived
if the proposed subdivision is to be served by public sewer and water systems;
         (p)   Proposed and existing storm and sanitary sewers, water mains and
their respective profiles or a written statement indicating alternative
methods;
         (q)   Four copies of proposed protective covenants and deed
restrictions or a statement in writing that none are proposed; and
         (r)   Right-of-way easements, showing location, width and purpose.
      (4)   Preliminary engineering plans. The subdivider shall submit four
sets of preliminary engineering plans for streets, water, sewers, sidewalks and
other required public improvements. The engineering plans shall contain enough
information and detail to enable the city to make preliminary determination as
to conformance of the proposed improvements to applicable city regulations and
standards.
   (C)   Procedures; validation. The subdivider shall first submit to the City
Clerk for validation a sufficient number of copies of the preliminary plat to
meet the requirements of §§ 112(1) and/or 113 to 119 of the Subdivision Control
Act. The subdivider shall also submit a written application for approval and
also the fee established by this chapter for review of plats.
   (D)   Written application.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of the written application is to provide a
record of the filing date because of the time limits set forth in the act for
approval or rejection.
      (2)   Tentative approval. The City Council may tentatively approve or
reject the preliminary plat under § 112(4) of the Subdivision Control Act
before distribution to other approving authorities.
      (3)   Distribution to authorities. The subdivider shall submit to the
various approving authorities the number of validated copies of the preliminary
plat required by §§ 112 to 119 of the Subdivision Control Act.
         (a)   City Clerk: four copies for the City Council;
         (b)   County Register of Deeds: two copies of preliminary plat only
for verification that the street names do not duplicate or conflict with
existing street names;
         (c)   County Plat Committee: two copies of preliminary plat for
information and review purposes; and
         (d)   School Board: one copy of preliminary plat only to the school
board of the respective school district in which the plat is to be located for
informational purposes.
      (4)   List of authorities. The subdivider shall then file with the City
Clerk a list of all authorities to whom validated copies of the preliminary
plat have been distributed.
   (E)   Final approval of a preliminary plat.
      (1)   Letters of conditional approval or rejection. When the subdivider
has secured the approvals of the various approving authorities as required by
§§ 113 to 119 of the Subdivision Control Act, the subdivider shall deliver all
copies to the City Clerk, who shall promptly transmit them to the Planning
Commission.
      (2)   Planning Commission.
         (a)   The Planning Commission shall review the preliminary plat and,
if it meets all requirements, shall provide for an adequate public hearing,
giving due notice to all parties in interest, in accordance with the provisions
of the City and Village Zoning Act.
         (b)   If the preliminary plat does not meet all requirements, the
Planning Commission shall notify the subdivider by letter, indicating that the
plat does not meet the requirements and giving the earliest date for
resubmission of the plat and additional information required.
         (c)   The Planning Commission shall give its report to the City
Council not more than 60 days after submission of the preliminary plat in
accordance with subsection(E)(1) above.
         (d)   The 60-day period may be extended with the applicant’s consent.
If no action is taken within 60 days, the preliminary plat shall be deemed to
have been approved by the Planning Commission.
      (3)   City Council.
         (a)   The City Council shall not review, approve or rejects
preliminary plat until it has received from the Planning Commission its report
and recommendations.
         (b)   The City Council shall consider the preliminary plat at its next
meeting, but no later than 20 days after receipt from the Planning Commission.
         (c)   The City Council shall, within 20 days, either reject the
preliminary plat and give its reasons, or set forth in writing the conditions
for granting approval.
   (F)   Conditions and duration of approval.
      (1)   Conditions. Approval of a preliminary plat shall not constitute
approval of the final plat, but rather that the final plat approval shall be
conditioned on all requirements being met.
      (2)   Duration.
         (a)   Approval of the preliminary plat by the City Council shall be
for a period of two years from the date of its approval after approval by the
other required authorities.
         (b)   The City Council may extend the two-year period if applied for
and grant in writing, but only concerning its own requirements.
§ 26-13 FINAL PLATS.
   (A)   Purpose. To provide guidelines for the subdivider concerning contents
of the final plat required by the Subdivision Control Act.
   (B)   Requirements.
      (1)   General.
         (a)   Final plats shall be prepared and submitted as provided for in
the Subdivision Control Act.
         (b)   A written application for approval and the recording fee shall
accompany all final plats.
         (c)   The subdivider shall submit proof of ownership of the land
included in the final plat in the form of an abstract of title certified to the
date of the proprietor’s certificate, or a policy of title insurance currently
in force.
         (d)   The City Council may require such other information as it deems
necessary to establish whether the proper parties have signed the plat.
      (2)   Time of submittal. Final plats shall be submitted to the City Clerk
at least ten days before a meeting of the Planning Commission.
   (C)   Procedures; submittal to approving authorities. The subdivider shall
submit the final plat and as-built engineering plans where required for
approval to the following:
      (1)   Drain Commissioner: for approval or rejection, if applicable;
      (2)   County Health Department: for issuance of a letter of approval or
rejection, if applicable;
      (3)   Planning Commission (through the City Clerk): for recommendations
to the City Council; and
      (4)   City Clerk: for approval or rejection by the City Council.
   (D)   Actions.
      (1)   Planning Commission.
         (a)   The Planning Commission shall examine the plat at its next
regular meeting, or within 30 days of receipt thereof, for conformance to:
            1.   The provisions of the Subdivision Control Act;
            2.   The provisions of this chapter; and
            3.   The preliminary plat, as approved.
         (b)   The time for review and recommendations by the Planning
Commission may be extended with the consent of the subdivider.
         (c)   If the Planning Commission recommends disapproval of the plat by
the City Council, it shall state its reasons in its official minutes and
forward same to the City Council, and recommend that City Council disapprove
the final plat until the objections causing disapproval have been changed to
meet with the approval of the Planning Commission.
         (d)   Recommendations for approval of the plat by the City Council
shall be accompanied by a report.
      (2)   City Council.
         (a)   The City Council shall review the final plat and the report from
the Planning Commission at its next regular meeting, or at a meeting to be
called within 20 days of receipt from the Planning Commission.
         (b)   The City Council shall approve the plat or disapprove it. If
disapproved, the City Council shall give the subdivider its reasons in writing
and rebate the recording fee and whatever portion of the review fee as provided
for in the fee schedule.
         (c)   The City Council shall instruct the City Clerk to record all
proceedings in the minutes of the meeting, which shall be open for inspection
and to sign the municipal certificate on the approved plat on behalf of the
City Council.
      (3)   Improvements and facilities required by the city.
         (a)   The City Council may require all improvements and facilities to
be completed before it approves the final plat.
         (b)   If improvements and facilities are not required to be completed
by the City Council before plat approval, the final plat shall be accompanied
by a contract between the subdivider and the City Council for completion of all
required improvements and facilities.
         (c)   Performance of the contract shall be guaranteed by a cash
deposit, certified check, surety bond or irrevocable bank letter of credit.
         (d)   The City Council shall not require a bond duplicating any bond
required by another governmental agency.
         (e)   Such surety shall be rebated or credited to the account of the
proprietor as the work progresses, as included in a written agreement between
the City Council and the subdivider.
§§ 26-14 — 26-16 RESERVED.
ARTICLE III. SUBDIVISION DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 26-17 TRAFFICWAY, STREETS AND ROADS.
   (A)   General. Standards established by the city’s Department of Public
Works shall be the minimum standards for streets, roads and intersections in
this chapter. Generally, all streets shall be dedicated to public use. Arterial
streets shall be dedicated to public use in all cases.
   (B)   Location.
      (1)   Street location and arrangements. When a major street plan has been
adopted, subdivision streets shall be required to conform to the plan.
      (2)   Local or minor streets. Such streets shall be so arranged as to
discourage their use by through traffic.
      (3)   Street continuation and extension. The arrangement of streets shall
provide for the continuation of existing streets from adjoining areas into new
subdivisions, unless otherwise approved by the Planning Commission.
      (4)   Stub streets. Where adjoining areas are not subdivided, the
arrangement of streets in new subdivisions shall be extended to the boundary
line of the tract to make provision for the future projection of streets into
adjacent areas. (See §
26-23(B)of this chapter.)
      (5)   Relation to topography. Streets shall be arranged in proper
relation to topography so as to result in usable lots, safe streets and
reasonable gradients.
      (6)   Alleys. Alleys shall not be permitted in areas of detached single-
or two-family residences. Alleys shall be provided in multiple dwellings or
commercial subdivisions unless other provisions are made for service access,
off-street loading and parking. Dead-end alleys shall be prohibited.
      (7)   Marginal access streets. Where a subdivision abuts or contains an
arterial street, the city may require:
         (a)   Marginal access streets approximately parallel to and on each
side of the right-of-way; and/or
         (b)   Such other treatment as it deems necessary for the adequate
protection of residential properties and to afford separation of through and
local traffic.
      (8)   Cul-de-sac streets. Cul-de-sacs shall not be more than 600 feet in
length. Special consideration shall be given to longer cul-de-sacs under
certain topographic conditions or other unusual situations. Cul-de-sacs shall
terminate with an adequate turn-around meeting the specifications established
by the city’s Fire Chief and Director of Public Works.
      (9)   Half streets. Half streets shall generally be prohibited, except
where unusual circumstances make it essential to the reasonable development of
a tract in conformance with these regulations and where satisfactory assurance
for dedication of the remaining part of the street is provided. Whenever a
tract to be subdivided borders on an existing half or partial street, the other
part of the street shall be dedicated within such tract, according to the
requirements of the city.
      (10)   Private streets. Private streets and roads shall be prohibited in
the city.
   (C)   Specifications.
      (1)   Street right-of-way roadway widths. Street and road right-of-way
and roadway widths shall conform to the adopted street plan, the specifications
of the city and the state’s Department of Highways.
      (2)   Street alignment.
         (a)   Horizontal alignment. When street lines deflect from each other
by more than ten degrees in alignment, the centerline shall be connected by a
curve with a minimum radius of 500 feet for arterial streets, 300 feet for
collector streets and 150 feet for local or minor streets. Between reverse
curves, on minor streets, there shall be a minimum tangent distance of 100 feet
and, on collector and arterial streets, 200 feet.
         (b)   Vertical alignment. Minimum sight distances shall be 200 feet
for minor streets and 300 feet for collector streets.
   (E)   Street names.
      (1)   Street names shall not duplicate any existing street name in the
city or abutting townships, except where a new street is a continuation of an
existing street.
      (2)   Street names that may be spelled differently, but sound the same
shall also be avoided.
      (3)   Duplications can be avoided by checking new street names with the
county’s Register of Deeds, Post Master and the county’s Road Commission master
listing.
      (4)   All new streets shall be named as follows. Streets with predominant
north-south directions shall be named “Avenue” or “Road”; streets with
predominant east-west direction shall be named “Street”; meandering streets
shall be named “Drive”, “Lane”, “Path” or “Trail” and cul-de-sacs shall be
named “Circle”, “Court”, “Way” or “Place”.
§ 26-18 INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Angle of intersection. Streets shall intersect at 90 degrees or
closely thereto and in no case at less than 80 degrees.
   (B)   Sight triangles. Minimum clear sight distance at all minor street
intersections shall permit vehicles to be visible to the driver of another
vehicle when each is 125 feet from the center of the intersection.
   (C)   Number of streets. No more than two streets shall cross at any one
intersection.
   (D)   “T” intersections. Except on arterial and certain collectors, “T” type
intersections shall be used where practical.
   (E)   Centerline offsets. Slight jogs at intersections shall be avoided.
Where such jogs are unavoidable, street centerline shall be offset by a
distance of 125 feet or more.
   (F)   Vertical alignment of intersection. A nearly flat grade with
appropriate slopes is desirable within intersections. This flat section shall
be carried back 50 to 100 feet each way from the intersection. An allowance of
2% maximum intersection grade in rolling and 4% in hilly terrain will be
permitted.
§ 26-19 PEDESTRIANWAYS.
   (A)   Crosswalks. Right-of-way for pedestrian crosswalks in the middle of
long blocks shall be required where necessary to obtain convenient pedestrian
circulation to schools, parks or shopping areas. The right-of-way shall be at
least ten feet wide and extend entirely through the block.
   (B)   Sidewalks. Sufficient right-of-way shall be provided so that sidewalks
may be installed on both sides of all streets.
§ 26-20 EASEMENTS.
   Easements shall be provided along rear lot lines for utilities and also
along side lot lines when necessary. The total width shall not be less than six
feet along each lot, or a total of 12 feet for adjoining lots. (See also § 26-
22 of this chapter for back-to-back lots.)
§ 26-21 BLOCKS.
   (A)   Arrangements. A block shall be so designed as to provide two tiers of
lots, except where lots back onto an arterial street, natural feature or
subdivision boundary.
   (B)   Minimum length. Blocks shall not be less than 500 feet long.
   (C)   Maximum length. The maximum length allowed for residential blocks
shall be 1,320 feet long from center of street to center of street.
§ 26-22 LOTS.
   (A)   Conform to zoning. The lot width, depth and area shall not be less
than the particular district requirements of the zoning ordinance, except where
outlots are provided for some permitted purpose.
   (B)   Lot lines. Side lot lines shall be essentially at right angles to
straight streets and radial to curved streets.
   (C)   Width related to length. Narrow deep lots shall be avoided. The depth
of a lot generally shall not exceed two and one-half times the width as
measured at the building line.
   (D)   Corner lots. Corner lots shall have extra width to permit appropriate
building setback from both streets or orientation to both streets. Lots
abutting a pedestrian mid-block crosswalk shall be treated as corner lots.
   (E)   Uninhabitable areas. Lands subject to flooding or otherwise deemed by
the Planning Commission to be uninhabitable shall not be plated for residential
purposes, or for uses that may in the judgment of the Planning Commission
increase the danger to health, life, or property or increase the flood hazard.
Such land within a subdivision shall be set aside for other uses, such as parks
or other open spaces.
   (F)   Back-to-back lots. Lots shall back into such features as freeways,
arterial streets, shopping centers or industrial properties, except where there
is a marginal access street, unless a secondary access is provided. Such lots
shall contain a landscaped easement along the rear at least 20 feet wide in
addition to the utility easement to restrict access to the arterial street to
minimize noise and to protect outdoor living areas. Lots extending through a
block and having frontage on two local streets shall be prohibited.
   (G)   Lot frontage. All lots shall front upon a publicly dedicated street.
Variances may be permitted for approved planned unit developments (PUD).
   (H)   Future arrangements. Where parcels of land are subdivided into
unusually large lots (such as when large lots are required for septic tank
operations), the parcels shall be divided, where feasible, so as to allow for
re-subdividing into smaller parcels in a logical fashion. Lot arrangements
shall allow for the ultimate extension of adjacent streets through the middle
of wide blocks. Whenever such future re-subdividing or lot splitting is
contemplated the plan thereof shall be approved by the Planning Commission
prior to the taking of such action.
§ 26-23 PLANTING STRIPS AND RESERVE STRIPS.
   (A)   Planting strips.
      (1)   Planting strips may be required to be placed next to incompatible
features such as highways, railroads, commercial or industrial uses to screen
the view from residential properties.
      (2)   Such screens shall be a minimum of 20 feet wide, and shall not be a
part of the normal roadway right-of-way or utility easement.
   (B)   Reserve strips.
      (1)   Reserve private strips. Privately held reserve strips controlling
access to streets shall be prohibited.
      (2)   Reserve public strips. A one-foot reserve may be required to be
placed at the end or “stub” of “dead-end” streets which terminate at
subdivision boundaries and between half-streets. These reserves shall be deeded
in fee simple to the city for future street purposes.
§ 26-24 PUBLIC SITES AND OPEN SPACES.
   (A)   Public uses. Where a proposed park, playground, school or other public
use shown on the development plan is located in whole or in part within a
subdivision, a suitable area for this purpose may be dedicated to the public or
reserved for public purchase. If, within two years of plat recording, the
purchase is not agreed on, the reservation may be canceled or shall
automatically cease to exist.
   (B)   Natural features. Existing natural features which add value to
residential development and enhance the attractiveness of the city (such as
trees, watercourses, historic spots and similar irreplaceable assets) shall be
preserved, insofar as possible, in the design of the subdivision.
§ 26-25 LARGE SCALE DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   Modification. This chapter may be modified in accordance with Article
V of this chapter in the case of a subdivision large enough to constitute a
complete neighborhood or planned unit development (PUD) consistent with the
city comprehensive plan and city zoning ordinance which provides and dedicates
adequate public open space and improvements of the circulation, recreation,
education, light, air and service needs of the tract when fully developed and
populated.
   (B)   Characteristics.
      (1)   A neighborhood or planned unit development (PUD) under this
provision shall be consistent with the city comprehensive plan and city zoning
ordinance and contain a minimum of two acres of land, contain or be bounded by
major streets or natural physical barriers as necessary, and shall contain
reserved areas of sufficient size to serve its population, for schools,
playgrounds, parks and other public facilities.
      (2)   Such reserves may be dedicated for public use provided that a
responsible public agency accepts dedicated property and upon written consent
of the City Council.
§ 26-26 COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   These subdivision design standards may be modified in accordance with
Article V of this chapter in the case of subdivisions specifically intended for
commercial or industrial development, including shopping districts, wholesaling
areas and planned industrial districts.
   (B)   In all cases, however, adequate provision shall be made for off-street
parking and loading areas as specified in the city zoning ordinance as well as
for traffic circulation.
§§ 26-27 — 26-29 RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV. SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENTS
§ 26-30 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this article to establish and define the public
improvements which will be required to be constructed by the subdivider as
conditions for final plat approval and also to outline the procedures and
responsibilities of the subdivider and the various public officials and
agencies concerned with the administration, planning design, construction and
financing of public facilities, and to further establish procedures for
assuring compliance with these requirements.
§ 26-31 RESPONSIBILITY FOR PLANS.
   It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider of every proposed
subdivision to have prepared by a registered engineer, a complete set of
construction plans, including profiles, cross-sections, specifications and
other supporting data, for the hereinafter required public streets, utilities
and other facilities. Such construction plans shall be based on preliminary
plans which have been approved with the preliminary plat, and shall be prepared
in conjunction with the final plat. Construction plans are subject to approval
by the responsible public agencies shown. All construction plans shall be
prepared in accordance with their standards or specifications.
§ 26-32 SUBMITTAL PROCEDURE.
   When construction has been completed at the time of filing the final plat,
one complete copy of as-built engineering plans of each required public
improvement shall be filed with the City Clerk coincidental with the filing of
the final plat. Other requirements and procedures in the submittal of final
plats shall be as provided in §
26-13 of this chapter.
§ 26-33 REQUIRED PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.
   Every subdivider shall be required to install the following public and other
improvements in accordance with the conditions and specifications as follows.
   (A)   Monument. Monuments shall be set in accordance with the state’s
Subdivision Control Act, Public Act 288 of 1967, being MCL §§ 560.101 through
560.293, and the rules of the state’s Department of Commerce.
   (B)   Streets and alleys. All streets and alleys shall be constructed in
accordance with the standards and specifications adopted by the City Council.
   (C)   Curbs and gutters. Curbs and gutters shall be required on all streets
and shall be constructed in accordance with the standards and specifications
adopted by the City Council.
   (D)   Installation of public utilities. Public utilities and driveways shall
be located in accordance with the rules of the City Council. The underground
work for utilities shall be stubbed to the property line.
   (E)   Driveways. All driveway openings in curbs shall be as specified by the
city’s Department of Public Works or the Department of State Highways.
   (F)   Storm drainage. An adequate storm drainage system, including necessary
storm sewers, drain inlets, manholes, culverts, bridges and other
appurtenances, shall be required in all subdivisions. The requirements for each
particular subdivision shall be established by the city’s Department of Public
Works. Construction shall follow the specifications and procedures established
by the city’s Department of Public Works. All proposed storm drainage
construction plans for proposed plats shall be approved by the city’s
Department of Public Works.
   (G)   Water supply system. When a proposed subdivision is to be serviced by
a public water supply system, fire hydrants meeting the minimum standards of
fire flow established by the city’s Fire Department and other required water
system appurtenances shall be provided by the subdivider.
   (H)   Sanitary sewer system. When a proposed subdivision is to be serviced
by a public sanitary sewerage system, sanitary sewers and other required
appurtenances thereto shall be provided by the subdivider.
   (I)   Street name signs. Street name signs shall be installed in the
appropriate locations at each street intersection in accordance with the
requirements of the city.
   (J)   Sidewalks and crosswalks. Sidewalks shall be required on both sides of
the street. Where the average width of lots, as measured at the street frontage
line or at the building setback line, is over 100 feet, sidewalks on one side
may be required by the city. Crosswalks, when required by the city, shall have
easements at least ten feet in width and include a paved walk at least five
feet in width, located generally along the centerline of the easement,
dedicated as a public pedestrian walkway. Sidewalks and crosswalks shall be
constructed in accordance with the requirements of the city.
§ 26-34 OPTIONAL PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Recreational. Where a school site, neighborhood park, recreation area
or public access to water frontage, as previously delineated or specified by
official action of the Planning Commission, is located in whole or part in the
proposed subdivision, the City Council may request the reservation of such open
space for school, park and recreation or public access purposes. All such areas
shall either be reserved for the respective school district in the case of
school sites or for the city in all other cases; however, voluntary dedication
of these land areas will be accepted.
   (B)   Greenbelts.
      (1)   It is desirable for the protection of residential properties to
have greenbelts or landscaped screen plantings located between a residential
development and adjacent major arterial streets and railroad rights-of-way.
      (2)   Where a subdivider desires to protect his or her development in
this respect, a proposed subdivision plat shall show the location of said
greenbelts.
   (C)   Street trees.
      (1)   Street trees of a variety and size in accordance with the standards
adopted by the city may be planted between the street curb and sidewalk.
      (2)   The location of street trees shall be approved by the city’s
Department of Public Works.
   (D)   Street lighting.
      (1)   Street lights may be required to be installed at intersections only
throughout the subdivision.
      (2)   In these cases, a subdivider shall conform to the requirements of
the city and the public utility providing such lighting.
§ 26-35 GUARANTEE OF COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED BY THE CITY.
   (A)   Financial guarantee arrangements; exception. In lieu of the actual
installation of required public improvements, the City Council, on
recommendation of the Planning Commission, may accept, deny or modify the
Planning Commission recommendation and may permit the subdivider to provide a
financial guarantee of performance in one or a combination of the following
arrangements of the City Council or any other agency responsible for the
administration, operation and maintenance of the applicable public improvement.
In case these improvements are specified, completion shall be required prior to
the issuance of occupancy permits.
      (1)   Performance of surety bond.
         (a)   Accrual. The bond shall accrue to the city covering
construction, operation and maintenance of the specific public improvement.
         (b)   Amount. The bond shall be in an amount equal to the total
estimated cost for completing construction of the specific public improvement,
including contingencies, as estimated by the City Council.
         (c)   Term length. The term length in which the bond is in force shall
be for a period to be specified by the City Council for the specific public
improvements.
         (d)   Bonding or surety company. The bond shall be with a surety
company authorized to do business in the state, acceptable to the City Council.
         (e)   Agreement. The escrow agreement shall be drawn and furnished by
the City Council.
      (2)   Cash deposit, certified check, negotiable bond or irrevocable bank
letter of credit.
         (a)   Treasurer, escrow agent of trust company. A cash deposit,
certified check, negotiable bond or an irrevocable bank letter of credit, such
surety acceptable by the City Council, shall accrue to the city. These deposits
shall be made with the City Treasurer, or deposited with a responsible escrow
agent or trust company, subject to the approval of the City Council.
         (b)   Dollar value. The dollar value of the cash deposit, certified
check, negotiable bond or an irrevocable bank letter of credit shall be equal
to the total estimated cost of construction of the specific public improvement
including contingencies, as estimated by the City Council.
         (c)   Escrow time. The escrow time for the cash deposit, certified
check, negotiable bond or irrevocable bank letter of credit shall be for a
period to be specified by the City Council.
         (d)   Progressive payment. In the case of cash deposits or certified
checks, an agreement between the city and the subdivider may provide for
progressive payment out of the cash deposit or reduction of the certified
check, negotiable bond or irrevocable bank letter of credit, to the extent of
the cost of completed portion of the public improvement, in accordance with a
previously entered into agreement.
   (B)   Conditions of city approval of final plat financial guarantees. With
respect to financial guarantees, the approval of all final subdivision plats
shall be conditioned on the accomplishment of one of the following.
      (1)   The construction of improvements required by this chapter shall
have been completed by the subdivider and approved by the City Council.
      (2)   Surety acceptable to the city shall have been filed in the form of
a cash deposit, certified check, negotiable bond, irrevocable bank letter of
credit or surety bond.
   (C)   Special agreements. A special agreement shall be entered into between
the subdivider and the City Council where street trees and street lights have
been required by the City Council.
   (D)   Inspection of public improvements under construction. Before approving
a final plat and construction plans and specifications for public improvements,
an agreement between the subdivider and the City Council shall be made to
provide for checking or inspecting the construction and its conformity to the
submitted plans.
   (E)   Penalty in case of failure to complete the construction of a public
improvement.
      (1)   In the event the subdivider shall, in any case, fail to complete
such work within such period of time as required by the conditions of the
guarantee for the completion of public improvements, it shall be the obligation
of the City Council to proceed to have such work completed.
      (2)   In order to accomplish this, the City Council shall reimburse
itself for the costs and expense thereof by appropriating the cash deposit,
certified check, irrevocable bank letter of credit or negotiable bond which the
subdivider may have deposited in lieu of a surety bond, or may take such steps
as may be necessary to require performance by the bonding or surety company,
and is included in a written agreement between the City Council and the
subdivider.
§ 26-36 — 26-38 RESERVED.
ARTICLE V. FURTHER PARTITIONS, DIVISIONS, COMBINATIONS OR BOUNDARY LINES
CHANGES WITHIN PLATTED SUBDIVISIONS
§ 26-39 GENERAL.
   Except where a formal replat is involved, every partition, division, split,
combination or boundary line change of a lot or lots in a recorded subdivision
within the city shall be subject to the provisions of this article.
(Ord. 364, passed 9-9-2002)
§ 26-40 APPLICATION.
   The owner seeking approval to partition, divide, split, combine or change
the boundary line of a lot or lots within a platted subdivision shall file an
application in affidavit form with the City Clerk, which shall set forth the
reasons for the proposed partition, division, split, combination or boundary
line change and shall be accompanied by the applicable fee(s) and an
illustrative sketch or drawing, showing the original and resulting lots and
dimensions.
(Ord. 364, passed 9-9-2002)
§ 26-41 APPROVAL.
   Subject to the limitations contained in §
26-42 of this chapter, the City Council may approve, conditionally approve or
deny the application in its discretion, and no partition, division, split,
combination or boundary line change shall occur without the prior approval of
the City Council.
(Ord. 364, passed 9-9-2002)
§ 26-42 LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   The partition, division, split, combination or boundary line change of
the lot or lots shall result in not more than four buildable lots.
   (B)   No lot, out-lot or other parcel of land shall be further partitioned,
split or divided unless:
      (1)   The lot, out-lot or other parcel of land is served by public sewer
and public water systems;
      (2)   The resulting lots, out-lots or other parcels meet the minimum
width and area standards established by this article, the city zoning ordinance
and the Subdivision Control Act of 1967, Public Act 288 of 1967, being MCL §§
560.101 through 560.293, as amended;
      (3)   The resulting lot(s) or parcel(s):
         (a)   Have direct access to a public roadway or private roadway
constructed to the standards of this section;
         (b)   Are serviced by public utilities necessary or required by law;
and
         (c)   Conform in all particulars to the requirements of the
Subdivision Control Act of 1967; and
      (4)   The proposed partition, split or division is found by the City
Council not to be detrimental to the public welfare or injurious to other
property in the area in which said property is situated.
(Ord. 364, passed 9-9-2002)
§§ 26-43 — 26-45 RESERVED.
ARTICLE VI. DIVISION OF UNPLATTED PARCELS
§ 26-46 GENERAL.
   Every division of an unplatted parcel of land within the city which is not
subject to the provisions of the Subdivision Control Act, unrecorded at the
time of adoption of this chapter shall be subject to the provisions of this
article.
§ 26-47 APPLICATION.
   The owner seeking approval to divide a parcel of land into two, three or
four parcels involving the dedication of land for road right-of-way purposes
shall file an application in affidavit form with the City Clerk, which shall
set forth the reasons for the proposed division and dedication and shall be
accompanied by an illustrative sketch or drawing showing original and resulting
dimensions.
§ 26-48 APPROVAL.
   (A)   Where the application states that the purpose is to add to adjoining
existing building sites, and not to create separate building sites, the City
Council may approve the application when it is satisfied no building permit is
necessary.
   (B)   If the parcels are intended for building sites. No building or
occupancy permit shall be issued in such cases until the Planning Commission
has reviewed the application and until the City Council has approved the
division of such land.
§ 26-49 LIMITATIONS.
   No parcel of property shall be divided resulting in parcels or lots less in
area than permitted by the city zoning ordinance.
§§ 26-50 — 26-52 RESERVED.
 
ARTICLE VII. ENFORCEMENT
§ 26-53 ENFORCEMENT.
   No subdivision plat required by this chapter or the Subdivision Control Act
shall be admitted to the public land records of the county or received or
recorded by the County Register of Deeds, until such subdivision plat has
received final approval by the City Council. No public board, agency,
commission, official or other authority shall proceed with the construction of
or authorize the construction of any of the public improvements required by
this chapter unless such public improvement shall have already been accepted,
opened or otherwise received the legal status of a public improvement prior to
the adoption of this chapter unless such public improvement shall correspond in
its location and to the other requirements of this chapter.
§ 26-54 PENALTIES.
   Penalties for failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter shall be
as follows. Violation of any of the provisions of this chapter or failure to
comply with any of its requirements shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any person
who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any of its requirements
shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $100 or imprisoned for
not more than 30 days, or both. Each day such violation continues shall be
considered a separate offense. The land owner, tenant, subdivider, builder,
public official or any other person who commits, participates in, assists in or
maintains such violation may each be found guilty of a separate offense and
suffer the penalties herein provided. Nothing herein contained shall prevent
the City Council or any other public official or private citizen from taking
such lawful action as is necessary to restrain or prevent any violation of this
chapter or of the Subdivision Control Act.
§§ 26-55 — 26-57 RESERVED.
ARTICLE VIII. VARIANCES
§ 26-58 GENERAL.
   (A)   The city’s Planning Commission may recommend to the City Council a
variance from the provisions of this chapter on a finding that undue hardship
may result from strict compliance with specific provisions or requirements of
this chapter or that application of such provision or requirement is
impracticable. The Planning Commission shall only recommend variances that it
deems necessary to or desirable for the public interest. In making its
findings, as required herein below, the Planning Commission shall take into
account the nature of the proposed use of land and the existing use of land in
the vicinity, the number of persons to reside or work in the proposed
subdivision and the probable effect of the proposed subdivision upon traffic
conditions in the vicinity.
   (B)   No variance shall be recommended unless the Planning Commission finds,
after a public hearing:
      (1)   There are such special circumstances or conditions affecting said
property that the strict application of the provisions of this chapter would
clearly be impracticable or unreasonable. In such cases, the subdivider shall
first state his or her reasons in writing as to the specific provision or
requirement involved and submit them to the Planning Commission;
      (2)   The granting of the specified variance will not be detrimental to
the public welfare or injurious to other property in the area in which said
property is situated;
      (3)   Such variance will not violate the provisions of the state’s
Subdivision Control Act;
      (4)   The Planning Commission shall include its findings and the specific
reasons therefor in its report of recommendations to the City Council, which
shall also record its reasons and action in its minutes; and
      (5)   Such variance will not have the effect of nullifying the interest
and purpose of this chapter, the city’s comprehensive plan or the zoning
ordinance.
§ 26-59 TOPOGRAPHICAL-PHYSICAL LIMITATION VARIANCE.
   Where in the case of a particular proposed subdivision, it can be shown that
strict compliance with the requirements of this chapter would result in
extraordinary hardship to the subdivider because of unusual topography, other
physical conditions or other such conditions which are not self-inflicted, or
that these conditions would result in inhibiting the achievement of the
objectives of this chapter, the Planning Commission may recommend to the City
Council that variance modification or a waiver of these requirements be
granted.
§ 26-60 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT VARIANCE.
   (A)   The developer may request a variance from specified portions of this
chapter in the case of a planned unit development. If, in the judgment of the
Planning Commission, such a plan provides adequate public spaces and includes
provisions for efficient circulation, light and air and other needs, it shall
make finding, as required herein below. The Planning Commission shall take into
account the nature of the proposed use of land and existing use of land in the
vicinity the number of persons to reside or work in the proposed subdivision,
and the probable effect of the proposed subdivision upon traffic conditions in
the vicinity.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall report to the City Council whether:
      (1)   The proposed project will constitute a desirable and stable
community development;
      (2)   The proposed project will be in harmony with adjacent areas;
      (3)   The proposed project will be in conformance with the planned unit
development regulations contained in the city zoning ordinance; and
      (4)   The proposed project will be in conformance with the city’s
comprehensive plan.
§§ 26-61 — 26-63 RESERVED.
ARTICLE IX. AMENDMENTS AND REVIEW
§ 26-64 PROCEDURES.
   The City Council may, from time to time, amend, supplement or repeal the
regulations and provisions of this chapter in the manner prescribed by Public
Act 246 of 1945, as amended. A proposed amendment, supplements or repeal may be
originated by the City Council, City Planning Commission or by petition. All
proposals not originating with the Planning Commission shall be referred to it
for a report thereon before any action is taken on the proposal by the City
Council.
§ 26-65 COMPREHENSIVE REVIEW.
   The Planning Commission shall from time to time, at intervals of not more
than one year, examine the provisions of this chapter and submit a written
report to the City Council recommending changes and amendments, if any, which
are desirable in the interest of the public health, safety and general welfare.
§§ 26-66 — 26-68 RESERVED.
SECTION X. DEFINITIONS
§ 26-69 INTERPRETATION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, certain terms or words used herein shall be
interpreted as follows. The word “person” includes a “firm”, “association”,
“organization”, “partnership”, “trust company” or “corporation”, as well as an
“individual”. The present tense includes the future tense, the singular number
includes the plural and the word may is permissive. The words “used” or
“occupied” include the words “intended”, “designed” or “arranged” to be used or
to be occupied. The word “his” includes the word “her”.
§ 26-70 DEFINITIONS (“A, B, C”).
   ALLEY. A public or private right-of-way shown on a plat which provides
secondary access to a lot, block or parcel of land.
   AS-BUILT PLANS. Revised construction plans in accordance with all approved
field changes.
   BLOCK. An area of land within a subdivision that is entirely bounded by
streets, highways or ways, except alleys, and the exterior boundary or
boundaries of the subdivision.
   BUILDING LINE or SETBACK LINE. A line parallel to a street right-of-way
line, shore of a lake, edge of a stream or river bank, established on a parcel
of land or on a lot for the purpose of prohibiting construction of a building
between such line and a right-of-way, other public area or the shore of a lake
or the edge of a stream or river bank.
   CAPTION. The name by which the plat is legally and commonly known.
   CITY. The City of Allegan.
   COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT. A planned commercial center providing building
areas, parking areas, service areas, screen planting street widening, turning
movement and safety lane roadway improvements.
§ 26-71 DEFINITIONS (“D, E, F”).
   DEDICATION. The intentional appropriation of land by the owner to public
use.
   DEVELOPMENT PLAN or MASTER PLAN.
      (1)   A plan adopted by the city for the physical development of the city
showing the general location for major streets, parks, schools, public building
sites, land use and other similar information.
      (2)   The PLAN may consist of maps, data and other descriptive matter.
   FLOODPLAIN. That area of land adjoining the channel of a river, stream,
watercourse, lake or other similar body of water which will be inundated by a
flood which can reasonable be expected from that region as shown of the
official zoning map defined by the most current 100-year flood hazard elevation
(1% chance of flooding in any given year) as described within the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development Federal Flood Insurance Study for
the city.
§ 26-72 DEFINITIONS (“G, H, I”).
   GREENBELTS or BUFFER PARKS. A strip of parcel of land, privately-restricted
or publicly-dedicated as open space located between incompatible uses for the
purpose of protecting an enhancing the residential environment.
   IMPROVEMENTS. Any structure incident to servicing or furnishing facilities
for a subdivision such as grading, street surfacing, curb and gutter, driveway
approaches, sidewalks, crosswalks, water mains and lines, sanitary sewers,
storm sewers, culverts, bridges, utilities, lagoons, slips, waterways, lakes,
bays, canals and other appropriate item, with appurtenant construction.
   INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT. A planned industrial area designed specifically for
industrial use providing screened buffers, street widening and turning movement
and safety lane roadway improvements, where necessary.
§ 26-73 DEFINITIONS (“J, K, L”).
   LOT. A measured portion of a parcel or tract of land, which is described and
fixed in a recorded plat.
   LOT DEPTH. The horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines,
measured along the median between the side lot line.
   LOT WIDTH. The horizontal distance between the side lot lines measured at
the setback line and at right angles to the lot depth.
§ 26-74 DEFINITIONS (“M, N, O”).
   OUTLOT. When included within the boundary of a recorded plat, means a lot
set aside for purposes other than a building site, park or other land dedicated
to public use or reserved to private use.
§ 26-75 DEFINITIONS (“P, Q, R”).
   PARCEL or TRACT. A continuous area or acreage of land which can be described
as provided for in the Subdivision Control Act.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the city.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A land area which has both individual building
sites and common property, such as a park, and which is designated and
developed under one owner or organized group as a separate neighborhood or
community unit.
   PLAT. A map or chart of a subdivision of land.
      (1)   PRE-PRELIMINARY PLAT. An informal plan or sketch drawn to scale and
in pencil, if desired, showing the existing features of a site and its
surroundings and the general layout of a proposed subdivision.
      (2)   PRELIMINARY PLAT. A map showing the salient features of a proposed
subdivision of land submitted to an approving authority for purposes of
preliminary consideration.
      (3)   FINAL PLAT. A map of a subdivision of land made up in final form
ready for approval and recording.
   PROPRIETOR, SUBDIVIDER or DEVELOPER. A natural person, firm, association,
partnership, corporation or combination any of which may hold any recorded or
unrecorded ownership interest in land. The PROPRIETOR is also commonly referred
to as the OWNER.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. All persons, firms, corporations, copartnership or municipal
or other public authority providing gas, electricity, water, steam, telephone,
storm sewers, sanitary sewers, transportation or other services of a similar
nature.
   PUBLIC OPEN SPACE. Land dedicated or reserved for use by the general public.
It includes parks, parkways, recreation areas, school sites, community or
public building sites, streets and highways and public parking spaces.
   REPLAT. The process of changing, or the map or plat which changes the
boundaries of a recorded subdivision plat or part thereof. The legal dividing
of an outlot within a recorded subdivision plat without changing the exterior
boundaries of the outlot is not a REPLAT.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. Land reserved, used or to be used for a street, alley, walkway
or other public purposes.
§ 26-76 DEFINITIONS (“S, T, U”).
   SIGHT DISTANCE. The unobstructed vision on a horizontal plane along a street
centerline from a driver-eye height of 3.75 feet and an object height of six
inches.
   SKETCH PLAN. A pre-preliminary plat.
   STREET. A right-of way which provides for vehicular and pedestrian access to
abutting properties.
      (1)   ARTERIAL STREET. Those streets of considerable continuity which are
used or may be used primarily for fast or heavy traffic.
      (2)   COLLECTOR STREET. Those streets used to carry traffic from minor
streets to arterial streets, including principal entrance streets to large
residential developments.
      (3)   CUL-DE-SAC. A minor street of short length having one end
terminated by a vehicular turnaround.
      (4)   EXPRESSWAY. Those streets designed for high speed, high volume
traffic, with full or partially controlled access, some grade crossings, but no
driveway connections.
      (5)   FREEWAY. Those streets designed for high speed, high volume through
traffic, with completely controlled access, no grade crossing and no private
driveway connections.
      (6)   MARGINAL ACCESS STREET. A minor street which is parallel and
adjacent to arterial streets and which provides access to abutting properties
and protection from through traffic and not carrying through traffic.
      (7)   MINOR STREET. A street which is intended primarily for access to
abutting properties.
      (8)   PARKWAY. A street designed for non-commercial, pleasure-oriented
traffic moving at moderate speeds, between and through scenic areas and parks.
      (9)   STREET WIDTH. The shortest distance between the lines delineating
the right-of-way of streets.
   SUBDIVIDING or SUBDIVISION. The partitioning or dividing of a parcel or
tract of land by the proprietor thereof or by his or her heirs, executors,
administrators, legal representatives, successors or assigns for the purpose of
sale, or lease of more than one year, or of building development, of divisions
creates five or more parcels of land each of which is ten acres or less in
area; or five or more parcels of land each of which ten acres or less in area
are created by successive divisions within a period of ten years.
   SUBDIVISION CONTROL ACT. Public Act 288 of 1967, as amended, being MCL
§§ 560.101 through 560.293.
   SURVEYOR. Either a land surveyor who is registered in this state as a
registered land surveyor or a civil engineer who is registered in the state as
a registered professional engineer.
   TOPOGRAPHICAL MAP. A map showing existing physical characteristics, with
contour lines at sufficient intervals to permit determination of proposed
grades and drainage.
§ 26-77 DEFINITIONS (“V, W, X, Y, Z”).
   WATER RESOURCES COMMISSION. The Water Resources Commission of the state’s
Department of Natural Resources.
§§ 26-78 — 26-80 RESERVED.
ARTICLE XI. SEVERABILITY CLAUSE; EFFECTIVE DATE
§ 26-81 SEVERABILITY CLAUSE.
   Should any section, clause or provision of this chapter be declared by the
courts to be invalid, the same shall not affect the validity of the chapter as
a whole or any part thereof, other than the part as declared to be invalid.
§ 26-82 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter became effective on 11-22-1993.
CHAPTER 27: TAXATION
Section
Article I. Special Assessments
Division 1. In General
   
27-1   Definitions
Division 2. Multiple-Lot Assessment Procedure
   
27-2   Special Assessment Board; organization; quorum; meetings
   
27-3   Initiation of special assessment projects
   
27-4   Initiation by petition
   
27-5   Preliminary proceedings
   
27-6   Council determination
   
27-7   Special assessment roll
   
27-8   Meeting to review special assessment roll; objections
   
27-9   Changes and corrections in assessment roll
   
27-10   Objection to assessment
   
27-11   Special assessment, when due
   
27-12   Partial payments, when due
Division 3. Single-Lot Assessment Procedure
   
27-13   Report of City Manager
   
27-14   Resolution of determination
   
27-15   Special assessment roll; preparation and presentation to Council
   
27-16   Filing for public examination; notice of hearing for review
   
27-17   Hearing for review; consideration of objections
   
27-18   Corrections and changes
   
27-19   Confirmation
Division 4. Collection of Assessments; Miscellaneous Provisions
   
27-20   Delinquent special assessments
   
27-21   Creation of lien
   
27-22   Additional assessment; refunds
   
27-23   Additional procedures
   
27-24   Collection of special assessments
   
27-25   Special assessment accounts
   
27-26   Contested assessments
   
27-27   Reassessment for benefits
   
27-28   Combination of projects
   
27-29   Division of parcels
   
27-30   Deferred payments of special assessments
   
27-31   Reconsideration of petitions
   
27-32   Savings clause
   
27-33—27-34   Reserved
Article II. Housing Developments
Division 1. Reserved
   
27-35   Reserved
Division 2. Housing Development Tax Exemption
   
27-36   Title
   
27-37   Preamble
   
27-38   Definitions
   
27-39   Class of housing developments
   
27-40   Establishment of annual service charge
   
27-41   Resolution; contractual effect
   
27-42   Payment of service charge
   
27-43   Commencement of construction and duration of the tax exemption
   
27-44   Limitation of exemptions
Charter reference:
   General finance: general taxation, see
Chapter 9
Statutory reference:
   General Property Tax Act, see MCL §§ 211.1 et seq.
   Provisions of the General Property Tax Act are applicable where not
inconsistent with the Charter, see MCL § 211.107
ARTICLE I. SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS
DIVISION 1. IN GENERAL
§ 27-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   COST. When referring to the cost of any local public improvement shall
include the cost of services, plans, condemnation, spreading of rolls, notices,
advertising, financing, construction, legal fees, interest on special
assessment bonds for not to exceed three years, a debt service reserve not to
exceed 10% of the principal of any bonds, and all other costs incident to the
making of such improvement, the special assessments therefor and the financing
thereof.
   LOCAL PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT. Any public improvement which is of such a nature
as to benefit especially any real property or properties within a district in
the vicinity of such improvement.
(Ord. 254, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. 501, passed 2-28-2022)
DIVISION 2. MULTIPLE-LOT ASSESSMENT PROCEDURE
§ 27-2 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT BOARD; ORGANIZATION; QUORUM; MEETINGS.
   The Special Assessment Board shall consist of the City Manager, who shall be
Chairperson, the Public Works Director, who shall be Vice Chairperson, the City
Treasurer and the City Assessor. The City Manager shall designate a city
employee who is not a member of the board to serve as Secretary of the Board.
Members of the Special Assessment Board may each act under any and all
circumstances through their deputy. Three members of the Board, regular or
acting, shall constitute a quorum. The Board may designate an Assistant
Secretary. The Board shall keep minutes of all hearings and meetings conducted
by it, which minutes shall be prepared and signed by the Secretary or Assistant
Secretary and the Chairperson or Vice Chairperson, and filed in the office of
the City Clerk.
(Ord. 254, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. 501, passed 2-28-2022)
§ 27-3 INITIATION OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENT PROJECTS.
   Proceedings for the making of local public improvements within the city, the
tentative necessity thereof, and the determination that the whole or any part
of the expense thereof shall be defrayed by special assessment upon the
property especially benefitted; provided that, all special assessments levied
shall be in proportion to the benefits derived from the improvements, may be
commenced by resolution of the Council, with or without a petition.
(Ord. 254, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. 501, passed 2-28-2022)
§ 27-4 INITIATION BY PETITION.
   The Council, in order to ascertain whether or not a reasonable number of
property owners to be assessed desire any particular improvement to be made,
may request and receive a petition therefor, or may receive such a petition
voluntarily presented; but in either event, such petition shall be advisory
only and shall not be jurisdictional.
(Ord. 254, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. 501, passed 2-28-2022)
§ 27-5 PRELIMINARY PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   Survey and report. Before determining to make any improvement any part
of the cost of which is to be defrayed by special assessment, the Council shall
require the City Manager to prepare, or cause to be prepared, plans and
specifications therefor and an estimate of the cost thereof, and to file the
same with the Secretary of the Special Assessment Board, together with his or
her recommendation as to what proportion of the cost should be paid by special
assessment and what part, if any, should be a general obligation of the city,
the number of installments in which installments may be paid and the land which
should be included in the special assessment district.
   (B)   Hearing on necessity. After such filing, a public hearing shall be
held before the Special Assessment Board at a time and place to be fixed by the
Chairperson or Vice Chairperson. The Secretary of the Board shall cause notice
of the time and place of such hearing to be published once in the official
newspaper of the city not less than ten days prior to the date of said hearing.
Such notice shall also be given by the Secretary of the Board to each owner of
or party in interest in property to be assessed, whose name appears upon the
last city tax assessment records, by mailing by first-class mail addressed to
such owner or party at the address shown on the tax records at least ten days
before the date of such hearing.
   (C)   Determination of project. At the time and place specified in such
notice for the public hearing, the Special Assessment Board shall meet and hear
any person to be affected by the proposed public improvement. The hearing may
be adjourned, from time to time, by the Board. After completion of the hearing,
the Board shall transmit to the Council the plans, specifications and estimates
theretofore filed with its Secretary by the City Manager as required in
subsection (A) above, and shall report to the Council its findings as to the
necessity of the proposed public improvement and its recommendations as to what
proportion of the cost should be paid by special assessment and what part, if
any, should be a general obligation of the city, the number of installments in
which assessments may be paid and the special assessment district upon which
the special assessments should be levied.
(Ord. 254, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. 501, passed 2-28-2022)
§ 27-6 COUNCIL DETERMINATION.
   (A)   Estimated costs. After the report of the Special Assessment Board has
been received, the Council may, by resolution, determine to make the
improvement and to defray the whole or any part of the cost of the improvement
by special assessment upon the property especially benefitted in proportion to
the benefits thereto. By such resolution, the Council shall approve the plans
and specifications for the improvement; determine the estimated costs thereof;
determine what proportion of such cost shall be paid by special assessment upon
the property especially benefitted and what part, if any, shall be general
obligation of the city; determine the number of installments in which
assessments may be paid; determine the rate of interest to be charged on
installments; designate the district or land and premises upon which special
assessments shall be levied; and direct the City Assessor to prepare a special
assessment roll in accordance with the Council’s determination.
   (B)   Actual cost. Notwithstanding any provision of this article, the
Council may, in its discretion, delay the preparation of the special assessment
roll until after the completion of the improvement, in which case the actual
cost thereof shall be reported to the Council, and the special assessment roll
shall be then made for such actual cost rather than for the estimated cost as
in other cases.
(Ord. 254, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. 501, passed 2-28-2022)
§ 27-7 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT ROLL.
   The City Assessor shall, thereupon, prepare a special assessment roll,
including all lots and parcels of land within the special assessment district
designated by the Council; it shall assess to each such lot or parcel of land
such relative portion of the whole sum to be levied against all the lands in
the special assessment district as the benefit to such land or parcel of land
bears to the total benefits to all lands in such district. There shall also be
entered upon such roll the amount which has been assessed to the city at large.
When the City Assessor shall have completed such assessment roll, he or she
shall attach thereto or endorse thereon, a certificate to the effect that the
roll has been made pursuant to a resolution of the Council (giving date of
adoption of same) and that in making the assessments therein, as near as may
be, according to the City Assessor’s best judgment, the roll conforms in all
respects to the directions contained in such resolution, and to the City
Charter, and the provisions of this article. Thereupon, he or she shall file
the special assessment roll with the City Clerk, who shall present the same to
the Council.
(Ord. 254, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. 501, passed 2-28-2022)
§ 27-8 MEETING TO REVIEW SPECIAL ASSESSMENT ROLL; OBJECTIONS.
   Upon receipt of the special assessment roll, the Council, by resolution,
shall accept the assessment roll and order it to be filed in the office of the
City Clerk for public examination, shall fix the time and place the Council
will meet to review such special assessment roll and direct the City Clerk to
give notice of a public hearing for the purpose of affording an opportunity for
interested persons to be heard. The notice shall be given by publication once,
at least ten full days prior to the date of the hearing, in a newspaper
published or circulated within the city and by first-class mail addressed to
each owner of or person in interest in property to be assessed as shown by the
last general assessment roll of the city, mailed at least ten full days prior
to the date of the hearing. The hearing required by this section may be held at
any regular, adjourned or special meeting of the Council. At this meeting, all
interested persons or parties shall present their objects, if any, to the
assessments against them.
(Ord. 254, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. 501, passed 2-28-2022)
§ 27-9 CHANGES AND CORRECTIONS IN ASSESSMENT ROLL.
   The Council shall meet at the time and place designated for the review of
such special assessment roll, and at such meeting, or a proper adjournment
thereof, shall consider all objections thereto. The Council may correct the
roll as to any special assessment or description of any lot or parcel of land
or other errors appearing therein; or it may, by resolution, annul the
assessment roll and direct that new proceedings be instituted. The same
proceedings shall be followed in making a new roll as in the making of the
original roll. If, after hearing all objections and making a record of such
changes as the Council deems justified, the Council determines that it is
satisfied with the special assessment roll and that assessments are in
proportion to benefits received, it shall, thereupon, pass a resolution
reciting such determinations, confirming such roll, placing it on file in the
office of the City Clerk, and directing the City Clerk to attach a warrant to a
certified copy thereof within ten days, therein commanding the City Assessor to
spread and the City Treasurer to collect the various sums and amounts appearing
thereon as directed by the Council. The roll shall have the date of
confirmation endorsed thereon and shall, from that date, be final and
conclusive for the purpose of the improvement to which it applies, subject to
adjustment to conform to the actual cost of the improvement, as provided in
this article.
(Ord. 254, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. 501, passed 2-28-2022)
§ 27-10 OBJECTION TO ASSESSMENT.
   If at, or prior to, the final confirmation of any special assessments, the
owners of privately owned real property to be assessed for more than 50% of the
cost of an improvement or, in the case of paving or similar improvements, the
owners of more than 50% of the frontage to be assessed for any such
improvement, shall object in writing to the proposed improvement, the
improvement shall not be made by proceedings delineated by this article without
a five-sevenths vote of the members elect of the Council.
(Ord. 254, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. 501, passed 2-28-2022)
§ 27-11 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT, WHEN DUE.
   All special assessments, except such installments thereof as the Council
shall make payable at a future time as provided in this article, shall be due
and payable upon confirmation of the special assessment roll.
(Ord. 254, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. 501, passed 2-28-2022)
§ 27-12 PARTIAL PAYMENTS, WHEN DUE.
   The Council may provide for the payment of special assessments in annual
installments. Such annual installments shall not exceed 30, the first
installment being due upon confirmation of the roll or on such date as the
Council may determine and deferred installments being due annually thereafter,
or in the discretion of the Council, may be spread upon and made a part of each
annual city tax roll thereafter until all are paid. Interest shall be charged
on all deferred installments at a rate per annum to be set by the Council,
commencing on such date as shall be established by the Council. The full amount
of all or any deferred installments, with interest accrued thereon to the date
of payment, may be paid in advance of the due dates thereof. If the full
assessment or the first installment thereof shall be due upon confirmation,
each property owner shall have 30 days from the date of confirmation to pay the
full amount of the assessment, or the full amount of any installments thereof,
without interest or penalty. Following the 30-day period, the assessment, or
first installment thereof shall, if unpaid, be considered as delinquent and the
same penalty shall be collected on such unpaid assessments or first
installments thereof as are provided by law to be collected on delinquent
general city taxes. Deferred installments shall be collected without penalty
until 30 days after the due date thereof, after which time such installments
shall be considered as delinquent and such penalties on the installments shall
be collected as provided by law to be collected on delinquent general city
taxes. After the Council has confirmed the roll, the City Treasurer shall
notify by mail each property owner on the roll that the roll has been filed,
stating the amount assessed and the terms of payment. Failure on the part of
the City Treasurer to give such notice or of such owner to receive the notice
shall not invalidate any special assessment roll of the city or any assessment
thereon, nor excuse the payment of interest or penalties.
(Ord. 254, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. 501, passed 2-28-2022)
DIVISION 3. SINGLE-LOT ASSESSMENT PROCEDURE
§ 27-13 REPORT OF CITY MANAGER.
   When any expense shall have been incurred by the city upon or in respect to
any single lot or parcel of land, which expense is chargeable against such lot
or parcel of land and the owner thereof, by any City Charter provision, or any
provision of this code or other ordinance of the city, or any state of federal
laws, and is not of that class required to be prorated among several lots or
parcels of land in a special assessment district, the amount of labor and
material or any other expense or service for which such expense was incurred,
with a description of the lot or parcel of land upon or in respect to which the
expense was incurred, and the name of the owner, if known, shall be reported by
the City Manager to the Council.
(Ord. 501, passed 2-28-2022)
§ 27-14 RESOLUTION OF DETERMINATION.
   After reviewing the report of the City Manager, as provided for by §
27-13 of this chapter, the Council may, if it so desires, determine by
resolution what amount or part of each such expense shall be charged, and the
person, if known, against whom and the premises upon which the same shall be
levied as a special assessment. By such resolution, the Council shall determine
the number of installments in which the assessment may be paid, determine the
rate of interest to be charged on such installments, not to exceed 15% per
annum, designate the land and premises upon which the special assessment shall
be levied, direct the City Assessor to prepare a special assessment roll in
accordance with the Council’s determination, and designate the name by which
such assessment roll shall be known and referred to, and as often as the
Council shall deem expedient, require notice of the several amounts so reported
and determined to be given by the City Clerk, by first-class mail sent to the
last known address of the owner as shown on the assessment roll of the city,
and by publication.
(Ord. 501, passed 2-28-2022)
§ 27-15 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT ROLL; PREPARATION AND PRESENTATION TO COUNCIL.
   (A)   The City Assessor shall, upon being informed of the resolution
provided for by §
27-14 of this chapter, prepare a special assessment roll, including all lots
and parcels of land within the special assessment district designated by the
Council, and shall assess to each such lot or parcel of land such sums as may
have been directed by the Council.
   (B)   The special assessment roll shall include a certificate from the
Assessor certifying that he or she has prepared the roll pursuant to a
resolution of the Council (giving the date of adoption of same) and that, in
making the assessments therein, the Assessor has, as near as may be, according
to the Assessor’s best judgment, conformed in all respects to the directions
contained in such resolution and the City Charter and the provisions of this
division.
   (C)   The Assessor shall file the special assessment roll with the City
Clerk who shall present the same to the Council.
(Ord. 501, passed 2-28-2022)
§ 27-16 FILING FOR PUBLIC EXAMINATION; NOTICE OF HEARING FOR REVIEW.
   Upon receipt of the special assessment roll as provided by §
27-15 of this chapter, the Council shall order it filed in the office of the
City Clerk for public examination and shall, by resolution, fix the time and
place when the Council will meet and review such roll, which meeting shall be
held not less than one week after notice thereof, specifying the purpose, time
and place, has been given by first-class mail to the owner of each lot or
parcel of land affected thereby at their address of the address shown on the
last tax roll of the city, and by publication at least once in a newspaper of
general circulation in the city, to be designated by the Council, or by posting
notice thereof for the same length of time in three public places within the
city.
(Ord. 501, passed 2-28-2022)
§ 27-17 HEARING FOR REVIEW; CONSIDERATION OF OBJECTIONS.
   The Council shall meet and review the special assessment roll provided for
in this division at the time and place appointed or at an adjourned date
therefor and shall consider any objections to the special assessment roll
presented either verbally or in writing.
(Ord. 501, passed 2-28-2022)
§ 27-18 CORRECTIONS AND CHANGES.
   The Council may correct the special assessment roll provided for in this
division as to any assessment or description of any lot or parcel of land or
other errors appearing in the roll. Any changes made in the roll shall be noted
in the Council minutes.
(Ord. 501, passed 2-28-2022)
§ 27-19 CONFIRMATION.
   After hearing and review, as provided for in this division, the Council
shall confirm such special assessment roll with such corrections as may have
been made and the City Clerk shall endorse the date of confirmation thereon,
and upon confirmation such roll shall be final and conclusive.
(Ord. 501, passed 2-28-2022)
DIVISION 4. COLLECTION OF ASSESSMENTS; MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
§ 27-20 DELINQUENT SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   Any assessment, or part thereof, remaining unpaid 60 days following the date
when the same became delinquent shall be reported as unpaid by the City
Treasurer to the Council. Any such delinquent assessment shall be transferred
and reassessed on the next tax roll, whether city or otherwise, in a column
headed “special assessments” with a penalty of 4%, plus accrued interest from
the due date, upon such total amount added thereto, and when so transferred and
reassessed upon the tax roll shall be collected in all respects as provided for
the collection of city taxes.
(Ord. 254, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. 501, passed 2-28-2022)
§ 27-21 CREATION OF LIEN.
   Special assessments and all interest, penalties and charges thereon from the
date of confirmation of the roll shall become a debt to the city from the
persons to whom they are assessed, and, until paid, shall be and remain a lien
upon the property assessed, of the same character and effect as the lien
created by general law for state, county and city taxes and the lands on which
the same are a lien shall be subject to sale therefor the same as are lands
upon which delinquent city taxes constitute a lien.
(Ord. 254, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. 501, passed 2-28-2022)
§ 27-22 ADDITIONAL ASSESSMENT; REFUNDS.
   The City Manager shall, within 60 days after the completion of each local or
special public improvement, certify to the City Treasurer that the public
improvement has been completed and the Treasurer shall compile the actual cost
thereof and certify the same to the Assessor who shall adjust the special
assessment roll to correspond therewith. Should the assessment prove larger
than necessary by less than 5%, the same shall be presented to the Council
which may place the excess in the city treasury or make a refund thereof pro
rata according to the assessment. If the assessment exceeds the amount
necessary by 5% or more, the entire excess shall be credited to owners of
property as shown by the city assessment roll upon which such assessment has
been levied, pro rata according to the assessment. No refunds of special
assessments may be made which impair or contravene the provision of any
outstanding obligation or bond secured in whole or in part by such special
assessments. In the case of assessments due in installments, the Council may
order the refund be given by credit against the installments last coming due.
When any special assessment roll shall prove insufficient to meet the cost of
the improvement for which it was made, the Council may make an additional pro
rata assessment after compliance with the provisions hereof and a public
hearing, but the total amount assessed against any one parcel of land shall not
exceed the benefits received by the lot or parcel of land.
(Ord. 254, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. 501, passed 2-28-2022)
§ 27-23 ADDITIONAL PROCEDURES.
   In any case where the provisions of this article may prove to be
insufficient to carry out fully the making of any special assessment, the
Council shall provide, by ordinance, any additional steps or procedures
required.
(Ord. 254, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. 501, passed 2-28-2022)
§ 27-24 COLLECTION OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   In the event bonds are issued in anticipation of the collection of special
assessments as hereinbefore provided, all collections on each special
assessment or combination of rolls shall be set in a separate fund for the
payment of the principal and interest on the bonds so issued in anticipation of
the payment of such special assessments, and shall be used for no other
purpose.
(Ord. 254, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. 501, passed 2-28-2022)
§ 27-25 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT ACCOUNTS.
   Moneys raised by special assessment to pay the cost of any local improvement
shall be held in a special fund to pay such cost or to repay any money borrowed
therefor. Each special assessment account must be used only for the improvement
project for which the assessment was levied, expenses incidental thereto,
including the repayment of the principal and interest on money borrowed
therefor and to refund excessive assessments, if refunds be authorized.
(Ord. 254, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. 501, passed 2-28-2022)
§ 27-26 CONTESTED ASSESSMENTS.
   An action may not be instituted for the purpose of contesting or enjoining
the collection of a special assessment unless:
   (A)   Within 45 days after the confirmation of the special assessment roll,
written notice is given to the Council indicating an intention to file such an
action and stating the grounds on which it is claimed that the assessment is
illegal; and
   (B)   The action is commenced within 90 days after the confirmation of the
roll.
(Ord. 254, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. 501, passed 2-28-2022)
§ 27-27 REASSESSMENT FOR BENEFITS.
   Whenever the Council shall deem any special assessment invalid or defective
for any reason whatever, or if any court of competent jurisdiction shall have
adjudged such assessment to be illegal for any reason whatever, in whole or in
part, the Council shall have power to cause a new assessment to be made for the
same purpose for which the former assessment was made, whether the improvement
or any part thereof has been completed and whether any part of the assessment
has been collected or not. All proceedings on such reassessment and for the
collection thereof shall be made in the manner as provided for the original
assessment. If any portion of the original assessment shall have been collected
and not refunded, it shall be applied upon the reassessment and the
reassessment shall to that extent be deemed satisfied. If more than the amount
reassessed shall have been collected, the balance shall be refunded to the
person making such payment.
(Ord. 254, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. 501, passed 2-28-2022)
§ 27-28 COMBINATION OF PROJECTS.
   The Council may combine several districts into one project for the purpose
of affecting a saving in the cost. There shall be established for each district
separate funds and accounts to cover the cost of the same.
(Ord. 254, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. 501, passed 2-28-2022)
§ 27-29 DIVISION OF PARCELS.
   Should any lots or lands be divided after a special assessment thereon has
been confirmed and divided into installments, the City Treasurer and the City
Assessor shall apportion the uncollected amounts upon the several lots and
lands so divided and shall enter the several amounts as amendments upon the
special assessment roll. The City Treasurer shall, within ten days after such
apportionment, send notice of such action to the persons concerned at their
last known address by first-class mail. The apportionment shall be final and
conclusive on all parties unless protest in writing is received by the City
Treasurer within 21 days of the mailing of the aforesaid notice.
(Ord. 254, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. 501, passed 2-28-2022)
§ 27-30 DEFERRED PAYMENTS OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   The Council may provide for the deferred payment of special assessments in
accordance with state law.
(Ord. 254, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. 501, passed 2-28-2022)
§ 27-31 RECONSIDERATION OF PETITIONS.
   In the event that the Council shall fail to make any public improvement
petitioned for under the provisions of this article during the calendar year
during which any petition is filed, such petition shall be reconsidered by the
Council prior to March 1 of the succeeding calendar year for the purpose of
determining whether such improvement should be made during such calendar year.
(Ord. 254, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. 501, passed 2-28-2022)
§ 27-32 SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   All special assessment proceedings commenced prior to the effective date of
this article and conducted in conformity with the provisions of the City
Charter are hereby validated, ratified and confirmed.
(Ord. 254, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. 501, passed 2-28-2022)
§§ 27-33 — 27-34 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II. HOUSING DEVELOPMENTS
DIVISION 1. RESERVED
§ 27-35 RESERVED.
DIVISION 2. HOUSING DEVELOPMENT TAX EXEMPTION
§ 27-36 TITLE.
   This division shall be known and cited as the “City of Allegan Housing
Development Authority Tax Exemption Ordinance”.
(Ord. 342, passed 7-13-1998; Ord. 346, passed 1-25-1999)
§ 27-37 PREAMBLE.
   It is acknowledged that it is a proper public purpose of the state and its
political subdivisions to provide housing for its citizens of low income and to
encourage the development of such housing by providing for a service charge in
lieu of property taxes in accordance with the state’s Housing Development
Authority Act of 1966 (Public Act 346 of 1966, as amended, being MCL
§§ 125.1401 et seq.). The city is authorized by this Act to establish or change
the service charge to be paid in lieu of taxes by any or all classes of housing
exempt from taxation under this Act at any amount it chooses not to exceed the
taxes that would be paid, but for this Act. It is further acknowledged that
such housing for persons of low income is a public necessity, and as the city
will be benefitted and improved by such housing, the encouragement of the same
by providing certain real estate tax exemption for such housing is a valid
public purpose; further, that the continuance of the provisions of this
division for tax exemption and the service charge in lieu of taxes during the
periods contemplated in this division are essential to the determination of
economic feasibility of housing developments which are constructed and financed
in reliance on such division and service charge.
(Ord. 342, passed 7-13-1998; Ord. 346, passed 1-25-1999)
§ 27-38 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The State Housing Development Authority Act, being Public Act 346 of
1966, of the State of Michigan, as amended, being MCL §§ 125.1401 et seq.
   ANNUAL SHELTER RENTS. The total collections during an agreed annual period
from all occupants of a housing development representing rents or occupancy
charges exclusive of charges for gas, electricity, heat or other utilities
furnished to the occupants.
   AUTHORITY. The Michigan State Housing Development Authority.
   HOUSING DEVELOPMENT. A development which contains a significant element of
housing for persons of low income and such elements of other housing,
commercial, recreational, industrial, communal and educational facilities as
the authority determines improve the quality of the development as it relates
to housing for persons of low income.
   HUD. The Department of Housing and Urban Development of the United States
Government.
   MORTGAGE LOAN. A loan to be made by the authority or Farmers Home
Administration or the Department of Housing and Urban Development to the
sponsor for the construction and permanent financing of the housing development
or a mortgage loan insured by HUD.
   PERSONS OF LOW INCOME. Persons and families eligible to move into a housing
development.
   SPONSOR. Persons or entities which have applied to either the authority for
a mortgage loan to finance a housing development or to another governmental
entity for a federally-aided loan, as defined by the Act.
   UTILITIES. Fuel, water, sanitary sewer service and/or electrical service
which are paid by the housing development.
(Ord. 342, passed 7-13-1998; Ord. 346, passed 1-25-1999)
§ 27-39 CLASS OF HOUSING DEVELOPMENTS.
   It is determined that the class of housing developments to which the tax
exemption shall apply and for which a service charge shall be paid in lieu of
such taxes shall be multiple dwellings for persons of low income which are
financed or assisted by the authority or which are federally aided, as defined
in the Act.
(Ord. 342, passed 7-13-1998; Ord. 346, passed 1-25-1999)
§ 27-40 ESTABLISHMENT OF ANNUAL SERVICE CHARGE.
   (A)   Housing developments for persons of low income and the property on
which they shall be constructed shall be exempt from all property taxes from
and after the commencement of construction. The city acknowledging that the
sponsor and the authority, in the case of a sponsor receiving a mortgage loan
from the authority, have established the economic feasibility of the housing
development reliance upon the enactment and continuing effect of this division
and the qualification of the housing developments for exemption from all
property taxes and a payment in lieu of taxes as established in this division,
will accept payment of an annual service charge for public services in lieu of
all property taxes.
   (B)   Subject to subsection (D) below, the sponsor of a new construction
housing project exempt from taxation pursuant to this division shall pay to the
city an annual service charge for public services in lieu of all taxes an
amount equal to the greater of the tax on the property on which the project is
located for the tax year before the date when construction or rehabilitation of
the project was commenced or 10% of the annual shelter rents obtained by the
project.
   (C)   Subject to subsection (D) below, the sponsor of a rehabilitation
housing project exempt from taxation pursuant to this division shall pay to the
city an annual service charge for public services in lieu of all taxes an
amount equal to the lesser of the tax on the property on which the project is
located for the tax year before the date when construction or rehabilitation of
the project was commenced or 10% of the annual shelter rents obtained by the
project.
   (D)   The annual service charge shall not exceed an amount equal to the
taxes that would be paid, but for the tax exemption granted under this
division.
(Ord. 342, passed 7-13-1998; Ord. 346, passed 1-25-1999)
§ 27-41 RESOLUTION; CONTRACTUAL EFFECT.
   A resolution of the City Council granting tax exempt status, as provided in
this division, shall be adopted for each housing development qualified under
the terms and provisions of this division. Notwithstanding the provisions of §
15(a)(5) of the Act to the contrary, a contract between the city and the
sponsor with the authority as third party beneficiary under the contract, to
provide tax exemption and accept payments in lieu of taxes as previously
described will be effectuated by enactment of such a resolution by the City
Council.
(Ord. 342, passed 7-13-1998; Ord. 346, passed 1-25-1999)
§ 27-42 PAYMENT OF SERVICE CHARGE.
   The annual service charge determined pursuant to §
27-40 of this chapter shall become a lien against the property against which it
is charged in the same manner and on the date as city taxes. The annual service
charge shall be subject to the same interest, penalties, collection charges and
enforcement mechanisms as city taxes; except that, an unpaid annual service
charge shall not be returned as delinquent to the County Treasurer. Without
affecting its rights under this section, the City Treasurer may, in his or her
name, or in the name of the city, institute a civil action against the owner of
the housing project in the Allegan County Circuit Court to recover the amount
of the unpaid annual service charge and interest, penalties and collection
charges on the annual service charge, plus the costs of collecting said
amounts, including reasonable attorneys’ fees.
(Ord. 342, passed 7-13-1998; Ord. 346, passed 1-25-1999)
§ 27-43 COMMENCEMENT OF CONSTRUCTION AND DURATION OF THE TAX EXEMPTION.
   The tax exemption established under §
27-40 of this chapter shall not take effect if the sponsor fails to commence
construction on the housing development within one year of the effective date
of the resolution approving the tax exemption. The City Council may adopt a
resolution extending the time period for commencing construction if the sponsor
establishes good cause for the delay. Once the tax exemption takes effect, it
shall remain in effect and shall not terminate as long as the mortgage loan for
the housing development remains outstanding and unpaid or as long as the
authority or other governmental entity has an interest in the property.
(Ord. 342, passed 7-13-1998; Ord. 346, passed 1-25-1999; Ord. 437, passed 11-
25-2013)
§ 27-44 LIMITATION OF EXEMPTIONS.
   The tax exemption provided in § 15a(1) of the state’s Housing Development
Authority Act of 1966, Public Act 346 of 1966, as amended, being MCL §
125.1415a, shall not apply to housing projects of any class within the
boundaries of the city unless the City Council shall grant such exemption
pursuant to § 27-40 of this chapter not later than 6-30-2014.
(Ord. 342, passed 7-13-1998; Ord. 346, passed 1-25-1999; Ord. 408, passed 7-28-
2008; Ord. 432, passed 7-30-2012)
CHAPTER 28: TRAFFIC AND MOTOR VEHICLES
Section
Article I. In General
   
28-1         Bicycles, skateboards, rollerblades or any similar devices
   28-2 — 28-20   Reserved
Article II. Michigan Vehicle Code and Uniform Traffic Code
   
28-21         Adoption of Michigan Vehicle Code and Michigan Uniform Traffic
Code
   
28-22         Adoption of MCL § 257.625(1)(c), Operating with an Alcohol
Content of 0.17 or More
   28-23 — 28-30   Reserved
Article III. Parking, Stopping and Standing
Division 1. Generally
   
28-31         Prohibited in specified places or times
   
28-32         Use of downtown city parking lots
   28-33 — 28-40   Reserved
Division 2. Parking Violations Bureau
   
28-41         Parking Violations Bureau established
   
28-42         Schedule of parking, stopping and standing violations
   
28-43         Location; employees; rules and regulations
   
28-44         Disposition of violations
   
28-45         Settlement
   
28-46         Traffic ticket or notice of violation
   28-47 — 28-50   Reserved
Division 3. Unattended Motor Vehicles in Required Yards
   
28-51         “Yard” defined
   
28-52         General prohibition
   
28-53         Improved driveways
   
28-54         Waiver
   
28-55         Enforcement
   28-56 — 28-60   Reserved
Division 4. Unlicensed, Inoperable, Dismantled or Partially Dismantled Motor
Vehicles or Parts
   
28-61         Public nuisance declared
   
28-62         Exception for enclosed buildings
   
28-63         Exception for persons engaged in business of dismantling or
junking of motor vehicles
   
28-64         Exception for tires and car parts
   
28-65         Removal by city
   
28-66         Extension of time limit
   28-67 — 28-70   Reserved
Article IV. Truck Routes
   
28-71         Designated
   
28-72         Operation on other streets for making deliveries
   
28-73         Imposition of load limitations by Traffic Engineer
   
28-74         Notification by sign
   
28-75         Violation a civil infraction
   28-76 — 28-80   Reserved
Article V. Snowplowing
   
28-81         Equipment
   
28-82         Duties concerning snowplowing of streets
   28-83 — 28-90   Reserved
Article VI. Recovery for Expense of Emergency Response
   
28-91         Findings of fact
   
28-92         Definitions
   
28-93         Liability for expense of emergency response
   
28-94         Presumptions
   
28-95         Charge against person liable
   
28-96         Cost recovery schedule
   
28-97         Chief of Police to submit bill
   
28-98         Failure to pay bill; procedure to recover costs
   28-99 — 28-100   Reserved
Article VII. Golf Carts
   
28-101         Purpose
   
28-102         Definitions
   
28-103         Operation of golf carts on city streets
   
28-104         Parking regulations
   
28-105         Registration and decals
   
28-106         Violations and penalties
   28-107 — 28-110   Reserved
Article VIII. Off-Road Vehicles (ORVs)
   
28-111         Definitions
   
28-112         Operation of specified ORVs on city streets
   
28-113         Violations and penalties
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
§ 28-1 BICYCLES, SKATEBOARDS, ROLLERBLADES OR ANY SIMILAR DEVICES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to ride skateboards, rollerblades, coasters, toy
vehicles or other similar devices in the city’s downtown in any alley or on any
sidewalk or boardwalk. For purposes of this section, DOWNTOWN means the area
between Cutler Street on the north, Chestnut Street on the west, Kalamazoo
River and Second and State Streets on the south and Kalamazoo River on the
east. When entering the downtown, the bicycle riders shall dismount and either
push their bicycles while in the downtown or park them in the bicycle racks
provided for that purpose.
   (B)   The City Council may, upon request, allow for exceptions to this
section for special events as defined by the Council.
   (C)   This section shall be considered supplementary to other provisions of
this code governing the operation of the above-mentioned objects.
   (D)   Any violation of this section shall be a municipal civil infraction.
Further, in the event of a violation of any provisions of this section, any
police officer of the city witnessing such violation may immediately, upon such
violation, take possession of and impound the bicycle, skateboard, rollerblades
or other similar device of such offender. Such items may be impounded up to a
maximum of:
      (1)   For the first violation: ten days;
      (2)   For the second violation: 20 days;
      (3)   For the third violation: 30 days; and
      (4)   For every violation thereafter: 30 days, plus ten days for each
violation after the third.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§§ 28-2 — 28-20 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II. MICHIGAN VEHICLE CODE AND UNIFORM TRAFFIC CODE
§ 28-21. ADOPTION OF MICHIGAN VEHICLE CODE AND MICHIGAN UNIFORM TRAFFIC CODE.
   (A)   The city hereby adopts by reference the Michigan Vehicle Code, Public
Act 300 of 1949, being MCL §§ 257.1 to 257.923, and as subsequently amended. A
complete copy of the code is available to the public for inspection in the
Clerk’s office.
   (B)   The city hereby adopts by reference the Michigan Uniform Traffic Code
for Cities, Townships and Villages, R 28.1001 et seq., of the Michigan
Administrative Code and as subsequently amended to the extent not in conflict
with existing or future ordinances and regulations of the city. A complete copy
of the code is available to the public for inspection in the Clerk’s office.
The city’s adoption by reference of the UTC does not simultaneously prohibit
the existence, addition and adoption of further ordinances or regulations;
provided, such ordinances or regulations do not conflict with state law.
   (C)   The penalties provided by the Michigan Vehicle Code and Michigan
Uniform Traffic Code for Cities, Townships and Villages are adopted by
reference; provided, however, that, no ordinance violation under the Michigan
Vehicle Code shall be punishable by more than 93 days imprisonment, except as
provided in § 28-22 of this chapter.
   (D)   The provisions of the Michigan Vehicle Code adopted in this section
supersede all provisions of this chapter that substantially correspond to
provisions in the Michigan Vehicle Code or the Michigan Uniform Traffic Code
for Cities, Townships and Villages, respectively.
   (E)   The Director of the city’s Department of Public Works, or any
successor agency hereinafter created, is hereby designated as the Traffic
Engineer for purposes of the Michigan Vehicle Code, the Michigan Uniform
Traffic Code for Cities, Townships and Villages and any other provision of this
chapter.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 28-22 ADOPTION OF MCL § 257.625(1)(C), OPERATING WITH AN ALCOHOL CONTENT OF
0.17 OR MORE.
   The city adopts by reference § 625(1)(c) of the Michigan Vehicle Code,
Public Act 300 of 1949, being MCL § 257.625(1)(c), and as subsequently amended,
which shall be punishable by one or more of the following:
   (A)   Community service for not more than 360 hours;
   (B)   Imprisonment for not more than 180 days; and/or
   (C)   A fine of not less than $200 or more than $700.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§§ 28-23 — 28-30 RESERVED.
ARTICLE III. PARKING, STOPPING AND STANDING
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
§ 28-31 PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES OR TIMES.
   (A)   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in
compliance with law or the directions of a police officer or traffic-control
device, a person shall not stop, stand or park a vehicle in any of the
following places:
      (1)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping, standing or
parking;
      (2)   In any place where the parked vehicle would significantly impede or
obstruct United States mail delivery, street cleaning, plowing, maintenance,
waste removal or similar municipal functions; or
      (3)   Between the right-of-way lines of any street between the hours of
2:30 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. of any day; except that, this prohibition shall not
apply to first responders on emergency calls.
   (B)   Notwithstanding subsection (A)(3) above, currently licensed and
operable one- to 12-passenger motor vehicles, motorcycles and trucks not
exceeding two tons in carrying capacity may park between the right of way lines
of any street between 2:30 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. on any day from April 1 through
November 14; provided that:
      (1)   There shall be no parking during such hours of trailers or non-
motorized recreational vehicles (whether or not attached to a passenger vehicle
or truck) between the sidewalk lines of any street;
      (2)   There shall be no parking during such hours between the right-of-
way lines on any street as noted below:
         (a)   The length of Brady Street;
         (b)   Hubbard Street, from Walnut Street to Water Street;
         (c)   The length of Locust Street;
         (d)   The length of Water Street;
         (e)   Trowbridge Street, from Chestnut Street to Water Street; and
         (f)   Chestnut Street, from Trowbridge Street to Hubbard Street.
      (3)   There shall be no parking during such hours in a manner that
impedes the flow of traffic or where official signs prohibit stopping, standing
or parking;
      (4)   There shall be no parking between right-of-way lines along any
state trunk line;
      (5)   There shall be no parking on sidewalks or between sidewalk and edge
of street; and
      (6)   Vehicles may remain parked between sidewalk lines of a public
street (other than between a sidewalk and edge of street), in the same spot,
for up to 96 hours. Any vehicle identified as exceeding this time limit shall
be deemed an abandoned vehicle and may be given notice and thereafter removed
as an abandoned vehicle under the Michigan Vehicle Code, MCL §§ 257.252 to
257.252m, as amended from time to time.
   (C)   The city has the authority to permit or prohibit on street parking at
any time.
   (D)   The Police Department may tow or otherwise provide for the immediate
removal of a vehicle from public to a place of safekeeping at the expense of
the last titled owner of the vehicle upon determining that such owner has
previously received five or more citations for violations of this section.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 28-32 USE OF DOWNTOWN CITY PARKING LOTS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly requires a different
meaning.
      DOWNTOWN CITY LOT. A city-owned public parking lot within the boundaries
of the city’s Downtown Development District.
      OVERNIGHT. At any point between the hours of 2:30 a.m. and 5:00 a.m.
      PARKSIDE LOT. A downtown city lot that abuts a public park or has as its
primary use to provide parking for a public park, such as the parking spaces
within Jaycee Park, Hanson Park or Riverfront Park. The term also includes the
parking spaces adjacent to the Allegan Dam, even though the parcels on which
the dam is situated are not designated as park property.
   (B)   Regulations. A person may park a motor vehicle in a downtown city
parking lot subject to the following regulations.
      (1)   No person shall park a motor vehicle in a parkside lot overnight
unless such vehicle is lawfully parked in a handicapped space or unless a
permit has been granted by the City Manager, pursuant to § 18-27 of this code
of ordinances.
      (2)   No person shall park a motor vehicle in a single space within any
downtown city lot for a continuous period in excess of 96 hours.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided, all motor vehicles within a downtown
city lot must be parked within the boundaries of a single parking space
designated by paint on the surface of the pavement.
      (4)   A motor vehicle that is too long to fit within the boundaries of a
single parking space (e.g., a semi-truck, bus or large delivery van) may park
in back-to-back parking spaces within a downtown city lot, or in another
location within the lot designated by the City Manager, but may not remain in
the lot overnight, except as provided in subsection (B)(6) below.
      (5)   No person shall park or store a motor vehicle in a downtown city
lot unless such vehicle is insured, operable and displaying a valid license
plate, to the extent one is required for the particular type of vehicle. The
parking or storage of items other than motor vehicles (e.g., boats or other
motorized or non-motorized equipment) is prohibited.
      (6)   The City Manager may authorize large vehicles to park overnight in
a downtown parking lot for a specified time period as needed for a city
construction project or other similar circumstance.
   (C)   Violations.
      (1)   Any person violating any provisions of this section shall be
responsible for a civil infraction. The penalty shall be $20.
      (2)   A court may order a person who causes damage to the environment, a
road or other public property as a result of parking in a downtown city lot to
pay full restitution for that damage above and beyond the penalties paid for
civil infractions.
      (3)   Fines under this section may be processed by the Parking Violations
Bureau, pursuant to the provisions in Article III, Division 2, of this chapter.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§§ 28-33 — 28-40 RESERVED.
DIVISION 2. PARKING VIOLATIONS BUREAU
§ 28-41 PARKING VIOLATIONS BUREAU ESTABLISHED.
   Pursuant to § 8395 of the state’s Revised Judicature Act, as added by Public
Act 154 of 1968, being MCL § 600.8395, a Parking Violations Bureau is hereby
established to accept civil infraction admissions in parking violation cases.
The Parking Violations Bureau shall be under the supervision of the city’s
Police Department. A person authorized by the City Manager or Police Chief may
issue and serve a citation for a violation of this article.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 28-42 SCHEDULE OF PARKING, STOPPING AND STANDING VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The following violations are hereby designated as parking, stopping or
standing violations, the penalties for which may be collected by the Parking
Violations Bureau:
      (1)   A violation of §§ 672 through 675 of the Michigan Vehicle Code;
      (2)   A violation of Part 8 of Michigan Uniform Traffic Code for Cities,
Townships and Villages; or
      (3)   A violation of any traffic-control order pertaining to the parking,
stopping or standing of vehicles.
   (B)   The fine for any of the above-scheduled violations shall be $20 when
timely paid at the Parking Violations Bureau. Such fine shall be doubled if not
paid within ten days.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 28-43 LOCATION; EMPLOYEES; RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Parking Violations Bureau shall be located within the city’s Police
Department building. A subsequent location for the Bureau may be established by
resolution of the City Council. The Chief of Police shall appoint qualified
city employees to administer the Bureau and adopt rules and regulations for the
operation thereof.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 28-44 DISPOSITION OF VIOLATIONS.
   Only the violations scheduled in §
28-42 of this chapter shall be accepted by the Parking Violations Bureau. The
fact that the particular infraction is scheduled shall not entitle the alleged
violator to disposition of the infraction at the Bureau. If the alleged
violator does not admit the infraction, or the admission is not disposed of at
the Bureau, a citation shall be issued and the procedure for disposition shall
be as provided by statute and ordinance as in the case of civil infractions.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 28-45 SETTLEMENT.
   No violation may be settled at the Parking Violations Bureau, except at the
specific request of the alleged violator. No civil fine for any violation shall
be accepted from any person who denies having committed the infraction and in
no case shall the person who is in charge of the Bureau determine or attempt to
determine, the truth or falsity of any fact or matter relating to such alleged
violation. No person shall be required to dispose of a civil infraction at the
Parking Violations Bureau. All persons shall be entitled to have any such
violation processed before a court having jurisdiction thereof if they so
desire. The unwillingness of any person to dispose of any violation at the
Parking Violations Bureau shall not prejudice him or her or in any way diminish
the rights, privileges and protection accorded to him or her by law.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 28-46 TRAFFIC TICKET OR NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   The issuance of a traffic ticket or notice of violation by a police officer
or person authorized to give notices of the city as designated by the City
Manager shall be deemed an allegation of a parking violation. Such traffic
ticket or notice of violation shall indicate the length of time in which the
person to whom the same was issued must respond before the Parking Violations
Bureau. It shall also indicate the address of the Bureau, the hours during
which the bureau is open, the amount of the civil fine scheduled for the
infraction for which the ticket was issued. If an admission of responsibility
is not made and the civil fine and costs, if any, herein prescribed for the
violation are not paid at the Parking Violations Bureau, a citation may be
filed in compliance with the provisions of the Uniform Traffic Code for traffic
violations. Section 5.25 of the City Charter and a copy of the citation may be
served by first-class mail upon the registered owner of the vehicle at the
owner’s last known address.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§§ 28-47 — 28-50 RESERVED.
DIVISION 3. UNATTENDED MOTOR VEHICLES IN REQUIRED YARDS
§ 28-51 “YARD” DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this division, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   FRONT YARD. An open space extending the full width of a lot and of a depth
measured horizontally at right angles to the front property line, lot line or
right-of-way line.
   YARD. An open space of prescribed width or depth, adjacent to a lot or
property line, on the same land with a building or group of buildings, which
open space lies in the area between the building or group of buildings and the
nearest lot line and is unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground upward.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 28-52 GENERAL PROHIBITION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park, store or leave unattended any
motor vehicle, whether operable or inoperable, in any front yard in any
residential district in the city.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 28-53 IMPROVED DRIVEWAYS.
   Nothing in this division shall prohibit the parking of motor vehicles upon
improved driveways that are constructed in accordance with the requirements of
the city’s ordinances, as amended.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 28-54 WAIVER.
   Upon a showing of undue hardship, the City Manager may waive or temporarily
suspend, by issuance of a temporary parking permit, the parking prohibition
contained within this division. The City Manager shall establish standards for
such waivers which shall require, at a minimum, that such waivers be granted
only for areas covered by an improved surface such as pavement, pavers, crushed
stone, gravel or other dustless materials.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 28-55 ENFORCEMENT.
   The city’s building or code enforcement official, or his or her designee, or
the Chief of Police, or his or her designee, shall enforce this division and
may issue citations for violations.
   (A)   Any violation of this division shall be a municipal civil infraction
subject to the penalties of
Chapter 1 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Each day of continued violation shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   In addition to the penalties provided by this section, the district
court shall have equitable jurisdiction to enforce any judgment, writ or order
necessary to enforce any provision of this division, including, but not limited
to, abatement of the violating condition or the granting of injunctive relief.
   (D)   Contested hearings under this section before the district court may be
conducted as an informal hearing and as a formal hearing, as may be applicable,
as provided by the Revised Judicature Act of 1961, Public Act 236 of 1961, as
amended, being MCL §§ 600.101 et seq.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§§ 28-56 — 28-60 RESERVED.
DIVISION 4. UNLICENSED, INOPERABLE, DISMANTLED OR PARTIALLY DISMANTLED MOTOR
VEHICLES OR PARTS
§ 28-61 PUBLIC NUISANCE DECLARED.
   The city under its police power, hereby declares the possession of any
unlicensed, inoperable, dismantled or partially dismantled motor vehicle or
parts thereof, on private premises within the city to be a public nuisance and
is hereby declared to be unlawful.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 28-62 EXCEPTION FOR ENCLOSED BUILDINGS.
   The provisions of this division shall not apply to any person who has an
unlicensed, inoperable or partially dismantled motor vehicle or major parts
thereof parked or stored within an enclosed building.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 28-63 EXCEPTION FOR PERSONS ENGAGED IN BUSINESS OF DISMANTLING OR JUNKING OF
MOTOR VEHICLES.
   The provisions of this division shall not apply to any person engaged in the
business of dismantling or junking of motor vehicles.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 28-64 EXCEPTION FOR TIRES AND CAR PARTS.
   Tires or parts of cars being removed, replaced or installed by the occupant
of the premises working on his or her own car, may be reasonably stored in an
orderly manner on the premises, but not to exceed ten days. Parts or tires to
be discarded shall be removed from the premises forthwith.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 28-65 REMOVAL BY CITY.
   The city is hereby authorized to remove any unlicensed, inoperable or
partially dismantled motor vehicle or parts or tires thereof, after the
aforesaid ten-day period has elapsed. The Police Department is hereby
authorized to enter upon private premises for the purpose of abating the public
nuisance created by a violation of this division.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 28-66 EXTENSION OF TIME LIMIT.
   The time limit for removal specified in this division may be extended for a
period not to exceed 30 days upon the issuance of a special permit by the City
Manager or designee in cases which, in his or her judgment, would work undue
hardship upon the owner of vehicles or parts thereof.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§§ 28-67 — 28-70 RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV. TRUCK ROUTES
§ 28-71 DESIGNATED.
   Western Avenue; Jenner Drive; Marshall Street; Cedar Street, between Jenner
Drive and Monroe; Monroe Street between Cedar Street and Water Street; Grand
Street; North Main Street; North Street west of River Street; River Street;
Eastern Avenue; Hubbard Street; Water Street between Hubbard Street and Monroe
Street; Airway Drive: Industrial Drive; Hooker Road between Eastern Avenue and
city limits; and Babylon Road, all in the City of Allegan, are hereby
designated truck routes, pursuant to diagram on file in the Clerk’s office.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 28-72 OPERATION ON OTHER STREETS FOR MAKING DELIVERIES.
   (A)   Trucks and other commercial vehicles shall not be operated on any
other streets than truck routes in the city, except for the purpose of
delivering goods, wares and merchandise to local customers on such other
streets.
   (B)   When delivering goods, wares and merchandise to local customers off
truck routes the closest practical route shall be taken to the location of
delivery.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 28-73 IMPOSITION OF LOAD LIMITATIONS BY TRAFFIC ENGINEER.
   The Traffic Engineer is authorized to impose load limitations on any street,
where, in his or her opinion, the public safety is concerned.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 28-74 NOTIFICATION BY SIGN.
   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall operate, stop,
stand or park any truck or commercial vehicle or permit its agents, and/or
employees to operate, stop, stand or park any truck or commercial vehicle on a
street in excess of load limits or in violation of route limits as provided by
this article and/or the orders of the Traffic Engineer.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 28-75 VIOLATION A CIVIL INFRACTION.
   A person who violates a prohibition or limitation established pursuant to
this article is responsible for a civil infraction and shall be subject to
civil fines and costs as provided by Public Act 510 of 1978, being MCL §
257.907, as amended.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§§ 28-76 — 28-80 RESERVED.
ARTICLE V. SNOWPLOWING
§ 28-81 EQUIPMENT.
   In addition to the equipment required by state law, any vehicle operating a
snow plow shall be equipped with lights which are mounted in a position as to
be visible to any traffic and pedestrians, and any other safety devices as
determined by the City Manager to be necessary to prevent any possible
accidents or property damage. Such lights and safety devices shall be on at all
times during any snowplowing.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 28-82 DUTIES CONCERNING SNOWPLOWING OF STREETS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      PERSON. Shall not include the state or a political subdivision of the
state or an employee of the state or a political subdivision of the state
operating within the scope of his or her duties.
      SAFETY VISION. An unobstructed line of sight enabling a driver to travel
upon, enter or exit a roadway in a safe manner.
   (B)   A person shall not remove, or cause to be removed, snow, ice or slush
onto or across a roadway or the shoulder of the roadway in a manner which
obstructs the safety vision of the driver of a motor vehicle other than off-
road vehicles.
   (C)   A person shall not deposit, or cause to be deposited, snow, ice or
slush onto or across a roadway or the shoulder of the roadway in a manner which
obstructs the safety vision of the driver of a motor vehicle.
   (D)   A person shall not deposit, or cause to be deposited, snow, ice or
slush on any roadway, highway or sidewalk.
   (E)   A person shall not move any snow, ice or slush onto the property of
another.
   (F)   Any person found violating any of the provisions of this section shall
be guilty of a civil infraction.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§§ 28-83 — 28-90 RESERVED.
ARTICLE VI. RECOVERY FOR EXPENSE OF EMERGENCY RESPONSE
§ 28-91 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   The city finds that a significant number of traffic arrests and traffic
accidents in the city involve drivers who were operating a motor vehicle while
under the influence of alcoholic beverages and/or controlled substances. In
addition, the city finds that in traffic accidents involving drivers who were
operating a motor vehicle while under the influence of alcoholic beverages and/
or controlled substances there is a greater likelihood of personal injury and
property damage. As a result of these determinations, a greater operational and
financial burden is placed upon the city police, public service, firefighting
and rescue services by persons who are operating a motor vehicle while under
the influence of alcoholic beverages and/or a controlled substance.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 28-92 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   EMERGENCY RESPONSE.
      (1)   The providing, sending and/or utilizing public service, police,
firefighting and rescue services by the city to an incident resulting in an
accident involving a motor vehicle where one or more of the drivers was
operating the motor vehicle while under the influence of an alcoholic beverage
or controlled substance or the combined influence of an alcoholic beverage and
controlled substance; or
      (2)   An incident resulting in traffic stop and arrest by a police
officer when the driver was operating the motor vehicle while under the
influence of an alcoholic beverage or controlled substance.
   EXPENSE OF AN EMERGENCY RESPONSE. The direct and reasonable costs incurred
by the city making an appropriate emergency response to the incident, including
the costs of providing police, firefighting and rescue services at the scene of
the incident. These costs further include the salaries or wages of the
personnel responding to the incident and the costs connected with the
administration and provision of a breathalyzer or intoximeter test.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 28-93 LIABILITY FOR EXPENSE OF EMERGENCY RESPONSE.
   Any person who is under the influence of an alcoholic beverage or controlled
substance, or the combined influence of an alcoholic beverage and controlled
substance, whose negligent operation of a motor vehicle while under the
influence proximately causes any incident resulting in an appropriate emergency
response, is liable for the expense of an emergency response by the city to the
incident, plus an additional service charge to cover the cost of preparing,
mailing and handling the bill for the expense.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 28-94 PRESUMPTIONS.
   For purposes of this article, a person is under the influence of an
alcoholic beverage or controlled substance, or the combined influence of an
alcoholic beverage or a controlled substance, when his or her physical or
mental abilities are impaired to a degree that he or she no longer has the
ability to operate a motor vehicle, with the caution characteristic of a sober
person of ordinary prudence. Further, it shall be presumed that a person was
operating a motor vehicle under the influence of an alcoholic beverage if a
chemical analysis of his or her blood, urine or breath indicates that the
amount of alcohol in his or her blood was in excess of 0.07%.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 28-95 CHARGE AGAINST PERSON LIABLE.
   The expense of an emergency response, plus the service charge, shall be a
charge against the person liable for expenses under this article. The charge
constitutes a debt of that person and is collectible by the city for incurring
those costs in the same manner as in the case of an obligation under a
contract, expressed or implied; except that, liability for the expenses
provided for in this article shall not be insurable and no insurance policy
shall provide or pay for the expenses.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 28-96 COST RECOVERY SCHEDULE.
   City Council shall, by resolutions, adopt a schedule of the costs included
within the expense of an emergency response and adopt a reasonable service
charge. This schedule shall be available to the public from either the City
Clerk or Police Department.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 28-97 CHIEF OF POLICE TO SUBMIT BILL.
   The Chief of Police, or his or her designate, shall, within ten days of
receiving itemized costs incurred for an emergency response, submit a bill for
those costs and the service charge by first-class mail or personal service to
the person liable for these expenses as enumerated under this article. The bill
shall require full payment in 30 days from date of service.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 28-98 FAILURE TO PAY BILL; PROCEDURE TO RECOVER COSTS.
   Any failure by the person described in this article as liable for the
expense of an emergency response and service charge, to pay the bill within 30
days of service of same shall render such matter in default. The city may
commence civil suit to recover the expenses and any costs allowed by law.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§§ 28-99 — 28-100 RESERVED.
ARTICLE VII. GOLF CARTS
§ 28-101 PURPOSE.
   These regulations are intended to secure the public peace, health and safety
of the residents and property owners of the city for the regulation of the use
of golf carts on public roads within the corporate limits of the city, to
provide for the issuance of decals in connection with the registration of golf
carts and to provide penalties for the violation of these provisions.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 28-102 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   DECAL. The sticker displayed on the front of every registered golf cart
within the city, which are obtained by completing and submitting the proper
registration form to the city’s Police Department.
   DRIVER’S LICENSE. An operator’s or chauffeur’s license, or permit issued to
an individual by the Secretary of State under Chapter III of the Michigan
Vehicle Code, Public Act 300 of 1949, being MCL §§ 257.301 to 257.329, as
amended, for that individual to operate a vehicle, whether conditions are
attached to the license or permit.
   GOLF CART. A vehicle typically designed for transportation while playing the
game of golf.
   MAINTAINED PORTION. The portion of a road improved, designated or ordinarily
used for vehicular traffic.
   OPERATE. To ride in or on or be in actual physical control of the operation
of the golf cart.
   OPERATOR. A person who operates or is in actual physical control of the
operation of a golf cart.
   REGISTRATION. The process through which every person intending to operate a
motorized golf cart on roads or streets within the city must follow.
   STREET. A road, roadway, street or right-of-way within the city street
system, but does not include a private road. The terms road, roadway, street
and right-of-way are interchangeable.
   SUNSET AND SUNRISE. The time determined by the National Weather Service on
any given day.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 28-103 OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS ON CITY STREETS.
   A person may operate a golf cart on city streets, subject to the following
restrictions.
   (A)   A person shall not operate a golf cart on any street unless he or she
is at least 16 years old and is licensed to operate a motor vehicle.
   (B)   All golf carts are required to have a red reflector on the rear of the
golf can that shall be visible from all distances up to 500 feet when in front
of lawful low beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle.
   (C)   All golf carts are required to have operable brakes that comply with §
704, operable headlamps that comply with § 685, at least one operable tail lamp
that complies with § 686 and an operable mechanical signal device that complies
with §§ 697 and 697b of the Michigan Vehicle Code.
   (D)   The operator of a golf cart shall obey by all sections pertaining to
traffic in the Michigan Vehicle Code and the Uniform Traffic Code.
   (E)   A person operating a golf cart upon a roadway shall ride as near to
the right side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when passing
a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (F)   A person shall not operate a golf cart on a state trunk line highway.
This subsection (F) does not prohibit a person from crossing a state trunk line
highway when operating a golf cart on a street of the city, using the most
direct line of crossing.
   (G)   Where a usable and designated path for golf carts is provided adjacent
to a road or street, a person operating a golf cart shall be required to use
that path. A golf cart shall not be operated on a sidewalk constructed for the
use of pedestrians.
   (H)   A person operating a golf cart shall not pass between lines of
traffic, but may pass on the left of traffic moving in his or her direction in
the case of a two-way street, or on the left or right of traffic, in an
unoccupied lane, in the case of a one-way street.
   (I)   (1)   A golf cart shall be operated at a speed not to exceed 15 mph
and shall not be operated on a roadway or street with a speed limit of more
than 25 mph, except to cross that roadway or street.
      (2)   The city may designate roads or classifications of roads for use by
golf carts.
   (J)   A golf cart shall not be operated on the streets of the city during
the time period from one-half hour before sunset to one-half hour after
sunrise.
   (K)   A person operating a golf cart or who is a passenger in a golf cart is
not required to wear a crash helmet.
   (L)   A golf cart shall not be used to carry more persons at one time than
the number for which it is designed and equipped.
   (M)   A golf cart operated on a street of the city is not required to be
registered under this Act for purposes of § 3101 of the Insurance Code of 1956,
Public Act 218 of 1956, being MCL § 500.3101, as amended.
   (N)   A golf cart shall not be operated during weather events with snow and/
or ice on the ground.
   (O)   Golf carts shall not be operated on a road or street in a negligent
manner, endangering any person or property or obstructing, hindering or
impeding the lawful course of travel of any motor vehicle or the unlawful use
by any pedestrian of public streets, sidewalks, paths, trails, walkways or
parks.
   (P)   (1)   Off-road vehicles, such as Gators, all-terrain vehicles (ATVs),
a multi-track or multi-wheel drive vehicle, dune buggy or like-vehicles are not
considered golf carts.
      (2)   This section does not apply to a police officer, city officials,
employees, contractors or volunteers in the performance of city duties.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 28-104 PARKING REGULATIONS.
   The parking, stopping and standing regulations provided in the city code,
which may be adopted by reference therein, shall also apply to golf carts
operated in the city, as if they are motor vehicles under those provisions.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 28-105 REGISTRATION AND DECALS.
   (A)   (1)   There shall be no charge for the registration of a golf cart and
each approved golf cart shall be issued a registration decal.
      (2)   The golf cart owner shall affix each decal provided by the city’s
police on a clearly visible place on the front of the golf cart.
   (B)   (1)   Non-residents may register their golf cart with the city as long
as they have written approval from a city resident that the resident will act
as the host property for the non-resident’s golf cart.
      (2)   The host resident will allow the golf cart trailer to be parked on
his, her or their property so as not to take up parking public parking spaces.
   (C)   Failure to register a golf cart or renew an existing registration
shall constitute a violation of this article.
   (D)   The city’s Police Department retains the right to refuse to issue and/
or revoke any registration decal from any golf cart for any reason that is felt
appropriate to ensure the safety and well-being of the citizens of city.
   (E)   Any police officer may temporarily suspend any registration decal and
ban further access on any public street or public property by any golf cart,
when, in the opinion of that officer, the golf cart is being used in a manner
to cause damage to public property or members of the public.
   (F)   The City Council reserves the right to waive the registration
requirements of this article for special events that utilize golf carts.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 28-106 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES
   (A)   (1)   Any person violating any provisions of this article shall be
responsible for a civil infraction.
      (2)   The penalty for the first offense shall be $50, and $100 for the
first repeat offense.
      (3)   For any second or subsequent repeat offense, the fine shall be no
more than $250.
   (B)   A court may order a person who causes damage to the environment, a
road or other public property as a result of the operation of a golf cart to
pay full restitution for that damage above and beyond the penalties paid for
civil infractions.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§§ 28-107 — 28-110 RESERVED.
ARTICLE VIII. OFF-ROAD VEHICLES (ORVs)
§ 28-111 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   ATV. Also known as an all-terrain vehicle, means a vehicle with three or
more wheels that is designed for off-road use, has low-pressure tires, has a
seat designed to be straddled by the rider and is powered by a 50cc to 1,000cc
gasoline engine or an engine of comparable size using other fuels.
   DRIVER’S LICENSE. Any driving privileges, license, temporary instruction
permit or temporary license issued under the laws of any state, territory or
possession of the United States, Indian country, as defined in 18 U.S.C. §
1151, the District of Columbia and the Dominion of Canada pertaining to the
licensing of person to operate motor vehicles.
   OPERATE. To ride in or on, and be in actual physical control of, the
operation of an ORV.
   OPERATOR. An individual who operates or is in actual physical control of the
operation of an ORV.
   ORV. Unless the context implies a different meaning, ORV or VEHICLE means a
motor-driven off-road recreation vehicle capable of cross-country travel
without benefit of a road or trail, on or immediately over land, snow, ice,
marsh, swampland or other natural terrain. A multi-track or multi-wheel drive
vehicle, a motorcycle or related two-wheel vehicle, a vehicle with three or
more wheels, an amphibious machine, a ground effect air cushion vehicle or
other means of transportation may be an ORV. An ATV is an ORV. ORV or VEHICLE
does not include a registered snowmobile, a farm vehicle being used for
farming, a vehicle used for military, fire, emergency or law enforcement
purposes, a vehicle owned and operated by a utility company or an oil or gas
company when performing maintenance on its facilities or on property over which
it has an easement, a construction or logging vehicle used in performance of
its common function or a registered aircraft.
   SAFETY CERTIFICATE. A certificate issued pursuant to Public Act 451 of 1994,
as amended, being MCL §§ 324.11501 et seq., or a comparable ORV safety
certificate issued under the authority of another state or a province of
Canada.
   SHOULDER. The portion of the street contiguous to the roadway generally
extending the contour of the roadway, not designed for vehicular travel, but
maintained for the temporary accommodation of disabled or stopped vehicles
otherwise permitted on the roadway.
   STREET. A city major street or city local street as described in § 9 or
Public Act 51 of 1951, being MCL § 247.659, or a segment thereof.
   VISUAL SUPERVISION. The direct observation of the operator with the unaided
or normally corrected eye, where the observer is able to come to the immediate
aid of the operator.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 28-112 OPERATION OF SPECIFIED ORVS ON CITY STREETS.
   Except as set forth herein or otherwise provided by law; an individual may
operate an ORV on city streets subject to the following restrictions.
   (A)   ORVs operated on city streets must have at least two, but no more than
four, wheels, and such wheels must function as the primary means of propulsion.
Amphibious machines and ground effect air cushion vehicles are not permitted on
city streets.
   (B)   Operation of ORVs on the following streets or street segments is
prohibited: Cutler Street from Chestnut Street to N. Cedar Street.
   (C)   A person under the age of 18 years of age shall not operate an ORV
unless the person is in possession of a valid driver license or under the
direct supervision of a parent or guardian and the person has in his or her
immediate possession an ORV safety certificate issued pursuant to part 811 of
the state’s Natural Resources and Protection Act or a comparable ORV safety
certificate issued under the authority of another state or a province of
Canada. These requirements are in addition to any applicable requirements of
state law in MCL § 324.81129, as may be subsequently amended.
   (D)   A person shall not operate an ORV at a speed greater than 25 mph or a
lower posted ORV speed limit or in a manner that interferes with traffic on the
street. In no event shall a person operate an ORV at a rate of speed greater
than is reasonable and proper, or in a careless manner, having due regard for
conditions then existing.
   (E)   ORVs shall travel single file; except that, an ORV may travel abreast
of another ORV when it is overtaking or passing, or being overtaken and passed
by, another ORV.
   (F)   OR Vs shall display a lighted headlight and lighted taillight at all
times.
   (G)   A person shall operate an ORV with the flow of traffic on the far
right of the maintained portion of the street, in a manner that does not
interfere with traffic on the street.
   (H)   Operation of ORVs is prohibited in all cemeteries in the city.
   (I)   A person shall not transport any passenger in or upon an ORV unless
the manufacturing standards for the vehicle make provisions for transporting
passengers.
   (J)   A person shall not operate an ORV unless the vehicle is equipped with
a braking system that may be operated by hand or foot, capable of producing
deceleration at 14 feet per second on level ground at a speed of 20 mph; a
brake light, brighter than the taillight, visible from behind the vehicle when
the brake is activated, if the vehicle is operated during the hours of one-half
hour after sunset and one-half hour before sunrise; and a throttle so designed
that when the pressure used to advance the throttle is removed, the engine
speed will immediately and automatically return to idle.
   (K)   An individual who is operating or is a passenger on an ORV shall wear
a crash helmet and protective eyewear that are approved by the United States
Department of Transportation. This subsection (K) does not apply to an
individual wearing a properly adjusted and fastened safety belt if the ORV is
equipped with a roof that meets or exceeds United States Department of
Transportation standards for a crash helmet.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 28-113 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   A person who violates this article is responsible for a civil
infraction and subject to a fine of not more than $500.
   (B)   In addition to the fine provided for herein, a court shall order
violators of this article to pay the cost of repairing any damage to the
environment, a street, county road or highway, or public property as a result
of the violation pursuant to MCL § 324.81131(17).
   (C)   The City Treasurer shall deposit fines and damages collected for
violations of this article into a fund to be designated as the “ORV Fund”. City
Council shall appropriate revenue in the ORV Fund as follows:
      (1)   Fifty percent to the city’s Police Department; and
      (2)   Fifty percent to the city’s Department of Public Works.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
CHAPTER 29: UTILITIES
Section
Article I. In General
   
29-1   Destroying or tampering with city utilities
   
29-2 — 29-10   Reserved
Article II. Water
Division 1. Generally
   
29-11   General requirements
   
29-12   Definitions
   
29-13   Connection to city water system
   
29-14   Shallow wells
   
29-15   Permits
   
29-16   Supplying other persons; waste of water
   
29-17   Turning on water from main or distribution pipe to service pipe
   
29-18   Laying of service pipes
   
29-19   Disconnection of service
   
29-20   Liability of city
   
29-21   Supply to more than one store or building
   
29-22   Sprinkling regulations
   
29-23   Installation of hydrants on private property for firefighting
   
29-24   Use of hydrants to fill swimming pools
   
29-25   Authority to enter premises to read meters or make inspections; order
to repair
   
29-26   Use of water meters
   
29-27   Water charges
   
29-28   Council rules and regulations
   
29-29 — 29-45   Reserved
Division 2. New Service Connections and Extensions
   
29-46   No free water or water service
   
29-47   Basic service charges
   
29-48   Determination of costs
   
29-49   Performance of work
   
29-50   Use of special assessment procedure
   
29-51   Determination of reasonable charges not covered in article
   
29-52 — 29-65   Reserved
Division 3. Cross-Connections
   
29-66   Adoption of state rules
   
29-67   Inspections
   
29-68   Right to enter premises; furnishing of information
   
29-69   Discontinuance of water service and other precautionary measures
   
29-70   Protection of potable water supply; warning sign
   
29-71   Supplementary to state plumbing code
   
29-72   Violations
   
29-73   Testing
   
29-74 — 29-82   Reserved
Article III. Sewers and Drains
Division 1. Generally
   
29-83   General requirements
   
29-84   Definitions
   
29-85   Connection to city sewer system
   
29-86   Rates and charges
   
29-87   Hookups by special assessment
   
29-88   Supply to more than one store or building
   
29-89 — 29-101   Reserved
Division 2. New Service Connections and Extensions
   
29-102   Basic service charges
   
29-103   Determination of costs
   
29-104   Performance of work
   
29-105   Use of special assessment procedure
   
29-106   Installation of back-flow valves
   
29-107   Determination of reasonable charges not covered in article
   
29-108 — 29-120   Reserved
Division 3. Sewer Use Regulations
Subarticle 1. General Provisions
   
29-121   Purpose and scope of the sewer use regulations
   
29-122   Definitions
Subarticle 2. Use of Public Sewers Required
   
29-123   Unlawful deposition
   
29-124   Discharge prohibited without required approvals, permits and treatment
   
29-125   Unlawful construction
   
29-126   Required connection to available sanitary sewer
   
29-127   Waste discharge prohibited except through approved sewer connection
Subarticle 3. Private Wastewater Disposal
   
29-128   Private treatment and disposal requirements
   
29-129   Additional public health requirements
   
29-130   Public sewer becomes available
Subarticle 4. Building Sewers and Connections
   
29-131   Permit required
   
29-132   Building sewer connection permits
   
29-133   Connection costs
   
29-134   Multiple buildings; separate uses within buildings
   
29-135   Existing building sewers
   
29-136   Construction specifications
   
29-137   Building sewer elevation and location
   
29-138   Low building sewers
   
29-139   Connection specifications
   
29-140   Notification; building sewer inspection
   
29-141   Protection and restoration
   
29-142   Capacity required
   
29-143   Connection to sources of runoff prohibited
   
29-144   Pretreatment of any discharge may be required
Subarticle 5. Conditions of Service
   
29-145   Sewer maintenance
   
29-146   Customer connection requirements
   
29-147   Disruption of service
   
29-148   Service inspections
Subarticle 6. Regulation of Discharges to the POTW
   
29-149   Discharge prohibitions
   
29-150   Pretreatment standards and requirements
   
29-151   Right of revision
   
29-152   POTW’s right to refuse or condition discharge
   
29-153   Most restrictive standards and requirements apply
   
29-154   Dilution prohibited as substitute for treatment
Subarticle 7. User Permits
   
29-155   User permit required
   
29-156   Determination of user status
   
29-157   Permit application deadlines
   
29-158   Permit application requirements
   
29-159   Permit issuance, denial or determination that permit not required
   
29-160   Permit conditions
   
29-161   Permit modifications
   
29-162   Permit duration
   
29-163   Permit reissuance
   
29-164   Continuation of expired permits
   
29-165   Permit suspension and revocation
   
29-166   Limitations on permit transfer
   
29-167   Duty to provide information
   
29-168   Permit appeals
   
29-169   Permits not stayed
   
29-170   Permit fees
Subarticle 8. Reporting and Notice Requirements
   
29-171   Reports by non-domestic users regarding categorical pretreatment
standards and requirements
   
29-172   Reports required for non-domestic users not subject to categorical
pretreatment standards
   
29-173   Notice by user of potential problems
   
29-174   Notice by user of violation of pretreatment standards
   
29-175   Notice by user of changed discharge or change in user status
   
29-176   Notice by user regarding wastes that are otherwise hazardous
   
29-177   Notice by user regarding installation of new pretreatment facilities
   
29-178   Notice of intent
   
29-179   Other reports and notices required by this subarticle or by other
applicable laws and regulations
   
29-180   Requirements applicable to all required reports, notifications and
applications
   
29-181   Signature and certification requirements
Subarticle 9. Sampling, Analysis and Monitoring Requirements
   
29-182   Sampling and analytical techniques and procedures
   
29-183   Sampling frequency
   
29-184   Sample types
   
29-185   Sampling methods, equipment and location
   
29-186   Costs of monitoring, sampling and analyses
   
29-187   Self-monitoring
   
29-188   Sampling and analyses performed by POTW
   
29-189   Split samples and sample results
   
29-190   Maintenance, repair and calibration of equipment
   
29-191   Required sampling structures and devices
Subarticle 10. Accidental Discharges
   
29-192   General
   
29-193   Designation of person in charge of discharge operations
   
29-194   Description of chemicals stored, used or manufactured by user; user
discharges; user premises
   
29-195   Segregation of wastewaters requiring pretreatment
   
29-196   Secondary containment requirements
   
29-197   Submission of pollution incident prevention plan
   
29-198   Posting of accidental discharge information
   
29-199   Notice of accidental discharge
   
29-200   Slug control plan
Subarticle 11. Upset and Additional Affirmative Defenses
   
29-201   Upset
   
29-202   Additional affirmative defenses
Subarticle 12. Bypass
   
29-203   Bypass not violating applicable pretreatment standards or requirements
   
29-204   Bypass prohibited
   
29-205   Required notices
   
29-206   POTW approved bypass
Subarticle 13. Confidential Information
   
29-207   Confidential information
Subarticle 14. Records Retention
   
29-208   Maintenance of records
Subarticle 15. Administration of the POTW
   
29-209   Operation and management of POTW
   
29-210   Powers of POTW Superintendent
Subarticle 16. User Pollution Controls
   
29-211   Provision by users of necessary pretreatment facilities
   
29-212   Proper operation and maintenance
   
29-213   Removed substances
   
29-214   Duty to halt or reduce activity
   
29-215   Duty to mitigate
   
29-216   Duty to pretreat prior to discharge to POTW
   
29-217   Implementation of best management practices or best management
practices plan
   
29-218   Grease, oil and sand interceptors/traps
   
29-219   Additional pretreatment measures
Subarticle 17. Enforcement
   
29-220   POTW inspection, surveillance and monitoring authority; right of entry
   
29-221   Notice of violation
   
29-222   Orders and supplemental enforcement tools
   
29-223   Service of notices of violations, orders and notices of assessments
   
29-224   Publication of users in significant non-compliance
   
29-225   Municipal civil infractions
   
29-226   Criminal penalties; imprisonment
   
29-227   Continuing violation
   
29-228   Number of violations
   
29-229   Nuisance
   
29-230   Reimbursement
   
29-231   Review or approval by city
   
29-232   Severance or suspension of sewer and/or water service
   
29-233   Judicial relief
   
29-234   Cumulative remedies
Subarticle 18. Administrative Review and Appeals
   
29-235   Procedures available
   
29-236   Review and reconsideration by the POTW Superintendent
   
29-237   Appeal to City Manager
   
29-238   Payment of charges, penalties, fines and other costs or fees pending
outcome of appeal
   
29-239   Finality of action
   
29-240   Appeals from determination of City Manager
Subarticle 19. Protection from Damage
   
29-241   Protection from damage
Subarticle 20. Municipal Liability
   
29-242   Municipal liability
Subarticle 21. Industrial Pretreatment Program Fees
   
29-243   Purpose
   
29-244   Rates, charges and fees for non-domestic users
   
29-245   IPP fee amounts
   
29-246   Surcharges
   
29-247   Billing and collection of IPP fees
Subarticle 22. Rates and Charges For Sewer Service
   
29-248   Owner’s responsibility
   
29-249   Tenant’s responsibility
   
29-250   Lien
   
29-251   Due date
   
29-252   Unpaid sewer rates, fees and charges reported to Council
   
29-253   Lien assessed against premises
   
29-254   Disconnection of service
   
29-255   Collection action
   
29-256   Separate books, records and accounts; audit
   
29-257   Annual review of rates, fees, charges and surcharges
   
29-258   Annual review of non-domestic users
   
29-259   Insurance
   
29-260   Service terms and conditions
   
29-261   No free service
   
29-262 — 29-299   Reserved
Article IV. Electricity Franchise
Division 1. DTE Energy
   
29-300   Purpose and scope
   
29-301   Term
   
29-302   Consideration
   
29-303   Right-of-way fee
   
29-304   Conditions
   
29-305   Pavement cut coordination
   
29-306   Hold harmless
   
29-307   No liability
   
29-308   Rates
   
29-309   Revocation
   
29-310   Franchise not exclusive
   
29-311   Insurance
   
29-312   Interpretation
   
29-313   No transfer
   
29-314   Compliance with laws
   
29-315 — 29-319   Reserved
Division 2. Quest Energy
   
29-320   Purpose and scope
   
29-321   Term
   
29-322   Consideration
   
29-323   Right-of-way fee
   
29-324   Conditions
   
29-325   Pavement cut coordination
   
29-326   Hold harmless
   
29-327   No liability
   
29-328   Rates
   
29-329   Revocation
   
29-330   Franchise not exclusive
   
29-331   Insurance
   
29-332   Interpretation
   
29-333   No transfer
   
29-334   Compliance with laws
   
29-335 — 29-349   Reserved
Article V. Septage Receiving
   
29-350   Definitions
   
29-351   Disposal of septage waste
   
29-352   Disposal of additional waste at city wastewater plant septage
receiving facility
   
29-353   Prohibition of deposit of septage waste on land or water in the city
   
29-354   Rates, fees, charges or other costs
   
29-355   Violations and penalties
   
29-356   Recovery of additional costs incurred by the city
   
29-357   Severability
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
§ 29-1 DESTROYING OR TAMPERING WITH CITY UTILITIES.
   It shall be unlawful to, without permission of the city, willfully cut,
break, obstruct, injure, destroy, tamper with or manipulate, or deface any
machinery, tools, equipment, tower or post or other supporting structures,
pipeline, valves or other appliances or equipment appertaining to or used in
connection with a city utility that is the property of the city. A violation of
this section shall be a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 519, passed 4-22-2024)
§§ 29-2 — 29-10 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II. WATER
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
§ 29-11 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   This article applies to all persons, whether in the city or township,
who directly or indirectly connect to the city water system or are required by
this article to make a connection to the city water system.
   (B)   In applying this article, when the word “city” is used in a context
that refers to a geographic territory or place, the word “city” shall include
both the city and the township.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person in the city or township to connect to
the city water system directly or indirectly, except in compliance with this
article.
   (D)   (1)   As a condition of connection to the city water system in the
township, the township shall adopt an ordinance governing use of and
connections to the city water system in the township that is at least as
restrictive as this article and is approved in advance by the city.
      (2)   A further condition, the township and the city shall make a written
agreement identifying:
         (a)   Fees, rates or other charges for users in the township and
persons in the township required to connect to the city water system;
         (b)   Any requirements applying in the township other than those in
this article; and
         (c)   Whether the township, the city or both will conduct any of the
following in the township: enforce the township’s ordinance; own, install,
operate, maintain or remove water system lines and appurtenances; issue
permits; or send bills to and collect payments from users in the township.
      (3)   The agreement may authorize city personnel to enforce the
township’s ordinance and may cover any other relevant topics. Whenever this
article is amended, the township’s ordinance and the written agreement shall be
updated to conform to the amendment and, while that update is being made,
connections to and use of the city water system in the township may continue
until the upgrade is completed or for up to six months, whichever is shorter.
   (E)   This article also applies to any person owning, using, constructing or
maintaining any private water system within the city.
   (F)   The city may take any action as provided by this article or other
applicable laws or regulations to assure and require compliance with the
provisions of this article.
(Ord. 498, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-12 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Allegan, Allegan County, Michigan, a Michigan
municipality.
   CITY RIGHT-OF-WAY. Property controlled by the city or township for public
use, usually a street or alley.
   CITY WATER SYSTEM. Includes any and all parts of equipment owned by the city
for pumping, treatment and distribution of water.
   CONNECTION. Ay action to attach a private user to the city water system.
   DISCONNECTION. To permanently remove the connection between a private user
and the city water system.
   EXTENSION. Any extension to the distribution part of the city water system,
and any added mains beyond the present system.
   HOOKUP. See CONNECTION.
   LEAD SERVICE LINE. Either a service line which is made of lead and which
connects the water main to the building inlet and or any lead pigtail, lead
gooseneck or other lead fitting that is connected to the lead service line, or
both.
   MAIN. An eight-inch or larger water main located usually in the street
right-of-way to carry water from the source to more than one parcel or
property, or any four-inch or larger installed before 2018.
   NEW SERVICE BASIC CHARGE. A charge for each new service attached to the city
water system when not covered by the special assessment process. This gives new
service property owners an interest in the city water system similar to that of
a special assessment.
   NEW SERVICE CONNECTION. Any connection of a private user to the city water
system which has not been previously served or charged for water use.
   PRIVATE SYSTEM. The piping and plumbing items that pertain to a property
owner’s buildings and property, including from the curb stop right-of-way to
the building.
   PROPERTIES. Any property description appearing on the tax map and assessment
rolls of the city, or in the records of the County Register of Deeds, or any
splits or articles thereof recorded or not.
   PROPERTY LINE. The front, side or rear of a property description contiguous
to a street, alley and the like where a water main is normally located.
   SERVICE LINE. The pipe from the discharge of the corporation fitting to the
customer site piping or to the building plumbing at the first shut-off valve
inside the building or 18 inches inside the building, whichever is shorter.
   TOWNSHIP. The Township of Allegan, Allegan County, Michigan.
   WATER POLICY. The Allegan Water Policy, as adopted and amended by the City
Council.
(Ord. 498, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-13 CONNECTION TO CITY WATER SYSTEM.
   (A)   All houses, buildings structures or properties in which water is used
for domestic, commercial or industrial purposes located within the city and for
which direct connection to the city water system is available within 200 feet
of the property line are required at the expense of the owner to connect to
such city water system in accordance with the provisions of this article.
However, the City Council may, by majority vote, approve the development of a
non-potable water supply for special uses only, if it appears to be in the best
interests of the city to authorize such an exception.
   (B)   All houses, buildings, structures or properties in which water is used
for domestic, commercial or industrial purposes located in the township and for
which the city water system is available within 200 feet of the property line
are required at the expense of the owner to connect to the city water system.
   (C)   New lead service lines and replacement of service lines with lead
service lines are prohibited.
(Ord. 498, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-14 SHALLOW WELLS.
   (A)   The city desires to allow its customers access and use of shallow
wells for lawn and garden watering purposes with reasonable regulation to
prevent contamination of the public water supply and to monitor for possible
contamination, where the city water supply is available.
   (B)   The use of shallow wells is subject to the following.
      (1)   No person shall dig or drill a shallow well on any parcel within
200 feet of an existing water main for the purpose of supplying potable water
and no person shall use water from a shallow well for any purpose requiring the
use of the potable water.
      (2)   A person may use water from a shallow well for non-potable uses
limited to watering the lawn or garden and other similar uses.
      (3)   A person wishing to dig or drill a shallow well shall first obtain
a permit and shall file the permit, together with the applicable filing fee, as
stated in the city fee schedule, the permit shall specify:
         (a)   The name of the owner of the real property on which the shallow
well would be situated;
         (b)   The property address and description of that property;
         (c)   The specific proposed location of the shallow well on the
property;
         (d)   The purposes for which the water drawn from the shallow well
would be used; and
         (e)   The location of all components of the city’s water supply system
which are capable of being connected to the shallow well. No permit shall be
issued for the digging or drilling of a shallow well unless the application
demonstrates that the proposed shallow well is not in conflict with the city
water system. The permit, which expires after two months, may include any
limitation or restriction deemed appropriate for the use of the shallow well.
      (4)   No existing shallow well within the city shall be expanded or
altered in use, nor shall further or additional connections be made to such a
well without a permit, as provided under this section.
      (5)   No person shall sell or distribute water from a shallow well for
use by others.
      (6)   Shallow wells are prohibited in any wellhead protection area for
the city water system.
      (7)   As used in this section, the term SHALLOW WELL means a well dug or
drilled no deeper than 25 feet with a casing of no more than two inches inside
diameter and with a pressure no greater than 50 p.s.i.
      (8)   Any well not meeting the requirements as listed in subsections (B)
(1) through (B)(7) above are prohibited.
(Ord. 498, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-15 PERMITS.
   (A)   No person, unless authorized in writing by the Water Utilities
Department, shall tap any water main or distribution pipe of the city water
system, or insert therein any corporation cock, stop cock or any other fixture
or appliance, or alter or disturb any service pipe, corporation stop, curb
stop, gate valve, hydrant, water meter or any other attachment belonging to the
city water system and attached thereto: and no person, except those to whom a
permit has been issued by the City Manager or his, her or their designee, shall
install any water service pipe or connect or disconnect any such service pipe
with or from the mains or distribution pipes of the city water system, nor with
or from any other service pipe now or hereafter connected with the system, nor
make any repairs, additions to or alterations of any such service pipe, tap,
stop cock or any other fixture or attachments connected with any such service
pipes.
   (B)   Before any service connection shall be made to any part of the city
water system, or any work performed upon old or new connections, a permit shall
be obtained from the City Manager or his, her or their designee. Such permit
shall be issued only upon written application made upon forms prepared for that
purpose obtainable from the city.
(Ord. 498, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-16 SUPPLYING OTHER PERSONS; WASTE OF WATER.
   The owner or occupant of any building or premises entitled to the use of
water from the city water system shall not supply water to any other person,
except upon written permission of the city’s Water Utilities Department, nor
shall such owner or occupant unnecessary waste water.
(Ord. 498, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-17 TURNING ON WATER FROM MAIN OR DISTRIBUTION PIPE TO SERVICE PIPE.
   No person shall turn the water from any main or distribution pipe into any
service pipe without a permit in writing from the city’s Water Utilities
Department; except that, plumbers or qualified persons engaged in plumbing, may
turn water into service pipes without such permit, for the sole purpose of
testing such pipes for leaks; but, in such case, such person shall turn the
water off from such service pipe immediately upon completion of the test.
(Ord. 498, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-18 LAYING OF SERVICE PIPES.
   All service lines connecting to the distribution mains of the city water
system shall be laid under the supervision of the city’s Water Utilities
Department or its designee and in accordance with this article.
(Ord. 498, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-19 DISCONNECTION OF SERVICE.
   Any premises may be disconnected from the distribution pipes of the city
waterworks system and the supply of water withheld from such premises upon
violation by the owner or occupant of the premises, of any provision of this
article, or of any rule or regulation adopted pursuant thereto. Whenever the
water is turned off from a premises because of any such violation, the same
shall not be turned on again until the owner or occupant has deposited with the
city a fee as stated in the city fee schedule.
(Ord. 498, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-20 LIABILITY OF CITY.
   The city shall not be liable under any circumstances for any failure or
deficiency in the supply of water to consumers, whether occasioned by shutting
off the water to make necessary repairs or connections, or for any other cause.
(Ord. 498, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-21 SUPPLY TO MORE THAN ONE STORE OR BUILDING.
   In all cases where a water service is intended to supply more than one
tenement, shop, store or building, it shall be the duty of the person making
such service connection, or causing the same to be made, to install a stop cock
for each branch outside the line of premises so to be supplied, to be suitably
protected and marked as to be easily located. In no case shall one service
supply more than one lot unless occupied by a single building covering more
than one lot used for a single industry or enterprise. Every metered service
line shall have a meter and a shut-off in a location to which the city has
unrestricted access.
(Ord. 498, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-22 SPRINKLING REGULATIONS.
   The city shall have the right to restrict watering of lawns and or gardens
during water supply shortages.
(Ord. 498, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-23 INSTALLATION OF HYDRANTS ON PRIVATE PROPERTY FOR FIREFIGHTING.
   The properties of manufacturing institutions, lumber yards, warehouses,
elevators, stores, hotels, schools and other public buildings wishing to
install large pipes with hydrant and hose couplings, to be used only in case of
fire, will be permitted to connect with the street main at their own expense,
upon application to the city’s Water Utilities Department and under its
direction and supervision, and will be allowed to use water for firefighting
purposes free of charge, but all such pipes must be provided with a suitable
valve which must be sealed by the city. Such seal may be broken only for the
extinguishment of fire, and in such case the owner or proprietor shall
immediately give notice to the city’s Water Utilities Department. The breaking
of such seal for any other purpose shall be deemed a violation of this article
and such owner or proprietor shall be subject to prosecution therefor.
(Ord. 498, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-24 USE OF HYDRANTS TO FILL SWIMMING POOLS.
   In all cases where the water to fill a swimming pool is obtained from a fire
hydrant on the city water system, the owner or his or her agent shall first
make application to the city’s Water Utilities Department for permission so to
do, and such permission shall not be granted until approved by the city’s Water
Utilities Department after payment has been made to the city’s Water Utilities
Department for use of a hydrant adaptor, cost of installing and removing
hydrant water meter and the estimated amount of water used to fill the pool.
Should the amount of water paid for be less than the amount metered, the owner
will be charged for the difference. Should the amount metered be less than the
estimated amount paid for, a rebate will be made to the owner.
(Ord. 498, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-25 AUTHORITY TO ENTER PREMISES TO READ METERS OR MAKE INSPECTIONS; ORDER
TO REPAIR.
   The City Manager or any of his or her agents shall have power and authority
at all reasonable hours to enter upon any premises where water is furnished
from the city water system, for the purpose of reading and maintaining meters
or the inspection of all pipes and fixtures connected with the city water
system, and they shall have power and authority to require any defective pipes
or fixtures to be repaired, removed or replaced where the same are not in
compliance with the provisions of the rules and regulations pertaining to the
city water system, and any person refusing or neglecting to make such repairs
when so ordered, shall be deemed guilty of a violation of this article and
liable to prosecution therefor.
(Ord. 498, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-26 USE OF WATER METERS.
   (A)   Water meters may be installed upon any premises supplied with water
and any damage to the meter resulting from the carelessness of the owner, agent
or tenant through neglect to properly protect same shall be assessed to such
owner or tenant. Water consumers shall not tamper with or remove meter from the
service, or interfere with the reading thereof.
   (B)   Meter bypass piping shall only be allowed at life-saving institutions.
   (C)   Fire suppression connections will not be charged for water use during
a fire event. Fire suppression system water use shall be billed for water due
to maintenance, system breaks or other non-fire related uses.
(Ord. 498, passed 10-25-2021; Ord. 507, passed - -2023)
§ 29-27 WATER CHARGES.
   (A)   Rates. The City Council shall from time to time, by resolution,
establish rates, fees and charges to be paid by the users of the city’s water
system, all of which shall be stated in the city fee schedule and shall be due
and payable by the due date specified on the bill for such service which shall
be not less than 15 days after the billing date.
   (B)   Owner’s responsibility. Except as otherwise provided in this section,
the owner of property to which city water service is provided shall be liable
for all rates, fees and charges for such service.
   (C)   Lien. Except as otherwise provided in this section, all rates, fees
and charges for water service shall be a lien against the property to which
water service is provided, effective upon providing the service.
   (D)   Tenant responsible for water bill. When a tenant is responsible for
the water bill, the rates, fees and charges for water service shall not become
a lien against the property to which the water service is provided if:
      (1)   The landlord provides the city with an affidavit (notarized
statement), in the form provided in subsection (E) below;
      (2)   The landlord provides the city with a full and complete copy of a
current lease containing a provision that the tenant, and not the landlord, is
responsible for the payment of water bills; and
      (3)   The tenant’s water service is individually metered and the city is
able to disconnect water service from a location to which the city has
unrestricted access.
   (E)   Affidavit by landlords. The affidavit provided pursuant to subsection
(D) above must indicate the expiration date of the lease and state the
following: “Attached is a complete copy of a current lease which contains a
provision in which the tenant has agreed that to be responsible for all rates,
fees and charges for water service provided to the property by the City of
Allegan. The tenant has been notified that no water service shall be provided
or that current service may be discontinued unless and until the tenant
establishes an escrow account with the city and deposits into that account an
amount as stated in the City fee schedule.”
   (F)   Tenant escrow accounts. If a landlord satisfies the requirements
outlined in subsections (D) and (E) above, no water service shall be provided
or current service may be discontinued unless and until the tenant establishes
an escrow account as stated in the city fee schedule. If water service is
currently being provided, the city shall promptly send the tenant a notice
indicating that a tenant escrow account must be established within 15 days of
the date of the notice. If the escrow account is not established, water service
may be discontinued after notice and an opportunity for hearing to show cause
why service should not be disconnected.
   (G)   Tenant escrow accounts; no interest; use. A tenant escrow account
shall bear no interest and shall be used to pay any water rates, fees and
charges which remain unpaid on the due date. If the escrow is reduced below the
amount required by subsection (F) above, water service may be discontinued
after notice and an opportunity for hearing to show cause why the service
should not be disconnected.
   (H)   Unpaid water rates, fees and charges reported to Council. On June 1 of
each year, the City Treasurer shall report to the Council all water rates, fees
and charges which are two or more months overdue. The report shall indicate the
name of the delinquent user, the amount of the delinquency and a tax parcel
number of the property served.
   (I)   Lien assessed against premises. The City Treasurer shall order the
delinquent rates, fees and charges which are a lien against the property to
which water service is provided to be assessed on the city tax roll for that
year. The rates, fees and charges will then be treated and paid in the same
manner as city taxes assessed upon the roll.
   (J)   Disconnection of service. The city, after providing notice and an
opportunity for hearing to show cause why service should not be disconnected,
may disconnect water service to any property for which the water rates, fees
and charges have not been paid in full by the due date. Water service
disconnected pursuant with this section shall not be turned on again until the
city receives payment in full of the delinquent rates, fees and charges,
payment of the applicable turn-on and turn-off fees and the user has
established an escrow account in an amount as stated in the city fee schedule.
   (K)   City’s right to sue. In addition to other enforcement methods, the
city may sue a user responsible for the payment of water rates, fees and
charges in a court of law to collect the amount due.
   (L)   No free service. No free service shall be rendered by the water
utility to any person, firm or corporation, public or private, or any public
agency or institution, except for the purpose of extinguishing a fire.
(Ord. 498, passed 10-25-2021; Ord. 507, passed - -2023)
§ 29-28 COUNCIL RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The City Council shall from time to time make, amend and adopt water policy
for the operation and use of the city water system and the supplying of water
to consumers as the Council shall deem expedient and necessary, and such rules
and regulations when adopted shall be stated in the water policy and become a
part of this article and enforceable hereunder, and the penalties prescribed
for violation of this article shall apply to the violation of this article
shall apply to the violation of any such rules and regulations and the same as
though such rules and regulations were incorporated herein.
(Ord. 498, passed 10-25-2021)
§§ 29-29 — 29-45 RESERVED.
DIVISION 2. NEW SERVICE CONNECTIONS AND EXTENSIONS
§ 29-46 NO FREE WATER OR WATER SERVICE.
   No free water or water service shall be provided by the city to any person,
firm or corporation, public or private.
(Ord. 498, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-47 BASIC SERVICE CHARGES.
   (A)   New basic service charge. There shall be a new service basic charge as
stated in the city fee schedule for any new service connection to the city
water system. The charge set forth in this section shall be adjusted by the
City Council, from year to year, in the ratio that the value of engineering new
construction cost index in January of the year of adjustment holds to value of
that index in 1982 (3881.80).
   (B)   Classes. Charges for connections of sewers shall be uniform among
various classes of connection as follows outside the city limits.
      (1)   New service charge to be same as within the city limits.
      (2)   Readiness to serve charge shall be that of a comparable connection
within city limits.
      (3)   The per gallon charge will be same as within the city limits.
   (C)   Tapping fee. The owner is responsible for sizing the service according
to their needs. The tapping fee shall be stated in the city fee schedule and
shall cover the following materials and services: one-inch tap of the water
main, installation of the listed materials; one-inch corporation stop; ten feet
of one-inch copper pipe; one- inch curb stop; shut off box; and a meter pit (if
needed). The meter and meter horn shall be charged based on size of meter
needed. Services varying from this shall be charged at labor and material costs
to the user. Tapping fee shall not be reduced if an approved contractor
performs the tapping and or installation of supplied materials. The owner is
responsible for all connection charges to the city water system.
   (D)   Multiple housing complexes. Multiple housing complexes shall pay one
new service connection charge for each connection to the city water system. The
owner shall be responsible for and install all distribution lines on his, her
or their property including piping, fire protection and outside hydrants,
valving, shutoffs, meters and the like. All owner installed water
infrastructure shall be privately owned, operated and maintained unless the
material and installation is per city specifications, easements for the system
are given to the city, ownership of the system is given to the city and City
Council approves the addition to the city water system. Temporary metering of
water used during construction shall be arranged for as soon as water is
connected to the property. Metering of water usage shall be by building or
complex rather than by unit.
   (E)   Water extension. Those properties not having a water main crossing,
contiguous to or across the street from any property line of the premises shall
pay the cost of extensions of the water main to the property along city and or
township rights-of-way. The property shall pay the cost of laterals, from the
water main to the lot line. Costs shall include replacing the lot terrain and
right-of-way street surface to its original condition. Extensions of 200 feet
or less may be contracted for by the property owner subject to the city permit
and city-approved specifications. Extensions of over 200 feet shall be
contracted for by the city, unless the Council, by resolution, authorizes a
private contractor, subject to city permit and city approved specifications.
   (F)   Payment. Persons who connect to sewer service shall pay the required
fee either in full cash sum or in installments payable as stated in the city
policy. The city may require payment of interest on any unpaid balance, as
stated in the city policy. No hookups shall be allowed until complete payment
or minimum down payment has been made.
   (G)   Water system permanent disconnection and reconnection.
      (1)   Permanent disconnection consists of disconnecting the service at
the curb stop and is available for:
         (a)   A parcel where there is no longer a structure to be connected to
the city water system; or
         (b)   Disconnecting a sprinkler system permanently.
      (2)   Permanent disconnection shall not be made for the purpose of using
well water at a parcel that has a boundary with 200 feet of a city water system
main.
      (3)   A disconnect fee shall be charged as stated in the fee schedule. A
reconnection fee will be charged when the water service is reconnected to the
city water system and shall be charged a reconnection fee as stated in the city
fee schedule, fees do not include time and material for the city to perform the
disconnect/reconnect.
(Ord. 498, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-48 DETERMINATION OF COSTS.
   For the purpose of this article, costs shall include the costs of contracts
with private contractors or the costs to the city for city forces or both, and
shall include removing and replacing the terrain and the right-of-way surface
to a like condition as when originally excavated.
(Ord. 498, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-49 PERFORMANCE OF WORK.
   (A)   Work on private systems, on private property, may be done by licensed
plumbers or contractors or personally by the property owner.
   (B)   All work in the right-of-way shall be performed by the Water Utilities
Department, except the Water Utilities Department may give permission to
licensed plumbers or contractors who make application to work in the right-of-
way to perform this work. All work is to be constructed in compliance with the
State Plumbing Code and city rules and the work is to be inspected by the city
code enforcement agency and or the Water Utilities Department.
   (C)   The contractor or plumber shall be covered by special bond or annual
bond for each street opening and shall replace right-of-way and street surface
to the original condition. The city permit must be obtained prior to any street
opening.
(Ord. 498, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-50 USE OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENT PROCEDURE.
   The Council, upon determination of necessity, can specially assess premises
for the connection and extension of water mains as is provided for special
assessments in the Charter and under state law.
(Ord. 498, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-51 DETERMINATION OF REASONABLE CHARGES NOT COVERED IN ARTICLE.
   The City Council shall determine reasonable charges based upon the cost of
material and labor for any extensions or connections not covered by the
provisions of this article and they shall be stated in the city fee schedule.
(Ord. 498, passed 10-25-2021)
§§ 29-52 — 29-65 RESERVED.
DIVISION 3. CROSS-CONNECTIONS
§ 29-66 ADOPTION OF STATE RULES.
   The city, as operator of a public water supply, adopts by reference the
water supply cross-connection rules of the state’s Department of Environment,
Great Lakes and Energy, being R325.11401 to R325.11407 of the Michigan
Administrative Code, as revised or amended.
(Ord. 498, passed 10-25-2021; Ord. 504, passed - -2022)
§ 29-67 INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the Water Utilities Department to cause inspections
to be made of all properties served by the city water system where cross-
connections with the city water system are deemed possible. The frequency of
inspections and reinspections based on potential health hazards involved shall
be as established by the Water Utilities Department and as approved by the
state’s Department of Environment, Great Lakes and Energy.
(Ord. 498, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-68 RIGHT TO ENTER PREMISES; FURNISHING OF INFORMATION.
   The representative of the Water Utilities Department shall have the right to
enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to the city
water system for the purposes of inspecting the piping system or systems
thereof for cross-connections. On request the owner, lessees or occupants of
any property so served shall furnish to the inspection agency any pertinent
information regarding the piping system or systems on such property. The
refusal of such information or refusal of access, when requested, shall be
deemed evidence of the presence of cross-connections.
(Ord. 498, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-69 DISCONTINUANCE OF WATER SERVICE AND OTHER PRECAUTIONARY MEASURES.
   The Water Utilities Department is hereby authorized and directed to
discontinue water service after reasonable notice to any property wherein any
connection in violation of this article exists, and to take such other
precautionary measures deemed necessary to eliminate any danger of
contamination of the city water system. Water service to such property shall
not be restored until the cross-connection has been eliminated in compliance
with the provisions of this article.
(Ord. 498, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-70 PROTECTION OF POTABLE WATER SUPPLY; WARNING SIGN.
   (A)   The potable water supply made available on the properties served by
the city water system shall be protected from possible contamination as
specified by this article and by the state’s Plumbing Code. Any water outlet
which could be used for potable or domestic purposes and which is not supplied
by the potable system must be labeled in a conspicuous manner as: “WATER UNSAFE
FOR DRINKING”.
   (B)   The city shall recover the amounts of all costs and damages to the
city water system from a user who causes contamination through backflow, cross-
connection or otherwise, including an accident.
(Ord. 498, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-71 SUPPLEMENTARY TO STATE PLUMBING CODE.
   This article does not supersede the state’s Plumbing Code, but is
supplementary to it.
(Ord. 498, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-72 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Misdemeanor. Any person or customer found guilty of violating any of
the provisions of this article, or written order of the Water Utilities
Department, in pursuance thereof, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor
punishable by a fine as stated in the city fee schedule, per day, or
imprisonment for up to 90 days, or both in the discretion of the court.
   (B)   Municipal civil infraction. A person who violates any provision of
this article is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, subject to
payment of a civil fine as stated in the city fee schedule, fines shall be
issued per day for each infraction, plus costs and other sanctions. Increased
fines shall be imposed for repeat offenses within a 90-day period. The
increased fine for repeat offenses under this division are listed in the city
fee schedule, plus costs. The authorized local officials to issue municipal
civil infraction citations are the Water Utilities Director, the Building
Official, any sworn law enforcement officer and any other person so designated
by the city. In his or her discretion, the Water Utilities Director may reduce
a fine to below the minimum amount.
   (C)   Violation. Each act of violation, and each day or portion of a day
that a violation of this article (or of any permit, order, notice or agreement
issued or entered into under this article) exists or occurs, constitutes a
separate violation.
(Ord. 498, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-73 TESTING.
   All testable backflow prevention assemblies shall be tested initially upon
installation, relocation and/or repair to be sure that the assembly is working
properly. Subsequent testing of assemblies shall be on an annual basis or as
required by the city and in accordance with the state’s Department of
Environment, Great Lakes and Energy requirements. Only individuals that hold an
active ASSE 5110 tester’s certification shall be qualified to perform such
testing. That individual(s) shall certify the results of his or her testing.
(Ord. 498, passed 10-25-2021; Ord. 504, passed - -2022)
§§ 29-74 — 29-82 RESERVED.
ARTICLE III. SEWERS AND DRAINS
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
§ 29-83 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   This article applies to all persons, whether in the city or township,
who discharge directly or indirectly to the public owned treatment works (POTW)
or are required by this article to make a connection to the POTW.
   (B)   In applying this article, when the word “city” is used in a context
that refers to a geographic territory or place, the word “city” shall include
both the city and the township.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person in the city or township to discharge any
waste water or pollutant to the POTW, except in compliance with this article.
   (D)   (1)   As a condition of discharge to the POTW from the township, the
township shall adopt an ordinance governing discharge and connections to the
POTW in the township that is at least as restrictive as this article and is
approved in advance by the city.
      (2)   A further condition to that discharge is that the township and the
city shall make a written agreement identifying:
         (a)   Fees, rates or other charges for users in the township and
persons in the township required to connect to the POTW;
         (b)   Any limits on discharge from the township other than those in
this article; and
         (c)   Whether the township, the city or both will conduct any of the
following in the township: enforce the township’s ordinance; own, install,
operate, maintain or remove sewer system lines and appurtenances; issue
permits; or send bills to and collect payments from users in the township.
      (3)   The agreement may authorize city personnel to enforce the
township’s ordinance and may cover any other relevant topics. Whenever this
article is amended, the township’s ordinance and the written agreement shall be
updated to conform to the amendment and, while that update is being made,
discharges to the POTW from the township may continue until the upgrade is
completed or for up to six months, whichever is shorter, and so long as
continuing the discharge does not threaten health or integrity or operation of
the POTW.
   (E)   This article also applies to any person owning, using, constructing or
maintaining any private system or facility intended or used for the disposal of
sewage or wastewater within the city.
   (F)   If any person discharges or proposes to discharge wastewater or
pollutants that are prohibited or limited by this article, the city may take
any action as provided by this article or other applicable laws or regulations
to assure and require compliance with the provisions of this article.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-84 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Allegan, Allegan County, Michigan, a Michigan
municipality.
   CITY RIGHT-OF-WAY. Property controlled by the city for public use, usually a
street or alley.
   CITY SEWERAGE SYSTEM. Any and all parts of equipment owned by the city for
collection, treatment and disposal of sewage waste.
   COLLECTION MAIN. Eight-inch or larger sewer main located usually in the
street right-of-way to carry sewage to the city treatment plant.
   CONNECTION. Any action to attach a private system to the city sewerage
system.
   EXTENSION. Any extension to the collection part of the city sewerage system,
and any added mains beyond the present system.
   HOOKUP. See CONNECTION.
   LATERAL. The piping form the collector main to the property line, usually in
the city right-of-way.
   NEW SERVICE BASIC CHARGE. A charge for each new service attached to the city
sewerage system when not covered by special assessment process. This gives new
service property owners an interest in the city sewerage system similar to that
of a special assessment.
   NEW SERVICE CONNECTION. Any connection of a private system to the city
sewerage system which has not been previously served or charged for sewer use.
   PRIVATE SYSTEM. The piping and plumbing items that pertain to property
owner’s buildings and property.
   PROPERTIES. Any property description appearing on the tax map and assessment
rolls of the city, or in the records of the county’s Register of Deeds, or any
splits or articles thereof recorded or not.
   PROPERTY LINE. The front, side or rear line of property description
contiguous to street, alley and the like, where a collector main sewer is
normally located.
   PUBLIC OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW). Typically owned by local government
agencies, and are usually designed to treat domestic sewage and industrial
wastewater.
   STUBBING IN “Y”. Breaking into the collector main in the city right-of-way
to establish connection point for a lateral to a property line for connection
of a private system to the city sewerage system.
   TOWNSHIP. The Township of Allegan, Allegan County, Michigan.
   WATER POLICY. The Allegan Water Policy, as adopted and amended by the
Allegan City Council.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-85 CONNECTION TO CITY SEWER SYSTEM.
   The owner of any house, building, structure, premises or property used for
human occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, that require indoor
plumbing per the Building Code, situated within the city or township, and
abutting on any street, easement, alley or right-of-way, in which there is
located, or may in the future be located, a public sanitary sewer within 200
feet of the property line, is hereby required, at the owner’s expense, to
install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect such facilities
directly with the proper public sewer, in accordance with the provisions of
this article, within six months after official notice to do so; provided that,
upon approval of the POTW Superintendent, 30-day extensions can be obtained
beyond the six-month connection period. The owner is responsible for
maintaining the sewer lateral from the sewer main to the structure.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-86 RATES AND CHARGES.
   The rates and charges to be charged to users of the city sewage system shall
be as are now in force, or which shall be established from time to time by the
City Council and set forth in the city fee schedule.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-87 HOOKUPS BY SPECIAL ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   The Council determines that a part of the expense of sewer hookups
shall be defrayed by special assessments upon the property especially
benefitted.
   (B)   All hookups for sewers for property owners served by private sewers on
2-13-1978 are determined to be of no benefit to the property owners as far as
the cost from the sewer to the property line and no further.
   (C)   Persons who hook up when sewer services first become available or are
connecting to an existing sewer main for the first time are benefitted thereby
and, therefore, shall pay the new service connection fee as listed in the city
fee schedule by either:
      (1)   In cash upon being billed; or
      (2)   In installments.
   (D)   Owners of vacant, when connecting to the sewer system, lots are
benefitted thereby and therefore shall pay the new service connection fee as
listed in the city fee schedule by either:
      (1)   In cash upon being billed; or
      (2)   In installments.
   (E)   No hookups shall be allowed until the minimum down payment or complete
payment has been made.
   (F)   All properties within 200 feet of a public sewer having residences or
businesses thereon shall hook up to the public sewer forthwith.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-88 SUPPLY TO MORE THAN ONE STORE OR BUILDING.
   In all cases where a sewer service is intended to supply more than one
tenement, shop, store or building, it shall be the duty of the person making
such service connection, or causing the same to be made, to install a cleanout
for each branch, to be suitably protected and marked as to be easily located.
In no case shall one service supply more than one lot unless occupied by a
single building covering more than one lot used for a single industry or
enterprise.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§§ 29-89 — 29-101 RESERVED.
DIVISION 2. NEW SERVICE CONNECTIONS AND EXTENSIONS
§ 29-102 BASIC SERVICE CHARGES.
   (A)   New basic service charge connection fees shall be adjusted yearly by
the ratio that the value of the engineering new record construction costs index
holds to the value of that index in 1982 (3881.80) adopted by the City Council
and stated in the city fee schedule. On multiple housing projects, the
developer or builder shall pay the cost of connecting the line from the main in
the street to the property line.
   (B)   Charges for connections of sewers shall be uniform among various
classes of connection as follows outside the city limits.
      (1)   New service charge to be same as within the city limits.
      (2)   Readiness to serve charge shall be that of a comparable connection
within city limits,
      (3)   The per gallon charge will be same as within the city limits.
   (C)   The owner is responsible for sizing the service according to their
needs. The tapping fee shall be stated in the city fee schedule and shall cover
the following materials and services: six-inch “Y” rubber boot and band clamps;
ten feet of six-inch PVC pipe, installation of the listed materials, Services
varying from this shall be charged at labor and material costs to the user.
Tapping fee shall not be reduced if an approved contractor performs the tapping
and or installation of supplied materials. The owner is responsible for all
connection charges to the city sewer system.
   (D)   Multiple housing complexes shall pay one new service connection charge
for each connection to the city sewer system. The owner shall be responsible
for and install all collection lines on his, her or their property including
piping, valving, shutoffs, meters and the like. All owner-installed water
infrastructure shall be privately owned, operated and maintained unless the
material and installation is per city specifications, easements for the system
are given to the city, ownership of the system is given to the city and City
Council approves the addition to the city sewer system. Temporary metering of
sewer used during construction shall be arranged for as soon as sewer is
connected to the property. Metering of sewer usage shall be by building or
complex rather than by unit.
   (E)   Those properties not having a sewer crossing, contiguous to or across
the street from any property line of the premises shall pay the cost of
extensions of the collector to the property along city rights-of-way. The
property shall pay the cost of laterals, from the collector main to the lot
line, and shall also pay for the cost of stubbing in and the “Y”. Costs shall
include replacing the lot terrain and right-of-way street surface to its
original condition. Extensions of 200 feet or less may be contracted for by the
property owner subject to city permit and city-approved specifications.
Extensions of over 200 feet shall be contracted for by the city, unless the
Council, by resolution, authorizes a private contractor, subject to city permit
and city-approved specifications.
   (F)   Those properties having connectors crossing, contiguous to or across
the street from the property shall contract for and pay the cost of laterals
from that collector main to their property lines. Such properties shall pay for
the cost of stubbing in and the “Y”.
   (G)   Persons who connect to sewer service shall pay the required fee either
in full cash sum or in installments payable as stated in the city policy. The
city may require payment of interest on any unpaid balance, as stated in the
city policy. No hookups shall be allowed until complete payment or minimum down
payment has been made.
   (H)   Permanent disconnection consists of disconnecting the service at the
road right-of-way and is available for a parcel where there is no longer a
structure to be connected to the city sewage system. Permanent disconnection
shall not be made for the purpose of using a septic system to serve a parcel
that has a boundary within 200 feet of the city sewage system. Sewer disconnect
and reconnect fees are stated in the city fee schedule, fees do not include
time and material for the city to perform the disconnect/reconnect.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-103 DETERMINATION OF COSTS.
   For the purpose of this article, costs shall include the cost of contracts
with private contractors or the costs to the city for city forces or both, and
shall include removing and replacing the terrain and the right-of-way surface
to a like condition as when originally excavated.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-104 PERFORMANCE OF WORK.
   (A)   Work on private systems on private property may be done by licensed
master plumbers or contractors or personally by the property owner.
   (B)   (1)   All work in the public right-of-way shall be performed by the
Water Utilities Department or water utilities-approved contractor.
      (2)   Licensed plumbers and contractors approved to work in the road
right of way must submit a road right-of-way permit to the city prior to
commencement of any work.
      (3)   All work is to be constructed in compliance with the state’s
Plumbing Code and city rules and the work is to be inspected by the City
Manager or his, her or their designee and or the Water Utilities Department.
   (C)   The contractor or plumber shall be covered by special bond or annual
bond for each street opening, and shall replace right-of-way and street surface
to original condition. The city permit must be obtained prior to any street
opening.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-105 USE OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENT PROCEDURE.
   The Council, upon determination of necessity, can specially assess premises
for the connection and extension of sewers as is provided for special
assessments in the Charter and under state law.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-106 INSTALLATION OF BACK-FLOW VALVES.
   (A)   (1)   Persons who hereinafter connect with the city sewage system
shall install in their systems back-flow valves or similar city-approved
safeguards, which when properly installed and maintained prevent a backup of
sewage into their buildings.
      (2)   Persons who are connected with the city sewage system are urged to
install in their private systems back-flow valves or similar city-approved
safeguards which shall, when properly installed and maintained, prevent a
backup of sewage into their buildings.
   (B)   In no case shall the city hereafter take responsibility for any damage
caused by a sewage backup into any building.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-107 DETERMINATION OF REASONABLE CHARGES NOT COVERED IN ARTICLE.
   The City Council shall determine reasonable charges based upon the cost of
material and labor for any extensions or connections not covered by the
provisions of this article and such charges shall be stated in the city fee
schedule.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§§ 29-108 — 29-120 RESERVED.
DIVISION 3. SEWER USE REGULATIONS
SUBARTICLE 1. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 29-121 PURPOSE AND SCOPE OF THE SEWER USE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The purposes of this article are:
      (1)   To establish uniform requirements for discharges by all users to
the city publicly owned treatment works (“POTW”), and to enable the POTW to
comply with applicable state and federal laws as required by the Federal Water
Pollution Control Act (also known as the “Clean Water Act”), as amended, 33
U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.; the General Pretreatment Regulations (40 C.F.R. part
403); part 31 of Public Act 451 of 1994, being MCL §§ 324.3101 et seq., as
amended (“Water Resources Protection”); and the rules, Michigan Administrative
Code R 323.2301 et seq., as amended, promulgated pursuant to §§ 3103, 3106 and
3109 of Public Act 451, part 31, of 1994, as amended;
      (2)   To prevent the discharge of pollutants into the POTW that do not
meet applicable pretreatment standards and requirements; that would interfere
with the operation of the POTW; that would pass through the POTW into the
receiving waters or the atmosphere, the environment or otherwise be
incompatible with the POTW; that would inhibit or disrupt the POTW’s
processing, use or disposal of sludge; that would cause health or safety
problems for POTW workers; or that would result in a violation of the POTW’s
NPDES permit or of other applicable laws and regulations;
      (3)   To improve the opportunity to recycle and reclaim wastewaters and
sludges from the POTW;
      (4)   To regulate the discharge of wastewater and/or pollutants to the
POTW and to enforce the requirements of this article through the issuance of
permits and through other means as provided by this article;
      (5)   To authorize and require all inspection, monitoring, reporting and
enforcement activities as necessary to ensure compliance with applicable
pretreatment standards and requirements and other applicable laws and
regulations; and
      (6)   To provide for the equitable distribution and recovery of costs
from users of the POTW sufficient to administer regulatory activities and to
meet the costs of the operation, maintenance, improvement and replacement of
the POTW.
   (B)   This article applies to any person, whether located within the city or
outside the city, that discharges to the POTW.
   (C)   This article also applies to any person owning, using, constructing or
maintaining any private system or facility intended or used for the disposal of
sewage or wastewater within the city or under the city’s jurisdiction.
   (D)   Any other local unit of government that discharges into the POTW
shall, as a condition to discharge, be required to adopt, and to keep
continually in force and up to date, an ordinance that, except as specifically
approved in advance by the POTW, must be identical to the sewer use regulations
as provided by this article (and as this article is amended from time to time
by the city).
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any wastewater or
pollutant to the POTW or to any storm sewer or natural outlet within the city
or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, except in accordance with
the provisions of this article and other applicable laws and regulations.
   (F)   If any user discharges or proposes to discharge wastewaters or
pollutants that are prohibited or limited by this article, the city may take
any action as provided by this article or other applicable laws or regulations
to assure and require compliance with the provisions of this article.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-122 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the Clean Water
Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE. When used in reference to a non-domestic user,
AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE means as follows:
      (1)   If the user is a corporation, a responsible corporate officer.
“Responsible corporate officer” means:
         (a)   A president, secretary, treasurer or vice president of the
corporation in charge of a principal business function or any other person who
performs similar policy- or decision-making functions for the corporation; or
         (b)   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production, or
operating facilities; provided, the manager is authorized to make management
decisions which govern the operation of the regulated facility including having
the explicit or implicit duty of making major capital investment
recommendations, and initiate and direct other comprehensive measures to assure
long-term environmental compliance with environmental laws and regulations; can
ensure that the necessary systems are established or actions taken to gather
complete and accurate information for control mechanism requirements; and where
authority to sign documents has been assigned or delegated to the manager in
accordance with corporate procedures.
      (2)   If the user is a partnership or proprietorship, a general partner
or proprietor, respectively;
      (3)   If the user is a federal, state or local governmental entity, the
principal executive officer, ranking elected official or director having
responsibility for the overall operation of the discharging facility; and
      (4)   A duly authorized representative of an individual designated in
subsections (1), (2) or (3) above, if the representative is responsible for the
overall operation of the facilities from which the discharge to the POTW
originates.
         (a)   To be considered “duly authorized”, the authorization must be
made in writing by an individual designated in subsections (1), (2) or (3)
above. The authorization must specify either an individual or a position having
responsibility for the overall operation of the facility (such as the position
of plant manager, operator of a well or well field, or a position of equivalent
responsibility, or having overall responsibility for the environmental matters
for the company or entity). The written authorization must be submitted to the
POTW Superintendent prior to or together with any reports to be signed by the
authorized representative.
         (b)   If an authorization under subsection (4)(a) above is no longer
accurate because a different individual or position has responsibility for the
overall operation of the facility, or overall responsibility for environmental
matters for the company or entity, a new written authorization must be
submitted to the POTW Superintendent prior to or together with any reports to
be signed by the newly authorized representative.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICE or BMP. Any practice, program, procedure, control,
technique or measure (used singularly or in combination), that a user is
required to adopt or implement to control, contain, treat, prevent or reduce
the discharge of wastewater, pollutants or other substances to the POTW, as
determined necessary by the POTW Superintendent. BMPs include, but are not
limited to: schedules of activities; pollution treatment practices or devices;
prohibitions of practices; good housekeeping practices; pollution prevention,
minimization and reduction measures; educational practices and programs;
maintenance procedures; other management programs, practices or devices;
treatment requirements; notice, reporting and recordkeeping requirements; and
operating procedures and practices to control or contain site runoff, spillage
or leaks, batch discharges, sludge or water disposal or drainage from product
and raw materials storage. BMPs may be structural, non-structural or both. In
determining what BMPs will be required of a user in a particular case, the POTW
Superintendent may consider all relevant technological, economic, practical and
institutional considerations as determined relevant and appropriate by the
Superintendent, consistent with achieving and maintaining compliance with the
requirements of this article and other applicable laws and regulations, BOD
(denoting biochemical oxygen demand) means the quantity of dissolved oxygen
used in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory
procedure in five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of a building and conveys it to a building sewer. The BUILDING
DRAIN shall be deemed to begin five feet outside the inner face of the building
wall.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. The Building Official of the city or the Building
Official’s authorized agents.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal (such as a grinder pump). The BUILDING SEWER shall be
deemed to begin five feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BYPASS. The intentional diversion of wastestreams from any portion of a
user’s treatment process or facility needed for compliance with pretreatment
standards or requirements.
   CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD or CATEGORICAL STANDARD. Any regulation
containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the U.S. EPA in accordance
with § 307(b) and (c) of the Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. § 1317, which apply to
a specific category of users and which appear in 40 C.F.R. Chapter I,
Subchapter N, parts 405 through 471.
   CATEGORICAL USER. A user subject to a categorical pretreatment standard.
   CESSPOOL. An underground pit into which domestic waste is discharged and
from which the liquid seeps into the surrounding soil or is otherwise removed.
   C.F.R. Code of Federal Regulations.
   CHLORINE DEMAND. The difference between the amount of chlorine available at
the end of the contact time, expressed in mg/l.
   CITY. The City of Allegan, Allegan County, Michigan, or the city’s
authorized representatives.
   CITY MANAGER. The City Manager of the city or the City Manager’s authorized
representatives.
   CITY PERMIT AGENT. The permit agent of the city or the city permit agent’s
authorized representatives.
   COD. A measure of oxygen-consuming capacity of inorganic and organic matter
present in water or wastewater. It is expressed as the amount of oxygen
consumed from a chemical oxidant in a specified test. It does not differentiate
between stable and unstable organic matter and thus does not necessarily
correlate with biochemical oxygen demand. Also known as oxygen consumed (OCR)
and dichromate oxygen consumed (DO), respectively.
   COLLECTION/DISTRIBUTION MANAGER. The person who is responsible for day-to-
day management of the sewage collection lines and their appurtenances, under
the supervision of the Water Utilities Director.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to receive both wastewater and storm water.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. A pollutant which, as determined by the POTW
Superintendent, is susceptible to effective treatment by the POTW as designed,
and which will not interfere with, or pass through, the POTW, and which is
otherwise not incompatible with the treatment processes or in excess of the
capacity at the POTW. The term COMPATIBLE is a relative concept that must be
determined on a case-by-case basis. In determining whether or not a pollutant
is COMPATIBLE with the POTW, the Superintendent may consider, without
limitation, the nature and qualities of the pollutant, and the concentration,
mass and flow rate at which the pollutant is (or is proposed to be) discharged.
Thus, for example, even pollutants such as BOD, fats, oils or grease,
phosphorous, suspended solids and fecal coliform bacteria, which are typically
considered COMPATIBLE may be determined incompatible, if discharged in
concentrations or flows that would cause interference or pass through or exceed
the POTW’s capacity. Specifically excluded from the definition of compatible
pollutant are “heavy” metals, PCBs and any pollutants that will likely
contribute or cause operational or sludge disposal problems or unacceptable
discharges to the receiving waters.
   COMPOSITE SAMPLE. A series of individual samples, collected on a flow- or
time-proportional basis, taken at regular intervals over a specific time period
and combined into a single sample (formed either by continuous sampling or by
mixing discrete samples) representative of the average stream during the
sampling period. For categorical sampling, a COMPOSITE SAMPLE shall consist of
at least four individual samples taken within a 24-hour period.
   COOLING WATER. Water used for cooling purposes only, including both contact
and non-contact cooling water.
   COOLING WATER (CONTACT). Water used for cooling purposes only that may
become contaminated or polluted either through the use of water treatment
chemicals (such as corrosion inhibitors or biocides) or by direct contact with
process materials and/or wastewater.
   COOLING WATER (NON-CONTACT). Water used for cooling purposes only that has
no direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, final product or
waste, and that does not contain a detectable level of contaminants higher than
that of the intake water (for example, the water discharged from uses such as
air conditioning, cooling or refrigeration, or to which the only pollutant
added is heat).
   DAILY MAXIMUM. The maximum discharge of pollutants or flow (expressed in
terms of concentration, mass loading, pounds, gallons or other unit of
measurement) that shall not be exceeded on any single calendar day. Where DAILY
MAXIMUM LIMITATIONS are expressed in terms of a concentration, the daily
discharge is the arithmetic average measurement of the pollutant concentration
derived from all measurements taken that day. Where DAILY MAXIMUM LIMITATIONS
are expressed in units of mass, the daily discharge is the total mass
discharged during the day. If a composite sample is required for a parameter,
the determination whether the DAILY MAXIMUM LIMITATION for that parameter has
been exceeded on a single calendar day shall be based on the composite sample
collected for that parameter on that calendar day. If grab samples are required
for a parameter, the determination whether the DAILY MAXIMUM LIMITATION for
that parameter has been exceeded on a calendar day shall be based on the
average of all grab samples collected for that parameter on that calendar day.
If only one grab sample is collected for a parameter on a given day, the
determination whether the DAILY MAXIMUM LIMITATION for that parameter has been
exceeded for the day shall be based on the results of that single grab sample.
(Compliance with applicable minimum and maximum limits for pH and dissolved
oxygen (DO) shall be determined based on instantaneous measurements only, and
not on averaged results.)
   DAYS. For purposes of computing a period of time prescribed or allowed by
this article, consecutive calendar days.
   DILUTE. To weaken, thin down or reduce the concentration of pollutants in
wastewater.
   DIRECTOR OF WATER UTILITIES. The Director of the city’s water treatment
plant, water resource recovery facility, water distribution system and the
sewer collection system or the Director’s authorized representatives.
   DISCHARGE. The introduction of waste, wastewater, effluent or pollutants
into the POTW, whether intentional or unintentional, and whether directly (such
as through an approved sewer connection or other approved discharge point as
authorized by this article) or indirectly (including, but not limited to,
sources such as inflow and infiltration).
   DOMESTIC USER. A user that discharges only segregated normal strength
domestic waste into the POTW.
   DOMESTIC WASTE. Wastewater (or water-carried waste) of human origin
generated by personal activities from toilet, kitchen, laundry or bathing
facilities, or by other similar facilities used for household or residential
dwelling purposes (“sanitary sewage”). DOMESTIC WASTE shall not include any
waste resulting from industrial or commercial processes, including, without
limitation, any hazardous or toxic pollutants. Wastes that emanate from sources
other than residential dwelling units may be considered DOMESTIC WASTES only if
they are of the same nature and strength and have the same flow rate
characteristics as wastes that emanate from residential dwelling units.
   EFFLUENT. Wastewater or other liquid, partially or completely treated,
flowing from a reservoir, basin, treatment process or treatment plant.
   EPA. The United States Environmental Protection Agency.
   EXCESSIVE. At such a flow, rate, magnitude or amount that, in the judgment
of the POTW Superintendent, it may cause damage to any facility or the POTW;
may be harmful to the wastewater treatment processes; may adversely affect the
management or operation of the POTW or POTW sludge management or disposal; may
cause pass through or interference; may violate any pretreatment standard or
requirement; may adversely affect the quality of the receiving waters or the
ambient air quality; may endanger worker health and safety; may constitute a
public nuisance; may be inconsistent with the requirements, purposes or
objectives of this article; or may otherwise adversely impact the public
health, safety or welfare or the environment.
   EXISTING SOURCE. Any source of discharge that is not a new source as defined
by this article.
   FATS or FOG. Fats, oil or grease consisting of any hydrocarbons, fatty
acids, soaps, fats, waxes, oils or any other non-volatile material of animal,
vegetable or mineral origin that is extractable by solvents in accordance with
“Standard Methods”.
   FLOW-PROPORTIONAL COMPOSITE SAMPLE. A combination of individual samples of
equal volume taken at equal intervals of flow without consideration of the time
between individual samples.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the preparation, cooking, serving or dispensing
of food, from the handling, storage, processing or sale of produce, or from the
canning or packaging of food. It is composed largely of putrescible organic
matter and its natural or added moisture content.
   GENERAL USER PERMIT. A permit issued to any user other than a significant
industrial user as provided by this article to control discharges to the POTW
and to ensure compliance with applicable pretreatment standards and
requirements.
   GRAB SAMPLE. An individual sample that is taken from a wastestream on a one-
time basis without regard to the flow in the wastestream and over a period of
time not to exceed 15 minutes.
   GRINDER PUMP. In a grinder pump system, the device to which the building
sewer connects and which grinds and pumps the sewage to the public sewer for
transportation to the POTW.
   GRINDER PUMP SYSTEM. The publicly owned grinder pump, controls and pressure
discharge pipe, including all control boards, controls, floats, pumps, storage
tanks and appurtenances thereto which provides the connection between the
privately owned building sewer and the public sewer system.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Any substance discharged or proposed to be discharged into
the POTW, that:
      (1)   If otherwise disposed of would be a hazardous waste under 40 C.F.R.
part 261 or under the rules promulgated under the state’s Hazardous Waste
Management Act (part 111 of Public Act 451 of 1994, being MCL §§ 324.11101 et
seq., as amended); or
      (2)   Is otherwise a waste or a combination of waste and other discarded
material including solid, liquid, semi-solid or contained gaseous material that
because of its quantity, quality, concentration or physical, chemical, or
infectious characteristics may cause or significantly contribute to an increase
in mortality or an increase in serious irreversible illness or serious
incapacitating, but reversible illness, or may pose a substantial present or
potential hazard to human health or the environment if improperly treated,
stored, transported, disposed of or otherwise managed, as determined by the
POTW.
   HOLDING TANK WASTE. Any waste from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers, septic tanks and vacuum-pump tank trucks.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant that is not a compatible pollutant.
   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any non-domestic user that, by any means, contributes,
causes or permits the contribution, introduction or discharge of wastewater or
pollutants into the POTW, whether intentional or unintentional, and whether
directly or indirectly.
   INDUSTRIAL USER PERMIT. A permit issued to a significant industrial user, or
to such other user as determined appropriate by the POTW Superintendent, as
provided by this article to control discharges to the POTW and to ensure
compliance with applicable pretreatment standards and requirements.
   INFILTRATION. Any waters entering the POTW from the ground through such
means as, but not limited to, defective pipes, pipe joints, connections or
manhole wails. INFILTRATION does not include, and is distinguished from,
inflow.
   INFLOW. Any waters entering the POTW from sources such as, but not limited
to, building downspouts; roof leaders; cellar, yard and area drains; foundation
and footing drains; cooling water discharges; drains from springs and swampy
areas; manhole covers; cross-connections from storm sewers and combined sewers;
catch basins; storm waters; surface runoff; street wash waters; or drainage.
   INSTANTANEOUS MAXIMUM LIMIT. The maximum concentration or other measure of
pollutant magnitude of a pollutant allowed to be discharged at any instant in
time (independent of the flow rate or duration of the sampling event). If the
concentration or other measure of pollutant magnitude determined by analysis of
any grab sample, composite sample or discrete portion of a composite sample
exceeds the instantaneous maximum limit, the INSTANTANEOUS MAXIMUM LIMIT shall
be deemed to have been exceeded.
   INSTANTANEOUS MINIMUM LIMIT. The lowest measure of pollutant magnitude of a
pollutant allowed to be discharged at any instant in time (independent of the
flow rate or duration of the sampling event). If the concentration or other
pollutant magnitude determined by analysis of any grab sample, composite sample
or discrete portion of a composite sample is below the a specified
instantaneous minimum limit, the INSTANTANEOUS MINIMUM LIMIT shall be deemed to
have been violated.
   INTERFERENCE. A discharge which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources:
      (1)   Inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment processes or
operations or its sludge processes, use or disposal; or
      (2)   Is a cause of a violation of any requirement of the POTW’s NPDES
permit (including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation) or
of the prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance with the
following statutory provisions and regulations or permits issued thereunder (or
more stringent state or local regulations) § 405 of the Clean Water Act, the
Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA) (including Title II, more commonly referred to
as the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA)), and including state
regulations contained in any state sludge management plan prepared pursuant to
Subtitle D of the Solid Waste Disposal Act, the Clean Air Act, the Toxic
Substances Control Act and the Marine Protection, Research and Sanctuaries Act.
   LATERAL SEWER. The portion of the sewer system located under the street or
within the public right-of-way from the property line to the trunk line and
which collects sewage from a particular property for transfer to the trunk
line.
   lbs/day. Pounds per day.
   LOCAL LIMITS. A specific enforceable prohibition, standard or requirement
(numerical or non-numerical) on discharges by non-domestic users established by
the POTW to meet the purposes and objectives of this article and to comply with
applicable state and federal laws and regulations.
   M.A.C. The Michigan Administrative Code.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MDEQ. The Michigan Department of Environmental Quality.
   MEDICAL WASTE. Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood
products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding,
surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes or dialysis wastes,
and includes any medical or infectious wastes as defined by the state’s
Department of Environmental Quality.
   mg/l. Milligrams per liter.
   MONTHLY AVERAGE. The sum of the concentrations (or mass loadings, expressed
in terms of pounds per day, or such other unit of measurement) of a pollutant
divided by the number of samples taken during a calendar month. The
concentrations (or loadings) that are added are single numbers for single
calendar days for all days during the calendar month for which analyses are
obtained (whether by the user or the POTW), but the concentrations (or
loadings) may be based upon a sample or samples taken over either all or part
of that day and upon single or multiple analyses for that day, as determined by
the POTW Superintendent. If no samples are taken during particular months
because less than monthly sampling is required for a pollutant parameter (e.g.,
a specified quarterly monitoring period), the MONTHLY AVERAGE for each month
within the specified monitoring period shall be deemed to be the sum of
concentrations (or loadings) for the monitoring period divided by number of
samples taken during the monitoring period.
   NAICS or NORTH AMERICAN INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION SYSTEM. The system of
classification for business establishments adopted by the U.S. Office of
Management and Budget, as amended.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any naturally formed outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch,
lake or other body of surface or ground water.
   NEW SERVICE BASIC CHARGE. A charge for each new service attached to the city
sewer system when not covered by the special assessment process. This gives new
service property owners an interest in the city sewer system similar to that of
a special assessment.
   NEW SERVICE CONNECTION. Any connection of a private user to the city sewer
system which has not been previously served or charged for sewer use.
   NEW SOURCE.
      (1)   Any building, structure, facility or installation from which there
is or may be a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced
after the publication of proposed pretreatment standards under § 307(c) of the
Act, which will be applicable to such source if such standards are thereafter
promulgated in accordance with that section; provided that:
         (a)   The building, structure, facility or installation is constructed
at a site at which no other source is located;
         (b)   The building, structure, facility or installation totally
replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of
pollutants at an existing source; or
         (c)   The production or wastewater generating processes of the
building, structure, facility or installation are substantially independent of
an existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source should
be considered.
      (2)   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located
results in a modification rather than a new source if the construction does not
create a new building, structure, facility or installation meeting the criteria
of subsections (1)(b) or (1)(c) above, but otherwise alters, replaces or adds
to existing process or production equipment. Commencement of construction of a
NEW SOURCE shall be determined in a manner consistent with 40 C.F.R. § 403.3(k)
(3).
   ng/l. Nanograms per liter.
   NON-CONTACT COOLING WATER. See COOLING WATER (NON-CONTACT).
   NON-DOMESTIC USER. Any user other than a domestic user (i.e., any user that
discharges anything other than segregated normal strength domestic waste into
the POTW). The determination of whether or not a user is a NON-DOMESTIC USER
shall be made by POTW Superintendent, at the Superintendent’s sole discretion,
as determined necessary by the Superintendent to achieve the purposes and
objectives of this article. Any user that has the reasonable potential, as
determined by the POTW Superintendent, to discharge any waste other than normal
strength domestic waste into the POTW, may be deemed a NON-DOMESTIC USER for
purposes of this article.
   NON-DOMESTIC WASTE. Any wastewater (or water- or liquid-carried waste) other
than domestic waste. The determination of whether or not a waste is a NON-
DOMESTIC WASTE shall be made by POTW Superintendent, at the Superintendent’s
sole discretion, as determined necessary by the Superintendent to achieve the
purposes and objectives of this article. Any waste which has the reasonable
potential, as determined by the POTW Superintendent, to be not entirely
composed of normal strength domestic waste may be deemed NON- DOMESTIC WASTE
for purposes of this article.
   NORMAL STRENGTH DOMESTIC WASTE. A domestic waste flow for which the levels
of pollutants (including, without limitation, BOD, TSS, ammonia nitrogen or
phosphorous) are below the surcharge levels for any parameter as established by
this article. Further, to be considered NORMAL STRENGTH, the wastewater must
have a pH between 6.5 and 8.5, must not exceed any local limit, and must not
contain a concentration of other constituents that would interfere with POTW
treatment processes. The determination of whether or not a wastestream is
NORMAL STRENGTH DOMESTIC WASTE shall be made by POTW Superintendent, at the
Superintendent’s sole discretion, as determined necessary by the Superintendent
to achieve the purposes and objectives of this article.
   NPDES PERMIT. A National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit
issued pursuant to § 402 of the Act.
   OPERATION, REPAIR AND REPLACEMENT. All work, materials, equipment, utilities
and other efforts required to operate and maintain the POTW consistent with
ensuring adequate treatment of wastewater to produce an effluent in compliance
with the NPDES permit and other applicable state and federal regulations, and
includes the cost of replacement.
   OUTFALL. The point (or points) of discharge by a user to the POTW, approved
by the POTW and specified in a user permit.
   PASS THROUGH. A discharge that exits the POTW into waters of the state (or
waters of the United States) in quantities or concentrations that, alone or in
conjunction with a discharge or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a
violation of any requirement of the POTW’s NPDES permit or of any requirement
of applicable local, state or federal laws and regulations (including an
increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation) or otherwise
detrimentally impacts the receiving stream.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company,
association, society, corporation, joint stock company, trust, estate,
governmental entity or any other legal entity or their legal representatives,
agents or assigns. The masculine gender shall include the feminine, the
singular shall include the plural where indicated by the context.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the concentration of hydrogen ions in
grams per liter of solution.
   POLLUTANT. Includes, but is not limited to, any of the following:
      (1)   Any material that is discharged into water or other liquid,
including, but not limited to, dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue,
sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, medical wastes, chemical wastes,
biological materials, radioactive materials, wrecked or discharged equipment,
rock, sand, cellar dirt and industrial, municipal and agricultural waste;
      (2)   Properties of materials or characteristics of wastewater,
including, but not limited to, pH, heat, TSS, turbidity, color, BOD, COD,
toxicity and odor;
      (3)   Substances regulated by categorical standards;
      (4)   Substances discharged to the POTW that are required to be monitored
by a user under this article, that are limited in the POTW’s NPDES permit, or
that are required to be identified in the POTW’s application for an NPDES
permit; and
      (5)   Substances for which control measures on users are necessary to
avoid restricting the POTW’s residuals management program; to avoid operational
problems at the POTW; or to avoid POTW worker health and safety problems.
   POTW (PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS). The complete sewage disposal,
transportation and treatment system of the city as defined by the Act and this
article, including any devices, processes and systems used in the storage,
treatment, recycling or reclamation of wastewater, sewage or sludge, as well as
sewers (including all main, lateral and intercepting sewers), pipes and other
conveyances used to collect or convey wastewater or sewage to the treatment
works, as now or hereafter added to, extended or improved. The term POTW shall
also include any sewers that convey wastewaters to the POTW from persons who
are, by contract or agreement with the city, users of the POTW. References in
this article to approvals, determinations, reviews and the like BY THE POTW
shall mean by the POTW Superintendent, or the Superintendent’s authorized
representatives. The term POTW may also be used to refer to the city as the
municipality that has jurisdiction over the discharges to, and discharges from,
the treatment works, or to the wastewater treatment plant and its designated
representatives, as appropriate to the context in which the term is used.
   POTW SUPERINTENDENT or SUPERINTENDENT. The person designated by the city as
being responsible to administer the operation of the city’s water and/or sewer
systems, including the POTW’s industrial pretreatment program, and who is
charged with other duties and responsibilities as provided by this article.
References to POTW SUPERINTENDENT or SUPERINTENDENT shall include the
Superintendent’s authorized representatives.
   POTW TREATMENT PLANT. The portion of the POTW that is designed to provide
treatment (including recycling or reclamation) of wastewater.
   PREMISES. A lot, tract or parcel of land, or a building or structure, having
any connection, directly or indirectly, to the POTW, or from which there is a
discharge to the POTW.
   PRETREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater before or instead of discharging or otherwise introducing such
pollutants into the POTW. The reduction or alteration may be obtained by
physical, chemical or biological processes; process changes; or other means,
except for the use of dilution (unless expressly authorized by any applicable
pretreatment standard or requirement and the POTW Superintendent). Appropriate
PRETREATMENT technology includes control equipment, such as equalization tanks
or facilities, for protection against surges or slug loadings, subject to
applicable requirements of local, state and federal laws and regulations.
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENT. Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment, other than a national pretreatment standard, imposed on a non-
domestic user.
   PRETREATMENT STANDARD. Any regulation containing pollutant discharge limits
promulgated in accordance with § 307(b) and (c) of the Act or Public Act 451,
part 31, of 1994, being MCL §§ 324.3101 et seq., including general and specific
prohibitive discharge limits and local limits established in this article
pursuant to M.A.C. R 323.2303 and categorical standards.
   PRIVATE PLUMBING SYSTEM. The piping and plumbing items that pertain to a
property owner’s buildings and property, including from the sewer “Y” and sewer
lateral in the right-of-way to the building.
   PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL SYSTEM. A cesspool, septic tank or similar
device which discharges to a suitable drainage field.
   PROCESS WASTEWATER. Any water which, during manufacturing or processing,
comes into direct contact with or results from the production or use of any raw
material, intermediate product, finished product, byproduct or waste product.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE OR OTHER SOLID MATERIAL. Garbage or other solid
material that has been shredded to such a degree that all particles will be
carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in the POTW (or so
as to otherwise not result in interference), with no particle greater than one-
half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and which is controlled by public authority.
   REASONABLE POTENTIAL. As used in this article, a determination of REASONABLE
POTENTIAL by the POTW Superintendent means a determination made by the
Superintendent that a certain condition, state, result or circumstance exists,
or is likely to exist, based upon the quantitative or qualitative factors or
information deemed by the Superintendent to be relevant and appropriate to the
determination, consistent with the purposes and objectives of this article.
   RESIDENTIAL DWELLING. Any structure designed for habitation, including, but
not limited to, houses, mobile homes, apartment buildings, condominiums and
townhouses where each dwelling unit contains, at a minimum, sleeping
facilities, a toilet, a bath or shower and a kitchen.
   SANITARY SEWAGE. See DOMESTIC WASTE.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer intended to carry liquid and water-carried wastes
from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, and
to which storm, surface and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEEPAGE PIT. A cistern or underground enclosure constructed of concrete
blocks, bricks or similar material loosely laid with open joints so as to allow
the overflow or effluent to be absorbed directly into the surrounding soil.
   SEPTIC TANK. A water-tight receptacle receiving sewage and having an inlet
and outlet designed to permit the separation of suspended solids from sewage
and to permit such retained solids to undergo decomposition therein.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. The portion of the public sewer which extends either to
or onto the parcel of land adjacent to the path of the public sewer, and
includes the sewer main, tee/wye, valve, check valve, connector pipes, the
sewer lead, the grinder pump system, electrical controls and connections at the
electric meter (but not including the meter) and appurtenances, but not
including the building sewer.
   SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE. Substantial physical damage to property, or damage
to treatment facilities that causes them to become inoperable, or substantial
and permanent loss of natural resources that can reasonably be expected to
occur in the absence of a bypass. SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE does not mean an
economic loss caused by delays in production.
   SEWAGE. See WASTEWATER.
   SEWER. Any pipe, tile, tube or conduit for carrying wastewater or drainage
water.
   SEWER LEAD. The portion of the service connection that connects to the sewer
main located in the public right-of-way and extends to the property line.
   SEWER RATES, FEES AND CHARGES. The rates, fees and charges for use of the
POTW, and amendments thereof, as established by resolution of the City Council
and stated in the city fee schedule. Such rates, fees and charges include debt
service charges required to retire debts resulting from capital or other costs
incurred to contract, improve, expand, repair, maintain or replace a part of
the POTW and sufficient and proportionate use charges required of all users for
the cost of operation, maintenance, repair and replacement to the POTW.
SURCHARGES AND OTHER RATES AND FEES may also be charged for wastes in amounts
or concentrations regarding extra treatment services or costs or as required
for exceeding established limits.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIC or STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION CODE. A classification pursuant to
the “Standard Industrial Classification Manual” issued by the U.S. Office of
Management and Budget.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER or SIU.
      (1)   Any non-domestic user:
         (a)   Subject to categorical pretreatment standards; or
         (b)   Any other non-domestic user that:
            1.   Discharges to the POTW an average of 25,000 gallons per day or
more of process wastewater (excluding sanitary, non-contact cooling and boiler
blow-down wastewater);
            2.   Contributes a process wastestream that makes up 5% or more of
the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW treatment
plant; or
            3.   Is otherwise designated by the POTW as a significant
industrial user on the basis that the user has a reasonable potential to
adversely affect the operation of the POTW, to violate any pretreatment
standard or requirement, or because the POTW determines that an industrial user
permit for the user’s discharge is required to meet the purposes and objectives
of this article.
      (2)   The POTW Superintendent may determine that a user that meets the
criteria of subsections (1)(b)1. and (1)(b)2. of this definition above is not
currently an SIU, if the Superintendent finds that the user has no reasonable
potential to adversely affect the operation of the POTW, to violate any
pretreatment standard or requirement, or that an industrial user permit is not
required to meet the purposes and objectives of this article. A determination
that a user is not an SIU (or that a permit is therefore not required) shall
not be binding and may be reversed by the Superintendent at any time based on
changed circumstances, new information or as otherwise determined necessary by
the Superintendent to meet the purposes and objectives of this article.
   SLUDGE. Accumulated solid material separated from liquid waste as a result
of the wastewater treatment process.
   SLUG. Any discharge of a non-routine, episodic nature, including, but not
limited to, an accidental spill or a non-customary batch discharge.
   STATE. The State of Michigan. The term shall include, where applicable, any
administrative agency of the state having jurisdiction in the subject matter of
this article, including (but not limited to) the state’s Department of
Environmental Quality (DEQ).
   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A sewer or drain, either natural or artificial,
intended to carry storm water, snowmelt and surface runoff and drainage, but
not wastewater.
   STORM WATER. Any flow (such as storm water runoff, snow melt runoff and
surface runoff and drainage) occurring during or following, and resulting from,
any form of natural precipitation, and is that portion of flow in excess of
that which infiltrates into the soil of the drainage area.
   SURCHARGE. The additional charges made by the POTW for the treatment of
wastewater containing pollutants in excess of specified concentrations,
loadings or other applicable limits, or for other purposes specified by this
article.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS) or TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS). Solids that float on
the surface of, or are suspended in, water, wastewater or other liquids and
which can be removed by laboratory filtering or other standard methods.
   TIME-PROPORTIONAL COMPOSITE SAMPLE. A combination of individual samples of
equal volume taken at equal intervals of time, without consideration of the
volume or rate of flow.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. Any pollutant or combination of pollutants that is or can
potentially be harmful to the public health, the POTW, or the environment,
including, without limitation, those listed in 40 C.F.R. § 401.15 as toxic
under the provisions of the Clean Water Act, or listed in the critical
materials register promulgated by the state’s Department of Environmental
Quality, or as provided by local, state or federal laws, rules or regulations.
   TRUCKED OR HAULED WASTE OR POLLUTANTS. Any waste proposed to be discharged
to the POTW from a mobile source, including, without limitation, holding tank
waste.
   TRUNK LINE. The main sewer line located under any street or within any
public right-of way which collects and transmits the sewage of the various
properties served by the sewer system.
   ug/l. Micrograms per liter.
   UPSET. An exceptional incident in which there is unintentional and temporary
non-compliance with categorical pretreatment standards because of factors
beyond the reasonable control of the user. An UPSET does not include non-
compliance to the extent caused by operational error, improperly designed
treatment facilities, inadequate treatment facilities, lack of preventive
maintenance or careless or improper operation.
   USER. Any person who contributes, causes or permits the contribution,
introduction or discharge of wastewater into the POTW, whether intentional or
unintentional, and whether directly or indirectly.
   USER PERMIT. An industrial user permit or a general user permit.
   WASTE WATER. The liquid and water-carried industrial or domestic waste from
residential dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities and
institutions (including, without limitation, contaminated ground water and
landfill leachate), whether treated or untreated, that is contributed,
introduced or discharged into the POTW. The term includes any water that has in
any way been used and degraded or physically or chemically altered.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
   WATERS OF THE STATE. All rivers, streams, lakes, ponds, marshes,
watercourses, waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation
systems, drainage systems and all other bodies or accumulations of water,
surface or underground, natural or artificial, public or private, which are
contained within, flow through or border upon the state or any portion thereof,
and as otherwise specified by applicable laws and regulations.
   WATERS OF THE UNITED STATES. All waters as defined by 40 C.F.R. § 122.2 and
as otherwise specified by applicable laws and regulations.
   WYE BRANCH. A local service connection to the sewer that is made at an angle
similar to a “wye” so that a sewer cleaning rod will not come into the sewer at
a right angle and penetrate the far side, but will travel down the course of
the sewer.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
SUBARTICLE 2. USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED
§ 29-123 UNLAWFUL DEPOSITION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited, any human or animal excrement, garbage, wastewater pollutants or
other objectionable waste, upon or below the surface of public or private
property within the jurisdiction of the city, except by discharging such
wastewater into an approved connection to a public sanitary sewer where
available or an approved private wastewater disposal system.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-124 DISCHARGE PROHIBITED WITHOUT REQUIRED APPROVALS, PERMITS AND
TREATMENT.
   (A)   Except as otherwise expressly permitted by local, state and federal
laws and regulations, and subject to obtaining all required permits and
approvals from governmental agencies (including, without limitation, the city,
the state’s Department of Environmental Quality and the U.S. EPA) and providing
any required treatment, it shall be unlawful to discharge, or permit or cause
to be discharged, either directly or indirectly:
      (1)   Polluted water, sewage or wastewater to any natural outlet within
the city, to any waters of the state (or waters of the United States), or to
any public sewer; or
      (2)   Unpolluted water of any kind, including, without limitation, storm
water, surface water, ground water, roof runoff, artesian well water, drainage
water (surface or subsurface), industrial non-contact cooling water, air
conditioning water, swimming pool water, or industrial process waters to any
sanitary sewer. Unpolluted water may be discharged only to a sewer that is
specifically designated as a combined sewer or storm sewer or to a natural
outlet, and only if all applicable permits and approvals have first been
obtained from the POTW and other governmental bodies or agencies and only if
not prohibited by applicable local, state or federal laws or regulations.
   (B)   If any person drains any unpolluted water from his or her property by
means of conductors, eaves troughs, roof downspouts or otherwise, directly or
indirectly, into a combined sewer, storm sewer or natural outlet in violation
of applicable laws or regulations, or into a sanitary sewer, the POTW shall
order its disconnection at the property owner’s expense, and if the property
owner refuses to obey the order of the POTW, then the POTW shall disconnect the
connection and the costs shall be charged to the property owner.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-125 UNLAWFUL CONSTRUCTION.
   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for disposal of sewage.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-126 REQUIRED CONNECTION TO AVAILABLE SANITARY SEWER.
   The owner of any house, building, structure, premises or property used for
human occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the
city or township, and abutting on any street, easement, alley or right-of-way,
in which there is located, or may in the future be located, a public sanitary
sewer within 200 feet of the property line, is hereby required, at the owner’s
expense, to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect such
facilities directly with the proper public sewer, in accordance with the
provisions of this article, within six months after official notice to do so;
provided that, upon approval of the POTW Superintendent, 30-day extensions can
be obtained beyond the six-month connection period.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-127 WASTE DISCHARGE PROHIBITED EXCEPT THROUGH APPROVED SEWER CONNECTION.
   All discharges to a sewer shall be through an approved sewer connection or
at another discharge point expressly approved by the POTW in accordance with
this article, the Water Utilities Director, and the building official. No
person shall discharge any waste or other substances into a manhole, catch
basin or inlet.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
SUBARTICLE 3. PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL
§ 29-128 PRIVATE TREATMENT AND DISPOSAL REQUIREMENTS.
   If a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the provisions
of Subarticle 2 of this division, the building sewer shall be connected to a
private sewage disposal system complying with all requirements of this
subarticle and of the county’s Health Department.
   (A)   Soil evaluation test; permit for installation. Before beginning the
construction or installation of a private sewage system, the person owning the
property shall first apply for and obtain from the county’s Health Department a
soil evaluation test and a construction permit.
   (B)   Lot size. No permit shall be issued for any private wastewater
disposal systems employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area
of the lot is less than determined necessary by the city and county or state
health officials, as applicable.
   (C)   When effective. A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall
not become effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of
the county’s Health Department. All persons receiving a permit for a private
sewage disposal system shall provide the Building Official with copies of all
final approved inspection reports issued by the county’s Health Department.
   (D)   Compliance. The type, capacities, location and layout of a private
wastewater disposal system shall comply with all local, county, state and
federal requirements.
   (E)   Discharge restrictions. No septic tank, cesspool, subsurface disposal
facility or other private sanitary sewer system shall be permitted to discharge
to any public sewer or natural outlet.
   (F)   Operation and maintenance. The owner shall operate and maintain the
private sewage disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no
expense to the city.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-129 ADDITIONAL PUBLIC HEALTH REQUIREMENTS.
   Nothing in this subarticle shall be construed to interfere with any
additional requirements that may be imposed by the city, the state’s Department
of Public Health or any other governmental agency.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-130 PUBLIC SEWER BECOMES AVAILABLE.
   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by a
private sewage disposal system, as provided in Subarticle 2 of this division, a
direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with this
article at the user’s sole expense; and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar
private sewage disposal facilities shall be cleaned of any sludge, abandoned
and filled with clean bank-run gravel or dirt, at the user’s sole expense.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
SUBARTICLE 4. BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 29-131 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening
into, use, alter or disturb any part or appurtenance of the sanitary sewer
system without first obtaining a written permit from the POTW Superintendent
and approval from the DPW Director and the Building Official.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-132 BUILDING SEWER CONNECTION PERMITS.
   (A)   There shall be two classes of building sewer connection permits:
      (1)   Domestic; and
      (2)   Non-domestic.
   (B)   In any case, the owner or the owner’s agent shall make application on
a special form furnished by the POTW. The connection permit application shall
be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information considered
necessary and appropriate in the judgment of the POTW Superintendent and the
Building Official. The permit and inspection fees as stated in the city fee
schedule shall be paid to the City Treasurer at the time the application is
filed.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-133 CONNECTION COSTS.
   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner or applicant. The city or a
contractor hired or approved by the city shall construct any needed lateral or
stub from the sanitary sewer system main to the property line. The property
owner shall pay all costs of such construction. The owner or applicant shall
indemnify the city from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be
occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-134 MULTIPLE BUILDINGS; SEPARATE USES WITHIN BUILDINGS.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building. Independent building sewers or control manholes may also be required
for separate uses within a building, as determined necessary by the POTW
Superintendent. Exceptions may be considered by the POTW Superintendent only
for preexisting buildings which cannot otherwise be connected to the sanitary
sewer system. Exceptions may also be considered by the POTW Superintendent for
integrated manufacturing facilities with process or assembly connections
between buildings.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-135 EXISTING BUILDING SEWERS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the POTW Superintendent and the
Building Official to meet all requirements of this article and adopted Plumbing
Code standards.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-136 CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS.
   The size, slope, alignment, materials or construction of a building sewer
and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench shall all conform to the requirements of the
Building and Plumbing Codes, or other applicable rules and regulations of the
city. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
American Society for Testing Materials (ASTM) and the Water Pollution Control
Federation (WPCF) “Manual of Practice No. 9” shall apply. All building drains
shall have check valves or other backflow preventers or the city shall be
immune from liability for and shall not pay any claims resulting from any
backflow of wastewater into the building.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-137 BUILDING SEWER ELEVATION AND LOCATION.
   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the buildings at
an elevation below the basement floor. No building sewer shall be laid parallel
to, or within three feet of, any bearing wall that might thereby be weakened.
The depth shall be sufficient to afford protection from frost. All excavations
required for the installation of a building sewer shall be open trench work
unless otherwise approved by the city permit agent. Pipe laying and backfill
shall be performed in accordance with current ASTM specifications; except that,
no backfill shall be placed until the work has been inspected by the city
permit agent.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-138 LOW BUILDING SEWERS.
   In all buildings in which any building sewer is too low to permit gravity
flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such drains shall be
lifted by artificial means and discharged to the building sewer, at the owner’s
expense, and subject to approval by the city permit agent.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-139 CONNECTION SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   The connection of the building sewer into the sanitary sewer
system shall conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Codes or
other applicable rules and regulations of the city, or the procedures set forth
in appropriate specifications, which shall require that the connections shall
be made gas-tight and water-tight.
      (2)   Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be
approved by the Building Official before installation.
   (B)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be
made at the wye branch designated for the property if such branch is available
at a suitable location. Any connection not made at the designated wye branch in
the main sewer shall be made only as directed by the city permit agent.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-140 NOTIFICATION; BUILDING SEWER INSPECTION.
   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Water Utilities
Director when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the
public sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the city
permit agent.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-141 PROTECTION AND RESTORATION.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the City Manager at the
expense of the owner.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-142 CAPACITY REQUIRED.
   Connection to a public sewer will not be allowed unless there is capacity
available (in both wastewater volume and strength) at the POTW treatment plant
and in all downstream sewers, pump stations, interceptors and force mains,
including, but not limited to, adequate capacity to accept, treat and dispose
of BOD, TSS or similar materials as required by applicable local, state or
federal laws, rules or regulations, as determined by the POTW.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-143 CONNECTION TO SOURCES OF RUNOFF PROHIBITED.
   No person shall connect roof downspouts, exterior foundation drains, areaway
drains or other sources of surface runoff or ground water to a building sewer
or building drain which in turn is connected directly or indirectly to the city
sewage system. Existing roof downspouts, exterior foundation drain, areaway
drains or other sources of surface runoff or ground water that are connected to
a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly or
indirectly to the city sewage system shall be disconnected, unless allowed at
the discretion of the Water Utilities Department, and the owner shall incur pay
charges and fees based on the Department’s estimate of the water volume
discharged to the city sewage system. Any such connection required to be
disconnected shall be permanently disconnected at the sole expense of the owner
of the premises.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-144 PRETREATMENT OF ANY DISCHARGE MAY BE REQUIRED.
   Pretreatment of any discharge to the public sewer, including, but not
limited to, grease, oil and sand interceptors, shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the POTW Superintendent, they are necessary.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
SUBARTICLE 5. CONDITIONS OF SERVICE
§ 29-145 SEWER MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   At the time of original construction of the public sewer, the POTW
shall install that portion of the building sewer from the public sewer to the
lot or easement line off all occupied premises. The POTW shall maintain, at its
expense, the public sewer.
   (B)   Users making connections at the time of original construction of the
public sewer shall install, at their expense, that portion of the building
sewer from the lot or easement line to their premises. Users shall maintain, at
their expense, the building sewers.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-146 CUSTOMER CONNECTION REQUIREMENTS.
   Users making connections subsequent to the time of original construction of
the public sewer shall install, at their expense, that portion of the building
sewer from the public sewer to the lot or easement line in addition to that
portion of the building sewer from the lot or easement line to their premises.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-147 DISRUPTION OF SERVICE.
   The city shall not be held responsible for claims made against it by reason
of the breaking of any mains or service laterals, or by reason of any other
interruption of the service caused by the breaking of machinery or stoppage for
necessary repairs; and no person shall be entitled to damages, nor have any
portion of a payment refunded for any interruption.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-148 SERVICE INSPECTIONS.
   All premises receiving sanitary sewer service shall at all times be subject
to inspection by duly authorized personnel of the POTW.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
SUBARTICLE 6. REGULATION OF DISCHARGES TO THE POTW
§ 29-149 DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No user shall discharge to the POTW, except in compliance with this
article.
   (B)   The general discharge prohibitions under subsection (A) above and the
specific discharge prohibitions under this subsection (B) apply to every user
whether or not the user is subject to any other national, state or local
pretreatment standards or requirements, and whether or not the discharge is
made pursuant to a user permit issued pursuant to this article.
      (1)   General prohibitions. No user shall contribute or cause to be
contributed, directly or indirectly to the POTW, any pollutant or wastewater
that will pass through or interfere with the operation or performance of the
POTW.
      (2)   Specific prohibitions. No user shall discharge or contribute to the
POTW, directly or indirectly, any of the pollutants, substances or wastewater
as provided by this subsection (B). This subsection (B)(2) sets forth the
minimum requirements for a user’s discharges to the POTW. Additional or more
restrictive requirements may be required of particular users by a user permit,
or as otherwise authorized or required by this article or other applicable laws
and regulations:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided by this subsection (B)(2),
pollutants in concentrations that exceed the daily maximum or monthly average
concentrations listed below in this subsection (B)(2)(a):
Parameter IMC (mg/1)1 Daily Max. (mg/1)1 Monthly Avg. (mg/1)1
Parameter                   IMC (mg/1)1 Daily Max. (mg/1)1 Monthly Avg. (mg/1)1
Ammonia nitrogen (NH3 as N) -           50.0               -
Arsenic                     -           0.5                -
BOD5                        -           300.03             -
Cadmium                     -           0.5                -
Chromium (hexavalent)       -           0.1                -
Chromium (T)                -           2.0                -
Copper                      -           1.0                -
Cyanide (amenable)          -           0.1                -
FOG                         -           1006               -
Lead                        -           0.4                -
Mercury                     NQ2         NQ2                -
Nickel                      -           1.0                -
Phosphorous (T)             -           20.04              -
Silver                      -           0.5                -
TSS                         -           250.05             -
Zinc                        -           3.0                -
Notes to Table:
IMC - Instantaneous Maximum Concentration Limit
T= Total
1 Discharges which contain more than one pollutant which may contribute to fume
toxicity shall be subject to more restrictive limitations, as determined
necessary by the POTW. The more restrictive discharge limits will be calculated
based on the additive fume toxicity of all compounds identified or reasonably
expected to be present in the discharge, including, without limitation, the
specific compounds, if any, listed in subsection (B).
Also, see § 29-153 of this chapter, regarding application of most restrictive
or additional standards or requirements under local, state and federal laws and
regulations.
2 NQ = NON-QUANTIFIABLE CONCENTRATION, defined as at or below the
quantification level of 0.2 ug/l using U.S. EPA method 245.1 (or at or below
other quantification levels applicable under alternative test methods required
by the POTW or by other applicable laws or regulations). Mercury sampling
procedures, preservation and handling, and analytical protocol for compliance
monitoring of a user’s discharge shall be in accordance with U.S. EPA method
245.1, unless the POTW Superintendent requires U.S. EPA method 1631 (or other
appropriate method). The quantification level shall be 0.2 ug/l for method
245.1 or 0.5 ng/l for method 1631, unless higher levels are approved by the
POTW Superintendent because of sample matrix interference.
3 Any discharge of BOD in excess of 200 mg/l shall be subject to surcharge as
provided by this article.
4 Any discharge of phosphorous (T) in excess of 10 mg/l shall be subject to
surcharge as provided by this article.
5 Any discharge of TSS in excess of 250 mg/l shall be subject to surcharge as
provided by this article.
6 Any discharge of FOG in excess of 50 mg/l shall be subject to surcharge as
provided by this article.
 
The IMO, daily maximum and monthly average limits listed above in this
subsection (B)(1) parameter are the concentrations which may not be exceeded
and at which enforcement begins. The surcharge threshold concentrations, as
specified in notes 3 through 6 above, are the concentrations above which
surcharges may be imposed. Discharges exceeding the surcharge thresholds, but
which are less than the IMC, daily maximum and monthly average limits (and
which do not violate any other applicable prohibitions, limitations, standards
or requirements), are not violations of this article, but are subject to
surcharges as provided by this article. All violations of applicable discharge
prohibitions and limitations and all instances of non-compliance with
applicable discharge requirements constitute a violation of this article,
subject to applicable fines, penalties and other enforcement actions. In no
event shall the imposition of a surcharge for a discharge which does not meet
the applicable prohibitions, limitations or requirements be construed as
authorizing the illegal discharge or otherwise excuse a violation of this
article.
 
         (b)   In place of using the concentration limits provided in
subsection (B)(2)(a) above, the POTW Superintendent may allocate specified
portions of the available total load to individual users as provided by this
subsection (B)(2).
            1.   As of the effective date of this article, the following total
loads are available for the following pollutant parameters:
 
Parameter                Daily Maximum Load Limit  Monthly Average Load Limit
                         (total lbs/day)           (total lbs/day)
BOD5                     19,337                    -
TSS                      17,242                    -
Ammonia nitrogen (NH3 as 59                        -
N)
Phosphorus (T)           35                        -
 
            2.   The POTW Superintendent may allocate portions of the available
total load for one or more of the parameters listed above to one or more
individual users. The amounts of the load(s) allocated to each user shall be
specified in the user’s user permit, along with any conditions as determined
necessary by the POTW Superintendent. Any discharge by a user in excess of the
loading allocated to the user in the user permit shall constitute a violation
of the user permit and this article.
            3.   Before allocating any amount of the available total load as
provided by this section, the POTW Superintendent must determine that the
proposed allocation will not cause the average composite loading of all users
discharging to the POTW to exceed the available total loading for any pollutant
as provided by subsection (B)(2)(a) above; will not interfere with the POTW’s
ability to accept and treat wastewater as required by the POTW’s NPDES permit
and other applicable laws and regulations; and that the allocation is otherwise
reasonable and appropriate under all of the circumstances.
            4.   If the POTW Superintendent allocates a portion of the
available total loading for some, but not all, of the pollutants listed
subsection (B)(2)(a) to a user, any pollutants not allocated a portion of the
available total loading shall be subject to the concentration limits provided
by subsection (B)(2)(a) above.
            5.   The allocation of a portion of available total load for a
pollutant to an individual user shall not affect the applicability of
surcharges to the user’s discharge of that pollutant as provided by subsection
(B)(2)(a) above.
            6.   Except as otherwise expressly provided by this section, an
allocation of load for a pollutant parameter shall not affect a user’s
obligation to comply with the requirements and standards of this article and
other applicable laws and regulations.
         (c)   1.   Pollutants in concentrations that exceed the instantaneous
maximum, daily maximum or monthly average concentrations listed below in this
subsection (B)(2)(c): Parameter:
            2.   PCBs. The instantaneous maximum concentration, daily maximum
and monthly average discharge limit for PCBs is non-detect. Except as otherwise
required by the POTW Superintendent, compliance with this limit shall be
determined as follows:
               a.   A compliance limit of “non-detect” shall be used for
instantaneous maximum concentration, daily maximum and monthly average. Any
discharge of PCBs at or above the quantification level is a specific violation
of this article.
               b.   PCB sampling procedures, preservation and handling, and
analytical protocol for compliance monitoring of a user’s discharge shall be in
accordance with U.S. EPA method 608. The quantification level shall be 0.1 ug/
l, unless higher levels are determined appropriate by the POTW Superintendent
because of sample matrix interference. Total PCBs shall be defined as the sum
of the aroclors 1016, 1221, 1232, 1242, 1248, 1254 and 1260. In addition, any
detected aroclorspecific measurements shall be reported.
         (d)   Any liquid, solid, gas or other pollutant (including, but not
limited to, gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel or fuel oil) which by reason of
its nature or quantity is sufficient either alone or by interaction with other
substances to create a fire or explosion hazard or be injurious in any other
way to persons, the POTW, or to the operation of the sewerage system,
including, but not limited to, wastestreams with a closed cup flashpoint of
less than 140°F or 60°C using test methods specified in 40 C.F.R. § 261.21;
         (e)   Pollutants that may cause corrosive structural damage to the
POTW, or that due to their corrosive properties are capable of causing injury
to persons or POTW personnel or harm to fish, animals or the environment.
Discharges that have a pH lower than 6.0 s.u. (instantaneous minimum) or
greater than 11.5 s.u. (instantaneous maximum) shall not be discharged, except
as follows: if a user is not regulated by state or federal categorical
pretreatment standards for pH, and pH is continuously monitored, then the user
may discharge wastewater with a pH less than 6.0 s.u., but greater than 5.0
s.u. for a period of time up to 15 consecutive minutes. Dischargers that use
this method are subject to enforcement under § 29-228(H) of this chapter.
Compliance with applicable minimum and maximum limits for pH shall be
determined based on instantaneous measurements only, and not on averaged
results;
         (f)   Any solid, insoluble or viscous substance in concentrations or
quantities which may cause obstruction to the flow in the POTW, may create an
encumbrance to the POTW operations, or which otherwise may result in
interference, including, but not limited to, grease, animal entrails or
tissues, bones, hair, hides or fleshings, whole blood, feathers, ashes,
cinders, sand, cement, spent lime, stone or marble dust, metal, glass, straw,
shavings, grass clippings, rags, strings, fibers, spent grains, spent hops,
wastepaper, wood, plastics, tar, asphalt residues, residues from refining or
processing of fuel or lubricating oil, mud or glass grinding or polishing
wastes or tumbling and deburring stones; or any material that can be disposed
of as trash;
         (g)   Any pollutant, including, but not limited to, oxygen-demanding
pollutants (BOD and the like), released at a flow rate and/or pollutant
concentration that may cause pass through or interference with the POTW or
constitute a slug load, or is otherwise discharged to the POTW in excessive
amounts;
         (h)   Wastewater (or vapor) having a temperature that will inhibit
biological activity in the POTW resulting in interference, or heat in such
quantities that the temperature at any lift station or at the POTW treatment
plant exceeds 104°F (40°C). No discharge to the POTW shall have a temperature
less than 40°F (4.4°C) or greater than 135°F (57.2°C), unless approved in
advance by the POTW Superintendent;
         (i)   Petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting oil or products of
mineral oil origin in amounts that will cause interference or pass through;
         (j)   Pollutants that result in the presence of gases, vapors or fumes
within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and safety
problems. This prohibition includes, but is not limited to, wastewaters which
contain liquids, solids or gases that cause gases, vapors or fumes from the
discharge to exceed 10% of the immediately dangerous to life and health (IDLH)
concentration. Discharges which contain more than one pollutant which may
contribute to fume toxicity shall be subject to more restrictive limitations,
as determined necessary by the POTW. The more restrictive discharge limits
shall be calculated based on the additive fume toxicity of all compounds
identified or reasonably expected to be present in the discharge;
         (k)   Trucked or hauled pollutants, except those introduced into the
system at discharge points designated by the POTW, subject to the prior
approval of the POTW Superintendent and prior issuance of a user permit.
            1.   The POTW Superintendent shall determine whether to allow the
discharge of trucked or hauled pollutants based on the particular nature,
character or quantity of the proposed discharge in accordance with the
discharge prohibitions, limitations and requirements provided by this
subarticle.
            2.   The POTW Superintendent may impose any conditions on the
discharge determined necessary to ensure compliance with this subarticle,
including, without limitation, conditions regarding the time, place and manner
of discharge, restrictions on the quantity and quality of the discharge and
sampling requirements.
            3.   The discharge shall not commence without prior notice to, and
authorization from, the POTW Superintendent, and a representative of the POTW
shall be present at all times during the discharge.
            4.   All trucked or hauled wastes to be discharged to the POTW must
be accompanied by a completed waste manifest form signed by the permittee and
the hauler as provided by the minimum requirements of this section. The
permittee shall certify in writing on the manifest as to the source of all
wastes in the load proposed to be discharged and that the wastes have been
pretreated as required by applicable pretreatment standards and requirements.
The hauler shall certify in writing on the manifest that no wastes other than
those listed on the manifest have been accepted by the hauler. The manifest
must be reviewed by the POTW Superintendent prior to commencing discharge of
the load. Failure to accurately record every load, falsification of data or
failure to transmit the form to the POTW Superintendent for review prior to
discharge shall constitute a violation of the permit and may result in
revocation of the permit and/or the imposition of fines and penalties as
provided by this subarticle.
            5.   The permittee’s discharge of hauled wastes shall be subject to
sampling by the POTW at any time, including, without limitation, prior to and
during discharge. The POTW Superintendent may require the permittee to refrain
from, or suspend, discharging until the sample analysis is complete.
            6.   Trucked or hauled pollutants will be accepted only if
transported to the POTW in compliance with state and federal hazardous waste
and liquid industrial waste laws.
            7.   Each discharge of trucked or hauled pollutants will be
accepted only after payment to the POTW of a trucked or hauled pollutant
discharge fee as stated in the city fee schedule to cover the POTW’s
administrative expenses and any additional treatment, handling or inspection
expenses incurred by the POTW in connection with the discharge. The fee shall
be paid and collected as provided for IPP fees by Subarticle 21 of this
chapter. This discharge fee shall be in addition to any sewer rates, fees,
charges or surcharges otherwise required by this article.
            8.   Prior to accepting a proposed discharge of trucked or hauled
pollutants, the POTW may be required to evaluate the capacity of the POTW to
accept such wastes by means including, but not limited to, a headworks analysis
or treatability study, as determined necessary by the POTW. All such evaluation
and analysis shall be at the sole cost of the user proposing the discharge and
shall be paid in full by the user whether or not the discharge of the trucked
or hauled pollutants is ultimately approved by the POTW. The POTW may require
the user to post a deposit or other form of surety, as determined sufficient
and appropriate by the POTW, to ensure payment by the user of all such costs.
         (l)   Wastewater with objectionable color or light absorbency
characteristics that may interfere with treatment processes or analytical
determinations, including, without limitation, dye wastes and vegetable tanning
solutions;
         (m)   Any garbage or other solid material that has not been properly
shredded;
         (n)   Solvent extractibles, including, without limitation, oil,
grease, wax, or fat, whether emulsified or not, in excess of applicable local
limits; or other substances that may solidify or become viscous (with a
viscosity of 110% of water) at temperatures between 32°F and 150°F in amounts
that may cause obstruction to the flow in sewers or other interference with the
operation of the POTW;
         (o)   Soluble substances in a concentration that may increase the
viscosity to greater than 10% over the viscosity of the water or in amounts
that will cause obstruction to the flow in the POTW resulting in interference;
         (p)   Any substance which exerts or causes a high or unusual
concentration of inert suspended solids, including, but not limited to, lime
slurries, diatomaceous earth and lime residues;
         (q)   Any wastewater which contains suspended solids of such
character, quantity or concentration that special attention is required, or
additional expense incurred, to process such materials at the POTW;
         (r)   Any substance which exerts or causes a high or unusual
concentration of dissolved solids, including, but not limited to, sodium
chloride or sodium sulfate;
         (s)   Noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, fumes or solids that
either singly or by interaction with other wastes are sufficient to create a
public nuisance, cause workplace conditions in violation of any applicable
workplace health or safety standard, pose a hazard to life, sufficient to
prevent entry into the sewers for maintenance and repair or cause any hazardous
or unsafe conditions for the general public;
         (t)   Antifreeze, motor oil, brake fluid, transmission fluid,
hydraulic fluid, cleaning solvents, oil-based paint, water-based paint with
mercury biocides and paint thinners;
         (u)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of a half-life or
concentration that may exceed limits established by applicable state or federal
laws, rules or regulations;
         (v)   Any pollutant that results in excess foaming during the
treatment process. Excess foaming is any foam that, in the opinion of the POTW
Superintendent, may interfere with the treatment process;
         (w)   Wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to injure or interfere
with any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or
animals, create a toxic effect in the receiving waters of the POTW, or to
exceed the limitation set forth in a categorical pretreatment standard;
         (x)   Any hazardous waste as defined by this article;
         (y)   Any medical or infectious wastes, as defined by the state’s
Department of Environmental Quality;
         (z)   Any substance that may cause the POTW’s effluent or any other
product of the POTW such as residues, sludges or scums, to be unsuitable for
reclamation, reuse or disposal, or otherwise interfere with the reclamation,
reuse or disposal process. In no case shall a substance discharged to the POTW
cause the POTW to be in non-compliance with sludge use or disposal criteria,
guidelines or regulations developed under § 405 of the Act; under the Solid
Waste Disposal Act (SWDA) (including Title II, more commonly referred to as
RCRA, and including state regulations contained in any state sludge management
plan prepared pursuant to Subtitle D of the SWDA); the Clean Air Act; the Toxic
Substances Control Act; the Marine Protection, Research and Sanctuaries Act; or
any more stringent state or local regulations, as applicable;
         (aa)   Any unpolluted water, non-contact cooling water, storm water,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff or subsurface drainage (except to a
storm sewer or a combined sewer as authorized by this article and other
applicable local, state and federal laws and regulations and subject to the
prior approval of the POTW Superintendent and the MDEQ);
         (bb)   Any contaminated ground water or landfill leachate determined
by the POTW to have a reasonable potential to adversely affect the operation of
the POTW, to result in pass through or interference, or to violate any
pretreatment standard or requirement;
         (cc)   Any substance that will cause the POTW to violate its NPDES
permit, the receiving water quality standards or associated local, state or
federal laws, rules or regulations;
         (dd)   Any substance which causes a high chlorine demand, including,
but not limited to, nitrite, cyanide, thiocyanate, sulfite and thiosulfate;
         (ee)   Any wastewater which exceeds applicable categorical
pretreatment standards, requirements or limits prescribed by local, state or
federal laws, rules or regulations;
         (ff)   Any compatible or incompatible pollutant in excess of the
allowed limits as determined by applicable local, state or federal laws, rules
or regulations;
         (gg)   Any sludge, precipitate or waste resulting from any industrial
or commercial treatment or pretreatment of any person’s wastewater or air
pollutants;
         (hh)   Residue (total on evaporation) in an amount that will cause
obstruction to the flow in the POTW resulting in interference;
         (ii)   Water or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment to only such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters;
         (jj)   Any non-domestic wastewater before the POTW has approved a
notice of intent submitted according to § 29-178 of this chapter;
         (kk)   Waste not typically discharged to a sanitary sewer system
unless specifically authorized by the POTW pursuant to policies and procedures
established by the city and subject to limitations set forth in this article;
         (ll)   Any mass, concentration or volume of a substance in excess of
the amount allowed in the user’s user permit; and
         (mm)   Any pollutant, substance or wastewater that, either directly or
indirectly, and either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, has a
reasonable potential to:
            1.   Create a chemical reaction with any materials of construction
to impair the strength or durability of sewer structures;
            2.   Cause a mechanical action that will damage or destroy sewer
structures;
            3.   Impede or restrict the hydraulic capacity of the POTW;
            4.   Interfere with normal inspection or maintenance of sewer
structures;
            5.   Place unusual demands upon the wastewater treatment equipment
or processes by biological, chemical or physical means; or
            6.   Cause a hazard to human life or create a public nuisance.
      (3)   Pollutant reduction plans. If the POTW Superintendent determines
that a user has the reasonable potential to discharge any regulated pollutant
(including, but not limited to, mercury or PCBs) to the POTW in quantities or
magnitude that may cause interference or pass through; adversely impact the
POTW, its processes or beneficial use of biosolids; cause non-compliance with
applicable federal or state laws or regulations; cause the POTW to violate its
NPDES permit, or otherwise fail to meet the purposes and objectives of this
article, then the POTW Superintendent may require the user to develop, submit
for approval, and implement a reduction plan (“RP”) for the pollutant, as
provided by this section. The RP may be imposed as a condition to a user
permit, or may be required independently and even if a user permit has not been
issued to the user.
         (a)   At a minimum, the RP shall contain such requirements and
conditions as determined necessary by the POTW Superintendent to ensure that
the pollutant reduction efforts will be effective in achieving the goals of
this article (including, but not limited to, requirements and conditions
regarding user source identification; best management practices; schedules of
compliance; monitoring, sampling and analysis; reporting; treatment system for
removal of the pollutant from the discharged wastewater; written procedures for
disposal of contaminated wastes and wastewater; employee training and ongoing
employee training requirements regarding pollutant related issues; elimination,
if feasible, of any purchased materials containing the pollutant; and any other
elements determined necessary and appropriate under the circumstances by the
POTW Superintendent).
         (b)   The goal of an RP shall be to maintain the amount of one or more
pollutants or substances at or below the applicable discharge limits or levels,
or such other goals as required by the POTW. The POTW Superintendent may, in
the POTW Superintendent’s discretion, consider cost effectiveness during the
development and implementation of an RP.
         (c)   The POTW Superintendent may require any user to submit an RP
that describes the control strategy designed to proceed toward achievement of
the specified goal and shall at a minimum include, but shall not be limited to,
all of the following as determined necessary by the POTW Superintendent on a
case-by-case basis:
            1.   Periodic monitoring for the pollutant in the user’s discharge;
            2.   Periodic monitoring of the potential sources of the pollutant
in the user’s discharge;
            3.   A commitment by the user that reasonable control measures and/
or best management practices will be implemented when sources of the pollutant
are discovered. Factors to be considered by the POTW may include the following:
               a.   Significance of sources;
               b.   Economic considerations;
               c.   Technical and treatability considerations; and
               d.   Such other factors as determined appropriate by the POTW
Superintendent.
            4.   An annual status report. The report shall be sent by the user
to the POTW and shall include, at a minimum, all of the following:
               a.   All RP monitoring results for the previous year;
               b.   A list of potential sources of the pollutant in the user’s
discharge;
               c.   A summary of all actions taken by the user to reduce or
eliminate the identified sources of the pollutant or substance;
               d.   As determined necessary by the POTW Superintendent, the
Superintendent may require a user to develop, submit and implement an RP for
any pollutant or substance regulated by this article. The POTW Superintendent
may also modify an approved RP at any time as determined necessary by the POTW
Superintendent to meet the goals and objectives of this article;
               e.   Failure to submit an approvable RP within the specified
deadlines or to fully and timely comply with any condition or requirement of an
approved RP shall constitute a violation of this article, subject to the fine,
penalty and other enforcement provisions of this article; and
               f.   Holding enforcement action in abeyance. Except as provided
for in this subsection (B)(3) above, if the effluent sample analysis results of
a user’s discharge exceeds the applicable discharge limit, detection level, or
quantification level for a pollutant, the POTW Superintendent may, in the POTW
Superintendent’s sole discretion, nevertheless allow that discharge to continue
and may hold any enforcement action regarding the prohibited discharge in
abeyance, subject to the terms, conditions, and requirements of this subsection
(B)(3), as follows>
                  i.   If an approved RP is already in place: if effluent
sample analysis results exceeds the applicable discharge limit, detection level
or quantification level for a pollutant for which an approved RP is already in
place, then the POTW Superintendent may, in the POTW Superintendent’s sole
discretion, nevertheless allow that discharge to continue and may hold any
enforcement action regarding the prohibited discharge in abeyance for the
period that the sample represents if the RP (and all terms, conditions and
requirements thereof) is being fully and continually performed in good faith by
the user, as determined by the POTW Superintendent, and subject to all of the
requirements and conditions of this subsection (B)(3).
                  ii.   If an approved RP is not already in place: if effluent
sample analysis results exceeds the applicable discharge limit, detection level
or quantification level for a pollutant for which an approved RP is not already
in place, then the POTW Superintendent may, in the POTW Superintendent’s sole
discretion, nevertheless allow that discharge to continue and may hold any
enforcement regarding the prohibited discharge in abeyance, subject to all of
the requirements and conditions of this subsection (B)(3); and, provided
further, as follows: the user with the non-compliant discharge shall develop
and implement an RP approved by the POTW Superintendent to minimize the user’s
discharges of the pollutant in question to the POTW. The RP shall meet all of
the requirements of this subsection (C).
                  iii.   The following requirements and conditions shall apply
to any situation under this subsection (C)(3) in which an enforcement action is
held in abeyance as provided by this subsection (C)(3) (regardless of whether
or not an RP was in place at the time of the non-compliance).
                     (A)   The user with the non-compliant discharge shall have
a POTW-accessible point for monitoring all discharges from the user to the
POTW, as approved by the POTW. All costs and expenses for and related to the
installation and maintenance of this monitoring point and any required sampling
devices shall be paid for solely by the user.
                     (B)   The user with the non-compliant discharge shall
routinely self-monitor its discharges to the POTW for the pollutant in question
using the sampling methods, procedures, preservation and handling, and
analytical protocol required by the POTW Superintendent and at the frequency
specified by the POTW Superintendent. All costs and expenses of this sampling
and analysis shall be paid for solely by the user.
                     (C)   The POTW may collect any additional samples of the
user’s discharge as determined necessary by the POTW Superintendent, all costs
and expenses to be paid for by the user.
                     (D)   If the user complies with all of the requirements
and conditions for the RP as specified by the POTW Superintendent; and if the
POTW Superintendent determines that all reasonable and cost-effective actions
based on the economic, technical, and treatability considerations, including,
but not limited to, all elements of the user’s RP, have been, and continue to
be, fully and satisfactorily implemented by the user; and if the user’s
discharge does not cause interference or pass through; adversely impact the
POTW, its processes or beneficial use of biosolids; cause non-compliance with
applicable federal or state laws or regulations; cause the POTW to violate its
NPDES permit, or otherwise fail to meet the purposes and objectives of this
article, then the POTW may, in its discretion, hold enforcement action in
abeyance and allow the user to continue the non- compliant discharge.
                     (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of this subsection (B)
(3) to the contrary, and regardless of whether a user fully complies with all
requirements and conditions of this section and/or of an approved RP, the POTW
Superintendent shall have the unconditional right to prohibit and terminate any
non- compliant discharge at any time and without prior notice, and to take any
enforcement action in response thereto, including any enforcement action that
had previously been held in abeyance under this subsection (B)(3).
                     (F)   Notwithstanding any provision of this subsection (B)
(3) to the contrary, the POTW Superintendent shall not hold an enforcement
action in abeyance as provided by this subsection (B)(3) for any pollutant
parameter other than mercury and PCBs unless the POTW Superintendent has first
obtained approval from the MDEQ to implement the requirements of this
subsection (B)(3) for the specific pollutant parameter in question.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-150 PRETREATMENT STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Compliance with applicable standards and requirements. The national
categorical pretreatment standards as established for specific industries under
40 C.F.R. Chapter I, Subchapter N, are hereby made a part of the requirements
of this article in accordance with federal and state laws and regulations, and
are incorporated by reference as if fully set forth in this article. A user
shall comply with all categorical pretreatment standards and any other
pretreatment requirements established under the Act that are applicable to that
user. A user shall also comply with all other applicable pretreatment standards
and requirements established under this article or under state and federal laws
and regulations.
   (B)   Deadlines for compliance. Compliance by existing sources with
categorical pretreatment standards shall be within three years of the date the
standard is effective unless a shorter compliance time is specified by 40
C.F.R. Chapter 1, Subchapter N. Existing sources that become industrial users
subsequent to promulgation of an applicable categorical pretreatment standard
shall be considered existing industrial users except where such sources meet
the definition of “new source”. New sources shall install and have in operating
condition, and shall start up all pollution control equipment required to meet
applicable pretreatment standards and requirements before beginning to
discharge. Within the shortest feasible time (not to exceed 90 days), new
sources must meet all applicable pretreatment standards and requirements.
   (C)   Alternative categorical limits. Categorical pretreatment standards
shall apply to a user subject to categorical standards, unless an enforceable
alternative limit to the corresponding national categorical standards is
derived using any of the methods specified in M.A.C. R 323.2313 (regarding
removal credits, fundamentally different factor variances, net/gross
calculations, equivalent mass per day limitations, and combined wastestream
formula alternative limitations). The use of any alternative categorical limit
shall be subject to the prior approval of the POTW Superintendent. If local
limits are more stringent than derived alternative categorical limits, the
local limits shall control.
   (D)   Compliance with other applicable laws and regulations. Users of the
POTW shall comply with all local, state and federal laws and regulations that
may apply to their discharges to the POTW, including, but not limited to,
Article II, Air Pollution Control, Public Act 451, part 55, of 1994 (the
Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Act).
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-151 RIGHT OF REVISION.
   The POTW reserves the right to establish more restrictive prohibitions,
limitations and requirements for discharges to the POTW to prevent interference
or pass through, to protect the POTW, to comply with applicable federal or
state laws or regulations, to comply with the POTW’s NPDES permit, or as
otherwise determined necessary by the POTW Superintendent.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-152 POTW’S RIGHT TO REFUSE OR CONDITION DISCHARGE.
   The POTW may refuse to accept, or may condition its acceptance of, all or
any portion of any proposed or existing discharge to the POTW from any person,
regardless of whether or not a user permit has been issued for the discharge,
if the POTW Superintendent determines that the discharge has a reasonable
potential to: adversely affect the operation of the POTW; result in pass
through or interference; violate any pretreatment standard or requirement;
cause the POTW to violate its NPDES permit; or if the impacts of the discharge
on the POTW or the POTW’s discharge are uncertain or unknown (because, for
example, no local limits or headworks analysis has been conducted for
particular pollutants in the discharge). If the POTW Superintendent denies any
person permission to commence or continue all or any portion of a discharge to
the POTW, the person shall refrain from commencing to discharge or shall
immediately terminate the discharge to the POTW and shall not thereafter
recommence discharge without written authorization from the POTW
Superintendent. Similarly, if the POTW Superintendent denies any person
permission to commence or continue all or any portion of a discharge to the
POTW, except subject to conditions determined necessary and appropriate by the
POTW Superintendent, the person shall refrain from commencing or continuing the
discharge, except in full compliance with those conditions. This includes, but
is not limited to, the POTW’s right to revise or revoke user permits.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-153 MOST RESTRICTIVE STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS APPLY.
   Notwithstanding any provision of this article to the contrary, the most
stringent or restrictive standard or requirement applicable to a user’s
discharge shall control, whether established by this article, by any notice,
order, permit, decision or determination promulgated, issued or made by the
POTW under this article, by state laws or regulations, including the POTW’s
NPDES permit, or by federal laws or regulations. Further, if state or federal
laws or regulations provide for standards and requirements not covered by this
article that are otherwise applicable to a user’s discharge, those standards
and requirements shall apply to the user in addition to those required by this
article, and the most restrictive of those additional standards or requirements
shall control and shall be complied with by the user within the time period
required by the law or regulation.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-154 DILUTION PROHIBITED AS SUBSTITUTE FOR TREATMENT.
   Unless expressly authorized to do so by an applicable pretreatment standard
or requirement and subject to the prior approval of the POTW Superintendent, no
user shall ever increase the use of process water, mix separate wastestreams or
in any other way attempt to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete
substitute for adequate treatment to achieve compliance with a federal, state
or local standard, requirement or limitation. The POTW may impose mass
limitations on non-domestic users that are using dilution to meet applicable
pretreatment standards or requirements and in other cases where the imposition
of mass limitations is appropriate. No user intending to use dilution as a
substitute for treatment shall do so without the prior approval of the POTW
Superintendent consistent with the requirements of this section.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
SUBARTICLE 7. USER PERMITS
§ 29-155 USER PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Industrial user permits. It is unlawful and prohibited for any
significant industrial user (SIU), or any other user as determined necessary by
the POTW Superintendent to carry out the purposes of this article, to discharge
to the POTW without an industrial user permit as provided by this subarticle.
   (B)   General user permits. The POTW Superintendent may require any user
other than an SIU to obtain a general user permit to discharge to the POTW,
subject to such terms and conditions as are determined necessary and
appropriate by the POTW to achieve the purposes, policies and objectives of
this article.
      (1)   A general user permit may contain, but shall not be required to
contain, any of the terms and conditions that would apply to an industrial user
permit issued to an SIU as provided by this subarticle to comply with the
general and specific discharge prohibitions of this article, including, but not
limited to, discharge limitations, and requirements regarding sampling and
monitoring; pretreatment; pollution prevention, minimization or reductions
plans; accidental discharge, spill prevention and containment requirements;
flow equalization; and implementation of best management practices or a best
management practices plan.
      (2)   To the extent determined appropriate by the POTW Superintendent on
a case-by case basis, a general user permit issued under this subsection shall
be subject to provisions otherwise applicable to permits for SIUs. However, all
general user permits shall be non-transferable, and are subject to the permit
fee and permit appeals provisions of this article.
      (3)   It is unlawful and prohibited for any user required by the POTW
Superintendent to obtain a general user permit to discharge to the POTW without
a general user permit as provided by this subarticle.
      (4)   Failure to comply with a general user permit issued under this
subsection (B) constitutes a violation of this article.
      (5)   In no case shall a general user permit be construed to authorize
the illegal discharge or otherwise excuse a violation of this article.
   (C)   Violations. Any violation of the terms or conditions of a user permit
is a violation of this article, subject to the fine, penalty and other
enforcement provisions of this article. Obtaining a user permit shall not
relieve a user of its obligation to obtain other permits or approvals that may
be required by other local, state or federal laws or regulations.
   (D)   Limitations of permit. The issuance of a user permit shall not convey
to a user any property rights or privilege of any kind whatsoever, nor shall it
be construed to authorize any injury to private or public property or any
invasion of personal rights, nor any violation of local, state or federal laws
or regulations.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-156 DETERMINATION OF USER STATUS.
   (A)   The POTW may require any user to submit information to the POTW for
its use in determining whether the user’s status, including, but not limited
to, whether the user is an SIU, as well as to determine changes or the absence
or inadequacy of changes in a user’s facilities.
   (B)   The POTW shall notify a non-domestic user of the POTW’s belief that
the user is, or may be, an SIU. Upon such notification, the user must complete
and submit an application for an industrial user permit on a form furnished by
the POTW. The failure of the POTW to so notify a non-domestic user shall not
relieve any SIU of the duty to obtain a permit as required by this article.
   (C)   Upon determination that a user permit is required, no connection to
the POTW shall be made and no discharge thereto shall occur until a permit is
duly issued; provided, however, that, the POTW may at its discretion issue a
written authorization in place of a permit, which authorization shall be valid
for a period not to exceed 60 days.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-157 PERMIT APPLICATION DEADLINES.
   Each user must file an application for a user permit on the form provided by
the POTW within the following deadlines.
   (A)   Existing S/Us. Any SIU discharging into the POTW as of the effective
date of this article shall submit a completed permit application form to the
POTW as provided by this subarticle within 60 days of being so directed and
provided a form by the POTW.
   (B)   Proposed new S/Us. Any SIU proposing to commence (or recommence)
discharging into the POTW after the effective date of this article shall, at
least 60 days prior to the anticipated date on which discharging will commence
(or recommence), request a permit application form and submit the completed
application to the POTW.
   (C)   Categorical users subject to new standard. A user which becomes
subject to a new or revised national categorical pretreatment standard, and
which has not previously submitted an application for a permit as required
herein, shall apply to the POTW for an industrial user permit within 90 days
after the promulgation of the applicable national categorical pretreatment
standard. The POTW may also initiate this action; however, the failure of the
POTW so to do shall not relieve a user of its obligation to obtain a permit.
   (D)   Other users. Any other user directed by the POTW to complete and
submit a user permit application shall do so within 60 days of being so
directed by the POTW and provided a form by the POTW. Any user not required to
obtain a user permit for existing discharges must apply for and receive a user
permit prior to changing the user’s discharge in such a manner that the
resulting discharge would require a user permit.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-158 PERMIT APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   All users shall submit the information required by this section on the user
permit application form supplied by the POTW (or attached thereto) at a level
of detail and in units and terms as determined necessary by the POTW to
adequately evaluate the application, accompanied by payment of a permit
application review fee as stated in the city fee schedule. A separate
application and supporting documentation shall be submitted for each separate
location for which a user permit is required:
   (A)   The name, address and location of the facility or premises from which
discharge will be made, including the names of the owner(s) and operator(s) of
the facility or premises;
   (B)   Corporate or individual name, federal employer identification number,
address and telephone number of the applicant;
   (C)   Whether the user is a corporation, partnership, proprietorship or
other type of entity and the name of the person(s) responsible for discharges
by the user;
   (D)   Name and title of the local authorized representative of the user who
will have the authority to bind the applicant financially and legally, and who
is authorized by the applicant as its agent to accept service of legal process,
and the address and telephone number of such representative;
   (E)   The standard industrial classification (SIC) numbers of all processes
at the location for which application is made, according to the “Standard
Industrial Classification Manual”, as amended (or, if applicable, the North
American Industrial Classification System (NAICS) designation); and
   (F)   Actual or proposed wastewater constituents and characteristics for
each parameter listed in the permit application, including, but not limited to,
any pollutants that are limited or regulated by any federal, state or local
standards or requirements. The information provided for such parameters shall
include all of the following:
      (1)   Pollutants having numeric or narrative limitations as provided by
this article;
      (2)   Pollutants limited by national categorical pretreatment standards
regulations for similar industries;
      (3)   For each parameter, the expected or experienced maximum and average
concentrations during a one-year period shall be provided;
      (4)   For industries subject to national categorical pretreatment
standards or requirements, the data required shall be separately shown for each
categorical process wastestream and shall include all information required in §
29-171(A) of this chapter for a baseline monitoring report; and
      (5)   Combined wastestreams proposed to be regulated by the combined
wastestream formula shall be specified.
   (G)   For purposes of information required by the application, sampling and
analysis shall be performed in accordance with the following: procedures
established by U.S. EPA pursuant to § 304(g) of the Act and as contained in 40
C.F.R. part 136, as amended. If 40 C.F.R. part 136 does not include a sampling
or analytical technique for the pollutant in question, sampling and analysis
shall be performed in accordance with the procedures in U.S. EPA publication
“Sampling and Analysis Procedures for Screening of Industrial Effluents for
Priority Pollutants”, April 1977, and amendments or revisions thereto, or where
appropriate and applicable, in accordance with any other sampling and
analytical procedures approved by EPA;
   (H)   A listing and description of the following: plant activities, plant
facilities and plant processes on the premises for which the permit is being
applied. Processes which are subject to national categorical pretreatment
standards or requirements shall be so designated, and identification of which
pollutants are associated with each process shall be stated;
   (I)   A listing of raw materials and chemicals that are either used in the
manufacturing process or could yield the pollutants referred to in this
section. Any user claiming immunity from having to provide such information
shall furnish proof of such immunity that is acceptable to the POTW
Superintendent and in accordance with all applicable local, state and federal
laws and regulations;
   (J)   A statement containing information on the spill containment and
prevention of accidental/spill discharges program for each of the pollutants
referred to in this section. The information provided shall include the
following:
      (1)   The approximate average and maximum quantities of such substances
kept on the premises in the form of the following:
         (a)   Raw materials;
         (b)   Chemicals; and/or
         (c)   Wastes therefrom.
      (2)   The containment capacity for each of the above items. The following
requirements apply for purposes of the spill containment and prevention
statement required by this subsection (J)(2).
         (a)   For raw materials, chemical solutions or waste materials that do
not contain any substance on the critical materials register promulgated by the
state’s Department of Environmental Quality, only substances which are in a
form which could readily be carried into the sewerage system and which
constitute a concentration of 5% or greater on a dry weight basis in the raw
material, chemical solution or waste material are required to be included in
the statement. Volumes of less than 55 gallons or the equivalent need not be
included unless lesser quantities could cause interference or pass through to
the sewerage system.
         (b)   For raw materials, chemical solutions or waste materials that
contain any amount of any substance on the critical materials register
promulgated by the state’s Department of Environmental Quality, the statement
shall include the name of the substance and the expected concentration so that
the POTW Superintendent can determine whether or not it may constitute a threat
to the POTW if a spill occurs.
   (K)   The name and address of each laboratory performing analytical work for
the user submitting the application;
   (L)   A description of typical daily and weekly operating cycles for each
process in terms of starting and ending times for each of the seven days of the
week;
   (M)   Average and maximum 24-hour wastewater flow rates, including 30-minute
peak wastewater flow rates, and daily, monthly and seasonal variations, if any;
and a list of each national categorical process wastestream flow rate and the
cooling water, sanitary water and storm water flow rates separately for each
connection to the POTW, and list showing each combined wastestream;
   (N)   A drawing showing all sewer connections and sampling manholes by the
size, location, elevation and points or places of discharges into the POTW;
   (O)   A flow schematic drawing showing which connections receive each
national categorical process wastestream or other process wastestreams, and
which connections receive storm water, sanitary water or cooling water;
   (P)   A schematic drawing showing which sewers handle each combined
wastestream;
   (Q)   Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes and the
rate of production as pertains to processes subject to production-based limits
under national categorical standards or requirements shall be specified;
   (R)   Actual or proposed hours of operation of each pretreatment system for
each production process;
   (S)   A description and schematic drawing showing each pretreatment
facility, identifying whether each such facility is of the batch type or
continuous process type;
   (T)   If other than potable water is used, identification of the user’s
source of intake water together with the types of usage and disposal method of
each water source and the estimated wastewater volume from each source;
   (U)   A statement regarding whether the requirements of this article and the
national categorical pretreatment standards and requirements are being met on a
consistent basis; and if not, what additional operation and maintenance work
and/or additional construction is required for the user to comply with
applicable standards and requirements;
   (V)   A list of all environmental permits (and, if requested by the POTW
Superintendent, a copy of any environmental permit) held by the user applicable
to the premises for which the user permit is being sought;
   (W)   Whether additional operation and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional
pretreatment is required for the user to meet all applicable federal, state and
local pretreatment standards and requirements. If additional O&M or additional
pretreatment will be required to meet the applicable standards and
requirements, then the user shall indicate the shortest time schedule necessary
to accomplish installation or adoption of the additional O&M and/or
pretreatment. The completion date in this schedule shall not be longer than the
compliance date established for the applicable pretreatment standard. The
following conditions shall apply to this schedule.
      (1)   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of dates
for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction
and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the
applicable pretreatment standards (including, without limitation, hiring an
engineer, completing preliminary plans, completing final plans, executing
contracts for major components, commencing construction, completing
construction, beginning operation and conducting routine operation). No
increment referred to above shall exceed nine months, nor shall the total
compliance period exceed 18 months.
      (2)   No later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and the
final date for compliance, the user shall submit a progress report to the POTW
including, at a minimum, whether or not it complied with the increment of
progress, the reason for any delay and, if appropriate, the steps being taken
by the user to return to the established schedule. In no event shall more than
nine months elapse between submission of the progress reports to the POTW.
   (X)   Any other information determined necessary by the POTW to adequately
evaluate the application. To the extent that actual data is not available for a
new source, the applicant shall supply estimated or expected information; and
   (Y)   All applications (and reapplications) shall be signed and certified by
an “authorized representative” of the user as defined by this article.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-159 PERMIT ISSUANCE, DENIAL OR DETERMINATION THAT PERMIT NOT REQUIRED.
   (A)   The POTW shall evaluate the application information furnished by a
user and may require additional information as necessary to complete and
properly review the application. No action shall be taken by the POTW on an
application (and the 120-day review period as provided by this subsection shall
not begin to run) until the application is determined to be complete by the
POTW Superintendent. Within 120 days after the submission of a complete
application (unless the POTW and the applicant agree to extend this time
period), the POTW shall either issue a user permit subject to terms and
conditions provided by this article, deny the application or determine that a
permit is not required as provided by this article.
   (B)   A user permit may be denied by the POTW:
      (1)   If the POTW determines that the proposed discharge, or continued
discharge, will not comply with all applicable standards and requirements of
this article;
      (2)   If the user refuses, fails or declines to accept the terms and
conditions of a permit as proposed to be issued by the POTW;
      (3)   For any reason that would support a suspension or revocation of the
permit as provided by this article;
      (4)   If the POTW determines that the POTW cannot adequately or
reasonably treat the user’s discharge (due to insufficient capacity, the
quality or quantity of the pollutants, available POTW resources and the like);
      (5)   If the POTW is not satisfied that the user has not taken all
reasonable steps to prevent, minimize or reduce pollutants in the user’s
discharge;
      (6)   To prevent the discharge of pollutants into the POTW, singly or in
combination with other pollutants, for which there is a reasonable potential,
as determined by the POTW Superintendent, to:
         (a)   Not meet applicable pretreatment standards and requirements;
         (b)   Interfere with the operation of the POTW;
         (c)   Pass through the POTW into the receiving waters or the
atmosphere;
         (d)   Inhibit or disrupt the POTW’s processing, use or disposal of
sludge;
         (e)   Cause health or safety problems for POTW workers; or
         (f)   Result in a violation of the POTW’s NPDES permit or of other
applicable laws and regulations.
      (7)   If the POTW determines that there is not, or will not be,
sufficient capacity available (in both wastewater volume and strength) for a
proposed discharge in all downstream sewers, pump stations, interceptors and
force mains, including, but not limited to, adequate capacity to accept, treat
and dispose of BOD, TSS or similar materials as required by applicable local,
state or federal laws, rules or regulations; or
      (8)   For any other reason determined by the POTW Superintendent as
necessary and appropriate to protect the POTW or to meet the purposes and
intent of this article.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-160 PERMIT CONDITIONS.
   (A)   User permits shall be subject to all provisions of this article and
all other applicable regulations, user charges, and fees established City
Council as listed in the city fee schedule. Further, user permits incorporate
by reference all provisions, regulations and requirements of the article
without setting them forth in full therein.
   (B)   Industrial user permits shall at a minimum include all of the
conditions required by M.A.C. 323.2306(a)(iii). In addition, user permits shall
include any conditions determined reasonably necessary by the POTW
Superintendent to prevent pass through or interference, to protect the quality
of the receiving waters, to protect worker health and safety, to facilitate
POTW sludge management and disposal, to protect ambient air quality, to protect
against damage to the POTW or to otherwise achieve the objectives of this
article, including, but not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Limits on the average and/or maximum rate of discharge, time of
discharge and/or requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
      (2)   Limits on the average and/or maximum concentration, mass or other
measure of identified wastewater constituents or properties;
      (3)   Requirements for installation of pretreatment technology or
construction of appropriate containment devices or similar requirements
designed to reduce, eliminate or prevent the introduction of pollutants into
the treatment works;
      (4)   Development and implementation of slug discharge control plans,
spill control plans or other special conditions, including additional
management practices necessary to adequately prevent accidental or
unanticipated discharges;
      (5)   Requirements for installation, maintenance, repair, calibration and
operation of inspection and sampling facilities and discharge flow monitors;
      (6)   Specifications for monitoring programs which shall include, but are
not limited to, sampling locations, frequency of sampling, number, types and
standards for tests and reporting schedules;
      (7)   Compliance schedules;
      (8)   Requirements for submission of technical reports or discharge
reports;
      (9)   Requirements for maintaining and retaining plant records relating
to wastewater discharge as specified by the POTW and affording the POTW access
to those records;
      (10)   Requirements for notifying the POTW if self-monitoring indicates a
violation as provided by §
29-174 of this chapter and for repeat sampling and analysis as provided by §
29-187 of this chapter;
      (11)   Requirements for notification of any new introductions of
wastewater constituents or of any substantial change in the volume or character
of the wastewater being introduced into the POTW, including listed or
characteristic hazardous waste for which the user has submitted initial
notification under M.A.C. R 323.2310(15);
      (12)   Requirements for the notification of any change in the
manufacturing and/or pretreatment process used by the permittee;
      (13)   Requirements for notification of accidental or slug discharges or
discharges that exceed a discharge prohibition;
      (14)   Requirements for notification and need for prior approval from the
POTW Superintendent for any proposed change in a sampling location;
      (15)   A statement regarding limitations on transferability of the
permit;
      (16)   A statement of the duration of the permit;
      (17)   A statement that compliance with the permit does not relieve the
permittee of responsibility for compliance with all applicable pretreatment
standards and requirements, including those that become effective during the
term of the permit;
      (18)   Requirements for a written certification signed by the permittee
that acknowledges that the permittee has read and fully understands all terms
and conditions of the permit; and acknowledges that the permittee accepts all
of the terms and conditions of the permit as written and accepts full
responsibility for complying with the permit as approved;
      (19)   A statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for
violation of discharge limitations, pretreatment standards and requirements and
compliance schedules;
      (20)   Requirements regarding development by a user of a pollutant
prevention, minimization or reduction plan (e.g., for mercury or PCBs) or
requirements regarding use of best management practices to control, contain,
treat, prevent or reduce the discharge of wastewater, pollutants or other
substances to the POTW, or otherwise meet the purposes, policies and objectives
of this article; and
      (21)   Other conditions as determined necessary by the POTW
Superintendent to ensure compliance with this article and other applicable
laws, rules and regulations. If the POTW determines that a user is discharging
substances of a quality, in a quantity or in a location that may cause problems
to the POTW or the receiving stream, the POTW has the authority to develop and
enforce effluent limits applicable to the user’s discharge.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-161 PERMIT MODIFICATIONS.
   A user permit may be modified by the POTW at any time and for any reason
determined necessary by the POTW Superintendent to assure compliance with the
requirements of this article and other applicable laws and regulations,
including, without limitation, any of the following reasons:
   (A)   To incorporate any new or revised federal, state or local pretreatment
standards or requirements, or other applicable requirement of law or
regulation;
   (B)   Material or substantial changes or additions to the permittee’s
operations, processes or the character or quality of discharge that were not
considered in drafting or issuing the existing permit. It shall be the duty of
a user to request an application form and to apply for a modification of the
permit within 30 days of any such change(s). The POTW may modify a permit on
its own initiative based on its findings or upon reasonable cause to believe
that any such change(s) has occurred or threatens to occur;
   (C)   A change in any condition in the permittee’s discharge, facility,
production or operations, or in the POTW, that requires either a temporary or
permanent reduction or elimination of the permittee’s discharge to assure
compliance with applicable laws, regulations or the POTW’s NPDES permit;
   (D)   Information indicating that the permitted discharge poses a threat to
collection or treatment systems; the POTW’s processing, use or disposal of
sludge; POTW personnel; or the receiving waters;
   (E)   Violation of any terms or conditions of the user’s permit;
   (F)   Misrepresentation or failure to disclose fully all relevant facts in
the permit application or in any required report or notice;
   (G)   Revision of, or a grant of a variance from, applicable categorical
standards pursuant to 40 C.F.R. § 403.13;
   (H)   To correct typographical or other errors in the permit;
   (I)   To reflect transfer of the facility ownership and/or operation to a
new owner or operator;
   (J)   To add or revise a compliance schedule for the permittee;
   (K)   To reflect changes or revisions in the POTW’s NPDES permit;
   (L)   To ensure POTW compliance with applicable sludge management
requirements promulgated by EPA;
   (M)   To incorporate any new or revised requirements resulting from
reevaluation of the POTW’s local limits; and
   (N)   To incorporate a request for modification by the permittee, as
determined appropriate by the POTW and provided the request does not create a
violation of any applicable requirement, standard, law, rule or regulation. The
permittee shall be informed of any changes in the permit at least 30 days prior
to the effective date of the change, unless a shorter time is determined
necessary by the POTW to meet applicable laws, to protect human health or the
environment or to facilitate an enforcement action.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-162 PERMIT DURATION.
   (A)   Industrial user permits shall be issued for a specified time period,
not to exceed five years, subject to modification, reissuance, suspension or
revocation as provided by this subarticle. At the discretion of the POTW, an
industrial user permit may be issued for a period less than five years and may
be stated to expire on a specific date.
   (B)   General user permits may be issued for any time period determined
appropriate by the POTW Superintendent, subject to modification, reissuance,
suspension or revocation as provided by this subarticle.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-163 PERMIT REISSUANCE.
   (A)   To apply for reissuance of an existing user permit, a user must submit
a complete permit application to the POTW accompanied by payment of an
application fee, as stated in the city fee schedule, at least 90 days prior to
the expiration of the user’s existing permit (or at least 180 days prior to the
expiration of a five-year permit). The application shall be submitted in a form
prescribed by the POTW. It shall be the responsibility of the user to make a
timely application for reissuance.
   (B)   All user permits issued to a particular user are void upon the
issuance of a new user permit to that user.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-164 CONTINUATION OF EXPIRED PERMITS.
   An expired user permit will continue to be effective until the permit is
reissued only if:
   (A)   The user has submitted a complete permit application at least 90 days
prior to the expiration date of the user’s existing permit (or at least 180
days prior to the expiration date of a five-year permit); and
   (B)   The failure to reissue the permit, prior to expiration of the previous
permit, is not due to any act or failure to act on the part of the user;
provided, however, in no case may a permit continue for a period of more than
five years from the date of issuance. In all other cases, discharge to the POTW
following expiration of a permit is unlawful.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-165 PERMIT SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   User permits may be suspended or permanently revoked by the POTW for any
reason determined necessary by the POTW to assure compliance with the
requirements of this article, the POTW’s NPDES permit or other applicable laws
and regulations, including, without limitation, any of the following reasons:
   (A)   Falsifying self-monitoring reports;
   (B)   Tampering with monitoring equipment;
   (C)   Failure to allow timely and reasonable access to the permittee’s
premises and records by representatives of the POTW for purposes authorized by
this article, including, without limitation, inspection or monitoring;
   (D)   Failure to meet effluent limitations;
   (E)   Failure to pay fines or penalties;
   (F)   Failure to pay sewer charges;
   (G)   Failure to pay permit fees;
   (H)   Failure to meet compliance schedules;
   (I)   Failure to comply with any term or condition of the permit, an order,
the requirements of this article, or any final judicial order entered with
respect thereto;
   (J)   Failure to comply with any reporting or notice requirement;
   (K)   Failure to disclose fully all relevant facts in the permit application
or during the permit issuance process or misrepresentation of any relevant fact
at any time;
   (L)   Failure to complete a wastewater survey or the user permit
application; and/or
   (M)   As determined by the POTW, the discharge permitted by the permit has a
reasonable potential to endanger human health or the environment and the threat
can be abated only by suspension or revocation of the permit. Upon suspension
or revocation of a permit, a user shall immediately terminate its discharge to
the POTW and shall not thereafter recommence discharge without further
authorization from the POTW Superintendent as provided by this article. The
POTW may reissue a revoked permit upon a showing satisfactory to the POTW
Superintendent that the permittee has corrected the violation or condition that
led to the revocation. A person who has had a permit revoked may apply for a
new permit.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-166 LIMITATIONS ON PERMIT TRANSFER.
   (A)   A user permit is issued to a specific user for discharge from a
specific facility and operation and shall not be assigned or transferred or
sold to a new or different owner, operator, user, discharger, facility or
premises, or to a new or changed facility or operation, without the prior
written approval of the POTW. If the transfer of a permit is approved, any
succeeding transferee permittee must also comply with the terms and conditions
of the existing permit. The POTW shall approve the transfer of a permit only if
all of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The transferor (permittee) shall give at least 60 days’ advance
notice to the POTW of the proposed transfer of the permit (unless a shorter
notice period is approved by the POTW in advance). The notice shall include a
written certification signed by the proposed transferee that:
         (a)   States that the transferee has no present intent to change the
facility’s operations and processes;
         (b)   Identifies the specific date on which the transfer is to occur;
         (c)   Acknowledges that the transferee has read and fully understands
all terms and conditions of the permit; and
         (d)   Acknowledges that the transferee accepts all of the terms and
conditions of the permit as written and accepts full responsibility for
complying with the existing permit if the transfer is approved.
      (2)   As of the date of the proposed transfer, there are no unpaid
charges, fines, penalties or fees of any kind due to the POTW from the
transferor or the transferee related to use of the POTW.
      (3)   Except as to the identity of the new discharger (the transferee),
the application materials for the permit to be transferred as originally filed
by the transferor, as well as the terms and conditions of the permit itself,
are completely accurate with respect to, and fully applicable to, the
discharge, facilities and activities of the transferee.
      (4)   The permit transfer fee stated in the city fee schedule has been
paid to the city.
   (B)   If the transfer of a permit is approved and the permit transfer fee
has been paid to the city, the POTW shall make the necessary minor
modifications to the permit to show the transferee as the permittee, and a copy
of the permit shall be provided to the transferee for signature and
certification by the transferee as provided by §
29-181 of this chapter. The transferor (permittee) shall remain liable for any
discharges to the POTW from the facility (along with any other persons actually
discharging from the facility to the POTW) until a transfer of the permit has
been approved as provided by this section.
   (C)   This section is not intended to, and shall not be construed to, limit
in any way the transfer of ownership of the property involved.
   (D)   Any attempt to transfer a user permit that does not comply with the
requirements of this section renders the permit void as of the date of the
invalid transfer.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-167 DUTY TO PROVIDE INFORMATION.
   Users shall furnish to the POTW any available information that the POTW
requests to determine whether cause exists for modifying, revoking and
reissuing, or terminating a user permit, to determine compliance with a permit,
to determine whether a permit is required, or as otherwise determined necessary
by the POTW. Users shall also, upon request, furnish to the POTW copies of any
records required to be kept by a permit. The information and records requested
by the POTW shall be provided by the user to the POTW within 24 hours of the
request, unless an alternative time frame is specified by the POTW when making
the request or unless the POTW allows additional time for the user to submit
the requested information based on a showing by the user of good cause for any
delay. The user’s failure to submit the requested information to the POTW
within 24 hours (or within any alternate time period approved by the POTW as
provided by this section) shall constitute a violation of this article.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-168 PERMIT APPEALS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided by this section, an appeal to the City
Manager of any final decision made by the POTW Superintendent in connection
with issuing or implementing a user permit shall be governed by Subarticle 18
of this chapter. An appealing party must specify in its notice of appeal the
action of the POTW being appealed and the grounds for the appeal. If a
particular permit provision is objected to, the notice of appeal must specify
the reasons for the objection and the alternative provision, if any, sought to
be placed in the permit. The effectiveness of a permit or any final decision
made by the POTW Superintendent shall not be stayed pending a decision by the
City Manager.
   (B)   If, after considering the record on appeal including any statements
provided by the POTW in response to the appeal, the City Manager determines
that a permit or any provision of a permit should be reconsidered, the City
Manager shall remand the matter to the POTW Superintendent for further action
as determined appropriate by the City Manager. Specific provisions of a permit
that are remanded by the City Manager for reconsideration by the POTW
Superintendent shall be stayed pending further final action taken by the POTW
Superintendent as required by the decision of the City Manager. A decision of
the City Manager not to remand any matter shall be considered final
administrative action for purposes of judicial review.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-169 PERMITS NOT STAYED.
   Except as otherwise expressly provided by §
29-168, no action taken or request filed by any permittee shall operate to stay
the effect of any permit or of any provision, term or condition of any permit,
including, without limitation, a request for permit modification, reissuance or
transfer, or a notification of planned changes or anticipated non-compliance.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-170 PERMIT FEES.
   User permit fees shall be established, paid and collected as provided by
this subarticle and SubArticle 21 of this chapter.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
SUBARTICLE 8. REPORTING AND NOTICE REQUIREMENTS
All users shall comply with the minimum reporting and notice requirements
provided by this subarticle, as follows.
§ 29-171 REPORTS BY NON-DOMESTIC USERS REGARDING CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT
STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Baseline monitoring reports. Within 180 days after the effective date
of a categorical pretreatment standard or 180 days after the final
administrative decision made upon a category determination submission under
M.A.C. R 323.2311(2) whichever is later, an existing non-domestic user subject
to the categorical pretreatment standards and that currently discharges or is
scheduled to discharge to the POTW shall submit a report to the POTW as
required by M.A.C. R 323.2310(2). At least 90 days prior to commencement of
discharge, new sources and sources that become non-domestic users subsequent to
the promulgation of an applicable categorical pretreatment standard shall
submit the reports to the POTW as required by M.A.C. R 323.2310(2). Any changes
to the information required to be submitted by a non-domestic user pursuant to
M.A.C. R 323.2310(2)(a) through (e) shall be submitted by the user to the POTW
within 60 days of when the user becomes aware of the change.
   (B)   Reports on compliance with categorical pretreatment standard deadline.
Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable
categorical pretreatment standard or, in the case of a new source, following
commencement of the discharge to the POTW, any non-domestic user subject to
categorical pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit the reports to
the POTW required by M.A.C. R 323.2310(3).
   (C)   Periodic reports on continued compliance. Any non-domestic user
subject to a categorical pretreatment standard, after the compliance date of
the categorical pretreatment standard, or, in the case of a new source, after
commencement of the discharge into the public sewer or POTW, shall submit the
periodic reports to the POTW required by M.A.C. R 323.2310(4). These periodic
reports shall be submitted at least once every six months (during the months of
June and December unless alternate months are approved by the POTW), unless
required more frequently by the applicable pretreatment standard, by the POTW,
or by the state. The reports shall include a record of all average and maximum
daily flows during the prior six-month reporting period; except that, the POTW
may require more detailed reporting of flows. All flows shall be reported on
the basis of actual measurement unless the POTW agrees, due to cost or non-
feasibility, to accept verifiable estimates of the average and maximum flows
estimated using techniques approved by the POTW. The combined wastestream
formula may be used for reporting purposes after the initial information has
been furnished to the POTW, provided there has been no change to the elements
composing the combined wastestream. The results of sampling of the discharge
and analysis of pollutants appearing in the report shall be cross-referenced to
the related flow and mass to determine compliance with national categorical
pretreatment standards. In cases where the pretreatment standard requires
compliance with a best management practice (or pollution prevention
alternative), the user shall submit documentation required by the POTW or the
pretreatment standard necessary to determine the compliance status of the user.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-172 REPORTS REQUIRED FOR NON-DOMESTIC USERS NOT SUBJECT TO CATEGORICAL
PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   All non-domestic users not subject to categorical pretreatment
standards shall submit to the POTW periodic reports providing information
regarding the quality and quantity of wastewater and pollutants discharged into
the POTW (including, without limitation, information regarding the nature,
concentration (or mass) and flow of the discharge). These reports shall be
based on sampling and analysis performed in the period covered by the report in
accordance with the sampling, analysis and monitoring requirements provided by
Subarticle 9 of this chapter.
   (B)   For significant industrial users, the reports shall be submitted at
least once every six months for the preceding six months (during the months of
April and October unless alternate months are specified by the POTW), unless
required more frequently by the POTW.
   (C)   If required by the POTW for non-domestic users other than significant
industrial users, the reports shall be submitted at least once every 12 months
for the preceding 12 months (during the month of October unless an alternate
month is specified by the POTW), unless required more frequently by the POTW.
   (D)   The reports for all non-domestic users shall be submitted on forms
provided by (or in a format required by) the POTW, and shall include, without
limitation, the volume of wastewater; the concentration of pollutants; the
names of all person(s) responsible for operating and maintaining any
pretreatment equipment, pretreatment processes or responsible for wastewater
management at the user’s facilities, with a brief description of each person’s
duties; information regarding materials or substances that may cause
interference or pass through; and any other information deemed necessary by the
POTW to assess and assure compliance with applicable discharge requirements or
to safeguard the operation of the POTW.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-173 NOTICE BY USER OF POTENTIAL PROBLEMS.
   All non-domestic users, whether or not subject to categorical pretreatment
standards, shall notify the POTW immediately by telephone of all discharges by
the user that could cause problems to the POTW, including, without limitation,
accidental discharges, slug loadings, discharges of a non-routine, episodic
nature, non-customary batch discharge or discharges that exceed a discharge
prohibition or limitation provided by this article. The notification shall
include available information regarding the location of the discharge, its
volume, duration, constituents, loading and concentrations, corrective actions
taken and required and other available information as necessary to determine
what impact the discharge may have on the POTW. A detailed written report
providing the same and any additional available information (including
specifying the measures that will be taken by the user to prevent similar
future discharges) shall also be provided by the user to be received by the
POTW Superintendent within five days of the incident.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-174 NOTICE BY USER OF VIOLATION OF PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   If sampling performed by a non-domestic user indicates a violation, the user
shall notify the POTW within 24 hours of becoming aware of the violation (and
shall comply with other applicable requirements provided by §
29-187 of this chapter regarding repeat sampling and analysis).
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-175 NOTICE BY USER OF CHANGED DISCHARGE OR CHANGE IN USER STATUS.
   (A)   A non-domestic user shall promptly notify the POTW in advance of any
substantial change in the volume or character of pollutants in its discharge,
or of any facility expansion, production increase or proess modifications that
could result in a substantial change in the volume or character of pollutants
in its discharge.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, PROMPTLY means as soon as reasonably
possible, but in no event less than 60 days before the change.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, SUBSTANTIAL CHANGE includes, without
limitation, any of the following:
      (1)   The discharge of any amount of a pollutant not identified in the
user’s permit application or in the permit issued;
      (2)   An increase in concentration (or degree) of any pollutant that
exceeds 10% of the concentration (or degree) for the pollutant as indicated in
any report required under §§
29-171 or
29-172 of this chapter;
      (3)   An increase in discharge volume that exceeds 10% of the volume as
indicated in any report required under §§
29-171 or
29-172 of this chapter;
      (4)   Any increase in the amount of any hazardous wastes discharged,
including, without limitation, the hazardous wastes for which the user has
submitted initial notification under § 29-176 of this chapter;
      (5)   The discharge of any ground waters purged for a removal or remedial
action;
      (6)   The discharge of any pollutants that are present in the discharge
due to infiltration;
      (7)   A change in discharge that may convert a non-domestic user into a
significant industrial user or a non-domestic user into a categorical user; and
      (8)   A change in discharge that would cause a change in the categorical
standards that apply to the user.
   (D)   In determining whether to accept any changed discharge or, if so,
under what conditions, the POTW shall evaluate the changed discharge pursuant
to the general and specific discharge prohibitions under §
29-149 of this chapter and other applicable provisions of this article. The
user may be required to submit such information as may be deemed necessary to
evaluate the changed condition, including the submission of a user permit
application.
   (E)   No user shall implement the planned changed conditions until and
unless the POTW Superintendent or his or her designee has responded to the
user’s notice.
   (F)   This section shall not be construed to authorize a discharge that
exceeds a discharge prohibition or limitation provided by this article or a
permit.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-176 NOTICE BY USER REGARDING WASTES THAT ARE OTHERWISE HAZARDOUS.
   Any non-domestic user that discharges to the POTW a substance that, if
disposed of other than by discharge to the POTW, would be a hazardous waste
under 40 C.F.R. part 261 or under the rules promulgated under the state
hazardous waste management act (Public Act 451, part 111, of 1994, being MCL §§
324.11101 et seq., as amended) shall notify the POTW Superintendent, the U.S.
EPA Region V Waste Management Subarticle Director, and the state, of the
discharge as required by M.A.C. R 323.2310(15).
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-177 NOTICE BY USER REGARDING INSTALLATION OF NEW PRETREATMENT FACILITIES.
   (A)   Within five days after completing installation of new pretreatment
facilities, the user shall notify the POTW Superintendent in writing of the
time and date when it intends to commence operation of the new facilities, and
the identity of the person who will conduct any tests to be performed. The
pretreatment facilities shall not be placed in regular operation until adequate
tests have been conducted to establish that the discharges will comply with the
requirements of this article and other applicable laws and regulations.
   (B)   Upon prior written request by the POTW Superintendent, the user shall
allow a representative of the POTW to observe the tests at the time they are
conducted.
   (C)   The cost of the tests shall be paid by the user.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-178 NOTICE OF INTENT.
   (A)   At least 60 days before commencing or changing a discharge, each of
the following persons shall submit a notice of intent to the POTW for approval
by the POTW Superintendent:
      (1)   A person proposing to discharge any non-domestic wastewater not
previously reported to the POTW;
      (2)   A person taking possession or control of an existing facility that
discharges or may discharge process wastewater into the POTW;
      (3)   A person constructing a new facility that will discharge process
wastewater into the POTW; and
      (4)   A person commencing or modifying a discharge of hazardous wastes
that requires reporting under §
29-176 of this chapter.
   (B)   The notice of intent shall be submitted in writing on a form provided
by the POTW and shall be accompanied by a payment of any fees established by
the city. It shall include sufficient information to allow the POTW
Superintendent to evaluate the effect of the proposed discharge on the POTW and
operations and to assure compliance with this article.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-179 OTHER REPORTS AND NOTICES REQUIRED BY THIS SUBARTICLE OR BY OTHER
APPLICABLE LAWS AND REGULATIONS.
   Users shall comply with all other reporting or notice requirements as
provided by this article, by any notice, order or permit issued under this
article, or as required by any other applicable law or regulation, including,
without limitation, the reporting and notice requirements in connection with
accidental discharge (Subarticle 10), upset (Subarticle 11), bypass (Subarticle
12) and any other reports or notice requirements determined necessary by the
POTW to assess and assure compliance with the requirements of this article.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-180 REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO ALL REQUIRED REPORTS, NOTIFICATIONS AND
APPLICATIONS.
   All reports, notifications and applications submitted by a user to the POTW
as required by this article (or by any order, permit or determination issued or
made pursuant to this article) shall meet the following requirements.
   (A)   (1)   All reports required by this article shall be based upon data
obtained through appropriate sampling and analysis performed during the period
covered by the report.
      (2)   The data shall be representative of conditions occurring during the
applicable reporting period.
      (3)   If a pretreatment standard requires compliance with a best
management practice or pollution prevention alternative, the user shall submit
documentation as required by the POTW or the applicable standard to determine
compliance with the standard.
   (B)   If a user monitors any pollutant (or measures flow) more frequently
than required by this article or a user permit, using the monitoring, sampling
and analytical procedures as required by §
29-182 of this chapter, the results of all such additional monitoring shall be
included in any report or notification submitted pursuant to this article.
   (C)   The POTW Superintendent may require that reports, notifications and
other required documents and data be submitted in a standardized format, as
specified by the POTW Superintendent.
   (D)   If the POTW instead of a user collects all of the information,
including flow data, required for a report required by §§
29-171 or
29-172 of this chapter, the POTW Superintendent may, in his or her discretion,
waive the requirement that the report be submitted by the user.
   (E)   The reports, notifications and other documents and data required to be
submitted or maintained by this Article shall be subject to all of the
provisions as specified by M.A.C. R 323.2310(13).
   (F)   Written reports, notifications and applications will be deemed to have
been submitted to the POTW, unless otherwise specified by the POTW
Superintendent, as follows:
      (1)   If mailed, on the date postmarked;
      (2)   The date of receipt of the report shall govern for reports,
notifications or applications which are not mailed, postage prepaid, into a
mail facility serviced by the United States Postal Service, including, but not
limited to, reports, notifications or applications that are hand-delivered,
faxed or emailed; and
      (3)   Written reports, notifications, and applications may be submitted
to the POTW by fax or email (or by any means other than mail or hand delivery)
only with the prior approval of the POTW on a case-by-case basis. The report or
notification shall be sent to the fax number or email address specified by the
POTW.
   (G)   All written reports, notifications and applications submitted by mail
or hand delivery shall be sent or delivered to the address stated in the user
permit or if there is no user permit, then to the following address:
City of Allegan
Wastewater Treatment Plant
231 Trowbridge Street
Allegan, MI 49010
Attn: Superintendent
   (H)   Failure to provide the reports, notifications and applications
required by this article constitutes an independent violation of this article.
However, compliance with applicable reporting and notification requirements
shall not relieve a user of any expense, loss, damage or other liability that
may be incurred as a result of damage to the POTW, fish kills or any other
damage to person or property; nor shall such report or notification relieve a
user of any fines, penalties or other liability that may be imposed by
applicable laws or regulations. Further, the reporting and notification
requirements required by this article shall not be construed to authorize a
discharge that exceeds a discharge prohibition or limitation under this article
or other applicable laws or regulations.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-181 SIGNATURE AND CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   All written reports, notifications and applications required by this article
shall be signed and certified as follows.
   (A)   Required signatures. The reports, notifications and applications shall
be signed by an “authorized representative” of the user as defined in §
29-122 of this chapter.
   (B)   Required certification. The reports, notifications and applications
shall include the following certification statement: “I certify under penalty
of law that this document and all attachments were prepared under my direction
or supervision in accordance with a system designed to assure that qualified
personnel properly gather and evaluate the information submitted. Based on my
inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system, or those persons
directly responsible for gathering the information, the information submitted
is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true, accurate and complete. I am
aware that there are significant penalties for submitting false information,
including the possibility of fine and imprisonment for knowing violations.”
   (C)   Exception. If the POTW elects to perform instead of the user all or
any portion of the sampling or analysis otherwise required for a report or
notification, the user will not be required to comply with the certification
requirements for the sampling and analysis (or portion thereof) performed by
the POTW.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
SUBARTICLE 9. SAMPLING, ANALYSIS AND MONITORING REQUIREMENTS
This subArticle provides the sampling, analysis and monitoring requirements
applicable to users of the POTW. It does not apply to domestic users except as
may be determined appropriate in specific cases by the POTW, All users required
by this Article (or by any permit, order, decision or determination issued or
made under this Article) to sample, monitor and analyze their discharges to the
POTW shall do so according to the minimum requirements provided by this
subArticle. Additional or more restrictive sampling, analytical or monitoring
requirements may be required for a particular user by a permit, order, decision
or determination issued or made under this Article.
§ 29-182 SAMPLING AND ANALYTICAL TECHNIQUES AND PROCEDURES.
   All sampling, measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of
discharges to the POTW shall be performed in accordance with the procedures
approved by the U.S. EPA contained in 40 C.F.R. part 136. If, as determined by
the POTW Superintendent, the sampling and analytical techniques contained in 40
C.F.R. part 136 are not available, do not apply to the discharge or pollutants
in question, are not appropriate under the circumstances for application to the
discharge or pollutants in question, or where one or more alternate techniques
are available under 40 C.F.R. part 136, sampling and analysis shall be
performed using validated sampling and analytical methods and procedures
approved or required by the POTW Superintendent.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-183 SAMPLING FREQUENCY.
   Users shall sample their discharges to the POTW at a frequency necessary to
assess and assure compliance with the requirements of this article, any permit
or order issued pursuant to this article, all applicable pretreatment standards
and requirements, other applicable state and federal laws and regulations, or
as otherwise determined necessary by the POTW Superintendent consistent with
the purposes and intent of this article. At a minimum, all significant
industrial users shall sample their effluent two times per year (once every six
months) or as often as provided by their permits, whichever is more frequent,
and report the results to the POTW. Each discharge point to the POTW shall be
sampled and reported individually.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-184 SAMPLE TYPES.
   (A)   Where representative samples are required to be taken for facilities
for which historical sampling data does not exist, a user shall take a minimum
of four grab samples for pH, temperature, cyanide, phenols (T), residual
chlorine, oil and grease, sulfide and volatile organics (and any other
parameters designated by the POTW Superintendent), unless a greater number of
grab samples is required in advance by the POTW Superintendent; for facilities
for which historical sampling data are available, the POTW may authorize a
lower minimum number of grab samples. In all cases, users shall take the
minimum number of grab samples determined necessary by the POTW to assess and
assure compliance by users with applicable pretreatment standards and
requirements. Grab samples may be required to show compliance with
instantaneous minimum or instantaneous maximum discharge limits. For all other
pollutants and sampling, 24-hour composite samples must be obtained through
flow- proportional composite sampling techniques, unless time-proportional
composite sampling or grab sampling is authorized by the POTW. Where time-
proportional composite sampling or grab sampling is authorized by the control
authority, the samples must be representative of the discharge and the decision
to allow the alternative sampling must be documented in the industrial user
file for that facility or facilities. Using protocols (including appropriate
preservation) specified in 40 C.F.R. part 136 and appropriate EPA guidance,
multiple grab samples collected during a 24-hour period may be composited prior
to the analysis as follows: for cyanide, total phenols, and sulfides the
samples may be composited in the laboratory or in the field; for volatile
organics and oil and grease the samples may be composited in the laboratory.
Composite samples for other parameters unaffected by the compositing procedures
as documented in approved EPA methodologies may be authorized by the POTW, as
appropriate.
   (B)   The POTW Superintendent may require any user (categorical or non-
categorical) to conduct continuous pH monitoring instead of using grab samples.
A user required to conduct continuous monitoring will be subject to enforcement
under § 29-228(H) of this chapter.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-185 SAMPLING METHODS, EQUIPMENT AND LOCATION.
   (A)   General. A user shall use the sampling methods, sampling equipment and
sampling location specified by the user’s user permit or, in the absence of a
permit, as otherwise required by the POTW Superintendent.
   (B)   Contaminated ground water. For discharges to the POTW from remedial
actions related to leaking underground storage tanks or other sources of
contaminated ground water, the POTW Superintendent may require the following
analyses or such other analyses as determined appropriate by the
Superintendent:
      (1)   Samples shall be analyzed for benzene, ethylbenzene, toluene and
xylene using the latest methods approved by U.S. EPA; and
      (2)   For total petroleum hydrocarbons, samples shall be analyzed
according to the latest methods approved by U.S. EPA.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-186 COSTS OF MONITORING, SAMPLING AND ANALYSES.
   All required monitoring, taking of samples and sample analyses, whether
performed by the POTW or by a user, including, but not limited to, the costs or
fees associated with inspection or surveillance, shall be at the sole cost of
the user.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-187 SELF-MONITORING.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided by this article, self-monitoring shall be
conducted by each non-domestic user to ensure compliance with all applicable
requirements of this article and other applicable laws and regulations.
   (B)   A user performing its own sampling shall submit the samples for
analysis to a laboratory (which may include the user’s own laboratory) approved
by the POTW.
   (C)   A user performing its own sampling or monitoring shall record and
maintain for all samples and monitoring (including any sampling and monitoring
associated with best management practices) the date, exact location (which
shall match sampling locations identified in the user’s user permit, as
applicable), time (including start time and stop time) and method of sampling
or measurement, and the name(s) of person(s) taking the samples or
measurements; sampler programming information; the sample preservation
techniques or procedures used; the full chain of custody for each sample; the
dates the analyses were performed and completed; who performed the analyses;
the analytical techniques and methods used; the detection limits and/or
quantification level used per parameter; quality assurance/quality control (QA/
QC) procedures used and QA/QC data; and the results of the analyses.
   (D)   If sampling performed by a user indicates a violation, the user shall
notify the POTW Superintendent within 24 hours of becoming aware of the
violation. The user shall also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the
results of the repeat analysis to the POTW within 30 days after becoming aware
of the violation. If the POTW has performed the sampling and analysis in lieu
of the user, the POTW must perform the repeat sampling and analysis unless the
POTW notifies the user of the violation and requires the user to perform the
repeat sampling and analysis. The user shall not be required to resample if:
      (1)   The POTW performs sampling at the user at a frequency of at least
once per month; or
      (2)   The POTW performs sampling at the user between the time when the
user performs its initial sampling and the time when the user or the POTW
receives the results of the sampling that indicates the violation.
   (E)   If a user uses its own laboratory for sample analysis, the POTW
Superintendent may require the user to send split samples to an independent
laboratory at a frequency specified by the Superintendent as a quality control
check.
   (F)   Users required to do monthly sampling shall submit sample results to
the POTW Superintendent by the tenth day of the following month, unless
specified otherwise in the user’s user permit.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-188 SAMPLING AND ANALYSES PERFORMED BY POTW.
   (A)   The sampling and analysis required by this article may be performed by
the POTW instead of the user, as determined necessary by the POTW
Superintendent for purposes of this article. The POTW shall provide the user
with copies of analytical results prepared by the POTW. If the results of any
sampling and analysis performed by the POTW instead of the user show that a
pretreatment standard has been violated, the POTW shall provide the user with
copies of the analytical results within ten days after the results are
available.
   (B)   If the POTW performs the required sampling and analysis for a user,
the user shall pay a sampling fee, as stated in the city fee schedule to the
POTW to fully reimburse the POTW for the sampling, including administrative and
overhead costs. The POTW may contract with an independent firm to perform the
sampling and analysis and the user shall fully reimburse the POTW for amounts
paid by the POTW to the independent firm.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-189 SPLIT SAMPLES AND SAMPLE RESULTS.
   (A)   If requested by the POTW, the POTW shall be provided with splits of
any sample taken by a user. Splits shall be provided by the user to the POTW at
no cost to the POTW.
   (B)   If requested by a user prior to the collection of a sample of the
user’s discharge, the POTW shall leave a portion of the sample of the discharge
taken from any sampling point on or adjacent to the premises for the user’s
independent analysis.
   (C)   In cases of disputes arising over split samples, the portion taken and
analyzed by the POTW shall be controlling unless proven invalid. The burden of
proving the POTW’s results invalid shall be on the user and at the user’s sole
cost.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-190 MAINTENANCE, REPAIR AND CALIBRATION OF EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   A user who performs self-monitoring shall contract with an independent
company (unless the requirement to use an independent company is waived in
advance by the POTW Superintendent as determined appropriate by the
Superintendent) to maintain, repair and calibrate the sampling and flow
measurement equipment and instruments used to monitor the user.
   (B)   The maintenance, repair and calibration shall be performed as often as
necessary to ensure that monitoring data is accurate and representative, and
consistent with the accepted capability of the type of equipment used, and
shall be at the sole cost of the user.
   (C)   A user shall keep a complete and accurate written record of all
calibrations, inspections and maintenance done (including, without limitation,
the date and time of the activity, a description of what was done and the
methods used, the names of persons conducting the activity and any required or
recommended follow-up). The record shall also include a description of all
problems discovered regarding the equipment whether in response to a regularly
scheduled inspection or otherwise.
   (D)   The POTW, in any event, may inspect and test a user’s sampling and
flow measurement equipment and instruments at all times.
   (E)   In no case shall a user’s failure to keep its equipment, instruments
and facilities in good working order constitute grounds for the user to claim
that sample results are not representative of its discharge.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-191 REQUIRED SAMPLING STRUCTURES AND DEVICES.
   (A)   The POTW may require any user to install suitable control structures
(such as sampling manholes or sampling vaults) and necessary measuring and
sampling devices (including automatic devices) to facilitate the observation,
sampling and measurement of the quantity, composition and concentrations of
discharges to the POTW. The POTW may require the user to install control
structures and measuring and sampling devices at every discharge point and/or
outfall. Further, multiple separate and discrete control structures, and
measuring and sampling devices may be required for a single user, premises,
building, facility or user, as determined necessary by the POTW Superintendent.
The structures and devices shall be maintained at all times in a safe, clean
and proper operating condition at the sole expense of the user. All buildings
of significant industrial users constructed after 1-1-1993, shall include
monitoring facilities approved by the POTW Superintendent at every outfall that
may discharge non-domestic wastewater.
   (B)   There shall be ample room in or near the control structure to allow
accurate monitoring, measuring, sampling and preparation of samples for
analysis, as determined necessary by the POTW Superintendent. At a minimum, all
sewers shall have an inspection and sampling manhole or structure with an
opening of no less than 24 inches in diameter and an internal diameter of no
less than 36 inches containing flow measuring, recording and sampling equipment
as required by the POTW Superintendent to assure compliance with this article.
   (C)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction for safe and easy access to the
facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the user
at the verbal or written request of the POTW. The costs of clearing such access
shall be borne by the user.
   (D)   The location and complexity of the required control structure or
devices may vary with sampling requirements determined necessary by the POTW
Superintendent to protect the POTW and to comply with applicable laws and
regulations.
   (E)   The required sampling structures and devices shall be constructed and
installed at the user’s sole expense in accordance with plans submitted to the
POTW, and in compliance with all applicable local construction standards and
specifications. Users shall submit to the POTW plans and specifications for
construction or modification of monitoring facilities at least 30 days before
the proposed commencement of construction or modification. If a user constructs
or modifies monitoring facilities before POTW approval or without an inspection
during construction and the POTW determines that the monitoring facilities are
not acceptable, then the user shall at its cost reconstruct or modify the
monitoring facilities according to the requirements of the POTW. Construction
shall be completed within 90 days following written notification by the POTW,
or within such other shorter or longer time period specified by the POTW
Superintendent as required by the particular circumstances to meet the
requirements of this article. The structures and devices shall be operated and
maintained by the user at the user’s sole expense so as to be safe and
accessible to POTW personnel at all times and so as to provide accurate and
representative monitoring data. If a user fails to install or maintain a
required structure or device, the POTW may do so and charge the costs to the
user.
   (F)   The sampling structures and devices must be provided on the user’s
premises as approved by the POTW, but the POTW may, if it determines that such
a location would be impractical or cause undue hardship to the user, allow the
facility to be constructed in the public street or sidewalk area and located so
that it will not be obstructed by landscaping or parked vehicles.
   (G)   Samples shall be taken at a control structure approved by the POTW.
However, in the absence of a suitable control structure as required by this
section, samples shall be taken immediately downstream from pretreatment
facilities if pretreatment facilities exist, or immediately downstream from the
regulated process if no pretreatment facilities exist. If other wastewaters are
mixed with a regulated process wastestream prior to pretreatment, the user must
measure the flows and concentrations necessary to allow use of the combined
wastestream formula under M.A.C. R 323.2311(7) or other methods required by the
POTW to evaluate compliance with applicable pretreatment standards and
requirements.
   (H)   No user shall change monitoring points or monitoring methods without
first notifying and receiving the approval of the POTW Superintendent. The POTW
Superintendent shall not approve any change in a user’s monitoring point or
points that would allow the user to substitute dilution for adequate treatment
to achieve compliance with applicable standards.
   (I)   A user shall allow the POTW access to all sampling and monitoring
facilities as provided by §
29-220(B) of this chapter.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
SUBARTICLE 10. ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGES
§ 29-192 GENERAL.
   This subarticle sets forth minimum requirements for non-domestic users (and
any other users as required by the POTW Superintendent) to prepare for, respond
to and report, accidental discharges to the POTW. Additional or more
restrictive requirements may be required for particular users under a user
permit, a slug control plan or by other applicable laws and regulations.
   (A)   Each non-domestic user shall provide and continuously maintain
protection from accidental discharge of materials or other substances regulated
by this article as provided by this subarticle.
   (B)   Detailed plans showing facilities and operating procedures to provide
the protections required by this subarticle shall be submitted to the POTW for
review. All existing users shall submit the required plans and information with
their permit applications or upon request of the POTW. For new sources,
facilities and operating procedures to provide the protections required by this
subarticle shall be approved by the POTW prior to commencing discharge. No user
who commences discharging to the POTW after the effective date of this article
shall be permitted to introduce pollutants into the system until accidental
discharge facilities and procedures as provided by this section are in place
and have been approved by the POTW.
   (C)   Facilities to prevent accidental discharge of regulated materials or
substances shall be provided and maintained at the user’s cost and expense.
Review and approval by the POTW of plans and operating procedures shall not
relieve the user from the responsibility to modify the user’s facility as
necessary to meet the requirements of this article. Compliance with the
requirements of this subArticle shall not relieve a user of any expense, loss,
damage or other liability that may be incurred as a result of damage to the
POTW, or for any other damage to persons or property, or for any other
liability that may be imposed under this article or under other applicable laws
and regulations.
   (D)   No change shall be made in any plan or procedure approved by the POTW
as provided by this section without the prior review and approval of the POTW.
   (E)   All users shall notify the POTW in writing within five days of any
change in the information required to be provided to the POTW as set forth
below in this section (including, without limitation, information regarding the
person in charge of discharge operations, the description of chemicals stored,
used or manufactured by the user, the description of user discharges and the
description of user premises).
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-193 DESIGNATION OF PERSON IN CHARGE OF DISCHARGE OPERATIONS.
   Each non-domestic user shall designate at least one person to be in charge
of and responsible for the user’s discharges to the POTW, including
responsibility for maintaining pretreatment facilities and operations, if any,
and prevention of accidental discharges (“person in charge”). The person so
designated shall be an individual or a position with knowledge of all toxic
wastes or hazardous substances routinely or potentially generated by the user,
and of all process alterations that could, in any manner, increase or decrease
normal daily flow or waste strength to the POTW. The names of the person (or
persons) designated as provided by this section and a phone number where the
person can be reached for twenty-four-hour contact shall be submitted by each
user to the POTW.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-194 DESCRIPTION OF CHEMICALS STORED, USED OR MANUFACTURED BY USER; USER
DISCHARGES; USER PREMISES.
   Unless the following information has already been appropriately provided to
the POTW pursuant to other requirements of this article, each non-domestic user
shall:
   (A)   Catalog all chemicals stored, used or manufactured by the user at the
user’s premises. The list of chemicals shall include specific chemical names
(not just manufacturer’s codes) and shall be provided to the POTW;
   (B)   Provide the POTW with a written description of the user’s discharge
practices, including an estimate of daily average flows, waste strengths and
flow types, separated according to appropriate categories including process,
cooling, sanitary and the like; and
   (C)   Provide to the POTW a sketch of the user’s plant building(s),
including the location of pretreatment equipment, process and chemical storage
areas, waste storage areas, floor drains located near process and storage
areas, manhole or other control structures, and sewer locations at the user’s
point of discharge into the POTW.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-195 SEGREGATION OF WASTEWATERS REQUIRING PRETREATMENT.
   Non-domestic users shall segregate wastewaters requiring pretreatment
(including, without limitation, spent concentrates, toxics and high strength
organic wastes) as necessary to prevent pollutants from interfering with or
passing through the POTW. All sludges generated by pretreatment shall be used
and disposed of only as permitted by applicable local, state and federal laws
and regulations.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-196 SECONDARY CONTAINMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Each non-domestic user must provide and maintain at the user’s sole
expense secondary spill containment structures (including diking, curbing or
other appropriate structures) adequate to protect all floor drains from
accidental spills and discharges to the POTW of any pollutants or discharges
regulated by this article.
   (B)   The containment or curbing shall be sufficient to hold not less than
150% of the total process area tank volume and not less than 150% of liquid
polluting material stored or used, unless a lesser containment area or
alternate control measures are approved in advance by the POTW Superintendent.
   (C)   The containment area shall be constructed so that no liquid polluting
material can escape from the area by gravity through the building sewers,
drains or otherwise directly or indirectly into the POTW. All floor drains
found within the containment area must be plugged and sealed.
   (D)   Spill troughs and sumps within process areas must discharge to
appropriate pretreatment tanks.
   (E)   Emergency containment shall also be provided for storage tanks that
may be serviced by commercial haulers and for chemical storage areas.
   (F)   Solid pollutants shall be located in security areas designed to
prevent the loss of the materials to the POTW.
   (G)   Detailed plans showing facilities and operating procedures to provide
the protection required by this section shall be submitted to the POTW
Superintendent for review, and shall be approved by the Superintendent before
construction. Construction of approved containment for existing sources shall
be completed within the time period specified by the POTW Superintendent.
   (H)   No new source shall be permitted to discharge to the POTW until
emergency containment facilities have been approved and constructed as required
by this section.
   (I)   The POTW Superintendent may order a user to take interim measures for
emergency containment as determined necessary by the Superintendent under the
circumstances.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-197 SUBMISSION OF POLLUTION INCIDENT PREVENTION PLAN.
   (A)   Each user required to develop a pollution incident prevention (“PIP”)
plan as provided by part 5 of the state’s Water Resources Commission Rules,
1979 ACR 323.1151 et seq., as amended (promulgated pursuant to Public Act 451,
part 31, of 1994, being MCL §§ 324.3101 et seq., as amended), shall submit a
copy of that plan to the POTW Superintendent
   (B)   The PIP plan shall be submitted to the Superintendent within 60 days
of the effective date of this article for an existing source, or 30 days prior
to the date of discharge for a new source.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-198 POSTING OF ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE INFORMATION.
   All non-domestic users shall post a clearly legible set of instructions in
the area where the user manages wastewater so that the applicable reporting and
notice requirements are made known and are available to the user’s employees.
In addition, all non-domestic users shall instruct their employees on the
applicable reporting and notice requirements of this section.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-199 NOTICE OF ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE.
   (A)   In the case of an accidental discharge, a user shall immediately
notify the POTW of the incident by telephone.
   (B)   The notification shall include the name of the person placing the
call, the name of the user, and all available information regarding the
location of the discharge, its volume, duration, constituents, loading and
concentrations, corrective actions taken and required, and other available
information as necessary to determine what impact the discharge may have on the
POTW.
   (C)   A detailed written report providing the same and any additional
available information (including specifying the measures that will be taken by
the user to prevent similar future discharges) shall also be provided by the
user to the POTW Superintendent within five days of the incident.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-200 SLUG CONTROL PLAN.
   (A)   Each significant industrial user shall prepare and implement an
individualized slug control plan. Existing significant industrial users shall
submit a slug control plan to the POTW for approval within 90 days of the
effective date of this article. New sources that are significant industrial
users shall submit a slug control plan to the POTW for approval before
beginning to discharge. Upon written notice from the POTW, non-domestic users
that are not significant industrial users may also be required to prepare and
implement a slug control plan, and the plan shall be submitted to the POTW for
approval as specified in the notice. All slug control plans shall contain at
least the following elements:
      (1)   A description of discharge practices, including non-routine batch
discharges;
      (2)   A description of stored chemicals, raw materials and waste;
      (3)   The procedures for immediately notifying the POTW of slug
discharges, including any discharge that would violate any discharge
prohibition, limitation or requirement under this subarticle, and procedures
for followup written notification within five days of the discharge; and
      (4)   The procedures to prevent adverse impact from accidental spills,
including inspection and maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of
materials, loading and unloading operations, control of plant site runoff,
worker training, building of containment structures or equipment, measures for
containing toxic organic pollutants (including solvents) and measures and
equipment for emergency response.
   (B)   If a user has submitted to the POTW plans or documents pursuant to
other requirements of local, state or federal laws and regulations which meet
all applicable requirements of subsection (A) above, the POTW may, in its
discretion, determine that the user has satisfied the slug plan submission
requirements of this section.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
SUBARTICLE 11. UPSET AND ADDITIONAL AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES
§ 29-201 UPSET.
   An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action brought for
non-compliance with categorical pretreatment standards if all of the
requirements of subsection (A) below are met. However, in the event of an
upset, the user may still be liable for surcharges for exceeding applicable
discharge limitations as provided by this article. In any enforcement
proceeding, the user seeking to establish the occurrence of an upset shall have
the burden of proof.
   (A)   Conditions necessary to demonstrate upset. A user seeking to establish
the affirmative defense of upset must demonstrate, through properly signed,
contemporaneous operating logs or other relevant evidence, all of the
following:
      (1)   An upset occurred and the user can identify the cause(s) of the
upset;
      (2)   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workmanlike manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures;
      (3)   The user has submitted the following information to the POTW within
24 hours of becoming aware of the upset (if this information is provided
orally, a written submission containing the same information must be provided
within five days of becoming aware of the upset):
         (a)   A description of the discharge and cause of non-compliance;
         (b)   The period of non-compliance, including exact dates and times
or, if not corrected, the anticipated time the non-compliance is expected to
continue; and
         (c)   The steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate and
prevent recurrence of the non- compliance.
   (B)   User responsibility in case of upset. The user shall control
production or all discharges to the extent necessary to maintain compliance
with categorical pretreatment standards and other applicable limits upon
reduction, loss or failure of its treatment facility until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
of the treatment facility is reduced, lost or fails.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-202 ADDITIONAL AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES.
   A user shall have an affirmative defense in any action brought against it
alleging a violation of the general prohibitions under § 29-149(A) of this
chapter and specific prohibitions under § 29-149(B)(5), (B)(6), (B)(7) or (B)
(8) if the user can demonstrate that all of the conditions necessary to
establish the defense under M.A.C. R 323.2303(3)(a) and (b) are met. However,
even if the affirmative defense is established, the user may still be liable
for surcharges for exceeding applicable discharge limitations as provided by
this Article. In any enforcement proceeding, the user seeking to establish the
affirmative defenses provided by M.A.C. R 323.2303(3) shall have the burden of
proof.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
SUBARTICLE 12. BYPASS
§ 29-203 BYPASS NOT VIOLATING APPLICABLE PRETREATMENT STANDARDS OR
REQUIREMENTS.
   A non-domestic user may allow any bypass to occur that does not cause
pretreatment standards or requirements to be violated, but only if the bypass
is for essential maintenance to assure efficient operation. A bypass that meets
the requirements of the preceding sentence of this section is not subject to
the provisions in §§ 29-204, 29-205 and 29-206. However, nothing in this
section shall be construed to authorize a discharge that exceeds a discharge
prohibition or limitation under this article or other applicable laws or
regulations; nor to relieve a user for any expense, loss, damage or liability
that may be incurred as a result of the bypass, such as damage to the POTW,
fish kills or any other damage to person or property; nor to relieve the user
of any fines, penalties or other liability that may be imposed by applicable
laws or regulations as a result of the bypass.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-204 BYPASS PROHIBITED.
   Except as provided by §
29-203 of this chapter, the bypass of industrial wastes from any portion of a
user’s facility is prohibited, and shall be subject to enforcement action,
unless all of the following apply:
   (A)   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury or
severe property damage;
   (B)   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the use of
auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated waste or maintenance
during normal periods of equipment downtime; and (This condition is not
satisfied if adequate backup equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass that occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventative maintenance.)
   (C)   The user submitted the notices as required under §
29-205 of this chapter.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-205 REQUIRED NOTICES.
   (A)   Anticipated bypass. If a user knows in advance of the need for a
bypass, it must submit prior notice of the bypass to the POTW. Such notice
shall be submitted to the POTW as soon as the user becomes aware of the need
for the bypass and, if possible, at least ten days before the date of the
bypass.
   (B)   Unanticipated bypass. A user shall submit oral notice of an
unanticipated bypass that exceeds applicable pretreatment standards to the POTW
within 24 hours from the time the user becomes aware of the bypass. A written
submission shall also be provided within five days of the time the user becomes
aware of the bypass, The written submission shall contain a description of the
bypass and its cause; the duration of the bypass, including exact dates and
times, and, if the bypass has not been corrected, the anticipated time it is
expected to continue; and steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate and
prevent reoccurrence of the bypass. The POTW Superintendent may waive the
written report on a case-by-case basis if the oral report has been received
within 24 hours.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-206 POTW APPROVED BYPASS.
   The POTW Superintendent may approve an anticipated bypass after considering
its adverse effects, if the Superintendent determines that it meets the
conditions set forth in §
29-204(A), (B) and (C) of this chapter. It shall be a violation of this article
for a user to allow an anticipated bypass to occur without the prior approval
of the Superintendent.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
SUBARTICLE 13. CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION
§ 29-207 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   The following provisions shall apply regarding the treatment by the POTW of
confidential information submitted to or obtained by the POTW in the
administration of this article:
   (A)   Information and data regarding a user obtained from reports,
questionnaires, permit applications, permits and monitoring programs and from
inspections shall be available to the public or other governmental agency
without restriction unless the user specifically requests at the time of
submission and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the POTW
Superintendent, and in accordance with applicable state and federal laws and
regulations, that the release of such information would divulge information,
processes or methods of production entitled to protection as trade secrets of
the user;
   (B)   Information submitted by a user for which confidentiality is requested
shall be clearly marked on each page as to the portion or portions considered
by the user to be confidential and shall be accompanied by a written
explanation of why the user considers the information to be confidential or why
the release of the information would divulge information, processes or methods
of production entitled to protection as trade secrets of the user;
   (C)   Information that may disclose trade secrets or trade secret processes,
and for which the user has requested, and been granted, confidentiality as
provided by this section, shall not be made available for inspection by the
general public; however, that information shall be made available upon written
request to governmental agencies for uses related to matters regulated by this
article and shall be made available for use by the state, any state agency, or
the POTW in judicial review or enforcement proceedings that involve the user
that furnished the information. The POTW shall notify the user ten days in
advance if it intends to release confidential information to another
governmental agency as authorized by this section;
   (D)   Information furnished to the POTW on the volume or characteristics of
wastewater or pollutants discharged or proposed to be discharged into the POTW
shall be available to the public or other governmental agency without
restriction;
   (E)   If a user has mass-based limits as allowed by certain categorical
pretreatment standards on a production basis, the production data necessary to
determine compliance must also be provided by the user to the POTW, and shall
be available to the public, If application of the combined wastestream formula
is necessary to apply categorical pretreatment standards to a user, the flow
measurements and other data used in the calculation must be provided by the
user to the POTW, and shall be available to the public;
   (F)   Observations made by POTW inspectors shall be subject to the
confidentiality provisions of this section as if they were in writing if the
user specifies to the POTW in writing for which particular observations made by
the inspector the user seeks confidentiality; and
   (G)   All confidential information and/or data with respect to a particular
user that is on file with the POTW shall be made available upon written request
by that user or its authorized representative during regular business hours.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
SUBARTICLE 14. RECORDS RETENTION
§ 29-208 MAINTENANCE OF RECORDS.
   All users shall retain and preserve records, including, without limitation,
all books, documents, memoranda, reports, correspondence and similar materials,
related to matters regulated by this article as provided by the minimum
requirements of this section or as provided by a permit or order issued
pursuant to this article.
   (A)   Discharge records. A non-domestic user shall retain, preserve, and
make available to the POTW for inspection and copying, for the period specified
in subsection (C) below all records related to matters regulated by this
article, including, without limitation, all documents, memoranda,
correspondence and similar materials; copies of all required reports,
notifications and applications; all calibration and maintenance records and all
original strip chart recordings for continuous monitoring instrumentation;
copies of results of all sampling, monitoring, measurements and analyses; all
documentation associated with best management practices; and records of all
data used to complete the application for a permit. Any non-domestic user
subject to the sampling, monitoring, analysis or reporting requirements of this
article shall maintain copies of all records and information pertaining to
those requirements or resulting from any monitoring activities (whether or not
such monitoring activities are required by this article). For all samples, the
records shall include, at a minimum, the information required to be recorded by
§ 29-187 of this chapter.
   (B)   Hazardous or solid waste. A non-domestic user shall retain and
preserve all records regarding its generation, treatment, storage or disposal
of hazardous waste or solid waste for the period specified in subsection (C)
below, and shall make them available to the POTW for inspection and copying,
subject to the provisions in this article regarding confidential information.
(As used in this section, the terms “hazardous waste” and “solid waste” shall
have the same definition as provided in the state hazardous waste management
act, Public Act 451, part 111, of 1994, being MCL §§ s324.11101 et seq., as
amended, and the rules promulgated under that Act.)
   (C)   Retention period.
      (1)   Users subject to the reporting requirements of this article (or of
any permit or order issued pursuant to this article) shall retain the records
specified in subsections (A) and (B) above for a period of at least three years
from:
         (a)   The date the record was created; or
         (b)   The date the record was first used or relied upon by the user,
whichever is later.
      (2)   The three-year retention period shall be extended during any
administrative or judicial action, enforcement proceeding or litigation
regarding matters regulated by this article (or regarding discharges of the
POTW under its NPDES permit), until all such actions, proceedings or activities
have concluded and all periods of limitation with respect to any and all
appeals have expired. The three-year retention period may also be extended at
any time at the request of the POTW, the state’s Department of Environmental
Quality or the U.S. EPA. The POTW shall retain all records, notices and other
information regarding discharges to the POTW submitted to it by non-domestic
users of the POTW for a period of not less than three years.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
SUBARTICLE 15. ADMINISTRATION OF THE POTW
§ 29-209 OPERATION AND MANAGEMENT OF POTW.
   (A)   Except as otherwise expressly provided by this article, the operation,
maintenance, alteration, repair and management of the POTW shall be under the
direct supervision and control of the city. The city has the exclusive right to
establish, maintain and collect rates and charges for use of the POTW, and the
city may employ the persons in the capacities as the city deems necessary and
advisable to ensure the efficient establishment, operation, maintenance and
management of the POTW, to comply with the POTW’s NPDES permit, and to
discharge its financial obligations.
   (B)   The city may designate a POTW Superintendent for each of the separate
districts of the POTW. The POTW Superintendent shall be charged with the duty
of investigating, preventing and abating violations and enforcing the
provisions of this article. The city may establish any rules, regulations and
procedures as determined necessary to assure the efficient management and
operation of the POTW. Any powers granted to or duties imposed upon the POTW
Superintendent by the city may be delegated to other persons in the discretion
of the city.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-210 POWERS OF POTW SUPERINTENDENT.
   As directed by the city, the POTW Superintendent shall (either directly,
through or in conjunction with other authorized representatives of the city)
take the following actions:
   (A)   Supervise the implementation of this article;
   (B)   Review plans submitted by users for pretreatment equipment;
   (C)   Make inspections and tests of existing and newly installed,
constructed, reconstructed, or altered sampling, metering, or pretreatment
equipment to determine compliance with the provisions of this Article;
   (D)   Verify the completeness, accuracy and representativeness of self-
monitoring data submitted and/or maintained by users;
   (E)   Investigate complaints of violations of this article, make inspections
and observations of discharges, and maintain a record of the investigations,
complaints, inspections and observations;
   (F)   Issue orders and notices of violation and take other actions as
necessary to require compliance with this article;
   (G)   Develop and implement a control authority enforcement response (CAER)
plan as required by 40 C.F.R. § 403.8(f)(5). The CAER plan shall provide
procedures for the POTW to investigate and respond to instances of non-
compliance by users. The CAER plan and any associated regulations developed by
the POTW Superintendent shall become effective upon approval by the city;
   (H)   With the approval of the city, and in conjunction with the city’s
legal counsel and the building official, institute necessary civil or criminal
judicial legal actions and proceedings in a court of competent jurisdiction
against all users violating this article to prosecute violations of this
article, to compel the abatement or prevention of violations, to compel
compliance with this article and any order, determination, permit or agreement
issued or entered into under this article, and to pursue other necessary or
advisable judicial relief or remedies with respect to violations of this
article;
   (I)   In conjunction with the city’s legal counsel and the building
official, commence a municipal civil infraction action against any user
violating this article, and issue municipal civil infraction citations and
municipal civil infraction violation notices for violations of this article;
and
   (J)   Perform any other actions authorized by this article, or as necessary
or advisable for the supervision, management and operation of the POTW and the
enforcement of this article and other applicable laws and regulations.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
SUBARTICLE 16. USER POLLUTION CONTROLS
§ 29-211 PROVISION BY USERS OF NECESSARY PRETREATMENT FACILITIES.
   Users shall provide necessary wastewater treatment as required to comply
with all applicable pretreatment standards and requirements within the time
limitations specified by applicable law or regulation, and as required to
comply with the requirements of a user permit or order issued pursuant to this
article. All facilities required to pretreat wastewater shall be provided,
operated and maintained at the user’s sole expense. Detailed, professionally
signed and sealed plans showing the pretreatment facilities, specifications and
operating procedures shall be submitted to the POTW for review and approval
prior to construction. The POTW may approve, approve with conditions or
disapprove the plans, specifications and operating procedures. A user shall not
begin discharging from the treatment facilities until facilities have been
approved and all conditions and requirements of the approval have been met as
determined by the POTW. The review and approval by the POTW of such plans and
operating procedures does not in any way relieve the user from the
responsibility of modifying the facility as necessary to produce an effluent
acceptable to the POTW under the provisions of this article. Any subsequent
changes in the pretreatment facilities or method of operation shall be reported
to and be approved by the POTW prior to the user’s initiation of the changes.
(Users shall notify the POTW regarding the installation of new pretreatment
facilities or modification of existing facilities as provided by §
29-177 of this chapter.)
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-212 PROPER OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   A user shall at all times properly operate and maintain at the user’s sole
expense all facilities and systems of treatment and control (and related
appurtenances) that are installed or used by the user to comply with the
requirements of this article. Proper operation and maintenance includes,
without limitation, effective performance, adequate funding, adequate operator
staffing and adequate quality assurance/quality control (QA/QC) procedures for
sampling and analysis.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-213 REMOVED SUBSTANCES.
   Solids, sludges, filter backwash or other pollutants removed in the course
of treatment or control of wastewaters shall be disposed of in accordance with
§ 405 of the Clean Water Act and subtitles C and D of the Resource Conservation
and Recovery Act and other applicable local, state and federal laws and
regulations.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-214 DUTY TO HALT OR REDUCE ACTIVITY.
   Upon reduction of efficiency of operation, or loss, or failure of all or
part of a user’s pretreatment equipment or facility, the user shall, to the
extent necessary to maintain compliance with categorical pretreatment standards
and other applicable standards, requirements and limits, control its production
and all discharges until operation of the equipment or facility is restored or
an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement applies in
situations, including, without limitation, where the primary source of power
for the pretreatment equipment or facility is reduced, lost or fails. It shall
not be a defense for a user in an enforcement action that it would have been
necessary to halt or reduce the permitted activity in order to maintain
compliance with the conditions of this article.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-215 DUTY TO MITIGATE.
   A user shall take all reasonable steps to minimize or correct any adverse
impact to the POTW or the environment resulting from non-compliance with this
article, including such accelerated or additional monitoring as necessary to
determine the nature and impact of the non-complying discharge.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-216 DUTY TO PRETREAT PRIOR TO DISCHARGE TO POTW.
   Except as otherwise expressly required by this article, by a user permit or
order issued pursuant to this article, or other applicable law or regulation,
the prohibitions and limitations provided by this article or a user permit
shall apply at the point where wastewater and pollutants are discharged or
caused to be discharged into the POTW and any required pretreatment shall, at a
minimum, be completed before that point of discharge is reached.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-217 IMPLEMENTATION OF BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES OR BEST MANAGEMENT
PRACTICES PLAN.
   (A)   The POTW Superintendent may require any user to develop and implement
best management practices to control, contain, treat, prevent or reduce the
discharge of wastewater, pollutants or other substances from the user’s
premises to the POTW, as determined necessary by the Superintendent.
   (B)   In addition, the POTW Superintendent may require a user to develop and
submit a best management practices plan (“BMPP”), including an enforceable
implementation schedule, for review and approval by the Superintendent. The
BMPP shall be submitted within 30 days after notification by the Superintendent
or as otherwise required by a user permit. The BMPP shall be directed at
preventing the entrance of pollutants, directly or indirectly, into the POTW.
The BMPP shall be available for inspection at all times at the user’s premises.
At a minimum, a user’s BMPP shall contain all of the following elements, as
determined necessary by the POTW Superintendent, at a level of detail and in
units and terms as determined necessary by the Superintendent to adequately
evaluate the plan:
      (1)   A statement of the purpose and objectives of the plan;
      (2)   A description of the strategies, methods, policies and procedures
to prevent, minimize or reduce the introduction of pollutants into the user’s
discharge and to minimize waste generation;
      (3)   A description of the options available to the user to control
accidental spillage, leaks and drainage;
      (4)   A description of best available or practicable control technologies
available for the user’s specific circumstances;
      (5)   A detailed facility layout and site diagram showing points of entry
into the POTW;
      (6)   A description of the waste handling, treatment and discharge
disposal facilities, including flow diagrams and process schematics;
      (7)   A description of operating and maintenance processes and
procedures;
      (8)   Inventory of raw materials and a list of waste sources, including a
list of all chemicals used or stored at the facility;
      (9)   A description of employee training programs, policies and
procedures; continuing education programs; and participation;
      (10)   A description of documentation, including record keeping and
forms;
      (11)   A description of monitoring activities;
      (12)   Information log of facility personnel, organization chart,
emergency phone numbers, contact persons and maintenance or service
representatives;
      (13)   Certification by a qualified professional that the plan is
adequate to prevent spills, leaks, slug loads, or non-customary discharges of
regulated substances, directly or indirectly, to the POTW; and
      (14)   Such other information, documents or diagrams as required by the
POTW Superintendent, including, but not limited to, any of the information
required under § 29-158 of this chapter.
   (C)   The BMPs or BMPP required of a user or approved for a user shall be
incorporated in a user permit issued to the user. If the user already has a
user permit, the existing permit may be modified to incorporate the BMP
requirements. If the user does not currently have a user permit, a permit shall
be issued for that purpose.
   (D)   The POTW Superintendent may require revisions to a user’s BMPP if the
Superintendent determines that the plan contains elements that are inadequate,
or as otherwise determined necessary by the Superintendent to ensure compliance
with applicable requirements of this article. Review of a BMPP by the
Superintendent shall not relieve the user from the responsibility to modify its
facility as necessary to comply with local, state and federal laws and
regulations.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-218 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS/TRAPS.
   (A)   Interceptors/traps required.
      (1)   Grease interceptors/traps shall be provided and maintained in
proper operating condition at all times at the expense of the property owner
for the proper handling of liquid waste containing grease. Grease interceptors/
traps shall be required for all food service establishments and may be required
for other users as determined necessary by the POTW Superintendent. Grease
interceptors/traps shall be sized, constructed and installed as required by the
POTW Superintendent’s specifications and subject to the POTW Superintendent’s
approval. At a minimum, grease interceptors/traps shall be cleaned and
maintained per the manufacturer’s specifications and as provided by this
section at the property owner’s expense.
      (2)   Oil and sand interceptors/traps may be required in any
establishment where sand, oil and flammable wastes or other harmful ingredients
could enter the wastewater. If a plug or backup occurs and is directly caused
by sand and/or oil, the POTW Superintendent may require that establishment to
install an oil and sand interceptor/trap. Oil and sand interceptors/traps are
required for establishments engaged in the washing of motor vehicles.
      (3)   (a)   All interceptors/traps shall be of a type and capacity
approved by the POTW Superintendent and shall be located as to be readily and
easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
         (b)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be constructed of
impervious materials capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in
temperature.
         (c)   They shall be of substantial construction, water-tight and
equipped with easily removable covers which, when bolted into place, shall be
gas-tight and water-tight.
         (d)   Grease interceptors shall provide a minimum capacity of 750
gallons.
      (4)   Where installed, all grease, oil and sand interceptors/traps shall
be cleaned and maintained by the owner, at the owner’s sole expense, and shall
be kept in continuously efficient operation at all times. At a minimum, any
user required to install an interceptor shall comply with the best management
practices as provided by §
29-219(B) of this chapter.
   (B)   Best management practices (“BMPs”) for interceptors/traps.
      (1)   Any user required to install and maintain an interceptor (trap) of
any kind shall develop and carry out a system of maintenance and cleanout of
such device(s) and shall document and keep:
         (a)   A maintenance schedule;
         (b)   The identity of the person(s) who cleaned and maintained the
interceptor; and
         (c)   The method and location of grease, oil and sand disposal.
      (2)   Any problems with or damage to an interceptor/trap shall be
reported immediately to the owner and the POTW Superintendent.
      (3)   Any damage to an interceptor/trap shall be immediately repaired.
      (4)   No interceptor/trap clean out material shall be discharged into a
sewer.
      (5)   No bacteria or enzyme products shall be used in the maintenance of
interceptor/traps.
      (6)   All users shall implement BMPs for grease management to minimize
the discharge of food grease to the POTW.
      (7)   Specific BMPs for grease interceptors/traps. All users required to
install and maintain grease interceptors (traps) shall comply with the
following minimum requirements.
         (a)   Under-sink grease traps shall be cleaned weekly, at a minimum,
or more frequently as needed or as required by the POTW Superintendent.
         (b)   Cleanouts of all other interceptor/traps shall be scheduled such
that the interceptor/trap does not exceed 25% solids content (including both
the top and bottom layers of solids) and there is no visible discharge of
grease or oil. At a minimum, an interceptor/trap shall be cleaned out at least
once every three months.
         (c)   The cleanout shall be accomplished by pumping to remove the
entire grease mat, liquids, sludges, and solids from screens, baffles, air-
relief chambers and wash down of interior walls. The interceptor/trap shall be
refilled with clear water before being returned to service.
         (d)   The user shall witness all clean out and maintenance of
interceptor/traps.
   (C)   Documentation. The documentation required by this section shall be
available for review by the POTW and copies shall be provided to the POTW upon
request.
   (D)   Inspection. The POTW shall have the right to inspect a restaurant or
other establishment where an interceptor/trap is required) at any time for any
reason.
   (E)   Failure to comply.
      (1)   If a user fails to provide or maintain a required interceptor/trap,
the city may do so (or cause the same to be done) and charge the costs to the
user.
      (2)   The failure of any establishment where an interceptor/trap is
required to comply with this section may subject the violator to enforcement
action and the remedies as may be available by law and the terms of this
article.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-219 ADDITIONAL PRETREATMENT MEASURES.
   The POTW may require users to take additional pretreatment measures, as
determined necessary by the POTW, including, but not limited to, the following.
   (A)   Whenever deemed necessary, the POTW may require users to restrict
their discharge during peak flow periods, designate that certain wastewater be
discharged only into specific sewers, relocate and/or consolidate points of
discharge, separate sewage wastestreams from industrial wastestreams and such
other conditions as may be necessary to protect the POTW and determine the
user’s compliance with the requirements of this article.
   (B)   The POTW may require any person discharging into the POTW to install
and maintain, on their property and at their expense, a suitable storage and
flow control facility to ensure equalization of flow.
   (C)   Users with the reasonable potential to discharge explosive or
flammable substances may be required to install and maintain an approved
explosion hazard meter, combustible gas detection meter or similar device, as
determined appropriate by the POTW.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
SUBARTICLE 17. ENFORCEMENT
§ 29-220 POTW INSPECTION, SURVEILLANCE AND MONITORING AUTHORITY; RIGHT OF
ENTRY.
   (A)   In general. The POTW is authorized to carry out all inspection,
surveillance, sampling and monitoring activities and procedures, as necessary
to determine, independent of information supplied by users or any other
persons, compliance or non-compliance with applicable pretreatment standards
and requirements, with this article, and with other applicable laws and
regulations. This authority includes, without limitation, the authority:
      (1)   To verify the completeness, accuracy and representativeness of
self-monitoring data submitted by users;
      (2)   To determine compliance with the terms, conditions and requirements
of this Article or of any permit, order, notice or agreement issued or entered
into under this article;
      (3)   To support enforcement actions taken by the POTW against non-
compliant users;
      (4)   To determine if users have corrected problems identified in
previous inspections;
      (5)   To identify which (and to what degree) users influence the quality
of the POTW’s influent, effluent and sludge quality;
      (6)   To evaluate the impacts of the POTW’s influent on its treatment
processes and receiving stream;
      (7)   To evaluate the need for revised local limits;
      (8)   To maintain current data on each user;
      (9)   To assess the adequacy of each user’s self-monitoring program and
user permit;
      (10)   To provide a basis for establishing sampling and monitoring
requirements for users;
      (11)   To evaluate the adequacy of each user’s operation and maintenance
activities on its pretreatment system;
      (12)   To assess the potential for spills and/or slug discharge control
measures, and evaluate the effectiveness of spill and slug discharge control
measures;
      (13)   To gather information for user permit development;
      (14)   To evaluate compliance with existing enforcement actions;
      (15)   To require any user to submit one or more representative samples
of the wastewater discharged or that the user proposes to discharge into the
POTW; and
      (16)   To determine compliance with requirements regarding implementation
of best management practices; accidental discharge controls and protections;
spill prevention or containment measures; and pollution prevention,
minimization or reduction measures.
   (B)   Right of entry. The POTW Superintendent and other authorized
representatives of the city bearing proper credentials and identification are
authorized to enter a non-domestic user’s premises (and any other user’s
premises, as determined necessary by the POTW Superintendent) to conduct
inspection, surveillance and monitoring activities as necessary to determine
compliance with this article, and in that regard shall have, without
limitation, the following minimum authority:
      (1)   To enter into any premises of any user in which a discharge source,
treatment system or activity is located or in which records are required to be
kept as provided by this article, for the purpose of inspecting, observing,
measuring, sampling and testing the wastewater discharge, removing samples of
wastewater for analysis and inspecting and making copies of required records.
This shall include the right to take photographs;
      (2)   To set up and maintain on the user’s property such devices as are
necessary to conduct sampling, inspection, compliance monitoring and/or
metering operations, or to require the user to do so, at the user’s sole
expense;
      (3)   To randomly sample and analyze the effluent from users and conduct
surveillance activities to identify occasional and continuing non-compliance
with applicable standards and requirements. The POTW shall inspect and sample
the effluent from each significant industrial user at least once a year; and
      (4)   To inspect any production, manufacturing, fabrication or storage
area where pollutants, subject to regulation under this article, could
originate, be stored or be discharged to the POTW.
      (5)   To enter all private properties through which the POTW, the city or
other governmental agency holds an easement for the purposes of, but not
limited to, inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, repair and
maintenance of any portion of the POTW or wastewater transmission facilities
lying within the easement, POTW representatives entering a user’s premises for
purposes authorized by this article shall comply with the user’s plant safety
requirements regarding such matters as entry into confined spaces, use of
safety glasses, and hearing protection requirements, as requested by the user.
Entry shall be commenced and completed as expeditiously as practicable,
consistent with the purposes for which the entry was made.
   (C)   Access without delay required. Users shall allow the POTW ready access
at all times to all parts of the user’s facility or premises where wastewater
governed by this article is created, handled, conveyed, treated or discharged,
or where any production, manufacturing, fabrication or storage area where
pollutants regulated under this article could originate, be stored, or be
discharged to the POTW, or where wastewater records are kept, for the purposes
of inspection, sampling, records examination or in the performance of any of
the POTW’s duties. If a user has security measures in force that would require
proper identification and clearance before entry into the premises by the POTW,
the user shall make necessary arrangements in advance with its security guards
so that upon presentation of suitable identification, authorized
representatives of the POTW (or authorized state or federal personnel) will be
permitted to enter, without delay, for the purposes of performing their
specific responsibilities. Upon arrival at a user’s premises, POTW
representatives shall inform the user or its employees that inspections,
sampling, compliance monitoring, metering or other POTW procedures are to be
performed and that the user has the right to accompany the POTW employee/
representative during the performance of his or her duties.
   (D)   Refusal to allow entry. If a user refuses to permit access (or
unreasonably delays access) to an authorized POTW representative or to permit
the representative to obtain, take and remove samples or make copies of
documents or undertake other authorized inspection, surveillance and monitoring
activities as provided by this article, the POTW Superintendent may order the
termination of the discharge of wastewater to the POTW; order the user to
permit access within a time certain; issue the user a notice of violation of
this section; or take other appropriate action as provided by this article and
other applicable laws and regulations (including, but not limited to, seeking
the issuance of a search warrant). Further, the refusal to permit access (or
causing an unreasonable delay in access) as provided by this section shall
constitute a violation of this article.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-221 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating a provision of this article may be
served with written notice stating the nature of the violation and providing a
reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction of the violation. The
person shall, within the period of time stated in notice, permanently cease all
violations. The notice of violation (NOV) shall be served and shall contain the
information as provided by § 29-223 of this chapter.
   (B)   Unless otherwise specified by the NOV, the following provisions shall
apply. Within 30 days of the date of the NOV, the user shall submit to the POTW
a written explanation of the violation and a plan for the satisfactory
correction and prevention thereof, to include specific required actions.
Submission of the required plan shall not in any way relieve the user of
liability for any violations occurring before or after receipt of the notice of
violation.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall limit the authority of the city or the
POTW to take any action, including emergency actions or any other enforcement
action, without first issuing a notice of violation, or otherwise require the
city or the POTW to first issue a notice of violation before initiating a civil
or criminal action against a person for violating this article.
   (D)   Failure to comply with any requirement of a notice of violation shall
constitute a separate violation of this article.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-222 ORDERS AND SUPPLEMENTAL ENFORCEMENT TOOLS.
   The POTW Superintendent may issue an order to any user as determined by the
Superintendent to be appropriate under the circumstances, as provided by this
section. Multiple orders may be issued simultaneously or in combination as a
single order with respect to a single user.
   (A)   Service. An order shall be served upon a user and shall contain the
information as provided by §
29-223 of this chapter. However, orders to immediately cease and desist
discharge, or to terminate sewer services, or other emergency orders where
delay might endanger human health, the environment or the POTW, may be oral and
may be served by telephone (to be followed within five days by written
confirmation of the order by the POTW Superintendent).
   (B)   Types of orders. The POTW Superintendent may issue the following types
of orders.
      (1)   Order to immediately cease and desist discharge. The POTW
Superintendent may issue an order to cease and desist from discharging any
wastewater, pollutant, or discharge not in compliance with this article. The
order shall have immediate effect if the actual or threatened discharge to the
POTW presents, or may present, imminent or substantial endangerment to the
health or welfare of persons, to the environment, or causes, or may cause,
interference or pass through. The POTW Superintendent shall implement whatever
action is necessary to halt or prevent the discharge, including, but not
limited to, emergency suspension of service. The user shall be assessed for any
penalties, fines, charges, surcharges, expenses or losses incurred due to the
actual or threatened discharge of pollutants as provided by this article.
      (2)   Order to cease discharge within a time certain. The POTW
Superintendent may issue an order to cease and desist from discharging any
wastewater, pollutant or discharge not in compliance with this article by a
certain time and date. The proposed time for remedial action shall be specified
in the order. In addition to any other circumstances as determined appropriate
by the POTW Superintendent, an order may be issued under this section for the
failure to pay applicable permit fees or to comply with any term of a user
permit.
      (3)   Order to effect pretreatment. The POTW Superintendent may issue an
order to a user requiring the user to pretreat its discharge in accordance with
this article. Any user subject to an order to pretreat shall prepare a plan to
pretreat its discharge so that the discharge complies with the requirements of
the order and this article. The plan shall be submitted to the POTW
Superintendent within a reasonable period as specified in the order. The plan
shall be prepared in accordance with good engineering practice and shall state
whether construction is necessary, as well as identify measures that can be
completed without construction. The plan shall contain a schedule of compliance
for completion of each of the various phases necessary to implement full
pretreatment. The schedule of compliance must be approved by the POTW
Superintendent. The schedule of compliance shall consist of one or more
remedial measures, including enforceable timetables for a sequence of actions
or operations leading to compliance with an effluent standard or other
prohibition or standard. The following steps or phases shall be included in the
schedule of compliance as determined necessary by the POTW Superintendent:
         (a)   Retain a qualified engineer and/or consultant;
         (b)   Obtain any engineering or scientific investigation or surveys
deemed necessary;
         (c)   Prepare and submit a preliminary plan to achieve pretreatment;
         (d)   Prepare plans and specifications, working drawings or other
engineering or architectural documents that may be necessary to effect
pretreatment;
         (e)   Establish a time to let any contract necessary for any
construction;
         (f)   Establish completion times for any construction necessary;
         (g)   Establish a time limit to complete full pretreatment pursuant to
the final order; and
         (h)   If a phase or unit of construction or implementation may be
effected independently of another phase or unit, establish separate timetables
for the phases or unit.
      (4)   Order to affirmatively respond. The POTW Superintendent may issue
an order requiring a user to perform any action required under this article,
including, without limitation, requiring a user to submit samples; to install
sampling, metering and monitoring equipment; to submit reports; to permit
access for inspection, sampling, testing, monitoring and investigations; to
reduce or eliminate a discharge or pollutants in a discharge; or to pay permit
fees or other applicable charges.
      (5)   Order to terminate sewer services. The POTW Superintendent may
issue an order to terminate the sewer services of a user, including, but not
limited to, immediate physical blockage of the user’s sewer connection, for
reasons including, without limitation, the following:
         (a)   A discharge that violates any general or specific discharge
prohibition, including any pretreatment standard or requirement, and that
reasonably appears to present an imminent endangerment to human health, the
environment or the POTW;
         (b)   Failure of a user to notify the POTW of any discharge as
described in subsection (B)(5)(a) above of which the user was aware or
reasonably should have been aware;
         (c)   Failure of a user to sample, monitor, pretreat or report or
failure to install monitoring or pretreatment facilities, as required by an
order of the POTW Superintendent;
         (d)   A knowing, willful violation of any term, condition or
requirement of an order or user permit, or any provision of this article; and
         (e)   A negligent violation of any major term, condition or
requirement of an order or user permit. For purposes of this section, a “major”
term, condition or requirement is one the violation of which is reasonably
likely to endanger human health, the environment, the POTW or cause the POTW to
violate its NPDES permit.
If the POTW determines that physical blockage is necessary, the POTW shall make
a reasonable attempt to deliver to the person who appears to be in control of
the user’s facility a written notice describing the reason for the physical
blockage order. After delivery of the notice (or after a reasonable attempt to
deliver the notice, even if delivery was unsuccessful), the POTW may
immediately install the physical blockage. No person shall remove or tamper
with a physical blockage installed by the POTW without prior written permission
from the city.
      (6)   Order to show cause. The POTW Superintendent may issue an order
requiring a user to appear and explain any non-compliance with the requirements
of this article or any permit, order, decision or determination promulgated,
issued or made under this article, and to show cause why more severe
enforcement actions against the user should not go forward. A show cause
hearing shall be held within ten days after the order to show cause is issued,
as follows.
         (a)   The hearing shall be conducted and evidence shall be taken by
the City Manager. Notice of the hearing shall be provided to require the
attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of evidence relevant
to any matter involved in the hearing.
         (b)   Any testimony taken at the hearing shall be under oath and
recorded. A copy of the transcript of the hearing shall be made available at
cost to any person upon payment of applicable charges for the transcript.
         (c)   After reviewing the evidence taken at the hearing, the City
Manager shall decide whether further enforcement action is required and, if so,
the nature and extent of that further action, including, without limitation,
the issuance of any order or imposition of any fines, fees, surcharges or
penalties, as authorized by this article.
   (C)   Immediate response to order by user may be required. Any user issued
an order as provided by this section to immediately suspend its discharge to
the POTW shall immediately stop or eliminate the discharge using whatever means
are necessary to do so, or take any other action as required by the order. If
the user fails to comply voluntarily with the order to immediately suspend its
discharge, the POTW shall take any action determined necessary as authorized by
this article, including, without limitation, immediate suspension of water
service and/or severance of the sewer connection or commencement of judicial
proceedings, to prevent or minimize damage to the POTW or endangerment to
public health, safety or the environment. The POTW may reinstate the wastewater
treatment service and terminate any judicial proceedings, as applicable, upon
satisfactory proof or other demonstration by the user that the non-complying
discharge has been eliminated or will not reoccur. A detailed written statement
submitted by the user describing the causes of the non-complying discharge and
the measures taken to prevent any further occurrence shall be submitted to the
POTW Superintendent within 15 days of the occurrence.
   (D)   Non-compliance due to factors beyond user’s control. If non-compliance
with an order is unintentional and temporary and due to factors beyond the
reasonable control of a user, and the user can demonstrate the conditions
necessary for demonstration of an upset as provided by §
29-201(A) of this chapter, the POTW Superintendent may modify the order or take
other actions as determined appropriate. However, a user shall not be relieved
of liability for non-compliance with an order to the extent caused by
operational error, improperly designed or inadequate treatment facilities, lack
of preventative maintenance or careless or improper operation.
   (E)   Amendment, suspension and revocation of orders. An order shall be
subject to amendment, suspension or revocation as determined appropriate by the
POTW Superintendent. Notice of the amendment, suspension or revocation shall be
served upon the user in the same manner as notice was provided for the original
order. An amendment, suspension or revocation of an order shall be subject to
the same procedures for review and appeal as the original issuance of the
order, as provided by this article.
   (F)   Consent orders and agreements. The POTW Superintendent may enter into
a consent order or agreement with a user to resolve disputed claims and address
identified and potential deficiencies in the user’s compliance status. The
order or agreement shall be in the form of a written agreement with the user
and may contain appropriate provisions, including, without limitation,
compliance schedules and stipulated fines and remedial actions.
   (G)   POTW authority to require financial assurances. The POTW may require
any user to post a performance bond (or other form of surety acceptable to the
POTW Superintendent) sufficient to cover expenses (direct and/or indirect) that
might reasonably be incurred by the POTW as a result of the user’s discharges
to the POTW (including, but not limited to, the costs to restore or repair any
damage to the POTW) or sufficient to achieve consistent compliance with
applicable laws and regulations, as determined necessary by the POTW
Superintendent. Further, any user that has in the prior two years been
responsible for causing interference or pass through at the POTW may be
required to obtain liability insurance sufficient to cover the reasonable costs
of responding or restoring the POTW in the event of a second such incident.
These financial assurance requirements may also be made conditions of a user
permit.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-223 SERVICE OF NOTICES OF VIOLATIONS, ORDERS AND NOTICES OF ASSESSMENTS.
   Except as otherwise expressly provided by this article, all orders, notices
of violations and notices of assessments shall be served upon persons and shall
contain the information as provided by this section.
   (A)   Service. Service shall be by personal delivery or certified mail
(return receipt requested), addressed to the user, alleged violator or other
person, as applicable, at the person’s last know address as shown by POTW’s
records. The person served shall sign and date the order or notice and shall
return the signed original copy to the POTW; provided that, the failure to do
so shall not affect the person’s obligation to comply with the order or notice.
Further, a notice or order served by mail may not actually be received by the
user, but this shall not nullify any enforcement action subsequently taken by
the POTW against the user under authority of this article.
   (B)   Contents. All orders and notices shall contain at least the following
information, to the extent known by the POTW and as determined by the POTW to
be applicable to the situation:
      (1)   The name and address of the violator;
      (2)   The location and time that the violation occurred or was observed,
and the duration of the violation;
      (3)   The nature of the violation, including the provisions of this
article or of any permit, order, decision, determination or agreement violated;
      (4)   The basis for determining that a violation has occurred (personal
observation, pollutant analysis and the like);
      (5)   The amount of the fine, penalty or charge assessed or due, if any;
      (6)   The manner in which, and time and date by which, any fine, penalty
or charge must be paid, including any penalty or charge for late payment;
      (7)   The remedial action ordered, the time within which required actions
must be taken, and any consequences for failure to do so;
      (8)   The right to appeal the issuance of the order or notice and a
summary of the procedures for appeal, or other applicable administrative
procedures; and
      (9)   The date and time the order or notice was issued.
   (C)   Request for additional information. A person served may request
additional information from the POTW Superintendent regarding the contents or
requirements of any order or notice. However, a request for additional
information shall not extend the time for compliance with an order or notice.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-224 PUBLICATION OF USERS IN SIGNIFICANT NON-COMPLIANCE.
   The POTW shall publish once per year in the largest newspaper circulated in
the city, a list of non-domestic users that, at any time during the previous 12
months, were in significant non-compliance with applicable pretreatment
standards or requirements. For the purposes of this section, a user shall be
considered to be in significant non-compliance if its violations meet one or
more of the following criteria:
   (A)   Chronic violation of discharge limits, defined as results of analyses
in which 66% or more of all of the measurements taken during a six-month period
exceed (by any magnitude) the numeric daily maximum limit, instantaneous limit
or the average limit for the same pollutant parameter;
   (B)   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations, defined as results of
analyses in which 33% or more of all of the measurements taken for the same
pollutant parameter during a six-month period equal or exceed the product of
the daily maximum limit, instantaneous limit or the average limit times the
applicable TRC (TRC = 1.4 for BOD, TSS, fats, oil and grease and 1.2 for all
other pollutants, except pH);
   (C)   Any other violation of a pretreatment effluent limit (instantaneous
minimum, instantaneous maximum, daily maximum or long-term average, or
narrative standard) that the POTW determines has caused, alone or in
combination with other discharges, interference or pass through (including
endangering the Health of Department personnel or the general public);
   (D)   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent endangerment to
human health, welfare or to the environment, or has resulted in the POTW’s
exercise of its emergency authority to halt or prevent the discharge;
   (E)   Failure to meet, within 90 days after the schedule date, a compliance
schedule milestone contained in a permit or enforcement order, for starting
construction, completing construction or attaining final compliance;
   (F)   Failure to provide any required reports within 30 days after the due
date;
   (G)   Failure to accurately report non-compliance; or
   (H)   Any other violation or group of violations, which may include a
violation of best management practices, that the POTW Superintendent determines
will adversely affect the POTW or the operation or implementation of the POTW’s
pretreatment program.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-225 MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTIONS.
   (A)   Violation; municipal civil infraction. Except as provided by § 29-226
of this chapter, and notwithstanding any other provision of the city’s laws,
ordinances and regulations to the contrary, a person who violates any provision
of this article (including, without limitation, any notice, order, permit,
decision or determination promulgated, issued or made by the POTW under this
article) is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, subject to payment of
a civil fine of not less than $1,000 per day for each infraction and not more
than $10,000 per day for each infraction, plus costs and other sanctions.
   (B)   Repeat offenses; increased fines.
      (1)   Increased fines may be imposed for repeat offenses. As used in this
section, REPEAT OFFENSE means a second (or any subsequent) municipal civil
infraction violation of the same requirement or provision of this article:
         (a)   Committed by a person within any 90-day period (with a new 90-
day period commencing as of the date of the last offense); and
         (b)   For which the person admits responsibility or is determined to
be responsible.
      (2)   The increased fine fora repeat offense under this article shall be
as follows.
         (a)   The fine for any offense that is a first repeat offense shall be
not less than $2,500, plus costs.
         (b)   The fine for any offense that is a second repeat offense or any
subsequent repeat offense shall be not less than $5,000, plus costs.
   (C)   Amount of fines. Subject to the minimum fine amounts specified in
subsections (A) and (B) above, the following factors shall be considered by the
court in determining the amount of a municipal civil infraction fine following
the issuance of a municipal civil infraction citation for a violation of this
article: the type, nature, severity, frequency, duration, preventability,
potential and actual effect and economic benefit to the violator (such as
delayed or avoided costs or competitive advantage) of a violation; the
violator’s recalcitrance or efforts to comply; the economic impacts of the fine
on the violator; and such other matters as justice may require. A violator
shall bear the burden of demonstrating the presence and degree of any
mitigating factors to be considered in determining the amount of a fine.
However, mitigating factors shall not be considered unless it is determined
that the violator has made all good faith efforts to correct and terminate all
violations.
   (D)   Authorized local official. Notwithstanding any other provision of the
city’s laws, ordinances and regulations to the contrary, the following persons
are designated as the authorized local officials to issue municipal civil
infraction citations directing alleged violators to appear in district court
for violations of this article (or, if applicable, to issue municipal civil
infraction notices directing alleged violators to appear at a Municipal
Ordinance Violations Bureau): the POTW Superintendent, the Building Official,
any sworn law enforcement officer and any other persons so designated by the
city.
   (E)   Other requirements and procedures. Except as otherwise provided by
this section, the requirements and procedures for commencing municipal civil
infraction actions; issuance and service of municipal civil infraction
citations; determination and collection of court-ordered fines, costs and
expenses; appearances and payment of fines and costs; failure to answer, appear
or pay fines; disposition of fines, costs and expenses paid; and other matters
regarding municipal civil infractions shall be as set forth in Public Act 236
of 1961, as amended.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-226 CRIMINAL PENALTIES; IMPRISONMENT.
   Any person who does the following shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a
misdemeanor punishable by a fine of $500 per violation, per day, or
imprisonment for up to 90 days, or both in the discretion of the court:
   (A)   At the time of a violation knew or should have known that a pollutant
or substance was discharged contrary to any provision of this article, or
contrary to any notice, order, permit, decision or determination promulgated,
issued or made by the POTW under this article;
   (B)   Intentionally makes a false statement, representation or certification
in an application for, or form pertaining to a permit, or in a notice, report
or record required by this article, or in any other correspondence or
communication, written or oral, with the POTW regarding matters regulated by
this article;
   (C)   Intentionally falsifies, tampers with or renders inaccurate any
sampling or monitoring device or record required to be maintained by this
article; or
   (D)   Commits any other act that is punishable under state law by
imprisonment for more than 90 days.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-227 CONTINUING VIOLATION.
   Each act of violation, and each day or portion of a day that a violation of
this article (or of any permit, order, notice or agreement issued or entered
into under this article) exists or occurs, constitutes a separate violation
subject to the fines, penalties and other sanctions and remedies as provided by
this article.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-228 NUMBER OF VIOLATIONS.
   The number of violations resulting from a user’s non-compliance with
applicable discharge prohibitions or effluent limitations shall be determined
as follows.
   (A)   Applicable concentration limitations and mass (or loading) limitations
shall be treated as separate limitations, and a user may be liable and
penalized separately for exceeding any of those limitations for a single
pollutant or sampling parameter.
   (B)   Each violation of a daily maximum limit for a single pollutant or
sampling parameter shall constitute a separate violation for each day on which
the violation occurs or continues.
   (C)   Each violation of an instantaneous minimum or instantaneous maximum
limit for a single pollutant or sampling parameter shall constitute a separate
violation for each such occurrence, and there may be multiple violations for
each day on which such a violation occurs or continues.
   (D)   Each violation of a monthly average limit (or of some other average
limit period) for a single pollutant or sampling parameter shall constitute a
separate violation for each day of the month (or other stated period) during
which the violation occurred, regardless of the number of days on which samples
were actually taken. (For example, in a month with 31 days, a violation of the
monthly average limit for that month constitutes 31 violations for each
pollutant parameter for which the monthly average limit was exceeded during the
month.)
   (E)   Except with regard to violations of average limits as provided by
subsection (D) above, a violation will be deemed to have continued to occur
each day beginning with the first day the violation occurred to the day the
user is able to demonstrate through appropriate sampling results that the
violation is no longer occurring.
   (F)   If for any period a user has violated both a daily maximum limit and
an average limit for a particular pollutant parameter, then the total number of
violations is the sum of the days on which the daily maximum limit was
violated, plus the number of days in the averaging period.
   (G)   If a user permit regulates more than one outfall, each outfall shall
be considered separately in computing the number of violations as provided by
this section.
   (H)   If a user is discharging a wastestream that is required to be
monitored and analyzed under continuous monitoring procedures (such as for pH
or any other parameter that is required to be monitored and analyzed under
continuous monitoring), then all of the following shall apply.
      (1)   If at any time during a daily 24-hour period the continuous
monitoring shows that the monitored parameter exceeded the instantaneous
minimum, instantaneous maximum, or daily maximum limit for that parameter, then
a violation has occurred.
      (2)   If during a daily 24-hour period under continuous monitoring the
monitored parameter exceeds the instantaneous minimum, instantaneous maximum or
daily maximum limit more than once after returning to compliance during that
period, then each such exceedance shall be considered a separate violation.
      (3)   If during a daily 24-hour period under continuous monitoring the
monitored parameter exceeds the instantaneous minimum, instantaneous maximum or
daily limit into the next daily 24-hour period (i.e., the exceedance occurs
both before and after midnight), then the exceedance will be considered a
separate violation on both days.
      (4)   If during a daily 24-hour period under continuous monitoring the
monitored parameter exceeds instantaneous minimum, instantaneous maximum, or
the daily limit for more than 66% of the 24-hour period, as determined in
minutes of the day, then the user will be considered to be in significant non-
compliance.
   (I)   One violation occurs on each day that a report is late; and each day
after an action required to be completed is not completed.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-229 NUISANCE.
   A violation of this article, or of any permit, order, notice or agreement
issued or entered into under this article, is deemed to be a public nuisance
and shall be corrected or abated as directed by the city. In addition to any
other legal or equitable remedies available under the law, any person creating
a public nuisance shall be subject to the provisions of state law, this
article, or other ordinance of the city governing such nuisances, including
reimbursing the city for any costs incurred in removing, abating or remedying
said nuisance, as applicable.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-230 REIMBURSEMENT.
   (A)   (1)   Any person who discharges to the POTW (including, but not
limited to, any person who causes or creates a discharge that violates any
provision of this article, produces a deposit or obstruction, or otherwise
damages, injures or impairs the POTW, or causes or contributes to a violation
of any federal, state or local law governing the POTW, whether any such act is
intentional or unintentional) shall be liable to and shall fully reimburse the
POTW for all expenses, costs, losses or damages (direct or indirect) payable or
incurred by the POTW as a result of any such discharge, deposit, obstruction,
damage, injury, impairment, violation, exceedance, non-compliance or act. The
costs that must be reimbursed to the POTW shall include, but shall not be
limited to, all of the following:
         (a)   All costs incurred by the POTW in responding to the violation or
discharge, including, expenses for any cleaning, repair or replacement work,
and the costs of sampling, monitoring and treatment, as a result of the
discharge, violation or non-compliance;
         (b)   All costs to the POTW of monitoring, surveillance and
enforcement in connection with investigating, verifying and prosecuting any
discharge, violation or non-compliance;
         (c)   The full amount of any fines, assessments, penalties and claims,
including natural resource damages, levied against the POTW, or any POTW
representative, by any governmental agency or third party as a result of a
violation of the POTW’s NPDES permit (or other applicable law or regulation)
that is caused by or contributed to by any discharge, violation or non-
compliance; and
         (d)   The full value of any POTW staff time (including any
administrative and overhead costs and any required overtime), consultant and
engineering fees, and actual attorney fees and defense costs (including the
POTW’s legal counsel and any special legal counsel), associated with responding
to, investigating, verifying and prosecuting any discharge, violation or non-
compliance or otherwise incurred by the POTW in administering and enforcing the
requirements of this article.
      (2)   Further, the POTW is authorized to correct any violation of this
article or damage or impairment to the POTW caused by a discharge and to bill
the person causing the violation or discharge for the amounts to be reimbursed.
The costs reimbursable under this section shall be in addition to fees, amounts
or other costs and expenses required to be paid by users under other sections
of this article.
   (B)   In determining the amounts to be reimbursed, the POTW may consider
factors such as, but not limited to, the following:
      (1)   The volume of the discharge;
      (2)   The length of time the discharge occurred;
      (3)   The composition of the discharge;
      (4)   The nature, extent, and degree of success the POTW may achieve in
minimizing or mitigating the effect of the discharge;
      (5)   The toxicity, degradability, treatability and dispersal
characteristics of the discharges;
      (6)   The direct and indirect costs incurred by the POTW, or imposed upon
the POTW to treat the discharges, including sludge handling and disposal costs;
      (7)   Fines, assessments, levies, charges, expenses and penalties imposed
upon and/or incurred by the POTW, including the POTW’s costs of defense of
actions, or suits brought or threatened against the POTW by governmental
agencies or third parties; and
      (8)   Such other factors, including the amount of any attorney’s fees,
consultant and expert fees, expenses, costs, sampling and analytical fees,
repairs and the like, as the POTW deems appropriate under the circumstances.
   (C)   Costs to be reimbursed to the POTW as provided by this section may be
assessed to the user as provided by § 29-223 of this chapter, or as otherwise
determined appropriate by the POTW Superintendent in conjunction with an
enforcement action.
   (D)   The failure by any person to pay any amounts required to be reimbursed
to the POTW as provided by this section shall constitute an additional
violation of this article.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-231 REVIEW OR APPROVAL BY CITY.
   In no case shall the review and/or approval by the city of a user’s plans,
specifications or operating procedures entitle a user to relief from
enforcement actions for failure to achieve compliance with the applicable
pretreatment standards and requirements.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-232 SEVERANCE OR SUSPENSION OF SEWER AND/OR WATER SERVICE.
   If a user violates or continues to violate any provision of this article
(including, without limitation, any notice, order, permit, decision or
determination promulgated, issued or made by the POTW under this article), or
if the city determines that the user’s actual or proposed discharge may present
an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons or
the environment, the city may sever or suspend sewer and/or water service
provided to the user by the city. If severed or suspended, the sewer and/or
water service shall recommence only after the user has satisfactorily
demonstrated to the city the user’s ability to comply with all applicable
provisions of this article, and only at the user’s sole expense.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-233 JUDICIAL RELIEF.
   With the approval of the city, in conjunction with the city’s legal counsel,
the POTW Superintendent may institute legal proceedings in a court of competent
jurisdiction to seek all appropriate relief for violations of this article or
of any permit, order, notice or agreement issued or entered into under this
article. The action may seek temporary or permanent injunctive relief, damages,
penalties, costs, and any other relief, at law or equity, that a court may
order. The POTW Superintendent may also seek collection of surcharges, fines,
penalties and any other amounts due to the POTW that a user has not paid.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-234 CUMULATIVE REMEDIES.
   The imposition of a single penalty, fine, order, damage or surcharge upon
any person for a violation of this article, or of any permit, order, notice or
agreement issued or entered into under this article, shall not preclude the
imposition by the POTW or a court of competent jurisdiction of a combination of
any or all of those sanctions and remedies or additional sanctions and remedies
with respect to the same violation, consistent with applicable limitations on
penalty amounts under state or federal laws or regulations. A criminal citation
and prosecution of a criminal action against a person shall not be dependent
upon and need not be held in abeyance during any civil, judicial or
administrative proceeding, conference or hearing regarding the person.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
SUBARTICLE 18. ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW AND APPEALS
§ 29-235 PROCEDURES AVAILABLE.
   Any person aggrieved by a notice of violation, order or other action taken
by the POTW Superintendent under this article may request review and
reconsideration by the POTW Superintendent and may appeal to the City Manager
as provided by this subarticle. If review and reconsideration or appeal is not
properly and timely requested in connection with an action as provided by this
subarticle, the action shall be deemed final.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-236 REVIEW AND RECONSIDERATION BY THE POTW SUPERINTENDENT.
   A request for a review and reconsideration by the POTW Superintendent must
be made in writing within seven days from the date of the POTW Superintendent’s
action in question. The request must state the reasons for the review and shall
include all supporting documents and dates. A hearing on the request shall be
scheduled at the earliest practicable date as determined by the POTW
Superintendent. The hearing shall be conducted on an informal basis at the
wastewater treatment plant or at another location designated by the
Superintendent. The hearing shall be conducted by the POTW Superintendent.
Following the informal hearing, the POTW Superintendent may affirm or reverse,
in whole or in part, the action appealed from, or may make any order,
requirement, decision or determination as, in the Superintendent’s opinion,
ought to be made in the case under consideration. The POTW Superintendent shall
notify the aggrieved person of the decision on the request within 14 days of
the hearing. The POTW Superintendent may request additional information and
extend the time for his or her decision by an additional seven days following
the submission of the additional information. The decision of the
Superintendent may be appealed to the City Manager as provided by §
29-237 of this chapter.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-237 APPEAL TO CITY MANAGER.
   (A)   The City Manager shall consider appeals from final decisions of the
POTW Superintendent (and other appeals as expressly provided by this article).
   (B)   The following provisions shall govern appeals of final decisions of
the POTW Superintendent made to the City Manager under this article.
      (1)   An appeal from any final action of the POTW Superintendent must be
made to the City Manager within 7 days from the date of the action appealed.
The appeal may be taken by any person aggrieved by the action. The appellant
shall file a written notice of appeal with the POTW Superintendent and with the
City Manager. The notice of appeal shall specify the grounds for the appeal and
shall be accompanied by a non- refundable appeal fee as stated in the city
policy. Failure to file a timely notice of appeal shall be deemed to be a
waiver of the right to appeal.
      (2)   Prior to a hearing before the City Manager regarding an appeal, the
POTW Superintendent shall transmit to the City Manager a written summary of all
previous action taken in connection with the action being appealed. The City
Manager may, at the City Manager’s discretion, request the POTW Superintendent
to provide further information regarding the action that is the subject of the
appeal.
      (3)   The City Manager shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of the
appeal. Notice of the hearing shall be provided at least ten days in advance of
the hearing to require the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the
production of evidence relevant to any matter involved in the hearing. The
appellant must submit an exhibit and witness list to the City Manager at least
five days before the hearing or as directed by the City Manager.
      (4)   The City Manager shall conduct the hearing. At the hearing,
attorneys may represent the parties and they may file briefs, present evidence
and call, examine and cross-examine witnesses. Any testimony taken at the
hearing shall be under oath and recorded. A copy of the transcript of the
hearing shall be made available at cost to any person upon payment of
applicable charges for the transcript.
      (5)   The City Manager shall admit all testimony having reasonable
probative value and shall exclude irrelevant or unduly repetitious testimony,
as determined by the City Manager. The City Manager shall not be bound by
common law or statutory rules of evidence. The appellant shall have the burden
of proof and persuasion for showing that the POTW Superintendent’s decision was
clearly erroneous.
      (6)   Within 30 days after the completion of the hearing, the City
Manager shall mail or otherwise deliver to all of the parties a written
decision granting, denying or modifying the decision appealed and/or relief
being sought. The decision of the City Manager on the matter shall be final,
and shall be a final determination for purposes of judicial review.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-238 PAYMENT OF CHARGES, PENALTIES, FINES AND OTHER COSTS OR FEES PENDING
OUTCOME OF APPEAL.
   All service charges, penalties, fines, fees, surcharges, costs or expenses
outstanding during any appeal process shall be due and payable to the POTW and
the city, as applicable. Upon resolution of any appeal, the amounts due and
payable shall be adjusted accordingly, provided that any refunds shall be
retroactive to the previous four monthly billings only. The POTW may terminate
wastewater treatment services if a corrective course of action is not taken or
if service charges, penalties, fines, fees, surcharges, costs or expenses are
not paid by a user.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-239 FINALITY OF ACTION.
   If an appeal is not demanded as provided by this subarticle within the
periods specified by this subarticle, the POTW Superintendent’s action shall be
deemed final. If an appeal is properly demanded, the action appealed shall be
suspended until a final determination has been made by the City Manager, except
for orders to immediately cease and desist discharge; orders to terminate sewer
services; other emergency orders or actions where a suspension or delay might
endanger human health, the environment, or the POTW; and as otherwise expressly
provided by this article (such as for permit appeals, § 29-168 of this
chapter).
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-240 APPEALS FROM DETERMINATION OF CITY MANAGER.
   Appeals from a final determination of the City Manager may be made to
circuit court as provided by law. All findings of fact made by the City
Manager, if supported by the evidence, shall be deemed conclusive.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
SUBARTICLE 19. PROTECTION FROM DAMAGE
§ 29-241 PROTECTION FROM DAMAGE.
   It is a misdemeanor for any person to maliciously or willfully break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment that is part of the POTW. Any person violating this provision shall
be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct, and shall be
subject to other sanctions and remedies as provided by this article, including,
but not limited to, reimbursement of the POTW as provided by §
29-230 of this chapter.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
SUBARTICLE 20. MUNICIPAL LIABILITY
§ 29-242 MUNICIPAL LIABILITY.
   Neither the POTW nor the city (including, but not limited to, city staff,
employees and officials) shall be responsible for interruptions of service due
to natural calamities, equipment failures or the actions of users. It shall be
the responsibility of the users that all connected equipment remain in good
working order so as not to cause disruption of service of any sewer or
treatment plant equipment.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
SUBARTICLE 21. INDUSTRIAL PRETREATMENT PROGRAM FEES
§ 29-243 PURPOSE.
   It is a purpose of this article to provide for the recovery from users of
the POTW of all costs incurred by the POTW for the administration and
implementation by the POTW of the industrial pretreatment program (IPP)
established by this article. The IPP fees provided for by this subArticle are
separate from, and in addition to, amounts chargeable to users for sewage
disposal services by the city and/or the POTW and costs required to be
reimbursed to the city and/or the POTW under any other provisions of this
article or other laws and regulations.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-244 RATES, CHARGES AND FEES FOR NON-DOMESTIC USERS.
   Sewerage system rates, charges or fees payable by non-domestic users shall
be established by the POTW, and shall be subject to amendment or revision by
the City Council and stated in the city fee schedule. Such rates, charges or
fees shall be sufficient to meet the costs of the operation, maintenance,
improvement or replacement of the sewerage system and the treatment plant, and
may include, but are not limited to, any of the following:
   (A)   Fees to reimburse the POTW for the costs of development and operation
of an industrial pretreatment program, and fees to reimburse the POTW for
monitoring, inspections and surveillance procedures, including expenses
incurred for analysis of samples;
   (B)   Fees for reviewing discharge reports, and for related enforcement
procedures;
   (C)   Fees for permit applications;
   (D)   Fees for filing appeals;
   (E)   Fees for removal by the POTW of pollutants subject to federal or state
pretreatment standards;
   (F)   User fees based on volume of waste and concentration or quantity of
specific pollutants in the discharge;
   (G)   Other charges or fees for services or procedures performed by the POTW
as are required by law; and
   (H)   Such other charges or fees as the POTW may deem necessary to perform
fully the provisions of applicable federal and state laws, this article, rules
and regulations issued or adopted pursuant to law or ordinance, and terms and
conditions of service.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-245 IPP FEE AMOUNTS.
   IPP fees shall be paid by users to the POTW in amounts determined necessary
by the POTW from time to time to reimburse the POTW for all expenses incurred
by the POTW in administering the IPP. To the extent practical, the fees shall
be set in an amount to include at least the POTW’s average total costs for that
purpose. With regard to IPP activities undertaken by the POTW with regard to
particular users, the fees shall be charged to the users on a time and
materials basis, plus general administrative expenses, based on the nature and
requirements of the IPP activities undertaken.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-246 SURCHARGES.
   (A)   Surcharges are intended to reimburse the POTW for all costs incurred
by the POTW in handling or treating a discharge which contains pollutants in
excess of specified surcharge concentrations, loadings or other applicable
limits.
   (B)   Any user exceeding applicable surcharge limitations or other
applicable limits shall be subject to the imposition of one or more surcharges
as provided by this section to reimburse the POTW for any costs or expenses,
direct or indirect, the POTW may incur in handling or treating the discharge,
or which may be imposed upon the POTW, where the exceedance of applicable
limits causes or contributes to those costs or expenses.
   (C)   The amount of a surcharge assessed shall be as specified in the
surcharge rate schedule and associated surcharge provisions prepared by the
POTW and approved by the City Council and listed in the city fee schedule.
   (D)   All violations of applicable discharge prohibitions and limitations
and all instances of non-compliance with applicable discharge requirements
shall constitute a violation of this article, subject to applicable fines,
penalties and other enforcement actions provided by this article. In no event
shall the imposition of a surcharge for a discharge which does not meet the
applicable prohibitions, limitations or requirements be construed as
authorizing the illegal discharge or otherwise excuse a violation of this
article.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-247 BILLING AND COLLECTION OF IPP FEES.
   User permit application fees shall be due upon submission of permit
applications. All other IPP fees shall be due within 30 days of the date of the
activity or service for which the fee is required. For fees not paid at the
time of service, the amount of the fee shall be added to the user’s waste
service charge or billed separately. IPP fees provided for by this subarticle
shall be billed, collected and enforced pursuant to the procedures as provided
by POTW for sewerage system rates and charges as provided by Subarticle 22 of
this chapter and/or as otherwise established by the POTW.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
SUBARTICLE 22. RATES AND CHARGES FOR SEWER SERVICE
§ 29-248 OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY.
   Except as otherwise provided by this subarticle, the owner of a property or
premises to which sewer service is provided by the city shall be liable for all
sewer rates, fees and charges.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-249 TENANT’S RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Tenant responsibility. If an owner intends that a tenant is to be
responsible for a sewer bill, the sewer rates, fees and charges shall not
become a lien against the property to which sewer service is provided only if:
      (1)   The landlord provides the city with an affidavit (notarized
statement), in the form provided in subsection (B) below;
      (2)   The landlord provides the city with a full and complete copy of the
current lease containing a provision that the tenant, and not the landlord, is
responsible for the payment of all sewer rates, fees and charges; and
      (3)   The tenant’s water service is individually metered and the city is
able to disconnect the water and/or the sewer service from a location to which
the city has unrestricted access.
   (B)   Landlord affidavit. The affidavit pursuant to subsection (A) above
must indicate the expiration date of the lease and state the following:
“Attached is a complete copy of a lease which contains a provision in which the
tenant has agreed to be responsible for all sewer rates, fees and charges for
sewer service provided to the property by the City of Allegan. The tenant has
been notified that no sewer service shall be provided or that current water
and/or sewer service may be discontinued unless and until the tenant
establishes an escrow account with the city and deposits into that account an
amount estimated to be three months of sewer rates, fees and charges.”
   (C)   Tenant escrow accounts.
      (1)   If a landlord satisfies the requirements outlined in subsections
(A) and (B) above, no sewer service shall be provided, and current water and/or
sewer service may be discontinued, unless and until the tenant establishes an
escrow account with the city equal to three months of sewer rates, fees and
charges, as listed in the fee schedule.
      (2)   If sewer service is currently being provided, the city shall
promptly send the tenant a notice indicating that a tenant escrow account must
be established within 15 days of the date of notice. If the escrow account is
not established, water and/or sewer service may be discontinued after notice
and an opportunity for hearing to show cause why service should not be
disconnected.
   (D)   Tenant escrow accounts; no interest; use. A tenant escrow account
shall bear no interest and shall be used to pay any sewer rates, fees and
charges which remain unpaid on the due date. If the escrow is reduced below the
amount required by subsection (C) above, water and/or sewer service may
discontinued after notice and an opportunity for hearing to show cause why the
service should not be disconnected.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-250 LIEN.
   Except as otherwise provided by §
29-249 of this chapter, the city shall have as security for the collection of
sewerage system rates or charges a lien upon the premises to which service is
provided. Such lien shall become effective immediately upon the supplying of
the sewerage system service, and shall be enforceable as provided by law.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-251 DUE DATE.
   Sewer rates, fees and charges shall be due and payable on the date specified
on the bill.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-252 UNPAID SEWER RATES, FEES AND CHARGES REPORTED TO COUNCIL.
   On June 1 of each year, the City Treasurer shall report to the City Manager
all sewer rates, fees and charges which are two or more months overdue. The
report shall indicate the name of the delinquent user, the amount of the
delinquency and a tax parcel number of the premises served.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-253 LIEN ASSESSED AGAINST PREMISES.
   The City Treasurer can order delinquent sewer rates, fees and charges which
are a lien against the property to which sewer service is provided to be
assessed on the city tax roll for that year. The rates, fees and charges will
then be treated and paid in the same manner as city taxes assessed upon the
roll.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-254 DISCONNECTION OF SERVICE.
   The city, after providing notice and an opportunity for hearing to show
cause why service should not be disconnected, may, in the city’s discretion,
disconnect the water and/or sewer service to any premises for which sewer
rates, fees and charges have not been paid in full by the due date. Water and/
or sewer service disconnected pursuant with this section shall not be turned on
again until the city receives payment in full of the delinquent rate, fees and
charges, payment of the applicable turn-on and turn-off fees and the user has
established an escrow account in an amount as listed in the fee schedule.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-255 COLLECTION ACTION.
   In addition to any other remedies and enforcement methods, the city and/or
the POTW may in any court having jurisdiction in the premises initiate an
action against any person for the collection of unpaid or delinquent sewer
service rates or charges, and to recover court costs and attorney fees. With
respect to the collection of sewerage system rates and charges, the POTW and
the city shall have all powers granted to them by applicable state and federal
laws, rules and regulations.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-256 SEPARATE BOOKS, RECORDS AND ACCOUNTS; AUDIT.
   The POTW shall maintain and keep books of records and accounts, separate
from all other records and accounts, in which shall be made full and correct
entries of all matters relating to the sewerage system and to the wastewater
treatment plant. An annual audit of such books of record and accounts for the
preceding operating year shall be by an independent certified public
accountant. The operating year of the POTW shall commence on January 1 and
shall end on December 31.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-257 ANNUAL REVIEW OF RATES, FEES, CHARGES AND SURCHARGES.
   In conjunction with the annual sewerage works audit of the POTW, the POTW
shall review sewer rates, fees, charges and surcharges for the purpose of
meeting anticipated expenditures for the following operating year.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-258 ANNUAL REVIEW OF NON-DOMESTIC USERS.
   A review shall be performed by the POTW at the end of each operating year of
the classifications of all non- domestic users.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-259 INSURANCE.
   (A)   The POTW shall obtain and maintain in full force and effect insurance
on the physical properties of the sewerage works.
   (B)   The insurance shall be of the kinds and in the amounts as are
customarily carried by public entities engaged in the operation of public
sewage disposal systems. All moneys received for losses under any such
insurance coverages shall be used solely for the repair, restoration or
replacement of the sewerage system or of the wastewater treatment plant.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-260 SERVICE TERMS AND CONDITIONS.
   (A)   The terms and conditions of sewerage system use and/or service shall
be as prescribed by the POTW; provided, however, that, such terms and
conditions shall not be less stringent than federal or state laws or
regulations issued pursuant thereto by governmental agencies having
jurisdiction in the premises.
   (B)   The terms and conditions of sewerage system services shall include a
provision for the discontinuance of service in the event of non-payment or
delinquency in payment of sewer service rates or charges.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§ 29-261 NO FREE SERVICE.
   No free service shall be rendered by the POTW to any person, firm or
corporation, public or private, or any public agency or instrumentality.
(Ord. 499, passed 10-25-2021)
§§ 29-262 — 29-299 RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV. ELECTRICITY FRANCHISE
DIVISION 1. DTE ENERGY
§ 29-300 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   This division constitutes the grant of a franchise from the City of Allegan
(the “city”) to DTE Energy Marketing, Inc., a Michigan corporation (the
“grantee”), to market and supply electricity through and over existing and
future electrical lines owned and operated by another authorized public utility
and to conduct a local electric business as an electric power marketer and
third-party supplier in the city. The grant of a franchise is required because,
among other reasons, Article VII, § 29, of the Michigan Constitution of 1963
provides that a public utility may not use the streets, highways or other
public rights-of-way within the city for public utility facilities or otherwise
transact business without first obtaining a franchise.
(Ord. 351, passed 6-12-2000)
§ 29-301 TERM.
   The city grants the right, power and authority to the grantee to market and
commercially use existing and future electric lines consisting of towers,
masts, poles, cross-arms, guys, braces, feeders, transmission and distribution
wires, transformers and other electrical facilities for the purpose of
supplying, transmitting, transforming and distributing electricity and
conducting a local electric business (the “electrical system”) on, under, along
and across the highways, streets, alleys, bridges, waterways and other public
places (referred to collectively as “public rights-of-way”) in the city for a
period of 30 years.
(Ord. 351, passed 6-12-2000)
§ 29-302 CONSIDERATION.
   In consideration of the city’s grant of this franchise, grantee shall
reimburse the city for actual expenses incurred by it or its legal counsel in
an amount not to exceed $1,000 which amount shall be payable to the city within
30 days of the effective date of this division and shall faithfully perform all
things required by the terms of this franchise.
(Ord. 351, passed 6-12-2000)
§ 29-303 RIGHT-OF-WAY FEE.
   If grantee or any subsidiary of grantee pays a franchise fee, charge or
other payment of any kind or nature on a periodic basis to any municipality in
Michigan, then the grantee shall pay to the city a fee computed in the same
manner as the fee is computed in the other municipality. The grantee will
provide the city with an annual report by January 1 of each year detailing and
reporting on such fee arrangements with, and payments to, other municipalities
in Michigan. A one-time charge prior to and for the installation of new service
shall not be considered a periodic fee unless the charge is unreasonably higher
than that paid to other municipalities. If fees are paid by the grantee to more
than one municipality, then the computation of the fee for the city shall be
based upon the method producing the largest fee. The city shall have the right,
at its cost, to audit the books and records or review audits of the books and
records of the grantee to determine whether and to what extent a fee is due.
Any additional fee found due as a result of the audit or review shall be paid
by the grantee to the city. If the additional fee is greater than 2% of the
total fee which should have been paid for any calendar year, the grantee shall
pay the city’s costs for the audit.
(Ord. 351, passed 6-12-2000)
§ 29-304 CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Construction. As an electric power marketer and third-party supplier
of electricity, grantee will not directly transmit electricity, nor impair or
attempt to control or occupy any public rights-of-way, nor engage in any
construction in any public rights-of-way without the express written consent of
the city. In the event the city consents to such construction, no public
rights-of-way used by grantee shall be obstructed longer than necessary during
the work of construction or repair (the “work”) and shall be restored to the
same good order and condition as when the work was commenced. The grantee shall
have the right to trim trees that are located within the public rights-of-way,
if necessary, in the conducting of such business subject, however, to
supervision by the highway authorities of the city.
   (B)   Condition of highways streets and alleys. The grantee’s electrical
system and associated appurtenances shall be neat and sightly and shall not
unnecessarily interfere with the use of the public rights-of-way. The grantee’s
electrical system shall be suspended or buried so as not to endanger or injure
persons or property in the public rights-of-way.
   (C)   Notice. The grantee shall give 48 hours’ written notice to the city
before undertaking any work in the city involving the public rights-of-way. The
notice shall state the intended duration of any rights-of-way obstruction,
which obstruction shall not continue for more than four hours beyond the stated
time unless the city grants an extension of time.
   (D)   Emergency. Nothing herein shall preclude the grantee from immediately
commencing construction or repair work resulting from a storm or other act of
God or when deemed necessary to prevent danger to life or property and, in such
case, the grantee shall notify the city of the construction or repair work as
soon as reasonably practical.
   (E)   Service. The city may establish reasonable standards of service,
prevent unjust discrimination in service, and impose any other regulations as
may be determined by the city to be conducive to the health, safety and welfare
of the public.
   (F)   Relocation. Upon request of the city for a public improvement project,
the grantee shall relocate and install components of the electrical system
within the public rights-of-way at no charge to the city.
   (G)   Local provisions. The grantee’s entitlement to rely on this franchise
shall, during the term of the franchise, remain subject to the grantee’s
compliance with all local laws, ordinances and charter provisions of the city
including, without limitation, §§
13.2 and
13.6 of the City Charter.
(Ord. 351, passed 6-12-2000)
§ 29-305 PAVEMENT CUT COORDINATION.
   On or before March 31 each year, the grantee shall provide the city with a
report of any planned work scheduled to be undertaken by the grantee within the
public rights-of-way within the succeeding 12- month period. The grantee shall,
at the written request of the city, coordinate its scheduled work with public
construction and repair of public rights-of-way and the public improvements
located thereon. The grantee shall reasonably attempt to provide updated
reports when such are applicable.
(Ord. 351, passed 6-12-2000)
§ 29-306 HOLD HARMLESS.
   The grantee shall indemnify and hold harmless the city and its officers,
agents and employees from any and all losses, costs, judgments, damages and
expenses to which one or more may be subject by reason of the grantee’s
negligent construction, maintenance, repair or operation of the structures or
equipment, or the grantee’s use and occupation of the public rights-of-way
hereby authorized, or by reason of the grantee’s default or negligent omission.
In the event an action is commenced against the city or its officers, agents or
employees resulting from the exercise by grantee of its privileges under this
division, the grantee shall, upon notice, defend and save them free and
harmless from all losses, costs and damages arising out of such negligent
construction and maintenance, including court costs and reasonable attorney
fees.
(Ord. 351, passed 6-12-2000)
§ 29-307 NO LIABILITY.
   Neither the city, nor its officers, agents, employees or contractors, shall
be liable to grantee or to grantee’s customers for any interference with or
disruption in the operation of grantee’s electrical system, or for any damages
arising out of grantee’s use of the public rights-of-way, except for the sole
negligence or willful misconduct of the city, its agents, officers employees or
contractors.
(Ord. 351, passed 6-12-2000)
§ 29-308 RATES.
   The grantee shall be entitled to charge the inhabitants of the city for
electric energy furnished therein the rates as approved by the state’s Public
Service Commission, to which commission or its successors authority and
jurisdiction to fix and regulate electric rates and rules regulating such
service in the city are hereby granted for the term of this franchise. Such
rates and rules shall be subject to review and change at any time upon petition
therefor being made by either the city or the grantee to the state’s Public
Service Commission.
(Ord. 351, passed 6-12-2000)
§ 29-309 REVOCATION.
   The franchise granted by this division is subject to revocation at will by
the city upon 60 days’ written notice.
(Ord. 351, passed 6-12-2000)
§ 29-310 FRANCHISE NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The rights, power and authority herein granted are not exclusive, and the
city may grant similar rights and powers to any other person or entity with
impunity from grantee.
(Ord. 351, passed 6-12-2000)
§ 29-311 INSURANCE.
   (A)   The grantee shall obtain and maintain in full force and effect the
following insurance covering all insurable risks associated with its exercise
of the rights granted by this franchise: comprehensive general liability,
including completed operations liability, independent contractors liability,
contractual liability coverage and coverage for X, C and U hazards in an amount
not less than $1,000,000.
   (B)   The city shall be named as an additional insured on all such policies.
All insurance policies shall provide that they shall not be cancelled or
modified unless 30 days’ prior written notice is given to the city. If so
requested by the city, the grantee shall provide the city with a certificate of
insurance evidencing such coverage and maintain a current certificate on file
with the city.
(Ord. 351, passed 6-12-2000)
§ 29-312 INTERPRETATION.
   Nothing in this division shall be construed to alienate the title of the
public in and to any highway, street, alley or public place. Nothing in this
division shall be construed in any manner as a surrender by the city of its
legislative power with respect to the subject matter of this division or with
respect to any other matter or in any matter limiting the right of the city to
lawfully regulate the use of any highway, street, alley or public place in the
city.
(Ord. 351, passed 6-12-2000)
§ 29-313 NO TRANSFER.
   In accordance with §
13.1(d) of the City Charter, this franchise may only be transferred or
conveyed, whether directly or indirectly, to another person, firm or entity if
the City Council amends this division accordingly. The city shall not
unreasonably withhold its consent to such an amendment.
(Ord. 351, passed 6-12-2000)
§ 29-314 COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS.
   The grantee shall be and remain subject to the reasonable rules and
regulations of the state’s Public Service Commission or its successors,
applicable to electric service in the city. The grantee shall comply with all
applicable laws, statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations regarding the
installation, construction, ownership or use of the grantee’s electrical
system, whether federal, state or local, now in force or which hereafter may be
promulgated. Before any installation is commenced, grantee shall secure all
necessary permits, licenses and approvals from all appropriate departments,
agencies, boards or commissions of the city or other governmental entity as may
be required by law.
(Ord. 351, passed 6-12-2000)
§§ 29-315 — 29-319 RESERVED.
DIVISION 2. QUEST ENERGY
§ 29-320 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   This division constitutes the grant of a franchise from the City of Allegan
(the “city”) to Quest Energy, a Michigan corporation (the “grantee”), to market
and supply electricity through and over existing and future electrical lines
owned and operated by another authorized public utility and to conduct a local
electric business as an electric power marketer and third-party supplier in the
city. The grant of a franchise is required because, among other reasons,
Article VII, § 29, of the Michigan Constitution of 1963 provides that a public
utility may not use the streets, highways or other public rights-of-way within
the city for public utility facilities or otherwise transact business without
first obtaining a franchise.
(Ord. 352, passed 6-12-2000)
§ 29-321 TERM.
   The city grants the right, power and authority to the grantee to market and
commercially use existing and future electric lines consisting of towers,
masts, poles, cross-arms, guys, braces, feeders, transmission and distribution
wires, transformers and other electrical facilities for the purpose of
supplying, transmitting, transforming and distributing electricity and
conducting a local electric business (the “electrical system”) on, under, along
and across the highways, streets, alleys, bridges, waterways and other public
places (referred to collectively as “public rights-of-way”) in the city for a
period of 30 years.
(Ord. 352, passed 6-12-2000)
§ 29-322 CONSIDERATION.
   In consideration of the city’s grant of this franchise, the grantee shall
reimburse the city for actual expenses incurred by it or its legal counsel in
an amount not to exceed $1,000 which amount shall be payable to the city within
30 days of the effective date of this division and shall faithfully perform all
things required by the terms of this franchise.
(Ord. 352, passed 6-12-2000)
§ 29-323 RIGHT-OF-WAY FEE.
   In the event that grantee or any subsidiary or affiliated entity of grantee
pays a franchise fee, charge or similar payment of any kind to any municipality
in the state as a condition, or in consideration of, the right to transact a
local utility business therein, the grantee shall notify the city in writing of
the details of said fee or charge within 60 days of the effective date of the
same. In the event such a fee or charge is paid to another municipality, the
grantee shall also pay a comparable fee to the city on the same basis,
retroactive to the date on which such fee or charge was first paid to the other
municipality. A charge or tax imposed pursuant to Public Act 100 of 1990, as
amended, shall not be deemed a franchise fee, charge or similar payment for the
purposes of this §
29-323 of this chapter.
(Ord. 352, passed 6-12-2000)
§ 29-324 CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Construction. As an electric power marketer and third-party supplier
of electricity, the grantee will not directly transmit electricity, nor impair
or attempt to control or occupy any public rights-of-way, nor engage in any
construction in any public rights-of-way without the express written consent of
the city. In the event the city consents to such construction, no public
rights-of-way used by grantee shall be obstructed longer than necessary during
the work of construction or repair (the “work”) and shall be restored to the
same good order and condition as when the work was commenced. The grantee shall
have the right to trim trees that are located within the public rights-of-way,
if necessary, in the conducting of such business subject, however, to
supervision by the highway authorities of the city.
   (B)   Condition of highways streets and alleys. The grantee’s electrical
system and associated appurtenances shall be neat and sightly and shall not
unnecessarily interfere with the use of the public rights-of-way. The grantee’s
electrical system shall be suspended or buried so as not to endanger or injure
persons or property in the public rights-of-way.
   (C)   Notice. The grantee shall give 48 hours’ written notice to the city
before undertaking any work in the city involving the public rights-of-way. The
notice shall state the intended duration of any rights-of-way obstruction,
which obstruction shall not continue for more than four hours beyond the stated
time unless the city grants an extension of time.
   (D)   Emergency. Nothing herein shall preclude the grantee from immediately
commencing construction or repair work resulting from a storm or other act of
God or when deemed necessary to prevent danger to life or property and, in such
case, the grantee shall notify the city of the construction or repair work as
soon as reasonably practical.
   (E)   Service. The city may establish reasonable standards of service,
prevent unjust discrimination in service, and impose any other regulations as
may be determined by the city to be conducive to the health, safety and welfare
of the public.
   (F)   Relocation. Upon request of the city for a public improvement project,
the grantee shall relocate and install components of the electrical system
within the public rights-of-way at no charge to the city.
   (G)   Local provisions. The grantee’s entitlement to rely on this franchise
shall, during the term of the franchise, remain subject to the grantee’s
compliance with all local laws, ordinances and charter provisions of the city
including, without limitation, §§
13.2 and
13.6 of the City Charter.
(Ord. 352, passed 6-12-2000)
§ 29-325 PAVEMENT CUT COORDINATION.
   On or before March 31 each year, the grantee shall provide the city with a
report of any planned work scheduled to be undertaken by the grantee within the
public rights-of-way within the succeeding 12- month period. The grantee shall,
at the written request of the city, coordinate its scheduled work with public
construction and repair of public rights-of-way and the public improvements
located thereon. The grantee shall reasonably attempt to provide updated
reports when such are applicable.
(Ord. 352, passed 6-12-2000)
§ 29-326 HOLD HARMLESS.
   The grantee shall indemnify and hold harmless the city and its officers,
agents and employees from any and all losses, costs, judgments, damages and
expenses to which one or more may be subject by reason of the grantee’s
negligent construction, maintenance, repair or operation of the structures or
equipment, or the grantee’s use and occupation of the public rights-of-way
hereby authorized, or by reason of the grantee’s default or negligent omission.
In the event an action is commenced against the city or its officers, agents or
employees resulting from the exercise by grantee of its privileges under this
division, the grantee shall, upon notice, defend and save them free and
harmless from all losses, costs and damages arising out of such negligent
construction and maintenance, including court costs and reasonable attorney
fees.
(Ord. 352, passed 6-12-2000)
§ 29-327 NO LIABILITY.
   Neither the city, nor its officers, agents, employees or contractors, shall
be liable to grantee or to grantee’s customers for any interference with or
disruption in the operation of the grantee’s electrical system, or for any
damages arising out of grantee’s use of the public rights-of-way, except for
the sole negligence or willful misconduct of the city, its agents, officers
employees or contractors.
(Ord. 352, passed 6-12-2000)
§ 29-328 RATES.
   The grantee shall be entitled to charge the inhabitants of the city for
electric energy furnished therein the rates as approved by the state’s Public
Service Commission, to which commission or its successors authority and
jurisdiction to fix and regulate electric rates and rules regulating such
service in the city are hereby granted for the term of this franchise. Such
rates and rules shall be subject to review and change at any time upon petition
therefor being made by either the city or the grantee to the state’s Public
Service Commission.
(Ord. 352, passed 6-12-2000)
§ 29-329 REVOCATION.
   The franchise granted by this division is subject to revocation at will by
the city upon 60 days’ written notice.
(Ord. 352, passed 6-12-2000)
§ 29-330 FRANCHISE NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The rights, power and authority herein granted are not exclusive, and the
city may grant similar rights and powers to any other person or entity with
impunity from the grantee.
(Ord. 352, passed 6-12-2000)
§ 29-331 INSURANCE.
   (A)   The grantee shall obtain and maintain in full force and effect the
following insurance covering all insurable risks associated with its exercise
of the rights granted by this franchise: comprehensive general liability,
including completed operations liability, independent contractors liability,
contractual liability coverage and coverage for X, C and U hazards in an amount
not less than $1,000,000.
   (B)   The city shall be named as an additional insured on all such policies.
All insurance policies shall provide that they shall not be cancelled or
modified unless 30 days’ prior written notice is given to the city. If so
requested by the city, the grantee shall provide the city with a certificate of
insurance evidencing such coverage and maintain a current certificate on file
with the city.
(Ord. 352, passed 6-12-2000)
§ 29-332 INTERPRETATION.
   Nothing in this division shall be construed to alienate the title of the
public in and to any highway, street, alley or public place. Nothing in this
division shall be construed in any manner as a surrender by the city of its
legislative power with respect to the subject matter of this division or with
respect to any other matter or in any matter limiting the right of the city to
lawfully regulate the use of any highway, street, alley or public place in the
city.
(Ord. 352, passed 6-12-2000)
§ 29-333 NO TRANSFER.
   In accordance with §
13.1(d) of the City Charter, this franchise may only be transferred or
conveyed, whether directly or indirectly, to another person, firm or entity if
the City Council amends this division accordingly. The city shall not
unreasonably withhold its consent to such an amendment.
(Ord. 352, passed 6-12-2000)
§ 29-334 COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS.
   The grantee shall be and remain subject to the reasonable rules and
regulations of the state’s Public Service Commission or its successors,
applicable to electric service in the city. The grantee shall comply with all
applicable laws, statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations regarding the
installation, construction, ownership or use of the grantee’s electrical
system, whether federal, state or local, now in force or which hereafter may be
promulgated. Before any installation is commenced, grantee shall secure all
necessary permits, licenses and approvals from all appropriate departments,
agencies, boards or commissions of the city or other governmental entity as may
be required by law.
(Ord. 352, passed 6-12-2000)
§§ 29-335 — 29-349 RESERVED.
ARTICLE V. SEPTAGE RECEIVING
§ 29-350 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   DNRE. The Michigan Department of Natural Resources and Environment, and its
predecessor agency the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality.
   DOMESTIC SEPTAGE. Liquid or solid material removed from a septic tank,
cesspool, portable toilet, Type III marine sanitation device, or similar
storage or treatment works that receives only domestic sewage. DOMESTIC SEPTAGE
does not include liquid or solid material removed from a septic tank, cesspool
or similar facility that receives either commercial wastewater or industrial
wastewater and does not include grease removed from a grease interceptor,
grease trap or other appurtenance used to retain grease or other fatty
substances contained in restaurant waste.
   DOMESTIC TREATMENT PLANT SEPTAGE. Biosolids generated during the treatment
of domestic sewage in a treatment works and transported to a receiving facility
or managed in accordance with a residuals management program approved by the
Department.
   FOOD ESTABLISHMENT SEPTAGE. Material pumped from a grease interceptor,
grease trap or other appurtenance used to retain grease or other fatty
substances contained in restaurant wastes and which is blended into a uniform
mixture, consisting of not more than one part of that restaurant-derived
material per three parts of domestic septage, prior to land application or
disposed of at a receiving facility.
   NREPA. The Michigan Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Act,
Public Act 451 of 1994, which is codified at MCL §§ 324.101 et seq.
   RECEIVING FACILITY. A structure that is designed to receive septage waste
for treatment at a wastewater treatment plant or at a research, development,
and demonstration project authorized under § 11511b of NREPA to which the
structure is directly connected, and that is available for that purpose as
provided for in an ordinance of the local unit of government where the
structure is located or in an operating plan. RECEIVING FACILITY does not
include either of the following:
      (1)   A septic tank; and
      (2)   A structure or a wastewater treatment plant at which the disposal
of septage waste is prohibited by order of the DNRE under §§ 11708 or 11715b of
NREPA.
   SANITARY SEWER CLEANOUT SEPTAGE. Sanitary sewage or cleanout residue removed
from a separate sanitary sewer collection system that is not land applied and
that is transported by a vehicle licensed under this part elsewhere within the
same system or to a receiving facility that is approved by the Department.
   SEPTAGE WASTE. The fluid mixture of untreated and partially treated sewage
solids, liquids, and sludge of human or domestic origin that is removed from a
wastewater system. SEPTAGE WASTE consists only of domestic septage, domestic
treatment plant septage, sanitary sewer cleanout septage, or any combination of
these. SEPTAGE WASTE does not include food establishment septage or any
substance or mixture not expressly defined as SEPTAGE WASTE in this article.
   SERVICE AREA.
      (1)   Through 9-30-2010, the entire area within a 15-mile radius of the
city wastewater plant; and
      (2)   Beginning on 10-1-2010, the entire area within a 25-mile radius of
the city wastewater plant.
(Ord. 415, passed 3-8-2010)
§ 29-351 DISPOSAL OF SEPTAGE WASTE.
   (A)   All septage waste collected in the city shall be disposed of at the
Allegan Wastewater Plant Septage Receiving Facility. Further, all septage waste
collected in the portion of the service area not within the boundaries of the
city may be accepted for disposal at the city wastewater plant septage
receiving facility. The city wastewater plant septage receiving facility is an
“available” receiving facility for the purpose of receiving septage waste from
the service area, as provided by NREPA § 11701(r).
   (B)   No load of septage waste may be accepted by the city wastewater plant
unless:
      (1)   Such septage waste has been made available for inspection by
personnel of the city wastewater plant;
      (2)   Disposal of such septage waste is consistent with the requirements
of NREPA, the license of the city wastewater plant under NREPA, the DNRE-
approved septage receiving operational plan for the city wastewater plant and
this article; and
      (3)   All rates, fees, charges or other costs for septage waste disposal
that are established as described in this article are paid simultaneously with,
or in advance of, delivery of that load of septage waste at the city wastewater
plant.
   (C)   The city wastewater plant may reject any load of septage waste that is
not in conformance with this section. Nothing in this section precludes the
lawful disposal of septage waste outside the state.
(Ord. 415, passed 3-8-2010)
§ 29-352 DISPOSAL OF ADDITIONAL WASTE AT THE CITY WASTEWATER PLANT SEPTAGE
RECEIVING FACILITY.
   As to any waste that is a fluid mixture of untreated and partially treated
sewage solids, liquids or sludge that is removed from a wastewater system and
that does not qualify as septage waste because its source is not one of those
sources identified in the definition of septage waste, such waste shall not be
disposed of at the city wastewater plant septage receiving facility unless,
prior to disposal, each load of such waste has been inspected, sampled, tested
and documented as requested by staff of the city wastewater plant in their
discretion, and disposal of each load of such waste has been approved in
advance by the city wastewater plant in its discretion.
(Ord. 415, passed 3-8-2010)
§ 29-353 PROHIBITION OF DEPOSIT OF SEPTAGE WASTE ON LAND OR WATER IN THE CITY.
   No person shall deposit septage waste on any land in the city, or in or upon
any lake, pond, stream, ditch, manhole, river or other body of water in the
city.
(Ord. 415, passed 3-8-2010)
§ 29-354 RATES, FEES, CHARGES OR OTHER COSTS.
   Rates, fees, charges or other costs of disposal of septage waste at the city
wastewater plant shall be those established from time to time by resolution of
the City Council and compiled into a municipal policy book. At the reasonable
discretion of the manager of the city wastewater plant, a person seeking to
dispose of septage waste at the city wastewater plant may be required to
establish and maintain financial assurance for payment of rates, fees, charges
or other costs of such disposal in an amount not exceeding $25,000, consisting
of a performance bond, cash in escrow or third-party guarantee satisfactory to
the city.
(Ord. 415, passed 3-8-2010)
§ 29-355 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   Any person who violates any provision of this article shall be fined an
amount not to exceed $1,000 for each violation (or such lower limit as may
exist by virtue of state law limitations). Fines may be obtained as city
administrative fines, or through the procedure for municipal civil infractions,
or through proceeding in court. If a violation is of a continuing nature, each
day the violation occurs is a separate offense. The penalties for violation of
this article shall be in addition to any penalties, fines, forfeiture,
injunctions and/or license sanctions that may be imposed by any other ordinance
of the city or any law or regulation of the state or the federal government.
Nothing in this article shall be construed to relieve any person from any
licensing requirements imposed by any other local, state or federal ordinance,
regulation or law.
(Ord. 415, passed 3-8-2010)
§ 29-356 RECOVERY OF ADDITIONAL COSTS INCURRED BY THE CITY.
   In addition to any other rates, fees, charges, fines, penalties or other
costs, a person who has disposed of any material at the city wastewater plant
septage receiving facility or violated any provision of this article shall be
responsible for any additional costs incurred by the city as a result of such
activity, including without limitation expenses for additional monitoring,
sampling or analysis, expenses for additional investigation, costs for
additional reports, costs for storing, dumping or treating material, costs for
damage to or loss of the treatment works, treatment process or natural
resources, or fines or penalties incurred by the city. Such person shall be
notified of all such charges and shall pay them within 30 days of notification.
(Ord. 415, passed 3-8-2010)
§ 29-357 SEVERABILITY.
   The sections and/or subsections of this article shall be deemed to be
severable. Should any section, subsection or provision of this article be
declared unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the
same may be stricken without affecting the validity of the article as a whole
or part thereof not declared to be unconstitutional or invalid.
(Ord. 415, passed 3-8-2010)
 
CHAPTER 30: VEGETATION (TREES)
Section
   
30-1   Definitions
   
30-2   Public Spaces Commission
   
30-3   Approved species for street trees and park trees
   
30-4   Spacing
   
30-5   Distance from curb to sidewalk
   
30-6   Distance from street corners and fireplugs
   
30-7   Utilities
   
30-8   Public tree care
   
30-9   Pruning of trees on private property; corner clearance
   
30-10   Dead or diseased tree removal on private property
   
30-11   Enforcement and abatement
§ 30-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   PARK TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation in city
parks and other public places owned by the city, other than the sides of
streets, avenues or ways.
   STREET TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation on land
lying between property lines on either side of all streets, avenues or ways
within the city.
(Ord. 518, passed 2-12-2024)
§ 30-2 PUBLIC SPACES COMMISSION.
   It shall be the responsibility of the Public Spaces Commission to:
   (A)   Review and provide input regarding matters pertaining to the planting,
maintenance or removal of street trees and park trees upon request of the City
Manager or City Council; and
   (B)   Grant permission to plant street trees or park trees of a species
other than those listed in § 30-3 of this chapter.
(Ord. 518, passed 2-12-2024)
§ 30-3 APPROVED SPECIES FOR STREET TREES AND PARK TREES.
   No species other than those included in this list may be planted as street
trees or park trees without written permission of the Public Spaces Commission:
   (A)   Small street trees (grow to less than 30 feet tall).
Common Name(s) Botanical Name
Common Name(s)                          Botanical Name
American Plum                           Prunus americana
American Smoketree                      Cotinus obovatus
Corneliancherry Dogwood                 Cornus mas
Crabapple                               Malus spp.
Eastern Redbud                          Cereis canadensis
European Hornbeam                       Carpinus betulus
Flowering Dogwood                       Cornus florida
Hawthorn (Thornless)                    Crataegus spp. var. inermis
Hop-Hornbeam/Ironwood                   Ostrya virginiana
Hornbeam/Musclewood/Blue Beech          Carpinus caroliniana
Kousa Dogwood                           Cornus kousa
Nannyberry                              Viburnum lentago
Pagoda Dogwood/Alternate-leafed Dogwood Cornus alternifolia
Pawpaw                                  Asimina triloba
Serviceberry/Juneberry/Sugar Plum       Amelanchier spp.
Star Magnolia                           Magnolia stellata
   (B)   Medium street trees (grow to 30 to 45 feet tall).
Common Name(s) Botanical Name
Common Name(s)                Botanical Name
Black Gum/Black Tupelo        Nyssa sylvatica
Paper Birch                   Betula papyrifera
Persian Parrotia              Parrotia persica
Red Horsechestnut             Aesculus X Carnea
River Birch                   Betula nigra
Sargent Cherry                Prunus sargentii
Saucer Magnolia               Magnolia x soulangiana
Sourwood                      Oxydendrum arboreum
Sweetgum                      Liquidambar styraciflua
Turkish Filbert/Turkish Hazel Corylus colurna
Yellowwood                    Cladrastis kentukea
Zelkova                       Zelkova serrata
   (C)   Large trees (grow to more than 45 feet tall).
Common Name(s) Botanical Name
Common Name(s)                         Botanical Name
American Beech                         Fagus grandifolia
American Elm (DED Resistant Cultivars) Ulmus americana x Hybrids
Baldcypress                            Taxodium distichum
Bitternut Hickory                      Carya cordiformis
Black Cherry                           Prunus serotina
Black Walnut                           Juglans nigra
Black Willow                           Salix nigra
Bur Oak                                Quercus macrocarpa
Butternut/White Walnut                 Juglans cinerea
Catalpa                                Catalpa spp.
Chinkapin Oak                          Quercus muehlenbergii
Common Persimmon                       Diospyros virginiana
Cucumber Tree Magnolia                 Magnolia acuminata
Dawn Redwood                           Metasequoia glyptostroboides
European Beech                         Fagus sylvatica
Freeman Maple                          Acer rubrum x saccharinum 'Freemani'
Ginkgo (male only)                     Ginko Biloba
Hackberry                              Celtis occidentalis
Katsura                                Cercidiphyllum japonicum
Kentucky Coffeetree                    Gymnocladus dioicus
London Planetree                       Platanus x acerifolia
Northern Red Oak                       Quercus rubra
Ohio Buckeye                           Aesculus glabra
Osage Orange (thornless)               Maclura pomifera var. inermis
Pignut Hickory                         Carya glabra
Pin Oak                                Quercus palustris
Red Maple                              Acer rubrum
Sassafras                              Sassafras albidum
Shagbark Hickory                       Carya ovata
Shingle Oak                            Quercus imbricaria
Shumard Oak/Swamp Red Oak              Quercus shumardii
Silver Linden                          Tilia tomentosa
Sugar Maple                            Acer saccharum
Swamp White Oak                        Quercus bicolor
Sycamore                               Platanus occidentalis
Thornless Honeylocust                  Gleditsia triacanthos var. Inermis
Tulip Tree                             Liriodendron tulipifera
White Oak                              Quercus alba
White Willow                           Salix alba
   (D)   Park trees, in addition to any species authorized for planting as a
street tree.
 
Common Name(s)              Botanical Name
Alaskan Cypress/Alaksa Ceda Chamaecyparis nootkatensis
Eastern White Pine          Pinus strobus
Norway Spruce               Picea abies
(Ord. 518, passed 2-12-2024)
§ 30-4 SPACING.
   The spacing of street trees will be in accordance with the three species
size classes listed in § 30-3 of this chapter, and no trees may be planted
closer together than the following, except when in special plantings designed
or approved by a landscape architect:
   (A)   Small trees: 30 feet;
   (B)   Medium trees: 40 feet; and
   (C)   Large trees: 50 feet.
(Ord. 518, passed 2-12-2024)
§ 30-5 DISTANCE FROM CURB TO SIDEWALK.
   The distance trees may be planted from curbs or curb lines and sidewalks
will be in accordance with the three species size classes listed in § 30-3 of
this chapter, and no trees may be planted closer to any curb or sidewalk than
the following:
   (A)   Small trees: two feet;
   (B)   Medium trees: three feet; and
   (C)   Large trees: four feet.
(Ord. 518, passed 2-12-2024)
§ 30-6 DISTANCE FROM STREET CORNERS AND FIREPLUGS.
   No street tree shall be planted closer than 35 feet of any street corner,
measured from the point of nearest intersecting curbs or curb lines. No street
tree shall be planted closer than ten feet of any fireplug.
(Ord. 518, passed 2-12-2024)
§ 30-7 UTILITIES.
   No street trees other than those species listed as small trees in §
30-3 of this chapter may be planted under or within ten lateral feet of any
overhead utility wire, or over or within five lateral feet of any underground
water line, sewer line, transmission line or other utility.
(Ord. 518, passed 2-12-2024)
§ 30-8 PUBLIC TREE CARE.
   (A)   The city shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain and remove
trees, plants and shrubs within the lines of all streets, alleys, avenues,
lanes, squares and public grounds, as may be necessary to ensure public safety
or to preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of such public grounds.
   (B)   The City Manager may remove or cause or order to be removed, any tree
or part thereof which is in an unsafe condition or which by reason of its
nature is injurious to sewers, electric power lines, gas lines, water lines or
other public improvements, or is affected with any injurious fungus, insect or
other pest.
(Ord. 518, passed 2-12-2024)
§ 30-9 PRUNING OF TREES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY; CORNER CLEARANCE.
   Every owner of any tree overhanging any street or right-of-way within the
city shall prune the branches so that such branches shall not obstruct the
light from any streetlamp or obstruct the view of any street intersection and
shall not obstruct the path of any pedestrian or vehicular traffic above the
surface of the street or sidewalk. Said owners shall remove all dead, diseased
or dangerous trees, or broken or decayed limbs which constitute a menace to the
safety of the public. The city shall have the right to prune any tree or shrub
planted on private property to the extent it extends into the right-of-way and
interferes with the proper spread of light along the street from a streetlight
or interferes with visibility of any traffic-control device or sign.
(Ord. 518, passed 2-12-2024)
§ 30-10 DEAD OR DISEASED TREE REMOVAL ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain a dead or diseased tree on private property
within the city when such tree constitutes a hazard to life and property or
harbors insects or disease which constitute a potential threat to other trees
within the city.
(Ord. 518, passed 2-12-2024)
§ 30-11 ENFORCEMENT AND ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Any person that violates this chapter shall be responsible for a
municipal civil infraction. Each day that a violation continues shall be deemed
to be a separate violation.
   (B)   Before commencing enforcement under this chapter, the enforcement
officer shall issue notice to the responsible party charged with the violation,
setting forth the violation specifics. The notice shall state the name of the
person that the city considers to be the responsible party, and shall specify
that failure to remedy the violation may result in the issuance of a municipal
civil infraction citation if such remedy is not complete within a specified
time (at least seven days in length, except in emergency situation where a tree
poses an eminent threat to public safety) after the issuance of the notice. The
notice shall also state that the recipient has the right to appeal the notice
to the City Manager.
   (C)   If the responsible party fails to abate the violation within the
required time frame, the city may take action to abate the violation and may
charge the cost of such abatement to the responsible party. The City Treasurer
shall bill the cost, plus an administration fee of 25%, to the responsible
party. Such bills shall become due within 30 days of issuance, and it shall be
a violation of this chapter to fail to pay a bill when due. The city may levy a
single-lot special assessment in accordance with this code of ordinances as a
means of recovering the full cost of abatement.
   (D)   Abating the violation is not in lieu of, or an alternative to,
pursuing the civil infraction in district court. Both civil infraction and
abatement of the violation may be pursued by the city.
(Ord. 518, passed 2-12-2024)
CHAPTER 31: ZONING
Section
   
31-1   Zoning regulations adopted by reference
§ 31-1 ZONING REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The city’s Zoning Ordinance, and any and all amendments, are hereby adopted
by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. 491, passed 4-12-2021; Ord. 526, passed 2-10-2025)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Michigan Compiled Statutes
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MICHIGAN COMPILED STATUTES ANNOTATED
MCL Section Code Section
MCL Section               Code Section
15.231 to 15.246          Charter 5.10
15.261 to 15.275          Charter 5.10
15.261 et seq.            2-2
15.261 through 15.27      18-7
35.441                    Ch. 19;
                          19-22
117.1 et seq.             26-3
125.71 et seq.            Ch. 9
125.581                   26-3
125.601 et seq.           Ch. 9
125.651 et seq.           Ch. 9
125.901 et seq.           Ch. 9
125.1401 et seq.          27-37;
                          27-38
125.1415a                 27-44
                          9-21;
                          9-22;
125.1651 through 125.1680 9-23;
                          9-25;
                          9-29
128.1 et seq.             Ch. 8
211.1 et seq.             Ch. 27
211.107                   Ch. 27
247.659                   28-111
257.1 et seq.             17-52
257.1 to 257.923          28-21
257.252 to 257.252m       28-31
257.301 to 257.329        28-102
257.625(1)(c)             28-22
257.907                   28-75
280.1 to 280.630          25-104
282.101 through 282.117   26-5
324.101 et seq.           29-350
324.11501 et seq.         28-111
                          29-121;
324.3101 et seq.          29-122;
                          29-197
324.81129                 28-112
324.81131(17)             28-113
                          29-122;
324.11101 et seq.         29-176;
                          29-208
333.1101 et seq.          17-42
330.1276                  17-42
333.26424 et seq.         14-1
333.27102 et seq.         14-1
333.27951 et seq.         14-1
436.1551                  18-6
436.1703                  17-42
445.111 et seq.           Ch. 19
445.371 et seq.           Ch. 19
460.1329                  25-103
484.2102                  25-74
500.2845                  11-41
500.3101                  28-103
560.101 et seq.           26-3
                          26-6;
560.101 through 560.293   26-33;
                          26-42;
                          26-76
567.221 et seq.           2-22
600.101 et seq.           2-31;
                          28-55
600.8395                  28-41
750.335a                  17-42
750.377 et seq.           8-20
750.552a                  17-42
                          
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.    Date Passed Code Section
                        8-1—
                        8-8;
11          5-2-1949    8-10—
                        8-15;
                        8-20
                        19-16—
39          3-23-1959   19-22;
                        19-36—
                        19-45
                        19-101—
40          3-23-1959   19-104;
                        19-116—
                        19-126
                        19-61—
42          4-27-1959   19-63;
                        19-76—
                        19-85
54          12-17-1962  8-7
119         8-22-1977   9-16
                        8-15;
166         11-12-1979  8-16;
                        8-20
239         2-22-1988   8-3
241         2-22-1988   8-8
                        27-1—
254         4-10-1989   27-12;
                        27-20—
                        27-32
271         1-14-1991   9-20—
                        9-28
278         4-22-1991   9-29
318         8-12-1996   8-8
319         8-12-1996   19-1
                        10-1—
                        10-4;
323         11-11-1996  10-11—
                        10-14;
                        10-21;
                        10-22
342         7-13-1998   27-36—
                        27-43
346         1-25-1999   27-36—
                        27-43
351         6-12-2000   29-300—
                        29-314
352         6-12-2000   29-320—
                        29-334
                        11-27;
361         4-8-2002    11-29;
                        11-30
364         9-9-2002    26-39—
                        26-42
376         6-7-2005    9-29
377         6-27-2005   9-25
383         5-8-2006    19-86
384         5-8-2006    19-127
386         6-26-2006   11-51—
                        11-53
                        19-20;
                        19-37;
                        19-38;
400         12-26-2007  19-41;
                        19-42;
                        19-44;
                        19-45
                        19-63;
                        19-77;
                        19-78;
401         12-26-2007  19-80;
                        19-81;
                        19-84;
                        19-85
                        19-104;
                        19-117;
                        19-120;
402         12-26-2007  19-121;
                        19-123;
                        19-125;
                        19-126
405         1-14-2008   9-29
407         7-14-2008   11-41—
                        11-47
408         7-28-2008   27-44
415         3-8-2010    29-350—
                        29-357
                        8-4;
425         1-9-2012    8-7;
                        8-15;
                        8-18
432         7-30-2012   27-44
437         11-25-2013  27-43
450 of 2016 8-22-2016   11-1—
                        11-3
478         8-12-2019   19-128—
                        19-136
                        14-1—
485         3-9-2020    14-6;
                        14-10
491         4-12-2021   31-1
492         6-14-2021   14-3
                        29-11—
                        29-28;
498         10-25-2021  29-46—
                        29-51;
                        29-66—
                        29-73
                        29-83—
                        29-88;
499         10-25-2021  29-102—
                        29-107;
                        29-121—
                        29-261
501         2-28-2022   27-1—
                        27-32
504         - -2022     29-66;
                        29-73
507         - -2023     29-26;
                        29-27
                        6-1—
                        6-8;
508         3-27-2023   6-11—
                        6-13;
                        6-21—
                        6-24
                        1-1—
                        1-11;
                        2-1—
                        2-6;
                        2-11—
                        2-22;
                        2-31—
                        2-37;
                        3-1—
                        3-7;
                        4-1—
                        4-10;
                        5-1—
                        5-9;
                        7-1;
                        7-5;
                        7-11—
                        7-17;
                        7-21—
511         10-9-2023   7-27;
                        7-31;
                        7-51—
                        7-53;
                        7-61—
                        7-64;
                        10-1—
                        10-4;
                        10-11—
                        10-14;
                        10-21;
                        10-22;
                        11-26;
                        11-28;
                        15-1—
                        15-5;
                        18-1—
                        18-10;
                        18-21—
                        18-28
                        12-1—
513         10-23-2023  12-3;
                        12-11—
                        12-13
                        8-3;
515         11-13-2023  8-7;
                        8-15;
                        8-17
                        19-17;
                        20-1—
516         11-27-2023  20-5;
                        22-1—
                        22-20
518         2-12-2024   30-1—
                        30-11
                        17-1—
                        17-3;
                        17-21;
                        17-22;
                        17-31;
                        17-41—
                        17-45;
                        17-51;
                        17-52;
                        17-55—
                        17-58;
                        25-1;
                        25-2;
                        25-21—
                        25-24;
                        25-31—
                        25-37;
                        25-41—
                        25-44;
                        25-51—
                        25-54;
                        25-72—
                        25-92;
519         4-22-2024   25-100—
                        25-106;
                        28-1;
                        28-21;
                        28-22;
                        28-31;
                        28-32;
                        28-41—
                        28-46;
                        28-51—
                        28-55;
                        28-61—
                        28-66;
                        28-71—
                        28-75;
                        28-81;
                        28-82;
                        28-91—
                        28-98;
                        28-101—
                        28-106;
                        28-111—
                        28-113;
                        29-1
526         2-10-2025   31-1
                       
 
