CITY OF AUBURN, MICHIGAN
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2014 S-1 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 199, passed 7-14-2014
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
432 Walnut Street, 12th Floor
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
Ordinance No. 198
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF AUBURN, MICHIGAN,
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH
CODE OF ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the political
subdivision are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in
form and substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of
its affairs; and
WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Michigan empower and
authorize the political subdivision to revise, amend, restate, codify and
compile any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted
or published and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book
form; and
WHEREAS, the Legislative Authority of the Political Subdivision has authorized
a general compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the
Political Subdivision of a general and permanent nature and publication of such
ordinance in book form; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF THE CITY OF AUBURN, MICHIGAN:
Section 1.   The general ordinances of the Political Subdivision as revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as
and shall constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the City of Auburn, Michigan."
Section 2.   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following Titles:
         Chapter
         TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
         10.   General Code Construction; General Penalty
         TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
         30.   Officers, Employees and Departments
         31.   Downtown Development Authority
         32.   Planning Commission
         33.   Special Assessments
         34.   Tax and Finance
         35.   Municipal Civil Infractions
         TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
         50.   Garbage and Rubbish
         51.   City Water Utility
         52.   Sewer Rates
         53.   Sewer Use
         TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
         70.   Motor Vehicle Code
         71.   Parking Violations Bureau
         TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
         90.   Animals
         91.   Inoperable Motor Vehicles
         92.   Fire Prevention and Protection; Open Burning
         93.   Parks and Recreation
         94.   Public Nuisances
         95.   Streets and Sidewalks
         TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
         110.   Cable Television
         111.   Peddlers and Solicitors
         112.   Telecommunications Providers
         TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
         130.   Disorderly Conduct
         131.   Litter
         132.   Fireworks
         TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
         150.   General Provisions
         151.   Building Code
         152.   Trailer Coach Parking
         153.   Subdivision Regulations
         154.   Zoning Code
         TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
         Table
         I.   Franchises
         II.   Rezoning
         PARALLEL REFERENCES
         References to Michigan Compiled Laws Annotated
         References to 1991 Code
         References to Resolutions
         References to Ordinances
Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
Section 4.   Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the Political
Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of
Ordinances in the Office of the Clerk.
Section 5.   Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in Section
6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
Section 6.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
Section 7.   This ordinance shall become effective immediately after the last
required publication following adoption. The above ordinance was adopted at a
meeting of the Auburn City Commission on the 21st day of October, 2013, and
shall be published in the Bay City Democrat and Legal News on or before the
24th day of October, 2013.
YEAS: Machelski, McNally, Hardy, Williams, Charbonneau, Rezmer                 
                                                                               
                                                                               
         
NAYS: ___                                                                     
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                             
ABSENT: Kilbourn                                                               
                                                   
      ORDINANCE DECLARED ADOPTED.
                                 Karen Bellor /s/           
                                 Karen Bellor, City Clerk
                                 City of Auburn
                                 Bay County, Michigan
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10:  GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.17   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.18   Responsibility
   
10.19   Title of officer to include deputy or subordinate
   
10.20   Tense
   
10.21   Service of notice
   
10.22   Interference with notices of the city
   
10.23   Publication of rules and regulations
   
10.24   Penalty in addition to other relief
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01  TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the City of Auburn, Michigan,
shall be designated as the “Auburn City Code”, and may be so cited.
§ 10.02  INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein or by law or implication required, the same
rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03  APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code, unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04  CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code, other than the title, chapter and
section numbers, are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain,
ordinary and usual sense; however, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY.  The City of Auburn, Michigan.
      CITY COMMISSION.  The City Commission of Auburn, Michigan.
      CODE, THIS CODE, THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES, CITY CODE or AUBURN CITY CODE. 
This municipal code as modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new
titles, chapters or sections.
      COUNTY.  Bay County, Michigan.
      MAY.  The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH.  A calendar month.
      OATH.  An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may
be substituted for an oath; and, in those cases, the words SWEAR and SWORN
shall be equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT.  An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of the municipality, unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
      PERSON.  Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation, co-
partnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as applied to
any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members thereof, and, as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING.  Next before or next after, respectively.
      PUBLIC PLACE.  Any place to or upon which the public resorts, or travels,
whether such place is owned or controlled by the city or any agency of the
State of Michigan, or is a place to or upon which the public resorts or travels
by custom, or by invitation, expressed or implied.
      SHALL.  The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIDEWALK.  The portion of a street between the curb lines or lateral
lines and the right-of-way lines which is intended for the use of pedestrians.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION.  Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE.  The State of Michigan.
      STREET, HIGHWAY and ALLEY.  The entire width subject to an easement for
public right-of-way, or owned in fee by the city, county or state, of every way
or place, of whatever nature, whenever any part thereof is open to the use of
the public, as a matter of right for purposes of public travel. The word ALLEY
shall mean any such way or place providing a secondary means of ingress and
egress from a property.
      SUBCHAPTER.  A subsection of a chapter, designated in this code by a
heading in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the
chapter, setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the
heading. Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN.  Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR.  A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
(1991 Code, § 1.5)
§ 10.06  RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this municipality shall be by the
following rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of
the legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR.  Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or”, if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07  SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08  REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever, in a section, reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered, unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09  REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the municipality exercising the powers, duties
or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.11  OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state or federal laws, shall
be the official time within this municipality for the transaction of all
municipal business.
§ 10.12  REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13  ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14  ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect, unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15  REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the ordinance repealing or
modifying it takes effect.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.16  ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to the
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.17  SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section.
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:  (M.C.L.A. § 15.231)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
   § 39.01  PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
   Inspection of public records, see Public Act 442 of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§
15.231et seq.
§ 10.18  RESPONSIBILITY.
   Whenever any act or omission to act is a violation of this code, including
the amendments thereto, or of any rule or regulation adopted thereunder, any
person who causes, secures, aids or abets such violation may be prosecuted, and
on conviction thereof, shall be punished as if he or she had directly committed
such violation.
(1991 Code, § 1.4)
§ 10.19  TITLE OF OFFICER TO INCLUDE DEPUTY OR SUBORDINATE.
   Whenever, by the provisions of this code, any officer of the city is
assigned any duty or empowered to perform any act or duty, the title of said
officer shall mean and include such officer or his or her deputy or authorized
subordinate.
(1991 Code, § 1.6)
§ 10.20  TENSE.
   Except as otherwise specifically provided or indicated by the context, words
indicating the present tense shall extend to and include the time of the
happening of any act, event or requirement for which provision is made in this
code.
(1991 Code, § 1.9)
§ 10.21  SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   (A)   Except where the manner of service of notice is specifically provided
for in sections of the City Charter, or in any section of this code requiring
notice, such notice shall be served:
      (1)   By delivering the notice to the owner personally or by leaving the
same at his or her residence, office or place of business, with some person of
suitable age and discretion;
      (2)   By mailing thereof, by regular or certified mail at his or her last
known residence or business address;
      (3)   By posting said notice in some conspicuous place on the premises of
his or her last known residence or business address; or
      (4)   By publication of such notice in a newspaper having a general
circulation in the city.
   (B)   All notices shall comply with the Michigan Open Meetings Act (Public
Act 267 of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.261 through 15.275, as amended) and other
applicable state statutes.
(1991 Code, § 1.10)
§ 10.22  INTERFERENCE WITH NOTICES OF THE CITY.
   No person shall interfere with, obstruct, mutilate, conceal or tear down any
official notice posted by any city officer, unless permission therefor is given
by said officer.
(1991 Code, § 1.11)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 10.23  PUBLICATION OF RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   Except as otherwise provided by this code, all rules and regulations made by
the administrative officers which are required to make effective the provisions
of this code, shall become effective after the approval thereof by the
Commission and the filing of a certified copy thereof in the office of the City
Clerk. Copies of all such rules and regulations shall be kept in the office of
the City Clerk for public inspection and distribution.
(1991 Code, § 1.12)
§ 10.24  PENALTY IN ADDITION TO OTHER RELIEF.
   In the event that the doing of any act or the permitting of a condition to
exist is declared to be a nuisance by any section of this code, the doing of
such act or the permitting of such condition to exist may be punished as
provided in this chapter, in addition to or as on alternate procedure to,
injunctive relief in a court of competent jurisdiction, or the abatement of
such nuisance by procedures provided and permitted in the city’s Charter.
(1991 Code, § 1.14)
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   Unless another penalty is expressly provided by this code for any particular
provision or section, every person found responsible for a violation of any
provision of this code or any rule or regulation adopted or issued shall be
punished in accordance with the Civil Infraction Ordinance set forth in this
code. The penalty provided by this section, unless another penalty is expressly
provided, shall apply to the amendment of any section of this code whether or
not such penalty is re-enacted in the amendatory ordinance.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES AND DEPARTMENTS
      
31.   DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
      
32.   PLANNING COMMISSION
      
33.   SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS
      
34.   TAX AND FINANCE
      
35.   MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTIONS
CHAPTER 30:  OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES AND DEPARTMENTS
Section
Compensation of Officers
   
30.01   Compensation for elected officials and Board members
   
30.02   Board of Review (Assessments)
Elections
   
30.15   Even-year city elections
   
30.16   Term
Policy and Procedure; City Administrator
   
30.30   Function and duties
   
30.31   Administrative procedure
   
30.32   Purchases and contracts
Police Department
   
30.45   Functions of Department
   
30.46   Department rules
   
30.47   Civilian crossing guards
Fire Department
   
30.60   Generally
   
30.61   Joint Fire Department
   
30.62   Department rules
   
30.63   Enforce fire laws
COMPENSATION OF OFFICERS
§ 30.01  COMPENSATION FOR ELECTED OFFICIALS AND BOARD MEMBERS.
   Compensation for elected officials and Board members will be:
   (A)   Twenty dollars compensation per Commissioner for regular Commission
meetings, including all special meetings scheduled in accordance with proper
notice and in compliance with state statute, in particular to Open Meetings
Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.261 et seq.;
   (B)   Twenty dollars compensation for each meeting attended by a City
Commissioner or the Mayor when appointed by the Commission to be a member of or
be liaison to the following city committees, boards or intergovernmental
associations:
      (1)   Finance Committee;
      (2)   Personnel Committee;
      (3)   Auburn Williams Fire District;
      (4)   Auburn Williams Recreation;
      (5)   Downtown Development Authority; and
      (6)   Planning and Zoning.
   (C)   In addition to the compensation for Commission meetings and the other
meetings set forth above, the annual salary for the position of Mayor is
increased from $100 to $300 per year; and
   (D)   (2)   In accordance with the City Charter, Article IV, § 22, the
increases outlined in this section will take effect when the next term of
office for each affected position begins.
      (2)   The salary of any elective city officer will not be increased after
his or her election during any fixed term of office for which he or she was
elected.
(1991 Code, § 1.121)  (2012 amendment)
§ 30.02  BOARD OF REVIEW (ASSESSMENTS).
   The members of the Board of Review (Assessments) shall be compensated at a
rate for their services, as established from time to time by resolution of the
City Commission.
(1991 Code, § 1.122)
ELECTIONS
§ 30.15  EVEN-YEAR CITY ELECTIONS.
   Pursuant to Public Act 523 of 2012, State of Michigan, being M.C.L.A. §
168.642(a)(4), and city resolution No. 2013-2, beginning with the election of
November 2013, a Mayor shall serve a term of office until a successor is
elected and qualified in November 2016. Beginning in 2016, a Mayor shall be
nominated and elected at the even-year primary and general elections for the
city. Beginning with the election of November 2013, three Commissioners shall
serve a term of office until successors are elected and qualified in November
2018. Beginning in 2018, these three Commission seats shall be nominated and
elected at the even-year primary and general elections for the city. The three
Commissioners elected at the November 2011 election shall remain in office
until successors are elected and qualified in November 2016. Beginning in 2016,
these three Commission seats shall be nominated and elected at the even-year
primary and general elections for the city. The foregoing elections shall be
governed as provided by the Michigan Election Law, being M.C.L.A. §§ 168.1
through 168.992.
(1991 Code, § 1.31)  (Ord. 198, passed 10-21-2013)
§ 30.16  TERM.
   The Mayor shall serve for a term of two years and City Commissioners shall
serve for a term of four years commencing on the Monday next following their
election and continuing until their respective successors are elected and
qualify.
(1991 Code, § 1.32)
POLICY AND PROCEDURE; CITY ADMINISTRATOR
§ 30.30  FUNCTION AND DUTIES.
   The City Administrator shall have the following functions and duties:
   (A)   To enforce all city laws and ordinances;
   (B)   To enforce all city contracts and franchises;
   (C)   To supervise all public utilities, improvements, works and
undertakings, and the finances of the city;
   (D)   To appoint and remove all administrative officers and employees in the
administrative service of the city except elective officers or officers
appointed by the City Commission or Mayor pursuant to the Charter;
   (E)   To attend all meetings of the City Commission, and to take part
therein, but without vote;
   (F)   In accordance with City Charter, state statutes and resolutions of the
City Commission, prepare on or before the first regular meeting of each fiscal
year an annual itemized budget, and to keep the Commission fully advised as to
the financial condition and needs of the city;
   (G)   To purchase all supplies, including insurance for the city, and
approve all vouchers for the payment of same;
   (H)   To recommend to the City Commission, for adoption, such measures as he
or she may deem necessary or expedient;
   (I)   The Administrator shall be responsible to the City Commission for the
efficient administration of all city functions;
   (J)   To perform such other duties as the City Commission may direct that
naturally pertain to the general management of city affairs, and he or she
shall execute and perform all administrative functions of the city that are not
imposed by the Charter or any city ordinance upon some other official; and
   (K)   To administer, based upon resolution, hiring action or appointment by
the City Commission the civil infraction enforcement employee.
(1991 Code, § 1.71)  (2012 amendment)
§ 30.31  ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The City Administrator shall establish regulations setting forth the
duties of and procedures to be followed in each department and office of the
city which come under the Administrator’s jurisdiction.
   (B)   Each officer or director of a department of the city shall, subject to
approval by the City Administrator, have supervision of his or her department
and shall have the power to prescribe rules and regulations, not inconsistent
with the Charter and the regulations and procedures prescribed by the City
Administrator.
(1991 Code, § 1.72)  (2012 amendment)
§ 30.32  PURCHASES AND CONTRACTS.
   (A)   The City Administrator will serve as City Purchasing Agent.
   (B)   The City Commission may, each year at the time it approves and adopts
the city budget, authorize the City Purchasing Agent to make all purchases with
a cost of $0 to $2,500 without further approval of the Commission.
   (C)   For purchases between $2,500 and $5,000, the City Purchasing Agent
must solicit bids, which need not be sealed bids, from three sources.
   (D)   Any transactions over $5,000 will use the sealed bid process described
below. Such transactions may not be divided into segments, the aggregate of
which would be $3,000 or more.
   (E)   The City Commission shall have the power to reject any and all bids if
deemed by it to be to the advantage of the city. Sealed bids shall be asked for
in all transactions involving the expenditure of $5,000 or more and the
transaction evidenced by written contract submitted to and approved by the City
Commission; provided, that in cases where it is clearly to the city’s advantage
to contract without competitive bidding, the City Commission, by affirmative
vote and upon recommendation of the City Administrator, may so authorize.
Detailed purchasing and contracting procedure shall be established by the City
Administrator.
(1991 Code, § 1.73)  (2012 amendment)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 30.45  FUNCTIONS OF DEPARTMENT.
   If the city operates and maintains a Police Department or any
intergovernmental police agency, the police work of the city shall consist of
the following functions:
   (A)   The operation of motor and foot patrol units for routine
investigations and the general maintenance of law and order;
   (B)   The processing of citizens’ complaints, the maintaining and
supervising of police records, criminal and noncriminal identification,
property identification and custody of property;
   (C)   The investigation of crimes, elimination of illegal liquor traffic and
vice, and the preparation of evidence for the prosecution of criminal cases and
offenses in violation of this code. The Police Department shall enforce all
provisions of this code for which any penalty is provided, as well as all other
laws applicable to and in force within the city;
   (D)   The prevention and control of juvenile delinquency, the removal of
crime hazards and the coordination of community agencies interested in crime
prevention; and
   (E)   The control of traffic, traffic education programs, school patrols and
coordination of traffic violation prosecutions.
(1991 Code, § 1.81)  (2012 amendment)
§ 30.46  DEPARTMENT RULES.
   (A)   The Chief of Police or City Administrator’s designee may prescribe
rules for the government of police officers of the city, subject to approval by
the City Commission, which shall be entered in a book of Police Department
rules and orders, and may be amended or revoked by the Chief of Police upon
written notice to the City Commission.
   (B)   Such rules may establish one or more divisions within the Police
Department, each of which divisions may be charged with performing one or more
of the functions of the Police Department enumerated in §
30.45.
   (C)   Any such divisions shall be supervised by an officer of the Police
Department, who shall be responsible for the particular functions of the Police
Department assigned to the particular division supervised by him or her.
   (D)   It shall be the duty of all members of the police force to comply with
such rules and orders while effective.
   (E)   Such rules and regulations shall designate the chain of command for
the Department so that in the absence or disability of the Chief, the
responsibility for the operation of the Department shall immediately and
automatically be vested in the next ranking officer or member of the Department
present.
(1991 Code, § 1.82)
§ 30.47  CIVILIAN CROSSING GUARDS.
   (A)   The Chief of Police or City Administrator’s designee is hereby
authorized to appoint special officers, to be known as civilian crossing
guards, in such numbers as he or she may deem necessary, to perform police
duties under the direction of and in compliance with such rules and regulations
as the Chief of Police shall promulgate.
   (B)   Such civilian crossing guards shall wear such badges, dress and
insignia as the Chief of Police shall direct, and shall be equipped in the
manner which he or she deems necessary for the proper discharge of their
duties.
   (C)   The Chief of Police or City Administrator’s designee shall promulgate
rules relating to the qualifications, appointment and removal of such civilian
crossing guards. Such persons shall serve with such compensation as may be
provided for by the City Commission.
   (D)   Civilian crossing guards shall be entitled to all rights and benefits
provided under the provisions of Public Act 317 of 1969, being M.C.L.A. §
418.101 through 418.941, and the amendments thereto, the same being known as
the Workers’ Disability Compensation Law of Michigan.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any civilian crossing guard to exercise his
or her authority as such guard, or to wear the uniform or insignia, or to
display his or her badge in an attempt to exercise his or her authority, except
during the performance of actual authorized police duty.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any civilian crossing guard to knowingly and
willfully neglect or refuse to respond for assignment of duty when called under
such rules and regulations as promulgated by the Chief of Police or City
Administrator’s designee.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for any person not duly appointed and sworn in as
a civilian crossing guard to impersonate such officer, or to wear, carry or
display the badge, designated dress or insignia, of such civilian crossing
guards.
   (H)   School crossing guards; failure to obey: a driver of a motor vehicle
who fails to stop when a school crossing guard is in a school crossing and is
holding a stop sign in an upright position visible to approaching vehicle
traffic is guilty of a misdemeanor. In a proceeding for a violation of this
section, proof that the particular vehicle described in the citation, complaint
or warrant was used in the violation, together with proof that the defendant
named in the citation, complaint, warrant or appearance ticket was the
registered owner of the vehicle at the time of the violation, constitutes in
the evidence a presumption that the registered owner of the vehicle was the
driver of the vehicle at the time of the violation.
   (I)   Pursuant to M.C.L.A. § 764.9c, a civil crossing guard is authorized to
issue appearance tickets for a violation of division (H) above.
(1991 Code, § 1.83)  Penalty, see §
10.99
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 30.60  GENERALLY.
   The Fire Department and any intergovernmental fire agency in which the city
participates, shall be charged with the prevention and extinguishment of fires,
as a protection of life and property against fire, the removal of fire hazards
in conjunction with City Commission civil infraction enforcement procedures,
the performance of other public services of an emergency nature assigned to it,
and the conducting of an educational fire prevention program.
(1991 Code, § 1.91)  (2012 amendment)
§ 30.61  JOINT FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   The city may join with one or more municipalities to provide joint fire
protection.
(1991 Code, § 1.92)
§ 30.62  DEPARTMENT RULES.
   The Fire District Board or any governing board from an intergovernmental
fire agency will adopt rules and regulations for government of the department.
(1991 Code, § 1.93)  (2012 amendment)
§ 30.63  ENFORCE FIRE LAWS.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Department to enforce all state laws and
provisions of this code governing the following:
   (A)   The prevention of fires;
   (B)   The storage and use of explosives and flammables;
   (C)   The maintenance of fire alarm systems, both automatic and private, and
all fire extinguishing equipment;
   (D)   The maintenance and use of fire escapes;
   (E)   The maintenance of fire protection and the elimination of fire hazards
in all buildings and structures;
   (F)   The maintenance and adequacy of fire exits from factories, schools,
hotels, asylums, hospitals, churches, halls, theaters and all other places in
which numbers of persons work or congregate for any purpose; and
   (G)   Structures erected and uses conducted on premises located within the
city.
(1991 Code, § 1.94)
CHAPTER 31:  DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
Section
   
31.01   Definitions
   
31.02   Determination of necessity
   
31.03   Creation of Authority
   
31.04   Board of Trustees
   
31.05   Powers of the Authority
   
31.06   Director; bond
   
31.07   Bylaws
   
31.08   Fiscal year; adoption of budget
   
31.09   Description of downtown district
Cross-reference:
   Downtown Development Authority Development Plan; Tax Increment Finance Plan,
see §§
34.25 and
34.26
§ 31.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. The terms
used in this chapter shall have the same meaning as given to them in Public Act
197, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1651 through 125.1680, as amended, or as hereinafter
in this section provided unless the context clearly indicates to the contrary.
   ACT 197.  Public Act 197 of 1975, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1651 through
125.1680, as amended, as now in effect or hereafter amended.
   AUTHORITY.  The City of Auburn Downtown Development Authority, as created by
Ord. 113.
   BOARD or BOARD OF TRUSTEES.  The Board of Trustees of the Authority, the
governing body of the Authority.
   CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER.  The Mayor of the city.
   CITY.  The City of Auburn, Michigan.
   COMMISSION or CITY COMMISSION.  The City Commission of the City of Auburn,
Michigan.
   DOWNTOWN DISTRICT.  The downtown district designated by and described in §
31.09, as now existing or hereafter amended.
(1991 Code, § 1.211)
Editor’s note:
   By § 1(4) of Ord. 141, passed 5-6-1991, the City Commission approved the
development plan and the financing plan presented by the DDA Board on April 8,
1991
§ 31.02  DETERMINATION OF NECESSITY.
   The City Commission hereby determines that it is necessary to form a
Downtown Development Authority, for the best interests of the city to halt
property value deterioration and increase property tax valuation where possible
in the central business district of the city, to eliminate the causes for that
economic and physical deterioration and to promote economic growth and
development by establishing a Downtown Development Authority pursuant to Public
Act 197, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1651 through 125.1680, as amended.
(1991 Code, § 1.212)
§ 31.03  CREATION OF AUTHORITY.
   There is hereby created pursuant to Act 197, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1651
through 125.1680, as amended, a Downtown Development Authority for the city.
The Authority shall be a public body corporate and shall be known and exercise
its powers under title of “Auburn Downtown Development Authority”. The
Authority may adopt a seal, may sue and be sued in any court of law in this
state, and shall possess all of the powers necessary to carry out the purpose
of its incorporation as provided by this chapter and Act 197, being M.C.L.A. §§
125.1651 through 125.1680, as amended. The enumeration of a power in this
chapter or in Act 197, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1651 through 125.1680, as amended,
shall not be construed as a limitation upon the general powers of the
Authority.
(1991 Code, § 1.213)
§ 31.04  BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   The Authority shall be under the supervision and control of a Board
consisting of the chief executive officer of the municipality and eight members
as determined by the governing body of the municipality. Members shall be
appointed by the governing body of the municipality. Not less than a majority
of members of the Board shall be persons having an interest in property located
in the downtown district. Of the members first appointed, an equal number of
the members as near as is practicable, shall be appointed for one year, two
years, three years and four years. A member shall hold office until the
member’s successor is appointed. Thereafter, each member shall serve a term of
four years. An appointment to fill a vacancy shall be made by the governing
body of the municipality for the unexpired term only. The Chairperson of the
Board shall be elected by the Board.
(1991 Code, § 1.214)  (Ord. 147, passed 3-16-1992)
§ 31.05  POWERS OF THE AUTHORITY.
   Except as specifically otherwise provided in this chapter, the Authority
shall have all powers provided by law subject to the limitations imposed by law
and herein. The Authority shall have the power to levy ad valorem taxes on the
real and tangible personal property not exempt by law and as finally equalized
in the downtown district at the rate of not more than two mills each year if
the City Commission annually approves the levy thereof by the Authority.
(1991 Code, § 1.215)
§ 31.06  DIRECTOR; BOND.
   If a director is ever employed as authorized by § 5 of Act 197, being
M.C.L.A. § 125.1655, as amended, he or she shall post bond in penal sum as may
be required by the Board of Trustees at the time of appointment and shall be in
conformance with § 5 of Act 197, being M.C.L.A. § 125.1655, as amended.
(1991 Code, § 1.216)
§ 31.07  BYLAWS.
   The Board of Trustees shall adopt rules and regulations governing its
procedures and the holding of regular meetings subject to the approval of the
governing body of the city. Said rules of operation shall be governed by Public
Act 267 of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.261 through 15.275, and Public Act 442 of
1976, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.231 through 15.246.
(1991 Code, § 1.217)
§ 31.08  FISCAL YEAR; ADOPTION OF BUDGET.
   (A)   The fiscal year of the Authority shall begin on July 1 of each year
and end on June 30 of the following year, or such other fiscal year as may
hereafter be adopted by the city.
   (B)   The Board shall annually prepare a budget and shall submit it to the
Commission on the same date that the proposed budget for the city is required
by the city’s Charter to be submitted to the Commission. The Board shall not
finally adopt a budget for any fiscal year until the budget has been approved
by the City Commission. The Board may, however, temporarily adopt a budget in
connection with the operation of any improvements which have been financed by
revenue bonds where required to do so by the ordinance authorizing the revenue
bonds.
   (C)   The Authority shall submit financial reports to the City Commission as
requested by the City Commission. The Authority shall be audited annually by
the same independent auditors auditing the city, and copies of the audit report
shall be filed with the Commission.
(1991 Code, § 1.218)
§ 31.09  DESCRIPTION OF DOWNTOWN DISTRICT.
   (A)   The downtown district in which the Authority shall exercise its powers
as provided by Public Act 197 of 1975, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1651 through
125.1680, as amended, shall consist of the following described territory in the
city, subject to such changes as may hereinafter be made to this chapter
pursuant to Act 197, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1651 through 125.1680, as amended.
   (B)   An area in the city, within the boundaries described as follows:
      A part of Sections 23 and 24, T.14 N. - R.3 E., City of Auburn, Bay
County Michigan, commencing at the west quarter corner of said Section 23;
thence north on the west section line 264 feet; thence east on the north line
of lots 14 to 17 and 45 and 46 and their extension, Brown’s Subdivision, to the
east line of said subdivision; thence south 37 feet; thence east on the north
line of lot 1, Wiedyk Subdivision No. 1, and its extension, 165 feet; thence
north on the centerline of Sycamore Street, 166 feet; thence east on the
centerline of Green Street, 165 feet; thence south on the east line of Wiedyk
Subdivision No. 1 and its extension, 208 feet; thence east 165 feet more or
less; thence north on the west line of the east half of the east half of the
east half of the southwest quarter of the northwest quarter of said Section 23,
to the south line of the Central Michigan Railroad; thence east 165 feet more
or less; thence south on the west one-eighth line to a point 210 feet north of
the east and west quarter line; thence east 696 feet more or less to the
centerline of Noell Way; thence north 183 feet; thence east on the centerline
of Bryant Boulevard West, 656.5 feet; thence south 393 feet to the east and
west quarter line; thence east on said quarter line to a point 108 feet west of
the west line of the Plat of Auburn; thence north 270 feet; thence east 108
feet; thence north on the west line of the Plat of Auburn, 108 feet; thence
east on the north line of vacated Green Street, 133 feet; thence south on the
centerline of Frances Street as platted, 110 feet; thence east on the north
line of lots 2 and 9, Block 15, Plat of Auburn, 266 feet; thence north on the
centerline of Whittemore Street, 110 feet; thence east on the south line of lot
1, Block 11, Plat of Auburn, 133 feet; thence north on the east lines of lots
1, 2 and 3 of said Block 11, 150 feet; thence east on the south lines of lots 7
through 19, said Block 11, 703 feet; thence south 378 feet; thence east
parallel with and 150 feet north of the east and west quarter line, 297 feet;
thence south 150 feet to said quarter line; thence east on said quarter line,
29.5 feet; thence north 368 feet; thence east 165.99 feet; thence south 160.5
feet; thence east 132 feet to the east line of Section 23; thence north on said
east line to the south line of Macomber Avenue extended east; thence west on
said extended line, 33 feet; thence north on the west line of Auburn Road to
the northeast corner of lot 7, Block 1, Plat of Auburn; thence west on the
north line of said lot 7, 130 feet; thence south on the centerline of the
vacated alley in said Block 1,100 feet; thence west on the south line of lots 1
through 6, said Block 1, 353 feet; thence north on the centerline of vacated
Nuffer Street, 100 feet; thence west on the north line of Block 2, Plat of
Auburn, 458 feet; thence north on the east line of lot 12 and its northerly
extension, North Auburn Subdivision No. 1, to the north line of the Plat of
Auburn; thence east on said north line which is the south line of the Central
Michigan Railroad right-of-way, 1,243.5 feet; thence south 20 feet; thence east
643.5 feet; thence north 20 feet; thence east 33 feet to the east section line;
thence north on said east section line to the northwest corner of F. Weber’s
Subdivision; thence east entering into Section 24 and on the north line of F.
Weber’s Subdivision, and the south line of the Central Michigan Railroad right-
of-way to the east line of the west half of the northwest quarter of said
Section 24; thence south on said east line, 200 feet; thence west 608.1 feet;
thence south on the centerline of Park Avenue, 156.82 feet; thence west on the
north line of Noble Street, 250 feet; thence north on the centerline of Weber
Street, 355.11 feet; thence west on said north line of F. Weber’s Subdivision,
322.75 feet; thence south on the east lines of lots 7 and 6, Block 4, F.
Weber’s Subdivision, 102.35 feet; thence west on the south line of said lot
6,100 feet; thence south on the east line of Auburn Road, 275 feet; thence east
on the centerline of Hemmingway Street, 213 feet; thence south 242.5 feet;
thence east 84.75 feet; thence south 132.5 feet; thence east on the north lines
of lots 1 and 2, Block 2, and the north lines of lots 1 and 2, Block 3, F.
Weber’s Subdivision, 250 feet; thence north 91.25 feet; thence east on the
north line of lot 20, Block 3, F. Weber’s Subdivision, 125 feet; thence south
on the centerline of Park Avenue, 240.75 feet; thence east on the east and west
quarter line of said Section 24 to a point 275 feet west of the northeast
corner of the northwest quarter of the southwest quarter of said Section 24;
thence south, 422 feet; thence west 330 feet; thence south 36 feet; thence west
to a line which is 656.3 feet east of the west section line; thence north on
said line, 146 feet; thence west 273.3 feet; thence south 146 feet; thence west
on the centerline of Elm Street, 383 feet; thence south on the west line of
Section 24, 238 feet; thence east 33 feet; thence south 660 feet; thence west
33 feet; thence south to the northwest corner of the south half of the north
half of the south half of the southwest quarter of said Section 24; thence east
on the north line of said south half of the north half of the south half of the
southwest quarter to the north and south quarter line; thence south on said
quarter line to the north right-of-way line of Highway U.S. 10; thence west on
said right-of-way line, 1,913.67 feet; thence northwesterly on said right-of-
way line, 535.88 feet; thence northwesterly on said right-of-way line, 278.26
feet; thence west on the north line of the south half of the south half of the
southwest quarter, 46.52 feet; thence north on the west line of said Section 24
to the northwest corner of said south half of the north half of the south half
of the southwest quarter of said Section 24; thence north on the east line of
said Section 24 to a point 874.5 feet south of the east quarter corner of said
Section 24; thence west 165 feet; thence north 77.5 feet; thence east 165 feet;
thence north on said east section line to the centerline of Elm Street; thence
west 332 feet; thence north 125 feet; thence west one foot; thence north 73
feet; thence east 36 feet; thence north 74 feet; thence west 260 feet; thence
south on the centerline of Roberts Street, 47 feet; thence west 165 feet;
thence south 100 feet; thence west to a point 143 feet east of the west line of
the northeast quarter of the southeast quarter; thence north 297 feet; thence
west on the east and west quarter line, 143 feet; thence south 264 feet; thence
west on the north line of Price Subdivision, 390 feet; thence north 24 feet;
thence west 125 feet to the centerline of Price Street; thence west on the
south lines of lots 9 and 8, of Price Subdivision, 310 feet; thence north on
the centerline of Edwards Street 60.5 feet; thence west on the south line of
the north 19.5 feet of lot 3, of Price Subdivision, 176.7 feet; thence south 40
feet; thence west on the south lines of lots 1 and 2, Block 2, and on the south
lines of lots 1 and 2, Block 1, of O.B. Braun’s Subdivision, 330.5 feet; thence
south on the north and south quarter line, 30 feet; thence west on the south
line of the north 180 feet of lot 1, DeCourey Subdivision, 333 feet; thence
north on the centerline of Renshar Drive, 80 feet; thence west 122 feet; thence
south 30 feet; thence west 56 feet; thence south 118 feet; thence west 152
feet; thence south on the west line of the east half of the east half of the
southwest quarter of Section 23, 407 feet; thence west to the east line of the
west half of the west half of the east half of the southwest quarter thence
south on said east line, to the north right-of-way line of Highway U.S. 10;
thence west to the west line of the west half of the west half of the east half
of the southwest quarter; thence north on said west line to the south line of
the north half of the southwest quarter of the southwest quarter; thence west
on said south line to the west line of Section 23; thence north on said west
line, 1974 feet more or less to the west quarter corner of said Section 23 and
the point of beginning.
(1991 Code, § 1.219)  (Ord. 140, passed 5-6-1991)
CHAPTER 32:  PLANNING COMMISSION
Section
   
32.01   Creation
   
32.02   Membership
   
32.03   Liaisons
   
32.04   Training
   
32.05   Members; appointment and terms
   
32.06   Removal from office
   
32.07   Membership; vacancies
   
32.08   Transition
   
32.09   Compensation
   
32.10   Meeting; records
   
32.11   Powers and duties
   
32.12   Staff
   
32.13   Bylaws
   
32.14   Approval, ratification and reconfirmation
§ 32.01  CREATION.
   There shall be a City Planning Commission pursuant to Public Act 33 of 2008,
as amended, being the Michigan Planning Enabling Act, M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3801 et
seq., hereinafter referred to as the “Planning Commission”, with the powers and
duties as therein set forth and as hereinafter provided and staffed Planning
Department. This chapter shall be officially known and described as the “City
of Auburn Planning Commission Ordinance”.
(2012 amendment)
§ 32.02  MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall consist of seven members, appointed by
the Mayor and approved by the City Commission. To be qualified to be a member
and remain a member of the Planning Commission, the individual shall meet the
following qualifications:
      (1)   Shall be a qualified elector of the city, except one non-qualified
elector may be a member;
      (2)   Shall not be a declared candidate for any political office, except
this condition shall not apply to the City Commission representative to the
Planning Commission;
      (3)   After an individual’s first appointment and before reappointment
shall have attended training for Planning Commission members, pursuant to §
32.04; and
      (4)   Shall meet the conditions provided for each individual member in
divisions (B), (D), (E) and (F) below, except the geographical location of the
individual’s residency may be considered optional.
   (B)   The membership shall be representative of the important geographic and
interest segments of the city as follows.
   (C)   Members shall be appointed for three-year terms; however when first
appointed a number of members shall be appointed to one-year, two-year or
three-year terms such that, as nearly as possible, the terms of one-third of
all Planning Commission members will expire each year. If a vacancy occurs, the
vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired term in the same manner as provided
for an original appointment such that, as nearly as possible, the terms of one-
third of all Planning Commission members continue to expire each year.
   (D)   Ex officio members shall include one member of the City Commission.
The terms of office of ex officio members shall coincide with their elected
terms of office on the legislative body or the term of office of the chief
elected official who appointed him or her.
   (E)   The membership shall be representative of the important segments of
the community, such as the economic, governmental, educational and social
development of the city, in accordance with the major interests as they exist
in the city, as follows:
      (1)   Government (represented by the ex officio City Commissioner);
      (2)   Natural resources and public health;
      (3)   Recreation;
      (4)   Education;
      (5)   Industry and agriculture;
      (6)   Transportation; and
      (7)   Commerce;
   (F)   The membership shall also be representative of the entire geography of
the city to the extent practicable, and as a secondary consideration to the
representation of the major interests.
   (G)   A member of the City Commission, Chief Administrative Officer, person
designated by the chief administrative officer, and chief elected official of
the city shall not be Chair of the Planning Commission.
   (H)   Not more than one third of the total membership of the Planning
Commission shall consist of, collectively, a member of the City Commission,
Chief Administrative Officer, person designated by the chief elected officer,
or chief elected official of the city.
   (I)   If the City Commission provides for a Planning Commissioner to be ex
officio on the Zoning Board of Appeals, that Planning Commissioner shall be
mindful that they should declare a conflict of interest and abstain from voting
in any decision of the ZBA that would ratify or overturn the position of the
Planning Commission on the same matter.
(2012 amendment)
§ 32.03  LIAISONS.
   (A)   The Commission, in its Bylaws, may name “liaisons” to the Planning
Commission.
   (B)   The purpose of liaisons is to provide certain city and quasi-city
officials ability to participate in discussion with the Planning Commission in
addition to speaking in public participation, and nothing else.
   (C)   At a minimum, liaisons shall include:
      (1)   City Administrator; and
      (2)   City Attorney.
(2012 amendment)
§ 32.04  TRAINING.
   (A)   Appointed members of the Planning Commission shall attend educational
programs designed for training members of State Planning Commissions generally,
or City Commissioners specifically, if the adopted city budget for that fiscal
year includes funds to pay for expenses, including possible tuition,
registration and travel expenses for the training.
   (B)   Failure to meet probationary terms in the Planning Commission bylaws
can be grounds for removal by the City Commission.
   (C)   The member may also be ineligible for reappointment at the conclusion
of the term of office if he or she did not attend training.
   (D)   The Planning Commission shall include in its bylaws what training
programs qualify to meet this requirement.
(2012 amendment)
§ 32.05  MEMBERS; APPOINTMENT AND TERMS.
   (A)   In January of each year, the City Clerk shall determine which members’
terms of office expire, shall determine which major interest is to be
represented by that term and shall place an advertisement(s) in a newspaper
with paid circulation in the city to seek different applications.
   (B)   In February of each year, the City Mayor shall consider the
applications and nominations received, and appoint members to the Planning
Commission (subject to approval by the City Commission) for a three-year term
of office, which shall end February 28, at 9:00 a.m. of the respective year.
(2012 amendment)
§ 32.06  REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   (A)   The City Commission may remove a member of the Planning Commission for
misfeasance, malfeasance or nonfeasance in office upon written charges and
after a public hearing. Failure to disclose a potential conflict of interest
shall be considered malfeasance in office. Failure to repeatedly attend
Planning Commission meetings shall be considered nonfeasance in office.
   (B)   The Secretary of the Planning Commission shall report any member who
has missed three regular meetings in a row to the City Commission.
(2012 amendment)
§ 32.07  MEMBERSHIP; VACANCIES.
   The City Commission shall fill any vacancy in the membership of the Planning
Commission for the unexpired terms in the same manner as the initial
appointment.
(2012 amendment)
§ 32.08  TRANSITION.
   (A)   The transition from the previous City Planning Commission and the
Planning Commission established in this chapter shall be gradual and shall take
place over the next three years. The City Commission shall continue to make
annual appointments, appointing approximately one-third of the membership of
the Planning Commission as specified in this chapter, so that three years from
the effective date of this chapter the membership, membership representation
and number of members have completed the transition to fully comply with this
chapter.
   (B)   All other aspects of this chapter shall have immediate effect.
(2012 amendment)
§ 32.09  COMPENSATION.
   All members of the Planning Commission shall serve as such with compensation
equal to, or less than, the per diem of the City Commission per meeting.
(2012 amendment)
§ 32.10  MEETING; RECORDS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall meet at least six times per year and a
majority of the Planning Commission shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of the ordinary business of said Planning Commission and all
questions which shall arise at its meetings shall be determined by a vote of
the majority of the members of the Planning Commission.
   (B)   The affirmative vote of two-thirds of the total number of seats for
members of the Planning Commission, regardless if vacancies or absences exist
or not, shall be necessary for the adoption, or recommendation for adoption, of
any plan or amendment to a plan. With a seven-member Board, two-thirds equals
five members.
(2012 amendment)
§ 32.11  POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall have its powers and duties as set forth
in Public Act 33 of 2008, as amended, being the Michigan Planning Enabling Act,
M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3801 et seq.; and Public Act 110 of the Public Acts of 2006, as
amended, being the Michigan Zoning Enabling Act (M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 et seq.).
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall have authority to apply for and receive
grants from any government agency or the federal government and to receive
gifts.
   (C)   The Planning Commission may seek outside professional assistance as
necessary to accomplish its goals and purposes.
(2012 amendment)
§ 32.12  STAFF.
   (A)   The appointment of the Planning Director and other such employees
shall be subject to the same provisions of law, employment policies, employee
roster, employee or union contracts, if any, as govern other employees of the
city.
   (B)   Employees that are assigned to work with the Planning Commission shall
follow the directives of the Planning Commission in matters of planning and
zoning public policy issues, but shall not be subject to Planning Commission
directives concerning employment provisions of law, employment policies,
employee roster, employee or union contracts, if any.
(2012 amendment)
§ 32.13  BYLAWS.
   The Planning Commission shall adopt bylaws for the transaction of business
and which records shall be a public record.
(2012 amendment)
§ 32.14  APPROVAL, RATIFICATION AND RECONFIRMATION.
   All official actions taken by all City Planning and Zoning Commissions
preceding the Commission created by this chapter are hereby approved, ratified
and reconfirmed. Any project, review, or process taking place at the effective
date of this chapter shall continue with the Commission created by this
chapter, subject to the requirements of this chapter, and shall be deemed a
continuation of any previous City Planning Commission. This chapter shall be in
full force and effect from and after its adoption and publication.
(2012 amendment)
CHAPTER 33:  SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS
Section
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   To initiate special assessment projects
   
33.03   Survey and report
   
33.04   Cost of condemned property added
   
33.05   Determination on the project; notice
   
33.06   Objections to improvement
   
33.07   Hearing on necessity
   
33.08   Deviation from plans and specifications
   
33.09   Limitations on preliminary expenses
   
33.10   Special assessment roll
   
33.11   Assessor to file assessment roll
   
33.12   Meeting to review special assessment roll
   
33.13   Changes and corrections in assessment roll
   
33.14   Special assessment; when due
   
33.15   Partial payments; when due
   
33.16   Collection from assessment roll; procedure
   
33.17   Collection by Treasurer
   
33.18   Creation of lien
   
33.19   Additional assessments; refunds
   
33.20   Additional procedures
   
33.21   Special assessment accounts
   
33.22   Contested assessments
   
33.23   Reassessment for benefits
   
33.24   Combination of projects
   
33.25   Single lot assessments
§ 33.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COST.  Includes the expense of the survey, the preparation of the tax roll,
notices, advertising, printing, financing, legal, engineering, construction and
condemnation and all other costs incidental to the making of the improvement.
   IMPROVEMENT.  Any public improvement which is a special benefit to one or
more parcels of land over and above the benefit conferred upon the public as a
whole.
(1991 Code, § 1.171)
§ 33.02  TO INITIATE SPECIAL ASSESSMENT PROJECTS.
   (A)   Proceedings for the making of improvements within the city may be
commenced by resolution of the Commission, on its own initiative or by an
initiatory petition signed by property owners whose aggregate property in the
special assessment district was assessed for more than 50% of the total
assessed value of the privately owned real property located therein, in
accordance with the last preceding general assessment roll. In the case of
special assessments for paving or similar improvements which are normally
assessed on a frontage basis against abutting property, such petitions shall be
signed by the owners of more than 50% of the frontage of property to be
assessed.
   (B)   Such petitions shall contain, in addition to the signatures of the
owners, a brief description of the property owned by the respective signers
thereof.
   (C)   Such petitions shall be verified by the affidavit of one or more of
the owners or by some person or persons with knowledge that the signers are
such owners and that such signatures are genuine.
   (D)   Petitions shall be circulated and signed on blank forms furnished by
the city.
   (E)   The City Clerk shall check the petitions to determine whether they
conform to the foregoing requirements and shall report his or her findings to
the City Commission.
(1991 Code, § 1.172)
§ 33.03  SURVEY AND REPORT.
   (A)   Before the Commission shall consider the making of any local public
improvement, the Commission shall cause a report to be prepared which shall
include necessary plans, profiles, specifications and detailed estimates of
cost, an estimate of the life of the improvement, a description of the
assessment district or districts and such other pertinent information as will
permit the Commission to decide the cost, extent and necessity of the
improvement proposed and what part or proportion thereof should be paid by
special assessments upon the property especially benefitted and what part, if
any, should be paid by the city at large.
   (B)   The Commission shall not determine to proceed with the making of any
local public improvement until after a public hearing has been held by the
Commission for the purpose of hearing objections to the making of such public
improvement.
(1991 Code, § 1.173)
§ 33.04  COST OF CONDEMNED PROPERTY ADDED.
   Whenever any property is acquired by condemnation, or otherwise, for the
purpose of any special improvement, the cost thereof, and of the proceedings
required to acquire such property, may be added to the cost of such special
improvement.
(1991 Code, § 1.174)
§ 33.05  DETERMINATION ON THE PROJECT; NOTICE.
   (A)   When the report required in §
33.03 has been made, and the Commission has reviewed the report, a resolution
may be passed determining the necessity of the improvement; setting forth the
nature thereof; prescribing what part or proportion of the cost of such
improvement shall be paid by special assessment upon the property especially
benefitted, determination of benefits received by affected properties and what
part, if any, shall be paid by the city at large; designating the limits of the
special assessment district to be affected; designating whether to be assessed
according to frontage or other benefits; placing the complete information on
file in the office of the Clerk where the same may be found for examination;
and directing the Clerk to publish a notice of public hearing on the proposed
improvement at which time and place opportunity will be given interested
persons to be heard. Such notice shall be made by one publication in a
newspaper published or circulated within the city at least one week prior to
the holding of the hearing.
   (B)   In accordance with Public Act 162 of 1962, being M.C.L.A. § 211.741,
notice of the hearing shall also be given to each owner of or party in interest
in property to be assessed, whose name appears upon the last local tax
assessment records, by mailing by first class mail addressed to such owner or
party at the address shown on the tax records, at least ten days before the
date of such hearing.
      (1)   The last local tax assessment records means the last assessment
roll for ad valorem tax purposes which has been reviewed by the local board of
review, as supplemented by any subsequent changes in the names or the addresses
of such owners or parties listed thereon.
      (2)   The notice of hearing shall include a statement that appearance and
protest at the hearing is required in order to appeal the amount of the special
assessment to the state tax tribunal and shall describe the manner in which an
appearance and protest shall be made. The hearing required by this section may
be held at any regular, adjourned or special meeting of the Commission.
(1991 Code, § 1.175)
§ 33.06  OBJECTIONS TO IMPROVEMENT.
   If, at or prior to such meeting of the Commission, property owners of
property located in the special assessment district whose property in the
aggregate was assessed for more than 50% of the total assessed value of the
privately owned real property located therein, in accordance with the last
preceding general assessment roll or in case of paving or similar improvements,
more than 50% of the amount of frontage to be assessed for any such
improvement, shall object in writing to the proposed improvement, the
improvement shall not be made by proceedings authorized by this chapter without
an affirmative vote of five Commission members.
(1991 Code, § 1.176)
§ 33.07  HEARING ON NECESSITY.
   At the public hearing on the proposed improvement, all persons interested
shall be given an opportunity to be heard, after which the Commission may
modify the scope of the public improvements in such a manner as they shall deem
to be in the best interest of the city as a whole; provided that if the amount
of work is increased or additions are made to the district, then another
hearing shall be held pursuant to notice prescribed in §
33.05. If the determination of the Commission shall be to proceed with the
improvement, a resolution shall be passed approving the necessary profiles,
plans, specifications, assessment district and detailed estimates of cost, and
directing the assessor to prepare a special assessment roll in accordance with
the Commission’s determination and report the same to the Commission for
confirmation.
(1991 Code, § 1.177)
§ 33.08  DEVIATION FROM PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   No deviation from original plans or specifications as adopted shall be
permitted by any officer or employee of the city without authority of the
Commission by resolution. A copy of the resolution authorizing such changes or
deviation shall be certified by the Clerk and attached to the original plans
and specifications on file in his or her office.
(1991 Code, § 1.178)
§ 33.09  LIMITATIONS ON PRELIMINARY EXPENSES.
   No contract or expenditure, except for the cost of preparing necessary
profiles, plans, specifications and estimates of cost, shall be made for the
improvement until special assessments to defray the costs of the same shall
have been levied.
(1991 Code, § 1.179)
§ 33.10  SPECIAL ASSESSMENT ROLL.
   The assessor shall make a special assessment roll of all lots and parcels of
land within the designated district benefitted by the proposed improvement and
assess to each lot or parcel of land the amount benefitted thereby. The amount
spread in each case shall be based upon the detailed estimate contained in the
report as set forth in §
33.03.
(1991 Code, § 1.180)
§ 33.11  ASSESSOR TO FILE ASSESSMENT ROLL.
   When the assessor shall have completed such assessment roll, he or she shall
file the same with the Clerk for presentation to the Commission for review and
certification by it.
(1991 Code, § 1.181)
§ 33.12  MEETING TO REVIEW SPECIAL ASSESSMENT ROLL.
   (A)   Upon receipt of such special assessment roll, the Commission by
resolution shall accept such assessment roll and order it to be filed in the
office of the Clerk for public examination; shall fix the time and place the
Commission will meet to review such special assessment roll; and direct the
Clerk to publish a notice of a public hearing for the purpose of giving an
opportunity for interested persons to be heard. Such notice shall be made by
one publication at least one week prior to the holding of the hearing. Notice
by mail shall also be given in the manner prescribed in §
33.05.
   (B)   The hearing required by this section may be held at any regular,
adjourned or special meeting of the Commission. At this meeting, all interested
persons or parties shall present in writing their objections, if any, to the
assessments against them. The notice of meeting shall include a statement that
the owner or any person with an interest in the real property may file a
written appeal with the state tax tribunal within 30 days after the
confirmation of the special assessment roll if that special assessment was
protested at the hearing held for the purpose of confirming the roll. The
assessor shall be present at every meeting of the Commission at which a special
assessment is to be reviewed.
(1991 Code, § 1.182)
§ 33.13  CHANGES AND CORRECTIONS IN ASSESSMENT ROLL.
   The Commission shall meet at the time and place designated for the review of
such special assessment roll and such objections thereto submitted in writing.
The Commission may correct the roll as to any special assessment or description
of any lot or parcel of land or other errors appearing therein, or it may, by
resolution, annul such assessment roll and the same proceedings shall be
followed in making a new roll as in the making of the original roll. If, after
hearing all objections and making a record of such changes as the Commission
deems justified, the Commission determines that it is satisfied with the
special assessment roll, and that assessments are in proportion to benefits
received, it shall thereupon pass a resolution reciting such determinations,
confirming such roll, placing it on file in the office of the Clerk, and
directing the Clerk to attach his or her warrant to a certified copy within ten
days, therein commanding the assessor to spread the various sums and amounts
appearing thereon on a special assessment roll or upon the tax rolls of the
city of the full amounts or in annual installments as directed by the
Commission. Such roll shall have the date of confirmation endorsed thereon and
shall have from date be final and conclusive for the purpose of the improvement
to which it applied, subject only to adjustment to conform to the actual cost
of the improvement, as provided in §
33.19.
(1991 Code, § 1.183)
§ 33.14  SPECIAL ASSESSMENT; WHEN DUE.
   All special assessments, except such installments thereof as the Commission
shall make payable at a future time as provided herein shall be due and payable
upon confirmation of the special assessment roll.
(1991 Code, § 1.184)
§ 33.15  PARTIAL PAYMENTS; WHEN DUE.
   (A)   The Commission may provide for the payment of special assessments in
annual installments. Such annual installments shall not exceed 30 in number,
the first installment being due upon confirmation of the roll and the deferred
installments being due annually thereafter; however, the Commission may, in its
discretion, spread upon and make a part of each annual city tax roll thereafter
the annual installments heretofore mentioned. The first annual installment may
be spread the next year following the confirmation at an interest rate not to
exceed the maximum established by state law for municipal borrowing. After the
Commission has confirmed the roll, the City Treasurer shall notify by mail each
property owner on the roll that the roll has been filed stating the amount
assessed.
   (B)   Each property owner shall have 30 days from the date of such
notification to pay the assessment in full and without interest or penalty.
Upon the expiration of the 30-day period, the roll shall be closed for
collection and forwarded to the city assessor for spreading the roll on all
unpaid assessments in conformity with the Commission resolution. Following the
30-day period, the property owner may pay all of his or her assessment at any
time but shall be required to pay all interest that the city has obligated
itself to pay upon the description by reason of financing the improvement.
Failure on the part of the City Treasurer to give the notice or of such owner
to receive the notice shall not invalidate any special assessment roll of the
city or any assessment thereon nor excuse the payment of the interest.
(1991 Code, § 1.185)
§ 33.16  COLLECTION FROM ASSESSMENT ROLL; PROCEDURE.
   When any special assessment shall be confirmed, and be payable as
hereinbefore provided, the Commission shall direct the assessment so made in
the special assessment roll to be collected directly therefrom or from the
general tax rolls; and thereupon the City Clerk shall attach his or her warrant
to a certified copy of the special assessment roll, therein commanding the City
Treasurer to collect from each of the persons assessed in the roll the amount
of money assessed to and set opposite his or her name therein and in case any
person named in the roll shall neglect or refuse to pay his or her assessment
upon demand, then to levy and collect the same by distress and sale of the
goods and chattels of such person and return the roll and warrant, together
with his or her doings thereon, within 60 days from the date of such warrant.
(1991 Code, § 1.186)
§ 33.17  COLLECTION BY TREASURER.
   Upon receiving the assessment roll and warrant, the City Treasurer shall
proceed to collect the amounts assessed therein. If any person shall neglect or
refuse to pay his or her assessment upon demand, the Treasurer may seize and
levy upon any personal property found within the city, or elsewhere within the
county, belonging to such person, and sell the same at public auction, first
giving six days’ notice of the time and place of such sale, by posting such
notices in three of the most public places in the city or township where such
property may be found. The proceeds of such sale, or so much thereof as may be
necessary for that purpose, shall be applied to the payment of the assessment,
and a percentage of 5% upon the amount of the assessment for the costs and
expenses of the seizure and sale, and the surplus, if any, shall be paid to the
person entitled thereto.
(1991 Code, § 1.187)
§ 33.18  CREATION OF LIEN.
   (A)   Special assessments and all interest and charges thereon, from the
date of confirmation of the roll, shall be and remain a lien upon the property
assessed of the same character and effect as the lien created by general law
for state and county taxes, and by the City Charter for city taxes, until paid.
   (B)   From such date after confirmation as shall be fixed by the Commission,
the same collection fees shall be collected on delinquent special assessments
and upon delinquent installments of such special assessments as are provided by
the city’s Charter to be collected on delinquent city taxes.
   (C)   Such delinquent special assessments shall be subject to the same
penalties and the lands upon which the same are a lien shall be subject to sale
therefor the same as are delinquent city taxes and the lands upon which they
constitute a lien.
(1991 Code, § 1.188)
§ 33.19  ADDITIONAL ASSESSMENTS; REFUNDS.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall, within 60 days after the completion of each
local or special public improvement, compile the actual cost thereof and
certify the same to the Commission.
   (B)   Should the assessment roll prove insufficient to pay for the
improvement and related costs of the project for which it was levied, the
Commission may make an additional pro rata assessment which shall not exceed
25% of the original assessment.
   (C)   Should the assessment prove larger than necessary by less than 5%, the
Commission may place the excess in the City Treasurer; if more than 5%, the
excess shall be refunded pro rata to those persons making the payments.
Interest and penalties shall be in the same amounts and collected in the same
manner as set forth in § 9 of the city’s Charter.
(1991 Code, § 1.189)
§ 33.20  ADDITIONAL PROCEDURES.
   In any case where the provisions of this chapter may prove to be
insufficient to carry into full effect the making of any special assessment,
the Commission shall provide by ordinance any additional steps or procedures
required.
(1991 Code, § 1.190)
§ 33.21  SPECIAL ASSESSMENT ACCOUNTS.
   Moneys raised by special assessment to pay the cost of any local improvement
shall be held in a special fund to pay such cost or to repay any money borrowed
therefor. Each special assessment account must be used only for the improvement
project for which the assessment was levied, except as otherwise provided in
this chapter.
(1991 Code, § 1.191)
§ 33.22  CONTESTED ASSESSMENTS.
   Except and unless notice is given to the Commission in writing of an
intention to contest or enjoin the collection of any special assessment for the
construction of any public improvement or the removal or abatement of any
public hazard or nuisance, within 30 days after the date of the resolution of
the Commission confirming the assessment roll for such improvement, which
notice shall state the grounds on which the proceedings are to be contested, no
suit or action of any kind shall be instituted or maintained for the purpose of
contesting or enjoining the collection of such special assessment.
(1991 Code, § 1.192)
§ 33.23  REASSESSMENT FOR BENEFITS.
   (A)   Whenever the Commission shall deem any special assessment invalid or
defective for any reason whatever, or if any court of competent jurisdiction
shall have adjudged such assessment to be illegal for any reason whatever, in
whole or in part, the Commission shall have power to cause a new assessment to
be made for the same purpose for which the former assessment was made, whether
the improvement or any part thereof has been completed and whether any part of
the assessment has been collected or not.
   (B)   All proceedings on such reassessment and for the collection thereof
shall be made in the manner as provided for the original assessment.
   (C)   If any portion of the original assessment shall have been collected
and not refunded, it shall be applied upon the reassessment and the
reassessment shall to that extent be deemed satisfied.
   (D)   If more than the amount reassessed shall have been collected, the
balance shall be refunded to the person making such payment.
(1991 Code, § 1.193)
§ 33.24  COMBINATION OF PROJECTS.
   The Commission may combine several districts into one project for the
purpose of effecting a saving in the costs; however, for each district there
shall be established separate funds and accounts to cover the cost of the same.
(1991 Code, § 1.194)
§ 33.25  SINGLE LOT ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   When any expense shall have been incurred by the city upon or in
respect to any single premises, which expense is chargeable against the
premises and the owner thereof under the provisions of this code and the city
charter and is not of that class required to be prorated among the several lots
and parcels of land in a special assessment district, an account of the labor,
material and service for which such expense was incurred, with a description of
the premises upon or in respect to which the expense was incurred, and the name
of the owner, if known, shall be reported to the Treasurer, who shall
immediately charge and bill the owner, if known.
   (B)   The Treasurer, at the end of each quarter, shall report to the City
Commission all sums so owing to the city and which have not been paid within 30
days after the mailing of the bill therefor. The Commission shall, at such
times as it may deem advisable, direct the assessor to prepare a special
assessment roll covering all such charges reported to it together with a
penalty of 10%. Such roll shall be filed with the Clerk, who shall advise the
Commission of the filing of the same, and the Commission shall thereupon set a
date for the hearing of objections to such assessment roll. The assessment roll
shall be open to public inspection for a period of seven days before the
Commission shall meet to review the roll and hear complaints.
   (C)   The City Clerk shall give notice in advance by publication of the
opening of the roll to public inspection and of the meeting of the Commission
to hear complaints and shall also give like notice to the owners of and persons
having an interest in property affected by first class mail at their addresses
as shown on the last general assessment roll of the city, at least ten full
days prior to the date of such hearing. Such special assessments and all
interest and charges thereon, shall, from the date of confirmation of the roll,
be and remain a lien upon the property assessed, of the same character and
effect as a lien created by general law for state and county taxes, until paid.
   (D)   The same penalty and interest shall be paid on such assessments, when
delinquent from such date after confirmation as shall be fixed by the City
Commission, as are provided by the city’s Charter to be paid on delinquent
general city taxes; and such assessments, with penalties and interest, shall be
added by the Treasurer to the next general city tax roll or general county and
school tax roll, as shall be convenient, and shall thereafter be collected and
returned in the same manner as general city taxes.
(1991 Code, § 1.195)
CHAPTER 34:  TAX AND FINANCE
Section
Charges for Fire Department Services; Methods of Collection; Exemptions
   
34.01   Title
   
34.02   Definition
   
34.03   Purpose
   
34.04   Duty to remove and clean up; failure to remove and clean up
   
34.05   Charges
   
34.06   Payment
   
34.07   Exemption
   
34.08   Collection of charges
   
34.09   Multiple property protection
   
34.10   Lien upon property located within the city
Downtown Development Authority Development Plan; Tax Increment Finance Plan
   
34.25   General provisions
   
34.26   Filing; effective date
Purchasing Policies
   
34.40   Title
   
34.41   Definitions
   
34.42   Transactions equal to or less than $5,000
   
34.43   Transactions over $5,000
   
34.44   Sealed bid policy
   
34.45   Prohibitions
   
34.46   Inspections of materials
   
34.47   Emergency purchases
   
34.48   Cooperative purchases
   
34.49   Sale of property
CHARGES FOR FIRE DEPARTMENT SERVICES; METHODS OF COLLECTION; EXEMPTIONS
§ 34.01  TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “City of Auburn
Emergency Response Cost Recovery Ordinance”.
(Ord. 181, passed 4-1-2002)
§ 34.02  DEFINITION.
   For purposes of this subchapter, any reference to FIRE DEPARTMENT shall mean
the Auburn Williams Fire Department, which is operated by the city and the
Charter Township of Williams pursuant to agreement authorized by Public Act 33
of 1951, being M.C.L.A. §§ 41.801 through 41.813, as thereafter amended.
(Ord. 181, passed 4-1-2002)
§ 34.03  PURPOSE.
   The within subchapter is adopted for the purpose of providing financial
assistance to the city in the operation of a Fire Department from those
receiving direct benefits from the Fire Department.
(Ord. 181, passed 4-1-2002)
§ 34.04  DUTY TO REMOVE AND CLEAN UP; FAILURE TO REMOVE AND CLEAN UP.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the owner, operator, occupant or other person
responsible for the operation, maintenance and/or condition of any building,
premises, property, equipment or vehicle to clean up or repair those items
listed in §
34.05 set forth in such a manner as to assure that the premises are safe and
the area fully restored to its condition prior to the happening of the
incident.
   (B)   The timing of the cleanup or repair shall be in conformity with the
federal, state, county or local official in charge of overseeing the incident.
   (C)   In the event the owner, operator, occupant or other person responsible
for the operation, maintenance and/or condition of any building, premises,
property or vehicle shall fail or refuse to fully cleanup or repair the
incident, the city shall have the right, but not the obligation, to enter onto
said property in order to conduct a cleanup or repair and to hire appropriate
personnel in order to conduct a cleanup or repair.
   (D)   If the federal, state, county or local official in charge of
overseeing the incident determines that the situation does not pose an
emergency which shall require immediate action by the Fire Department, then
prior to engaging in such cleanup or repair, the city shall make diligent
efforts to notify the owner of its duty to abate the existing condition.
   (E)   All costs associated with the cleanup or repair shall be in addition
to the costs associated in §
34.05 and are to be paid to the city in a like manner.
(Ord. 181, passed 4-1-2002)
§ 34.05  CHARGES.
   (A)   The City Commission shall, by resolution, adopt a schedule of fees and
costs included within the expenses of an emergency response by the Fire
Department.
   (B)   The schedule shall include an hourly rate for the use of Fire
Department equipment, motor vehicles and personnel. This schedule shall be
available to the public from the City Clerk’s office.
   (C)   The costs and charges shall hereafter be due and payable to the city
from a recipient of any of the following enumerated emergency response services
from the Fire Department:
      (1)   For any spill or release of a hazardous or toxic material. For
purposes of this section, a HAZARDOUS OR TOXIC MATERIAL is defined by
applicable federal or state laws and regulations and includes, but is not
limited to, an actual release of or a threatened release of polychlorinated
biphenlys (PCBs), or explosives, pyrotechnics, flammable compressed gas,
natural gas, flammable liquid, combustible liquid, oxidizing material,
poisonous gas, poisonous liquid, poisonous solid, irritating material,
etiologic material, radioactive material, corrosive material, liquefied
petroleum gas and petroleum products; or
      (2)   Responses involving electrical power distribution systems,
including, but not limited to, fires, arching wires, leaking transformer fluid
and downed power lines.
(Ord. 181, passed 4-1-2002)
§ 34.06  PAYMENT.
   (A)   All of the charges shall be due and payable within 30 days from the
date a written bill prepared by the City Clerk is delivered or mailed by first
class mail with postage prepaid to the party or parties to whom any service is
rendered.
   (B)   Any person aggrieved by a charge authorized in this subchapter may
appeal the charge as follows.
      (1)   Within the time period for which a bill payable, the party shall
file a written request with the City Clerk, setting forth specific reasons why
the charge is improper.
      (2)   The Clerk shall notify the aggrieved party, in writing, of the
time, place and date the City Commission will hold a hearing on the appeal.
      (3)   The City Commission may grant relief on appeal if it finds:
         (a)   The service provided was given as a result of false information
or false alarm not caused by the party to whom service was provided;
         (b)   Service was provided to city or Township of Williams buildings,
grounds, vehicles property, employees or elected or appointed officials while
on city or Township of William business; or
         (c)   For other good cause with sufficient proof to satisfy the City
Commission.
(Ord. 181, passed 4-1-2002)
§ 34.07  EXEMPTION.
   The following services shall be exempt from the foregoing charges:
   (A)   False alarms;
   (B)   Responses to city or Township of Williams buildings, grounds and/or
property; and
   (C)   Responses performed outside the jurisdiction of the city or Township
of Williams under a mutual aid contract with an adjoining municipality.
(Ord. 181, passed 4-1-2002)
§ 34.08  COLLECTION OF CHARGES.
   The city may proceed in a court of competent jurisdiction by suit to collect
any monies remaining unpaid and shall have any and all other remedies provided
by law for the collection of said charges.
(Ord. 181, passed 4-1-2002)
§ 34.09  MULTIPLE PROPERTY PROTECTION.
   (A)   When a particular service rendered by the Fire Department directly
benefits more than one person or property, the owner of each property so
benefitted and each person so benefitted where property protection is not
involved shall be jointly and severally liable for the payment of the full
charge for such service hereinbefore outlined.
   (B)   The interpretation and application of the within section is hereby
delegated to the Fire Chief subject only to appeal, within the time limits for
payment, to the City Commission and shall be administered so that charges shall
only be collected from the recipients of the service.
(Ord. 181, passed 4-1-2002)
§ 34.10  LIEN UPON PROPERTY LOCATED WITHIN THE CITY.
   Upon the failure of the owner, occupant or operator to reimburse the city
for the expenses of the response, a lien shall be placed upon the relevant
property for the amount of said expenses, which lien shall be assessed and
collected in the same fashion and manner as real property taxes are collected
within the city.
(Ord. 181, passed 4-1-2002)
DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY DEVELOPMENT PLAN; TAX INCREMENT FINANCE PLAN
§ 34.25  GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   In accordance with § 17 of Public Act 197 of 1975, being M.C.L.A. §§
125.1651 through 125.1681, as amended, the City Downtown Development Authority
Board prepared a revised Development Plan as the basis for extending its Tax
Increment Financing Plan and submitted this plan to the City Commission.
Thereafter on 4-18-2011, the City Commission held a public hearing with notice
as required by § 18 of the DDA Act, which provided full opportunity for
expression of opinion, for argument on the merits, and for introduction of
documentary evidence pertinent to the development plan.
   (B)   The City Commission hereby determines that the amended Development
Plan and the extension of the Financing Plan submitted by the DDA Board
constitute reasonable efforts and direction towards the furtherance of public
purposes.
   (C)   The City Commission further determines the following.
      (1)   The Plans meet the requirements of § 17(2) of the Act.
      (2)   The proposed method of financing the development is feasible and
the Authority has the ability to arrange the financing.
      (3)   The development is reasonable and necessary to carry out the
purposes of the Act.
      (4)   The land included within the development area to be acquired is
reasonably necessary to carry out the purposes of the plans and of the Act in
an efficient and economically satisfactory manner.
      (5)   The development plan is in reasonable accord with the master plan
of the city.
      (6)   Public services such as fire and police protection and utilities
are or will be adequate to service the project area.
      (7)   There are no currently contemplated or proposed zoning changes,
street changes or utility changes within the project area.
   (D)   The City Commission does accordingly approve the amended Development
Plan and the Financing Plan submitted to the City Commission on the 3-28-2011
and the Clerk shall keep copies of said plans on file with the city for review
by the public.
(Ord. 194, passed 5-2-2011)
§ 34.26  FILING; EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   This subchapter, once adopted, shall be filed with the Secretary of
State of the State of Michigan and shall once be published in the Bay County
Democrat on or before 5-5-2011.
   (B)   This subchapter shall become immediately effective upon publication.
(Ord. 194, passed 5-2-2011)
PURCHASING POLICIES
§ 34.40  TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the City of Auburn
Purchasing Policy.
(Ord. 199, passed 7-14-2014)
§ 34.41  DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONTRACT. Includes contracts for services to the exclusions mentioned in
this subchapter, and shall include any type of services, lease for grounds,
buildings, offices, or maintenance of equipment, machinery, and other city-
owned personal property. The term CONTRACT shall not include professional and
other contract services which may be unique and not subject to competition.
   PURCHASING AGENT or AGENT. The City Administrator.
(Ord. 199, passed 7-14-2014)
§ 34.42  TRANSACTIONS EQUAL TO OR LESS THAN $5,000.
   (A)   The purchasing agent, subject to budgetary appropriations, is
authorized to make purchases of materials and equipment and contract for labor
or materials in an amount not to exceed $5,000 without further approval from
the City Commission.
   (B)   Except for those situations requiring the need for sealed bids, the
purchasing agent, shall consider all circumstances surrounding the purchase to
be made or the services to be provided. If it is in the best interest of the
city, the purchasing agent shall deal with sources within the city.
      (1)   Quotations. The purchasing agent, with the exception of approved
budget items, shall secure or cause to be secured quotations from no less than
two sources in all transactions involving expenditures of $2,500 or more and
less than $5,000. The purchasing agent shall maintain a written record of the
quotations received.
      (2)   Other. Transactions involving expenditures less than $2,500 may be
authorized by the purchasing agent in such manner and from such source as the
purchasing agent may determine.
(Ord. 199, passed 7-14-2014)
§ 34.43  TRANSACTIONS OVER $5,000.
   (A)   The purchasing agent shall secure sealed bids in all transactions
involving an expenditure of $5,000 or more.
   (B)   Sealed bids shall not be required in the following instances:
      (1)   Where the subject of the purchase or contract is other than a
public work or improvement and the product or material to be transacted for is
not competitive in nature, provided that in no instance shall such product or
material be transacted for without prior Commission approval.
      (2)   The City Commission may, at the request of the City Administrator,
authorize the City Administrator to negotiate a contract for the purchase of
any product, material or service with a provider of such product, material or
service without regard to the requirements of this section relative to
purchases where the City Commission finds:
         (a)   Due to circumstances beyond the control of the city, the market
for such product, material or service is not competitive even though such
product, material or services is normally competitive in nature; and
         (b)   The economic interests of the city are best served by
negotiating a contract with the provider of the product, material or service
without requesting sealed bids.
      (3)   In the employment of professional series, provided that in no
instance shall such professional services by contracted for without prior
Commission approval.
      (4)   If the city elects to use city personnel.
(Ord. 199, passed 7-14-2014)
§ 34.44  SEALED BID POLICY.
   (A)   Sealed bids shall be required by the purchasing agent by mailing a
copy of the specifications or requirements to such qualified vendors as may be
known to the purchasing agent or the agent's designee, by filing a copy of the
request with the office of the City Clerk, and posting on the city's website.
   (B)   Unless fixed by the Commission, the purchasing agent shall prescribe
the amount of any security to be deposited with any bid and, in the case of
construction contracts, the amounts of labor and material or performance bond
to be required of the successful bidder. Such security shall be in the form of
a certified or cashier's check or bond written by a surety company authorized
to do business in the state, or a non-revocable letter of credit issued by a
banking institute.
   (C)   Bids shall be opened in public at the time and place designated in the
bid notice. Bids may be opened by the purchasing agent, the City Clerk or their
respective designee and at least one other city employee. Within a reasonable
period, not to exceed seven business days following the opening, the bids shall
be examined, tabulated, and available for public inspections.
   (D)   The tabulation of the bids shall be submitted to the Commission at the
next regular Commission meeting. The Commission, in its discretion, may accept
the lowest competent bid, reject any or all bids, or determine the lowest bid
(s) to be unsatisfactory and award to the next competitive bidder.
   (E)   If in the Commission's discretion, the award is not made to the lowest
bidder, the resolution awarding the contract shall state reasons for not
accepting the low bid.
   (F)   After the opening of such bids, such bids may not be withdrawn without
forfeiture of the bid deposit. Deposits of security accompanying bids shall be
retained until the contract is awarded and signed, except deposits from bidders
not awarded the contract shall be returned within three business days following
Commission action.
   (G)   If any successful bidder fails or refuses to enter into the contract
awarded within ten business day after being notified of such award, or should
they fail to file any bond required within the same time, the deposit
accompanying their bid shall be forfeited to the city and the Commission may,
in its discretion, award the contract to the next lowest bidder.
(Ord. 199, passed 7-14-2014)
§ 34.45  PROHIBITIONS.
   No contract or purchase shall be subdivided to avoid the requirements of
this division.
(Ord. 199, passed 7-14-2014)
§ 34.46  INSPECTIONS OF MATERIALS.
   The responsibility for the inspection and acceptance of all material/
supplies and equipment shall rest with the purchasing agent, unless such
responsibility has been delegated to a department head.
(Ord. 199, passed 7-14-2014)
§ 34.47  EMERGENCY PURCHASES.
   If an emergency or an apparent emergency endangering the public peace,
health and/or safety of the city should arise, and the delay of establishing
purchasing procedures would vitally affect the welfare of the city, the
purchasing agent, City Treasurer, or any department head may purchase directly
any supplies, material, or equipment that the department head deems to be to be
immediately necessary. Within three business days from the time of purchase,
the purchaser shall file in writing with the purchasing agent a detailed
explanation of the necessity for any purchases, in addition to a request for
such purchases. If the emergency transaction is $5,000 or more, the purchasing
agent shall submit a statement to the Commission no later than its next regular
meeting before payment thereof may be authorized.
(Ord. 199, passed 7-14-2014)
§ 34.48  COOPERATIVE PURCHASES.
   The use of bulk purchasing programs such as the state's extended purchasing
program and joining together with area municipalities to secure bids or
quotations for goods or services is encouraged. The use of any such source,
which conducted a bona fide price competition, will be exempt from the
requirements of this subchapter with respect to soliciting bids or quotes. Bids
as mentioned in  §
34.44 will be presented for Commission approval.
(Ord. 199, passed 7-14-2014)
§ 34.49  SALE OF PROPERTY.
   Whenever any city property, real or personal, is no longer needed for public
purposes, the same may be offered for sate in accordance with the restrictions
established by § 12.05 of the Charter.
(Ord. 199, passed 7-14-2014)
CHAPTER 35:  MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTIONS
Section
   
35.01   Definitions
   
35.02   Action; commencement
   
35.03   Citations; issuance and service
   
35.04   Citations; content
   
35.05   Amendment provision
 
   
35.99   Penalties
§ 35.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT.  Public Act 12 of 1994, being M.C.L.A. §§ 600.8701 through 600.8735, as
amended.
   AUTHORIZED CITY OFFICIAL.  The City Administrator, City Building Inspector,
Zoning Administrator, Code Enforcement Official or any other city employee
specially designated in writing by the Administrator and/or City Commission, to
issue municipal civil infraction citations.
   MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION ACTION.  A civil action in which the defendant is
alleged to be responsible for a municipal civil infraction.
   MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION CITATION.  A written complaint or notice prepared
by an authorized City official directing a person to appear in court regarding
the occurrence or existence of one or more municipal civil infraction
violations by the person cited.
(2012 amendment)
§ 35.02  ACTION; COMMENCEMENT.
   A municipal civil infraction action may be commenced upon the issuance by an
authorized city official with respect to an ordinance violation designated a
civil infraction of a municipal civil infraction citation directing the alleged
violator to appear in court.
(2012 amendment)
§ 35.03  CITATIONS; ISSUANCE AND SERVICE.
   Municipal civil infraction citations shall be served by authorized city
officials as follows.
   (A)   The time for appearance specified in a citation shall be within a
reasonable time after the citation is issued.
   (B)   The place for appearance specified in a citation shall be the 74th
District Court.
   (C)   Each citation shall be numbered consecutively and shall be in a form
approved by the State Court Administrator. The original citation shall be filed
with the district court. Copies of the citation shall be retained by the city
and issued to the alleged violator as provided by the Act.
   (D)   A citation for a municipal civil infraction signed by an authorized
city official shall be treated as made under oath if the violation alleged in
the citation occurred in the presence of the official signing the complaint if
the citation contains the following statement immediately above the date and
signature of the official: “I declare under the penalties of perjury that the
statements above are true to the best of my information, knowledge and belief.”
   (E)   An authorized city official who witnesses a person commit a municipal
civil infraction shall prepare and subscribe, as soon as possible and as
completely as possible, an original and required copies of a citation.
   (F)   An authorized city official may issue a citation to a person if:
      (1)   Based upon investigation, the official has reasonable cause to
believe that the person is responsible for a municipal civil infraction; or
      (2)   Based upon investigation of a complaint by someone who allegedly
witnessed the person commit a municipal civil infraction, the official has
reasonable cause to believe that the person is responsible for an infraction,
and, if the City Attorney approves in writing the issuance of the citation.
   (G)   Municipal civil infraction citations shall be served by authorized
city official as follows.
      (1)   Except as provided by division (G)(2) below, an authorized city
official shall personally serve a copy of the upon the alleged violator.
      (2)   If the municipal civil infraction action involves the use or
occupancy of land, a building or other structure, a copy of the citation does
not need to be personally served upon the alleged violator, but may be served
upon an owner or occupant of the land, building or structure by posting the
copy on the land or attaching a copy to the building or structure. In addition,
a copy of the citation shall be sent by first class mail to the owner of the
land, building or structure at the owner’s last known address.
(2012 amendment)
§ 35.04  CITATIONS; CONTENT.
   (A)   A municipal civil infraction citation shall contain the name and
address of the alleged violator, the municipal civil infraction alleged, the
place where the alleged violator shall appear in court, the telephone number of
the court, and the time at or by which the appearance shall be made.
   (B)   Further, the citation shall inform the alleged violator that he or she
may do one of the following:
      (1)   Admit responsibility for the municipal civil infraction by mail, in
person, or by representation, at or by the time specified for appearance;
      (2)   Admit responsibility for the municipal civil infraction “with
explanation” by mail by the time specified for appearance or, in person, or by
representation; or
      (3)   Deny responsibility for the municipal civil infraction by doing
either of the following:
         (a)   Appearing in person for an informal hearing before a judge or
district court magistrate, without the opportunity of being represented by an
attorney, unless a formal hearing before a judge is requested by the city; or
         (b)   Appearing in court for a formal hearing before a judge, with the
opportunity of being represented by an attorney.
   (C)   The citation shall also inform the alleged violator of all of the
following:
      (1)   That if the alleged violator desired to admit responsibility “with
explanation” in person or by representation, the alleged violator must apply to
the court in person, by mail, by telephone or by representation within the time
specified for appearance and obtain a scheduled date and time for an
appearance;
      (2)   That if the alleged violator desires to deny responsibility the
alleged violator must apply to the court in person, by mail, by telephone or by
representation within the time specified for appearance and obtain a scheduled
date and time to appear for a hearing unless a hearing date is specified on the
citation;
      (3)   That a hearing shall be an informal hearing unless a formal hearing
is requested by the alleged violator or by the city;
      (4)   That at an informal hearing the alleged violator must appear in
person before a judge or district court magistrate, without the opportunity of
being represented by an attorney; and
      (5)   That at a formal hearing the alleged violator must appear in person
before a judge with the opportunity of being represented by an attorney.
   (D)   The citation shall contain a notice in boldfaced type that the failure
of the alleged violator to appear within the time specified in the citation or
at the time scheduled for a hearing or appearance is a misdemeanor and will
result in the entry of a default judgment against the alleged violator on the
municipal civil infraction.
(2012 amendment)
§ 35.05  AMENDMENT PROVISION.
   All penalty sections of all other city ordinances in effect and as amended
are hereby amended as follows: the penalty for the violation of this chapter
shall be deemed a municipal civil infraction, and upon a finding of
responsibility, shall be subject to the penalties as set forth in §
35.99, which establishes the penalties for the violation of a city municipal
civil infraction.
(2012 amendment)
§ 35.99  PENALTIES.
   (A)   If a defendant is determined to be responsible for a municipal civil
infraction the Judge or District Court Magistrate making the determination of
responsibility may order the defendant to pay a civil fine not to exceed the
sum of $500, and, if applicable, in addition to the civil fine, the Judge or
Magistrate may order the payment of damages and expenses incurred as authorized
by § 8733 of the Act.
   (B)   If a defendant is ordered to pay a civil fine, the Judge or Magistrate
shall summarily determine the city’s costs of the action and tax such costs.
The city’s costs shall not necessarily be limited to the costs taxable in
ordinary civil actions and may include all expenses, direct and indirect, to
which the city has been put in connection with the municipal civil infraction,
up to the entry of the judgment. Costs of not less than $9 or more than $500
shall be ordered.
   (C)   In addition to the imposition of civil fines and costs as set forth in
divisions (A) and (B) above, the District Court Judge may exercise its
equitable jurisdiction as provided by § 8302 of the Act and issue and enforce
injunctive orders, order the recession or reformation of a contract and/or
issue and enforce any judgment, writ or order necessary to enforce the
ordinance violated, and to issue any such orders necessary to abate nuisances.
   (D)   In the order of judgment finding, the defendant responsible for the
violation of a municipal civil infraction, the Judge or District Court
Magistrate may grant a defendant permission to pay the civil fine, costs,
expenses imposed within a specified period of time or in specified
installments. In the event no period of time is specified and no specified
installments are set forth in the judgment all of such fines, costs, damages
and expenses are due immediately.
   (E)   (1)   A failure to pay a civil fine, costs, damages and/or expenses
may result in the city’s obtaining a lien against the land, building or
structure involved in the violation in accordance with § 8731 of the Act, and,
may subsequently be enforced and discharged as provided.
      (2)   A failure to pay a civil fine, costs, damages and/or expenses may
further result in the court’s issuance of an order to show cause requiring the
defendant to show cause why the defendant should not be held in civil contempt;
or, the court’s issuance of a bench warrant of arrest for the defendant’s
appearance.
      (3)   A defendant who fails to answer a citation for a municipal civil
infraction is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine not to exceed $500,
or by imprisonment in the county jail for a term not exceeding 90 days, or, by
both fine and imprisonment.
(2012 amendment)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE AND RUBBISH
      
51.   CITY WATER UTILITY
      
52.   SEWER RATES
      
53.   SEWER USE
CHAPTER 50:  GARBAGE AND RUBBISH
Section
   
50.01   Service to residents
   
50.02   Definitions
   
50.03   Collection schedule
   
50.04   Owner’s duty as to refuse
   
50.05   Uncollectible refuse
   
50.06   Disposition of garbage
   
50.07   Accumulation and disposition of rubbish
Cross-references:
   Garbage in parks, see §
93.01
   Litter, see
Ch. 131
   Open rubbish fire, see §§
92.20 through
92.29
§ 50.01  SERVICE TO RESIDENTS.
   All residents of the city are required to utilize the collection service
provided or contracted by the city and to pay the collection services
established by Commission resolution.
(Prior Code, § 2.0)  (Ord. 123, passed 9-21-1987)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR.  The City Administrator.
   GARBAGE.  All putrescible, animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of foods, and includes animal
carcasses or parts thereof.
   REFUSE.  Includes all of the foregoing items of waste as defined in this
section.
   RUBBISH.  Includes combustible refuse, to mean, but not limited to, paper,
cartons, boxes, wood, tree branches, yard trimmings and similar waste and
noncombustible refuse, including, but not limited to, metals, tin cans, small
quantities of earth, rock and pieces of concrete, glass, crockery and other
mineral waste, provided RUBBISH shall not include earth and wastes from
building operations, nor shall it include solvent waste resulting from
industrial processes or manufacturing operations.
(Prior Code, § 2.1)
§ 50.03  COLLECTION SCHEDULE.
   The Administrator shall establish a schedule for the collection of garbage
and rubbish throughout the city and shall either provide the proper labor and
equipment for carrying out such schedule, or, when the Commission shall
authorize all or part of such collection service to be carried out by contract,
shall supervise the performance thereof in accordance with such contract.
(Prior Code, § 2.2)
§ 50.04  OWNER’S DUTY AS TO REFUSE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the owner, occupant or person in charge of any
dwelling, house, store or other business establishment, manufacturing company
or other building where refuse accumulates to provide suitable receptacles and
cause to be placed therein refuse or other waste material created or
accumulated on the premises owned or controlled by him or her.
   (B)   It shall be the further duty of such owner, occupant or other person
in charge to place or cause to be placed on the days scheduled for the
collection of refuse from the said premises, the receptacles containing such
refuse at the curb line in front of the building.
   (C)   Such refuse containers shall not be set out for collection prior to
12:00 noon preceding the day of collection, and after such receptacles are
emptied, they shall be removed from the street by 12:00 noon the next day.
(Prior Code, § 2.3)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.05  UNCOLLECTIBLE REFUSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place in any receptacle for
collection any material that might either endanger the collection personnel or
that would be detrimental to the normal operation of disposal such as gaseous,
solid or liquid poisons, dead animals, ammunition, explosives or any material
that possesses heat sufficient to ignite any other collected materials.
(Prior Code, § 2.4)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.06  DISPOSITION OF GARBAGE.
   No person shall dispose of any garbage within the city other than by means
of an approved incinerator, approved garbage grinder or an approved collection
service.
(Prior Code, § 2.5)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.07  ACCUMULATION AND DISPOSITION OF RUBBISH.
   Any rubbish accumulated or stored outside of a dwelling or building on any
premises shall be stored in receptacles meeting the requirements of this
chapter. No rubbish may be stored or accumulated which is contaminated by any
garbage as herein defined, unless stored as garbage. Rubbish shall be disposed
of only to an approved rubbish collector, except that any person may dispose of
his or her own rubbish by an approved incinerator located within a building.
(Prior Code, § 2.6)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 51:  CITY WATER UTILITY
Section
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Water system
   
51.03   Water Superintendent
   
51.04   No free service
   
51.05   Fiscal year
   
51.06   Hydrant charges
   
51.07   Rate changes
   
51.08   Applications for connection
   
51.09   Water connections
   
51.10   Water extension
   
51.11   Meters
   
51.12   Cross-connections
   
51.13   Fire hydrants
   
51.14   Liability of the city
   
51.15   Interference/injuring the waterworks; any violation
   
51.16   Violation declared nuisance
§ 51.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY TREASURER.  The duly appointed officer of the city.
   WATER CONNECTION.  The part of the consumer’s water system between the
city’s distribution main and the curb stop box which is located approximately
one foot outside the sidewalk line.
   WATER EXTENSION.  The part of the consumer’s water supply system extending
from the end of the water connection into the premises served and ending at,
and including, the city’s water meter.
   WATERWORKS SUPERINTENDENT.  The duly appointed officer of the city or his or
her authorized representative and/or representatives.
(1991 Code, § 2.31)
§ 51.02  WATER SYSTEM.
   The water supply system of the city shall be operated under the direction
and control of the City Commission, subject to all of the provisions and
regulations and conditions as hereinafter set forth.
(1991 Code, § 2.32)
§ 51.03  WATER SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   The Waterworks Superintendent shall be appointed by the City
Commission and, under the direction of the City Commission, shall have control
of the operation and maintenance of the water supply system of the city. He or
she shall direct and control all employees of the water supply system who shall
serve at the pleasure of the Waterworks Superintendent.
   (B)   The compensation of the Waterworks Superintendent and all other
employees of the water supply system shall be fixed and determined from time to
time by resolution, motion or order of the City Commission and may be changed
from time to time at the pleasure of the City Commission.
(1991 Code, § 2.33)
§ 51.04  NO FREE SERVICE.
   No free service shall be furnished by the water system and plant to the city
or to any person.
(1991 Code, § 2.34)
§ 51.05  FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the water system shall be from July 1 to June 30, both
dates inclusive, of each year.
(1991 Code, § 2.35)
§ 51.06  HYDRANT CHARGES.
   For fire protection, the city shall pay, out of its general funds, the sum
of $100 per year for each fire hydrant. This payment shall be charged and
payable annually in advance.
(1991 Code, § 2.39)
§ 51.07  RATE CHANGES.
   All water rates, charges, fees and required deposits may be fixed and
revised from time to time by resolution of the City Commission.
(1991 Code, § 2.40)
§ 51.08  APPLICATIONS FOR CONNECTION.
   (A)   No service connection shall be constructed for the purpose of
introducing water into any premises until an application for a permit for such
connection has been made in writing to the city.
   (B)   The applicant shall be furnished a form and the form shall be filled
out in all details and filed with the Waterworks Superintendent, in triplicate.
   (C)   The Waterworks Superintendent shall file all copies of the application
with the city, along with his or her recommendations for approval or
disapproval of the application.
   (D)   The City Commission shall then establish the necessary payment
required for each particular connection and shall act upon the application, and
if approved, the same shall then be turned over to the City Treasurer so that
the necessary moneys can be collected from the applicant.
   (E)   Upon receipt of the required moneys, the City Treasurer shall so mark
the application, and file one copy with the customer, one copy with the
Waterworks Superintendent and the third copy shall be filed in the Water
Department records.
(1991 Code, § 2.41)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.09  WATER CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Water connections shall only be installed by the city and upon
prepayment of the connection cost and cost of installing the meter. The City
Commission shall from time to time determine the average connection cost for
the city; and this shall be payment complete for all material and labor
involved in tapping the main, laying the copper pipe from the distribution main
to the curb stop and box, the furnishing and placing of the curb stop and box,
and the installation of the meter.
   (B)   The meter installation charge is included in the connection charge.
      (1)   In all cases, the water connection shall be constructed of type “K”
copper pipe, unless the connection is two inches or greater, in which case
state-approved pipe may be used.
      (2)   All water connections shall be laid to the depth of five feet under
the surface of the street or lowest part of the gutter.
      (3)   No water connection shall be laid in the same trench with a sewer
pipe unless supported upon an earth shelf at least one foot above the sewer.
      (4)   The city shall install a brass stopcock with a valve box which
shall be placed approximately one foot outside of the street side of the
sidewalk, and this stopcock shall be under the exclusive control of the city.
      (5)   No person other than an authorized employee of the city shall open
or close or otherwise interfere with the stopcock; however, any licensed
plumber may stop and/or open the stopcock in emergency cases when authorized by
the Waterworks Superintendent.
(1991 Code, § 2.42)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.10  WATER EXTENSION.
   (A)   All pipe used in the water extension shall be of the same type as
described above in §
51.09.
   (B)   The entire water extension shall be installed at the owner’s expense
and shall include a meter shut-off conveniently placed ahead of the meter.
   (C)   The necessary couplings for connection of the meter shall be furnished
by the city.
   (D)   The water extension shall be protected from damage whenever so
notified by the city.
   (E)   Whenever a water extension is frozen, it shall be thawed out by the
customer at his or her own expense.
   (F)   The water extension shall not be covered until inspected and approved
by the Waterworks Superintendent.
(1991 Code, § 2.43)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.11  METERS.
   (A)   All water service shall be metered.
   (B)   The meter shall be furnished and installed by the city and shall
remain the property of and under the control of the city.
   (C)   The city shall have access to the meter for the purpose of reading,
testing and repairing.
   (D)   The customer shall provide a suitable place for the installation of
the meter, and if in the judgement of the city a meter pit should be
constructed, such meter pit shall be constructed by the water customer in
accordance with the plans and specifications supplied by the city.
   (E)   No persons other than an authorized employee of the city shall break
or injure the seal on, or change the location of, alter or interfere in any way
with any meter.
   (F)   The water customer shall be responsible for all damage to the meter or
meter seal caused by any act or negligence of any person other than an employee
of the city, including damage by hot water, frost or other causes, and the
expense to the city caused thereby shall be charged to and collected from the
water customer.
(1991 Code, § 2.44)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.12  CROSS-CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   The city adopts by reference the Water Supply Cross Connection Rules
of the Michigan Department of Public Health, being R325.11401 to R325.11407 of
the Michigan Administrative Code.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the city to cause inspection to be made of all
properties served by public water supply where cross-connections with the
public water supply is deemed possible. The frequency of inspections and re-
inspections based on potential hazards involved shall be as established by the
city and as approved by the State Department of Public Health.
   (C)   Representatives of the city shall have the right to enter at any
reasonable time any property served by a connection to the public water supply
system of the city thereof for cross-connections.
      (1)   On request, the owner, lessees or occupants of any property so
served shall furnish to the inspection agency any pertinent information
regarding the piping system or systems on such property.
      (2)   The refusal of such information or refusal of access, when
requested, shall be deemed evidence of the presence of cross-connections.
   (D)   The Waterworks Superintendent is hereby authorized and directed to
discontinue water service after reasonable notice to any property wherein any
connection in violation of this section exists, and to take such other
precautionary measures deemed necessary to eliminate any danger of
noncompliance with the provisions of this section.
   (E)   The potable water supply made available on the properties served by
the public water system supply shall be protected from possible contamination
as specified by this section and by the City Plumbing Code (found in Title XV).
Any water outlet which could be used for potable or domestic purposes and which
is not supplied by the potable system must be labeled in a conspicuous manner
as:
WATER UNSAFE FOR DRINKING
   (F)   This section does not supersede the City Plumbing Code or other
provisions of this code relating to plumbing.
   (G)   Any person or customer found guilty of violating any of the provisions
of this section, or any written order of the Waterworks Superintendent in
pursuance thereof, shall be deemed guilty of a violation of this code,
punishable as prescribed in §
10.99.
(1991 Code, § 2.45)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.13  FIRE HYDRANTS.
   No person shall open or use water from any public or private fire hydrant
for any purpose, except for extinguishing fire, unless a written permit from
the Waterworks Superintendent has been issued for such use.
(1991 Code, § 2.46)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.14  LIABILITY OF THE CITY.
   All parties using water from the waterworks of the city for any purpose
whatsoever will do so at their own risk, and the city or employees thereof
shall not be liable for any damages occasioned by or growing out of the
stoppage of the water, nor for an insufficient supply of same, nor for
accidents or any damage of any kind caused by or growing out of the use or
failure of such water.
(1991 Code, § 2.48)
§ 51.15  INTERFERENCE/INJURING THE WATERWORKS; ANY VIOLATION.
   Any person willfully interfering with or injuring the waterworks of the
city, or any of the pipes, stopcocks or other appurtenances appertaining to the
city waterworks or such system; or any person putting any animal, vegetable or
other substance in any of the reservoirs, tanks or pipes or polluting the water
therein in any way; or any person violating or failing to comply with any
provision or provisions of this chapter shall be punishable as prescribed in §
10.99.
(1991 Code, § 2.49)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.16  VIOLATION DECLARED NUISANCE.
   (A)   Violation of any provision of this chapter is hereby declared to be a
nuisance per se.
   (B)   Any court of competent jurisdiction may order such nuisance abated and
the violator guilty of maintaining a nuisance per se.
(1991 Code, § 2.50)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 52:  SEWER RATES
Section
   
52.01   Sewer service rates
   
52.02   Disconnection for late payment
   
52.03   Collection from tax roll
   
52.04   Fiscal year
   
52.05   Supervision of system
§ 52.01  SEWER SERVICE RATES.
   Each premises connected to the system shall be billed at the rates from time
to time established by resolution of the City Commission.
(Prior Code, § 2.131)
§ 52.02  DISCONNECTION FOR LATE PAYMENT.
   (A)   It is the policy of the city to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills.  The city's form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
      (1)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth
on the bill; and
      (2)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill
will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid within
ten days of the mailing of the second bill, service may be discontinued for
nonpayment; and
      (3)   That if any bill is not paid within 15 days after the billing date
on the statement, then a penalty of 10% shall be added thereto and commencing
90 days after the due date such charges shall draw interest at the rate of 6%
per annum; and
      (3)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill
shall have a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in
person and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may
present orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the city
official in charge of utility billing.  This official shall be authorized to
order that the customer's service not be discontinued and shall have the
authority to make a final determination of the customer's complaint.
   (B)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered.  In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
   (C)   When it becomes necessary for the city to discontinue utility service
to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only after
all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on charge as
set by the City Commission.
§ 52.03  COLLECTION FROM TAX ROLL.
   Charges for services furnished by the system to any premises shall be a lien
thereon as of the due date thereof, and on June 1 of each year the City Clerk
shall certify any such charges which have been delinquent 90 days or more, plus
penalties and interest accrued thereon, to the City Assessor who shall enter
the same upon the next tax roll against the premises to which such service
shall have been rendered, and said charges, with penalties and interest accrued
thereon, shall be collected and said lien shall be enforced in the same manner
as provided in respect to taxes assessed upon such roll.
(Prior Code, § 2.133)
§ 52.04  FISCAL YEAR.
   The system shall be operated upon the basis of a fiscal year beginning on
July 1 of each year and ending on June 30 of the following year.
(Prior Code, § 2.134)
§ 52.05  SUPERVISION OF SYSTEM.
   The operation, maintenance and management of the system shall be under the
immediate supervision and control of the City Commission.
(Prior Code, § 2.135)
CHAPTER 53:  SEWER USE
Section
General Provisions
   
53.001   Purposes and objectives
   
53.002   Scope of chapter; authority for control of discharges
   
53.003   Definitions
   
53.004   Abbreviations
Use of Public Sewers
   
53.020   Required
Sewer Extensions
   
53.030   Plans, specifications, connections and capacity
Grease, Oil, Sand and Sediment Traps or Bar Screens
   
53.040   Requirements applicable to traps and screens
Regulation of Discharges to the POTW
   
53.050   Discharge prohibitions
   
53.051   Pretreatment standards and requirements
   
53.052   Right of revision
   
53.053   POTW’s right to refuse or condition discharges
   
53.054   Most restrictive standards and requirements apply
   
53.055   Dilution prohibited as substitute for treatment
Wastewater Discharge Permits
   
53.065   Required
   
53.066   Application and deadlines
   
53.067   Application requirements
   
53.068   Issuance, denial, or determination that permit not required
   
53.069   Conditions
   
53.070   Modifications
   
53.071   Duration
   
53.072   Reissuance
   
53.073   Continuation of expired permits
   
53.074   Suspension and revocation
   
53.075   Limitations on permit transfer
   
53.076   Duty to provide information
   
53.077   Appeals
   
53.078   Permits not stayed
   
53.079   Fees
Reporting and Notice Requirements
   
53.090   Industrial users required to comply
   
53.091   Reports by industrial users regarding categorical pretreatment
standards and requirements
   
53.092   Reports for industrial users not subject to categorical pretreatment
standards
   
53.093   Notice by user of potential problems
   
53.094   Notice by user of violations of pretreatment standards
   
53.095   Notice by user of changed discharge or change in user status
   
53.096   Notice by user regarding wastes that are otherwise hazardous
   
53.097   Notice by user of installation of new pretreatment facilities
   
53.098   Other reports and notices required by this chapter or by other
applicable laws and regulations
   
53.099   Requirements applicable to all reports and notifications
   
53.100   Signature and certification requirements
Sampling, Analysis, and Monitoring
   
53.115   Application of subchapter
   
53.116   Sampling and analytical techniques and procedures
   
53.117   Sampling frequency
   
53.118   Sample types
   
53.119   Sampling methods, equipment and location
   
53.120   Costs of monitoring, sampling and analyses
   
53.121   Self-monitoring
   
53.122   Sampling and analysis performed by POTW
   
53.123   Split samples
   
53.124   Maintenance, repair and calibration of equipment
   
53.125   Required sampling structures and devices
Accidental Discharges
   
53.140   General
   
53.141   Designation of person in charge of discharge operations
   
53.142   Description of chemicals stored, used or manufactured by user
   
53.143   Description of user charges
   
53.144   Description of user premises
   
53.145   Segregation of wastewaters requiring pretreatment
   
53.146   Secondary containment requirements
   
53.147   Submission of pollution incident prevention plan
   
53.148   Posting of accidental discharge information
   
53.149   Notice of accidental discharge
   
53.150   Slug control plan
Upset and Additional Affirmative Defenses
   
53.165   Upset
   
53.166   Additional affirmative defenses
Bypass
   
53.180   Bypass not violating applicable pretreatment standards or requirements
   
53.181   Bypass prohibited
   
53.182   Required notices
   
53.183   POTW approved bypass
Confidential Information
   
53.200   Confidential information
Records Retention
   
53.210   Maintenance of records
Administration of the POTW
   
53.220   Operation and management of POTW
   
53.221   Powers of WWTP Superintendent
Operation and Maintenance of User Pollution Controls
   
53.235   Provision by users of necessary pretreatment facilities
   
53.236   Proper operation and maintenance
   
53.237   Removed substances
   
53.238   Duty to halt or reduce activity
   
53.239   Duty to mitigate
   
53.240   Duty to pretreat prior to discharge to POTW
Enforcement
   
53.255   Inspection, surveillance and monitoring authority; right of entry
   
53.256   Notice of violation
   
53.257   Orders
   
53.258   Service of notices of violations, orders and notices of assessments
   
53.259   Publication of users in significant noncompliance
   
53.260   Municipal civil infractions
   
53.261   Continuing violations
   
53.262   Number of violations
   
53.263   Nuisance
   
53.264   Reimbursement of POTW and/or local unit
   
53.265   Judicial relief
   
53.266   Cumulative remedies
Administrative Hearings and Appeals
   
53.280   Procedures available
   
53.281   Informal hearing before the WWTP Superintendent
   
53.282   Appeal to WWTP Board of Appeals
   
53.283   Payment pending outcome of appeal
   
53.284   Finality of administrative action
   
53.285   Appeals from determination of WWTP Board of Appeals
IPP Fees
   
53.295   Purpose
   
53.296   IPP fees
   
53.297   IPP fee amounts
   
53.298   Billing and collection of IPP fees
   
53.299   No free service permitted
Municipal Liability
   
53.310   Liability
 
   
53.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.001  PURPOSES AND OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for direct and indirect
contributors located within the local unit into the West Bay County Regional
Wastewater System (POTW) and enables the local unit and the Bay County
Department of Water and Sewer of the Bay County Board of County Road
Commissioners (the “Department”) (also referred to as the “Control Authority”
or the “POTW,” as appropriate to the context herein) to comply with all
applicable state and federal laws as required by the Federal Water Pollution
Control Act (also known as the “Clean Water Act”), as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§
1251 et seq.; the general pretreatment regulations (40 C.F.R. part 403); part
31 of Act 451 of the Public Acts of Michigan of 1994, M.C.L.A. §§ 324.3101 et
seq., as amended (“Water Resources Protection”); and the rules, Michigan
Administrative Code, R 323.2301 et seq., as amended, promulgated pursuant to §§
3103, 3106 and 3109 of Part 31 of Act 451 of the Public Acts of Michigan of
1994, as amended.
   (B)   The purposes and objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To establish standards, rules, and regulations with respect to the
use of the POTW;
      (2)   To prevent the discharge of pollutants into the POTW that do not
meet applicable pretreatment standards and requirements; that would interfere
with the operation of the POTW; that would pass through the POTW into the
receiving waters or the atmosphere; that would inhibit or disrupt the POTW's
processing, use, or disposal of sludge; that would cause health or safety
problems for any person working on the POTW; or that would result in a
violation of the POTW's NPDES permit or of other applicable laws and
regulations;
      (3)   To improve and maximize the opportunity to recycle and reclaim
wastewaters and sludges from the system;
      (4)   To regulate the discharge of wastewater to the POTW and to enforce
the requirements of this chapter through the issuance of permits and through
other means as provided by this chapter;
      (5)   To authorize and require all inspection, monitoring, reporting and
enforcement activities as necessary to insure compliance with applicable
pretreatment standards and requirements and other applicable laws and
regulations; and
      (6)   To provide for equitable distribution of the costs of wastewater
system within the local unit.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.002  SCOPE OF CHAPTER; AUTHORITY FOR CONTROL OF DISCHARGES.
   (A)   This chapter shall apply to all persons that discharge to the POTW
from within the local unit.
   (B)   Except as otherwise specifically provided by this chapter, the WWTP
Superintendent shall administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this
chapter on behalf of the local unit and the POTW.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any wastewater or
pollutant to the POTW or to any storm sewer or natural outlet within the local
unit or in any area under the jurisdiction of the local unit, except in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. If any user discharges or
proposes to discharge wastewaters or pollutants that are prohibited or limited
by this chapter, authorized representatives of the POTW and/or the local unit
may take any action as provided by this chapter or other applicable laws or
regulations to assure and require compliance with the provisions of this
chapter; provided, however, that in any case where the POTW requests the local
unit to take or require action against a user in connection with discharges to
the POTW from the area under the jurisdiction of the local unit, and the local
unit fails or refuses to timely take or require the requested action, then the
POTW may proceed unilaterally to take or require such action as determined
necessary by the POTW to meet the purposes and objectives of this chapter.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.003  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT  (or THE ACT). The Federal Water Pollution Control Act (also known as
the Clean Water Act), 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq., as amended.
   ASTM.  The American Society for Testing and Materials, an international,
nonprofit, technical, scientific and educational society devoted to the
promotion of knowledge of the materials of engineering, and the standardization
of specifications and methods of testing.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF USER. An authorized representative of a user
is:
      (1)   A responsible corporate officer, if the user is a corporation.
RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE OFFICER means: a president, secretary, treasurer, or vice
president of the corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any
other person who performs similar policy- or decision-making functions for the
corporation; or the principal manager of one or more manufacturing, production,
or operation facilities employing more than 250 persons or having gross annual
sales or expenditures of more than $25,000,000 in second quarter 1980 dollars,
if authority to sign documents has been assigned or delegated to the manager in
accordance with corporate procedures.
      (2)   A general partner or proprietor, if the user is a partnership or
proprietorship, respectively.
      (3)   The principal executive officer, ranking elected official, or
director having responsibility for the overall operation of the discharging
facility, if the user is a federal, state or local governmental entity.
      (4)   If none of the categories listed in divisions (1), (2) or (3),
above, are applicable to the user, then a representative of the industrial user
as approved by the WWTP Superintendent.
      (5)   A duly authorized representative of an individual designated in
divisions (1), (2), (3) or (4) above, if the representative is responsible for
the overall operation of the facilities from which the discharge to the POTW
originates.
         a.   To be considered DULY AUTHORIZED, the authorization must be made
in writing by an individual designated in divisions (1), (2), (3) or (4) above.
The authorization must specify either an individual or a position having
responsibility for the overall operation of the facility (such as the position
of plant manager, operator of a well or well field, or a position of equivalent
responsibility, or having overall responsibility for the environmental matters
for the company or entity). The written authorization must be submitted to the
WWTP Superintendent prior to or together with any reports to be signed by the
authorized representative.
         b.   If an authorization under division (5)(a) above is no longer
accurate because a different individual or position has responsibility for the
overall operation of the facility, or overall responsibility for environmental
matters for the company or entity, a new written authorization must be
submitted to the WWTP Superintendent prior to or together with any reports to
be signed by the newly authorized representative.
   BOD or BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The quantity of oxygen used in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures
for five days at 20 degrees Centigrade, expressed in milligrams per liter (mg/
l).
   BUILDING LEAD. The portion of building sewer from the soil pipe to the sewer
stub.
   BUILDING SEWER. The portion of a sewer from the soil pipe to the wye branch
of the sewer main.
   BYPASS. The intentional diversion of waste streams from any portion of an
industrial user's treatment facility.
   CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD. A national pretreatment standard
promulgated by the U.S. EPA in accordance with §§ 307(b) and (c) of the Act
that specifies quantities or concentrations of pollutants or pollutant
properties that may be discharged to a POTW by users in specific industrial
subcategories.
   CATEGORICAL USER. Any nondomestic user subject to a categorical pretreatment
standard.
   COD or CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The quantity of oxygen consumed from a
chemical oxidant in a specific test, expressed in milligrams per liter (mg/l).
   CHLORINE DEMAND. The difference between the amount of chlorine applied and
the amount of free chlorine available at the end of the contact time, expressed
in milligrams per liter (mg/l).
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. A pollutant which, as determined by the WWTP
Superintendent, is susceptible to effective treatment by the POTW as designed,
and which will not interfere with, or pass through, the POTW, and which is
otherwise not incompatible with the treatment processes or in excess of the
capacity at the POTW. The term COMPATIBLE is a relative concept that must be
determined on a case-by-case basis. In determining whether or not a pollutant
is compatible with the POTW, the Superintendent may consider, among other
factors determined relevant by the Superintendent, the nature and qualities of
the pollutant, and the concentration, mass, and flow rate at which the
pollutant is (or is proposed to be) discharged. Thus, for example, even
pollutants such as BOD, fats, oils or grease, phosphorus, suspended solids, and
fecal coliform bacteria, which are typically considered compatible may be
determined incompatible, if discharged in concentrations or flows that would
cause interference or pass through or exceed the POTW's capacity. Specifically
excluded from the definition of COMPATIBLE POLLUTANTS are “heavy” metals, PCBs,
and any other pollutants that will likely contribute or cause operational or
sludge disposal problems or unacceptable discharges to the receiving waters, as
determined by the WWTP Superintendent.
   COMPOSITE SAMPLE. A series of individual samples taken at regular intervals
over a specific time period and combined into a single sample (formed either by
continuous sampling or by mixing discrete samples) representative of the
average stream during the sampling period. For categorical sampling, a
composite sample shall consist of at least four individual samples taken within
a 24-hour period.
   CONTROL AUTHORITY. The Department of Water and Sewer of the Bay County Board
of County Road Commissioners acting in its capacity to administer and implement
this chapter and the approved industrial pretreatment program.
   CONTROL AUTHORITY ENFORCEMENT RESPONSE PLAN (CAER PLAN). The plan prepared
by the POTW as required by 40 C.F.R. § 403.8(f)(5) that describes how the POTW
will investigate and respond to instances of non-compliance and the types of
escalated enforcement actions the POTW will take in response to violations of
applicable standards and requirements.
   COOLING WATER (CONTACT). Water used for cooling purposes only that may
become contaminated or polluted either through the use of water treatment
chemicals (such as corrosion inhibitors or biocides) or by direct contact with
process materials and/or wastewater
   COOLING WATER (NON-CONTACT). Water used for cooling purposes only that has
no direct contact with any raw material, intermediate, or final product and
that does not contain a detectable level of contaminants higher than that of
the intake water or exceed local limits.
   COUNTY. The County of Bay, Michigan.
   DAILY MAXIMUM.  The concentration (or mass loading, expressed in terms of
pounds per day) that shall not be exceeded on any single calendar day. Where
daily maximum limitations are expressed in terms of a concentration, the daily
discharge is the arithmetic average measurement of the pollutant concentration
derived from all measurements taken that day. Where daily maximum limitations
are expressed in units of mass, the daily discharge is the total mass
discharged during the day. Sampling for daily maximum shall be a 24-hour flow
proportioned composite sample, except that a minimum of four grab samples shall
be taken in lieu of a 24-hour flow proportioned composite sample for pH,
cyanide, phenol (T), residual chlorine, oil and grease, sulfides, volatile
organic compounds (and any other parameters specified by the WWTP
Superintendent). If it is not feasible to obtain a flow proportioned composite
sample, a time proportioned composite sample or a minimum of four grab samples
may be used in lieu of the flow proportioned composite sample if the user
demonstrates to the WWTP Superintendent that a representative sample will be
obtained. If the pollutant concentration in any sample is less than the
applicable detection limit, that value shall be regarded as zero when
calculating the daily maximum concentration (except as otherwise provided in a
permit, order or agreement issued under this chapter). If a composite sample is
required for a parameter, the determination whether the daily maximum
limitation for that parameter has been exceeded on a single calendar day shall
be based on the composite sample collected for that parameter on that calendar
day. If grab samples are required for a parameter, the determination whether
the daily maximum limitation for that parameter has been exceeded on a calendar
day shall be based on the average of all grab samples collected for that
parameter on that calendar day. If only one grab sample is collected for a
parameter on a given day, the determination whether the daily maximum
limitation for that parameter has been exceeded for the day shall be based on
the results of that single grab sample.
   DEPARTMENT. The Department of Water and Sewer of the Bay County Board of
County Road Commissioners, or the Department's authorized agents, deputies, or
representatives; also referred to as the control authority or the POTW as
appropriate to the context herein.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the Department, or the Director's authorized
agents, deputies, or representatives.
   DISCHARGE. The introduction of wastewater or pollutants into the POTW,
whether intentional or unintentional, and whether direct or indirect (including
inflow and infiltration).
   DOMESTIC USER. A user that discharges only segregated normal strength
domestic waste into the POTW.
   DOMESTIC WASTE. Water-carried waste of human origin generated by personal
activities from toilet, kitchen, laundry, or bathing facilities, or by other
similar facilities used for household or dwelling purposes (sanitary sewage).
Domestic waste shall not include any waste resulting from industrial or
commercial processes, including, without limitation, any hazardous or toxic
pollutants.
   DWELLING. Any structure designed for habitation, including but not limited
to houses, mobile homes, apartment buildings, condominiums and townhouses.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA). The United States Environmental
Protection Agency, or its duly authorized representatives.
   FOOTING DRAIN. A pipe or conduit placed around the perimeter of a building
foundation and that intentionally admits ground water.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the preparation, cooking, and dispensing of food,
from the handling, storage, processing and sale of produce, or from the canning
or packaging of food.
   GRAB SAMPLE. An individual sample that is taken from a wastestream on a one-
time basis without regard to the flow in the wastestream and over a period of
time not to exceed 15 minutes.
   GROUND WATER. The subsurface water occupying the saturation zone from which
wells and springs are fed.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Any substance discharged or proposed to be discharged into
the POTW, that, if otherwise disposed of, would be a hazardous waste under 40
C.F.R. part 261.
   HEAVY METALS. Heavy metals include, but shall not be limited to, elemental,
ionic, or combined forms of antimony, arsenic, barium, cadmium, chromium,
cobalt, copper, lead, mercury, molybdenum, nickel, selenium, silver, and zinc,
and other metals that may accumulate in sludge, and/or are generally toxic in
low concentrations to animal and plant life, as determined by the WWTP
Superintendent.
   HOLDING TANK WASTE. Any waste from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers, septic tanks, and vacuum-pump tank trucks.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant that is not a compatible pollutant.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGE. The introduction of pollutants into the POTW,
intentionally or unintentionally, from any non-domestic source regulated under
§ 307(b), (c) or (d) of the Act (including, without limitation, holding tank
waste or trucked or hauled waste discharged into the POTW and pollutants
entering the POTW through infiltration or inflow).
   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any non-domestic user that contributes, causes or permits
the contribution or introduction of wastewater or pollutants into the POTW,
whether intentional or unintentional, and whether direct or indirect.
   INFILTRATION. Any waters entering the POTW from the ground, through means
such as, but not limited to, defective pipes, pipe joints, connections or
manhole walls. Infiltration does not include, and is distinguished from,
inflow.
   INFLOW. Any waters entering the POTW from sources such as, but not limited
to, roof leaders; cellar, yard, and area drains; footing drains; foundation
drains; cooling water discharges; drains from springs and swampy areas; manhole
covers; storm sewers; catch basins; storm waters; surface runoff; street wash
waters; or drainage. Inflow does not include, and is distinguished from,
infiltration.
   INSTANTANEOUS MAXIMUM CONCENTRATION. The maximum concentration of a
pollutant allowed to be discharged at any instant in time (independent of the
flow rate or duration of the sampling event). If the concentration determined
by analysis of any grab sample, composite sample, or discrete portion of a
composite sample exceeds the instantaneous maximum concentration, the
instantaneous maximum concentration shall be deemed to have been exceeded. Any
discharge of a pollutant at or above a specified instantaneous maximum
concentration is a violation of this chapter.
   INTERCEPTOR SEWER. A sewer intended to receive dry weather flow from a
number of transverse sewers or outlets that conducts such waters to a point for
treatment or disposal.
   INTERFERENCE. A discharge that, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources: (1) inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment
processes or operations, or its sludge processes, use or disposal; or (2) is a
cause of a violation of any requirement of the POTW's NPDES permit (including
an increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation), or of the prevention
of sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance with the following statutory
provisions and regulations or permits issued there under (or more stringent
State or local regulations, as applicable): § 405 of the Act; the Solid Waste
Disposal Act (SWDA) (including Title II, more commonly referred to as RCRA, and
including State regulations contained in any State sludge management plan
prepared pursuant to Subtitle D of the SWDA); the Clean Air Act; the Toxic
Substances Control Act; and the Marine Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries
Act.
   LATERAL SEWER. A sewer that is designed to receive a building sewer.
   LOCAL UNIT.  The City of Auburn, Bay County, Michigan, acting by and through
its duly authorized agents, deputies and representatives.
   MAY is permissive. (See SHALL.)
   MONTHLY AVERAGE. The concentration (or mass loading, expressed in terms of
pounds per day) that shall not be exceeded for any single calendar month. Where
expressed in terms of a concentration, the monthly average limit means the sum
of the concentrations of a pollutant obtained through sample analysis during a
calendar month divided by the number of samples taken during that calendar
month. Where expressed in terms of a mass loading, the monthly average limit
means the sum of the daily mass loadings of a pollutant obtained through sample
analysis during a calendar month divided by the number of days that mass
loading samples were taken during that calendar month. The concentrations (or
loadings) that are added are single numbers for single calendar days for all
days during the calendar month for which analyses are obtained (whether by the
user or the POTW), but the concentrations (or loadings) may be based upon a
sample or samples taken over either all or part of that day and upon single or
multiple analyses for that day, as determined by the WWTP Superintendent.
Sampling for monthly average shall be by composite samples, except that a
minimum of four grab samples shall be taken in lieu of a 24-hour flow
proportioned composite sample for a single day for pH, cyanide, phenol (T),
residual chlorine, oil and grease, sulfide, and volatile organic compounds (and
any other parameters specified by the WWTP Superintendent). If it is not
feasible to obtain a flow proportioned composite sample, a time proportioned
composite sample or a minimum of four grab samples may be used in lieu of the
flow proportioned composite sample if the user demonstrates to the WWTP
Superintendent that representative samples will be obtained. If the pollutant
concentration in any sample is less than the applicable detection limit, that
value shall be regarded as zero when calculating the monthly average
concentration (except as otherwise provided in a permit, order or agreement
issued under this chapter). If no samples are taken during particular months
because less than monthly sampling is required for a pollutant parameter (e.g.,
a specified quarterly monitoring period), the monthly average for each month
within the specified monitoring period shall be deemed to be the sum of
concentrations (or loadings) for the monitoring period divided by number of
samples taken during the monitoring period.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or ground water.
   NEW SOURCE.
      (1)   Any building, structure, facility or installation from which there
is or may be a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced
after the publication of proposed pretreatment standards under § 307(c) of the
Act that will be applicable to the source, if pretreatment standards are
thereafter promulgated in accordance with that section, provided that:
         (a)   The building, structure, facility or installation is constructed
at a site at which no other source is located; or
         (b)   The building, structure, facility or installation totally
replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of
pollutants at an existing source; or
         (c)   The production or wastewater generating processes of the
building, structure, facility or installation are substantially independent of
an existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source should
be considered.
      (2)   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located
results in a modification rather than a new source if the construction does not
create a new building, structure, facility or installation meeting the criteria
of division (b) or (c) of, above, but otherwise alters, replaces, or adds to
existing process or production equipment. Commencement of construction of a new
source shall be determined in a manner consistent with 40 C.F.R. § 403.3(k)(3).
   NON-DOMESTIC USER. Any user other than a domestic user.
   NORMAL STRENGTH DOMESTIC WASTE. A domestic waste flow for which the levels
of pollutants (including, without limitation, BOD, TSS, ammonia nitrogen, or
phosphorous) are below the surcharge levels for any parameter as established by
this chapter. Further, to be considered normal strength, the wastewater must
have a pH between 6.5 and 9.5, and must not contain a concentration of other
constituents that would interfere with POTW treatment processes.
   NPDES PERMIT. A permit issued pursuant to § 402 of the Act.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. All work, materials, equipment, utilities and
other effort required to operate and maintain the POTW consistent with insuring
adequate treatment of wastewater to produce an effluent in compliance with the
NPDES permit and other applicable state and federal regulations.
   PASS THROUGH. A discharge that exits the POTW into waters of the state (or
waters of the United States) in quantities or concentrations that, alone or in
conjunction with a discharge or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a
violation of any requirement of the POTW's NPDES permit (including an increase
in the magnitude or duration of a violation).
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, society, group, trust, estate, governmental entity or
any other legal entity, or their legal representatives, agents or assigns. As
used in this chapter, the masculine gender shall include the feminine, and the
singular shall include the plural where indicated by the context.
   pH. The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the concentration of
hydrogen ions expressed in grams per liter of solution.
   POLLUTANT. The term POLLUTANT includes, without limitation, all of the
following:
      (1)   Any material that is discharged into water or other liquid,
including, without limitation, dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue,
sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, chemical wastes, biological
materials, radioactive materials, wrecked or discharged equipment, rock, sand,
cellar dirt and industrial, municipal, and agricultural waste.
      (2)   Properties of materials, including, but not limited to, pH and
heat.
      (3)   Substances regulated by categorical standards.
      (4)   Substances discharged to the POTW that are required to be monitored
by a user under this chapter, are limited in the POTW's NPDES permit, or
required to be identified in the POTW's application for an NPDES permit.
      (5)   Substances for which control measures on industrial users are
necessary to avoid restricting the POTW's residuals management program; to
avoid operational problems at the POTW; or to avoid POTW worker health and
safety problems.
   POTW (PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS). The complete West Bay County Regional
Wastewater sewage disposal system and “treatment works” (as defined by the
Act), including any devices, equipment, structures, property, processes and
systems used in the storage, treatment, recycling or reclamation of wastewater,
sewage or sludge, as well as sewers (including all main, lateral and
intercepting sewers), manholes, inlets, pipes and other conduits and
conveyances used to collect or convey wastewater or sewage from any source to
the treatment works, as now or hereafter added to, extended or improved. The
term POTW is also used to refer to the Department acting in its capacity as the
Control Authority to administer and implement this chapter and the approved
industrial pretreatment program.
   POTW TREATMENT PLANT. The portion of the POTW that is designed to provide
control and treatment (including recycling or reclamation) of sewage and
industrial waste (commonly referred to as the wastewater treatment plant or
WWTP).
   PREMISES. A lot or parcel of land, or a building or structure, having any
connection, direct or indirect, to the POTW, or from which there is a discharge
to the POTW.
   PRETREATMENT (or TREATMENT). The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the
elimination of pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant
properties in wastewater to a less harmful state prior to or in lieu of
discharging or otherwise introducing such pollutants into the POTW. The
reduction or alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical or biological
processes, process changes or other means, except for the use of dilution as
prohibited by MAC R 323.2311(6).
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENT. Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment, other than a national pretreatment standard, imposed on an
industrial user.
   PRETREATMENT STANDARD. Any regulation containing pollutant discharge limits
promulgated by the U.S. EPA in accordance with § 307(b) and (c) of the Act that
applies to industrial users, including prohibitive discharge limits and local
limits established under MAC R 323.2303 and categorical standards.
   PRIVATE. Jurisdiction by a nongovernmental entity.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been cut or shredded to such a degree that all
particles will be carried freely under flow conditions normally prevailing in
public sewers, with no particle greater than one-half of an inch in any
dimension.
   PUBLIC. Jurisdiction by a governmental entity.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting property have equal
rights and that is controlled by public authority.
   REPLACEMENT. The replacement in whole or in part of any equipment or
facilities in the POTW to ensure continuous treatment of wastewater in
accordance with the NPDES permit and other applicable state and federal
regulations.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer intended to carry liquid and water-carried wastes
from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions,
together with minor quantities of ground, storm and surface waters that are not
intentionally admitted.
   SEPTAGE. Any human excrement or other domestic waste, including graywater
and other material or substance removed from a portable toilet, septic tank,
seepage pit, cesspool, holding tank, or other similar enclosure that receives,
or is intended to receive, only domestic, non-industrial waste.
   SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE. Substantial physical damage to property, damage to
the treatment facilities that causes them to become inoperable, or substantial
and permanent loss of natural resources that can reasonably be expected to
occur in the absence of a bypass. SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE does not mean economic
loss caused by delays in production.
   SEWER. Any pipe, tile, tube or conduit for carrying wastewater or drainage
water.
   SEWER STUB. The part of the sewerage system extending from the wye branch on
the sewer main to the private property or easement line of the property.
   SHALL is mandatory. (See MAY.)
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER.
      (1)   Any industrial user:
         (a)   Subject to categorical pretreatment standards; or
         (b)   Any other industrial user that:
            1.   Discharges to the POTW an average of 25,000 gallons per day or
more of process wastewater (excluding sanitary, non-contact cooling and boiler
blow-down wastewater);
            2.   Contributes a process waste stream that makes up 5% or more of
the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW treatment
plant; or
            3.   Is otherwise designated by the WWTP Superintendent as a
significant industrial user on the basis that the industrial user has a
reasonable potential to adversely affect the operation of the POTW, to violate
any pretreatment standard or requirement, or because the WWTP Superintendent
determines that a wastewater discharge permit for the user's discharge is
required to meet the purposes and objectives of this chapter.
      (2)   The WWTP Superintendent may determine that a user that meets the
criteria of divisions (b)1. and (b)2. above is not currently a significant
industrial user, if the Superintendent finds that the user has no reasonable
potential to adversely affect the operation of the POTW, to violate any
pretreatment standard or requirement, or that a permit is not required to meet
the purposes and objectives of this chapter. A determination that a user is not
a significant industrial user (or that a permit is therefore not required)
shall not be binding and may be reversed by the Superintendent at any time
based on changed circumstances, new information, or as otherwise determined
necessary by the Superintendent to meet the purposes and objectives of this
chapter.
   SIGNIFICANT NON-COMPLIANCE. A violation (or group of violations) of
applicable pretreatment standards or requirements or any other action (or
failure to act) by an industrial user that meets the criteria set forth in §
53.259 of this chapter, or that will otherwise adversely affect the operation
or implementation of the POTW's pretreatment program as determined by the WWTP
Superintendent.
   SLUG, SLUG LOAD, or SLUG DISCHARGE. Any discharge of a non-routine, episodic
nature, including, but not limited to, an accidental spill or a non-customary
batch discharge.
   SOIL PIPE. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system
which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer beginning five
feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC).  A classification pursuant to the
Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the Executive Office of the
President, Office of Management and Budget, 1972, as amended.
   STATE. The State of Michigan.
   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A sewer intended to carry storm water and
surface water, street wash, other wash waters, or drainage, but not wastewater.
   STORM WATER. The excess water running off from the surface of a drainage
area during and immediately after a period of rain or snow melt and is that
portion of the rainfall or snow melt runoff and resulting surface flow in
excess of that which can be absorbed through the infiltration capacity of the
surface of the basin.
   SUPERINTENDENT. See WWTP Superintendent.
   SURCHARGE. The additional treatment charges made by the POTW for the
treatment of wastewater containing pollutants in excess of specified
concentrations, loadings or other applicable limits.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The suspended matter that floats on the surface of, or is
suspended in, water, wastewater or other liquids, and that is removable by
laboratory filtering (referred to as non-filterable residue in laboratory
testing).
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. Any pollutant or combination of pollutants that is or can
potentially be harmful to the public health or the environment, including,
without limitation, those listed as toxic in regulations promulgated by the
Administrator of the EPA under § 307(a) of the Act or under other laws.
   TRADE SECRET. The whole or any portion or phase of any manufacturing
proprietary process or method which is not patented, which is secret, which is
useful in compounding an article of trade having a commercial value, and the
secrecy of which the owner has taken reasonable measure to prevent from
becoming available to persons other than those selected by the owner to have
access for limited purposes. Trade secret shall not be construed, for purposes
of this chapter, to include any information regarding the quantum or character
of waste products or their constituents discharged, or sought to be discharged,
into the POTW.
   TRUCKED or HAULED WASTE or POLLUTANTS. Any waste proposed to be discharged
to the POTW from a mobile source, including, without limitation, holding tank
waste.
   TSS. Total suspended solids.
   UPSET. An exceptional incident in which there is unintentional and temporary
noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards because of factors beyond
the reasonable control of the industrial user. An upset does not include
noncompliance to the extent caused by operational error, improperly designed
treatment facilities, inadequate treatment facilities, lack of preventive
maintenance, or careless or improper operation.
   USER. Any person who contributes, causes or permits the contribution,
introduction or discharge of wastewater into the POTW, whether intentional or
unintentional, and whether direct or indirect.
   WASTEWATER. The liquid and water-carried industrial or domestic waste from
dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities, and institutions
(including, without limitation, contaminated groundwater and landfill
leachate), whether treated or untreated, that is contributed, introduced or
discharged into the POTW.
   WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT. A permit issued to industrial users as provided
by this chapter to control the discharge of wastewater to the POTW and to
ensure compliance with applicable pretreatment standards and requirements.
   WASTEWATER TRANSMISSION FACILITIES. The facilities for collecting,
transporting, regulating, pumping and storing of wastewater.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS. The arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes, and sludge.
   WATERS OF THE STATE. All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, watercourses,
waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation systems, drainage
systems, and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface or
underground, natural or artificial, public or private, that are contained
within, flow through, or border upon the state or any portion of the state, and
as otherwise specified by applicable laws and regulations.
   WATERS OF THE UNITED STATES. All waters as defined by 40 C.F.R. § 122.2.
   WWTP SUPERINTENDENT(or SUPERINTENDENT). The person designated by the
Department to supervise the operation, maintenance, alteration, repair and
management of the POTW and who is charged with certain duties and
responsibilities by this chapter, or the Superintendent's duly authorized
agents, deputies or representatives.
   WYE BRANCH. The part of the POTW connecting the sewer main and the sewer
stub.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.004  ABBREVIATIONS.
   The following abbreviations shall have the following designated meanings:
   BOD. Biochemical Oxygen Demand.
   CFR. Code of Federal Regulations.
   COD. Chemical Oxygen Demand.
   EPA. Environmental Protection.
   l. Liter.
   mg. Milligrams.
   mg/l. Milligrams per liter.
   MAC.  Michigan Administrative Code.
   NPDES. National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System.
   POTW. Publicly Owned Treatment Work.
   SIC. Standard Industrial Classification.
   SWDA. Solid Waste Disposal Act, 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.
   T. Total.
   TSS. Total Suspended Solids.
   USC. United States Code.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS
§ 53.020  REQUIRED.
   The following requirements shall apply to all connections to the public
sewer by users of the POTW:
   (A)   The owner of any house, building, property or premises used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes, and from which sanitary
sewage originates and which is situated within the local unit and which is not
more than 200 feet from an available public sewer, is hereby required at the
owner's expense to install wastewater facilities therein in accordance with law
and to connect such facilities directly with the available public sewer in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter within 90 days after
notification from the local unit or the POTW.
   (B)   The requirements of division (A) above shall be in addition to any
requirements that may be imposed by the United States, the State of Michigan,
or the POTW.
   (C)   Plans and specifications for all sewers (including, but not limited
to, sewer mains) to be constructed within the POTW shall be prepared by a
registered professional engineer and approved by the local unit and the POTW,
as applicable.
   (D)   Each new sewer for which a sewer stub is not presently available but
which is designed and is to be constructed so as to connect with or constitute
an integral part of the sewerage system shall not be constructed without a
written permit issued by the local unit and the POTW, as applicable.
   (E)   No person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening into,
use, alter, repair or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
including sewer stub, wye branch and sewer main, without first obtaining a
written permit from the POTW and the local unit, as applicable.
   (F)   All permit and inspection fees shall be established from time to time
by the local unit or by the POTW, as applicable.
   (G)   No openings shall be made into the sewerage system without first
obtaining a sewer connection permit on an application form furnished by the
POTW. All applications for a permit shall be made by the owner of the premises,
or the owner's authorized agent. Each application for a permit shall be
accompanied by an application and inspection fee to defray the cost of
processing the application and subsequent inspection of construction or
installation. All inspections shall be done in conformance with regulations as
adopted and approved by the POTW. If conditions require more than one
inspection or if a full time inspector be required, an additional inspection
fee may be charged. The removal of the cookie or stopper and connection to the
sewerage system shall be performed only in the immediate presence of the POTW
inspector or an authorized representative of the POTW. It shall be unlawful for
any person, performing work under a permit for the laying of a sewer stub or
building lead to cover any portion thereof until such time as same has been
inspected and approved by the POTW Inspector or an authorized representative of
the POTW. Such person shall notify the POTW when the work is ready for
inspection and shall leave the premises in a condition convenient for
examination by the Inspector. The person who applies for the permit shall be
responsible to remove and replace all rejected work, restore all public streets
and alleys to a similar condition as existed prior to excavation, and shall
make all adjustments necessary to fully meet the requirements of this chapter,
other rules and regulations hereinafter established and the conditions of the
permit as required by the POTW and the local unit.
   (H)   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation, connection and
maintenance including inspections of the sewer stub and building lead shall be
borne by the owner(s). The owner(s) shall indemnify the local unit and the POTW
from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the
installation, connection and maintenance of the sewer stub and building lead.
If a maintenance problem develops and it is determined after inspection that
the sewer stub is damaged, the cost of uncovering and repairing the sewer stub
shall be the cost of the local unit.
   (I)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be utilized for every
building except where one building stands at the rear of another on an interior
lot and no building sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear
building through an adjoining alley, court yard, or driveway, the front
building may extend a sanitary sewer to the rear building and the whole
considered as one building sewer after approval by the POTW. Old building leads
and sewer stubs may be used in connection with new buildings only when they are
found, after examination and test by the POTW to meet all requirements of this
chapter.
   (J)   Each person other than an owner or land contract vendee applying for a
sewer connection permit shall be approved by the POTW.
   (K)   In all buildings in which any soil pipe is too low to permit gravity
flow to the public sewer, wastewater carried by such soil pipe shall be lifted
by approved means and discharged to the building sewer. All excavations
required for the installation of a sewer shall be open trench work unless
otherwise approved. Pipe laying bedding and backfill shall be performed in
accordance with applicable ASTM specifications. No backfill shall be placed
until the work has been inspected and approved.
   (L)   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, footing drains,
areaway drains, sump pumps, or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater
and other sources of uncontaminated water to a sewer stub or building lead
which in turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public sewer. If any
such connection is determined to exist, the POTW may order its disconnection at
the property owner's expense, and if the property owner refuses to obey the
order, then the POTW may disconnect the connection and the costs shall be
charged to the property owner.
   (M)   All excavations for the wye branch and/or sewer stub shall be
adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from
hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the
course of the construction shall be restored to the same or better condition
than prior to excavation.
   (N)   The type and quality of sanitary sewer pipe and fittings used shall
conform to the current POTW specifications at the time the permit is issued.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
SEWER EXTENSIONS
§ 53.030  PLANS, SPECIFICATIONS, CONNECTIONS AND CAPACITY.
   (A)   Plans and specifications for all sewer main extensions shall be
prepared by a registered professional engineer. The plans and specifications
shall be reviewed, and, if acceptable, approved by the POTW.
   (B)   All sewer stubs and building leads shall be made at the wye branch in
the sewer main designated for the property if such branch is available. Any
connection not made at the designated wye branch in the sewer main shall be
made only as directed by the POTW.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to connect any sanitary sewer to the existing
sewer system until it has been tested. Copies of test results and procedures
shall be kept on file for inspection.
   (D)   No sewer extension shall be allowed unless there is capacity available
in all downstream sewers, lift stations, force mains, and wastewater treatment
plant, including capacity for BOD and suspended solids.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
GREASE, OIL, SAND AND SEDIMENT TRAPS OR BAR SCREENS
§ 53.040  REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO TRAPS AND SCREENS.
   (A)   Grease, oil, sand and sediment traps shall be provided when determined
necessary by the WWTP Superintendent for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand, sediment
and other harmful ingredients. All traps shall be of a type and capacity
approved by the WWTP Superintendent and shall be located so as to be readily
and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
   (B)   Grease and oil traps shall be constructed of impervious materials
capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature. They shall
be of substantial construction, watertight, and equipped with easily removable
covers that, when bolted in place, shall be gas tight and water tight.
   (C)   All grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided and maintained
by the owner, at the owner's expense, in continuous efficient operation at all
times.
   (D)   Bar screens shall be provided when determined necessary by the WWTP
Superintendent for the proper removal of rags, plastics, paper products or
other materials which may enter the POTW and cause blockage.
REGULATION OF DISCHARGES TO THE POTW
§ 53.050  DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS.
   The general discharge prohibitions under division (A) below and the specific
discharge prohibitions under division (B) below apply to every person whether
or not the person is subject to any other national, state or local pretreatment
standards or requirements, and whether or not the discharge is made pursuant to
a wastewater discharge permit issued pursuant to this chapter.
   (A)   General prohibitions.  No person shall discharge, contribute or cause
to be discharged this chapter or contributed, directly or indirectly to the
POTW, any pollutant or wastewater that will pass through or interfere with the
operation or performance of the POTW.
   (B)   Specific prohibitions.  No user shall discharge, contribute, or cause
to be discharged or contributed, to the POTW, directly or indirectly, any of
the pollutants, substances, or wastewater as provided by this subsection. This
subsection sets forth the minimum requirements for a user's discharges to the
POTW. Additional or more restrictive requirements may be required of particular
users under a wastewater discharge permit, or as otherwise authorized or
required by this chapter or other applicable laws and regulations.
      (1)   Pollutants in concentrations that exceed the instantaneous maximum,
daily maximum or monthly average concentrations listed below in this
subsection.
Parameter Daily Maximum (mg/l)Monthly Average (mg/l)Instantaneous Maximum
                                                        (mg/l)†
Parameter Daily      Maximum (mg/l)Monthly Average (mg/ Instantaneous Maximum
                                     l)†                (mg/l)†
Arsenic              0.45            0.45                 —
Cadmium              0.38            0.38                 —
Chromium             11.70           11.70                —
Copper               8.52            8.20                 —
Lead                 1.53            1.53                 —
Nickel               1.14            1.14                 —
Selenium             0.24            0.20                 —
Silver               0.07            0.07                 —
Zinc                 1.94            1.94                 —
Cynanide             0.20            0.20                 —
1, 2-Dichlorobenzene 1.63            1.63                 —
1, 2-Dichloroethane  10.41           10.41                —
4-Isopropyltoluene   0.00            0.00                 0.00
Acetone              340             340                  —
Benzene              0.41            0.41                 —
Carbon Tetrachloride 0.03            0.03                 —
Chlorobenzene        2.31            2.31                 —
Chloroform           0.41            0.41                 —
Cis-1, 2-            0.28            0.28                 —
Dichloroethene
Methylene Chloride   2.06            2.06                 —
o-Xylene             1.81            —                  —
P&M-Xylene           1.80            —                  —
Total Xylene         —             2.1                  —
Toluene              1.36            1.36                 —
Vinyl Chloride       0.0003          0.0003               —
BOD                  15001           —                  —
TSS                  15002           —                  —
Phosphorus (T) as P  303             —                  —
Ammonia Nitrogen as  N 804           —                  —
N
Notes:
1.  Any discharge of BOD in excess of 300 mg/l shall be subject to surcharge at
the rate of $0.209 per pound of BOD.
2.  Any discharge of TSS in excess of 300 mg/l shall be subject to surcharge at
the rate of $0.161 per pound of TSS.
3.  Any discharge of total phosphorus as P in excess of 8 mg/l shall be subject
to surcharge at the rate of $1.5485 per pound of phosphorus.
4.  Any discharge of ammonia nitrogen as N in excess of 40 mg/l shall be
subject to surcharge at the rate of $0.511 per pound of ammonia nitrogen.
    All surcharges shall be in addition to any other fees or charges required
by this chapter. Surcharges are intended to reimburse the POTW for all costs
incurred by the POTW in handling or treating a discharge which contains
pollutants in excess of specified surcharge concentrations, loadings or other
applicable limits. Any user exceeding applicable surcharge limitations or other
applicable limits shall be subject to the imposition of one or more surcharges
as provided by this section to reimburse the POTW for any costs or expenses,
direct or indirect, the POTW may incur in handling or treating the discharge,
or which may be imposed upon the POTW, where the exceedence of applicable
limits causes or contributes to those costs or expenses. All exceedences of
applicable discharge prohibitions and limitations and all instances of
noncompliance with applicable discharge requirements shall constitute a
violation of this chapter, subject to applicable fines, penalties and other
enforcement actions provided by this chapter. In no event shall the imposition
of a surcharge for a discharge which does not meet the applicable prohibitions,
limitations or requirements be construed as authorizing the illegal discharge
or otherwise excuse a violation of this chapter.
†  Discharges containing more than one pollutant which may contribute to fume
toxicity shall be subject to more restrictive limitations, as determined
necessary by the WWTP Superintendent. The more restrictive discharge limits
will be calculated based on the additive fume toxicity of all compounds
identified or reasonably expected to be present in the discharge, including,
without limitation, the specific compounds listed in division (B)(1) of this
chapter.
This daily maximum limit for BOD of 1,400 mg/l shall be effective until
December 31, 2006. Thereafter, the daily maximum limit for BOD shall decrease
by 100 mg/l per year as follows:  1300 mg/l (effective January 1, 2007 through
December 31, 2007) and from that date thereafter, unless and until this chapter
is subsequently amended as approved by the POTW to provide a different daily
maximum limit for BOD)
 
      (2)   Pollutants in concentrations that exceed the instantaneous maximum,
daily maximum or monthly average concentrations listed below in this
subsection:
 
Parameter Instantaneous Daily   Monthly Average Concentration
          Maximum       Maximum
          The instantaneous maximum concentration, daily maximum and
          monthly average discharge limit for mercury is 0.0000026 mg/l.
          except as otherwise required by the POTW Superintendent,
          compliance with this limit shall be determined as follows:
          A compliance limit of “non-detect” shall be used for
          instantaneous maximum concentration, daily maximum and monthly
          average. Any discharge of mercury at or above the detection
          limit is a specific violation of this chapter. The detection
          limit shall be established pursuant to the procedure for
          determination of the method detection limit (MDL) as set forth
          in §§ 3(a) of Appendix B of 40 C.F.R. part 136. The MDL study
          used to determine the MDL shall be made available to the POTW
          immediately upon request. In no case may the detection limit
          exceed 0.0002 mg/l, unless a higher detection limit is approved
          by the POTW Superintendent because of sample matrix
          interference.
          Mercury sampling procedures, preservation and handling, and
          analytical protocol for compliance monitoring of a user's
          discharge shall be in accordance with EPA method 245.1, unless
          other sampling procedures, protocol or methods (including, but
Mercury   not limited to, EPA method 1631) are required or approved in
          advance by the POTW Superintendent.
          If determined necessary by the POTW Superintendent to prevent
          interference or pass through, to protect the POTW, to comply
          with applicable federal or state laws or regulations, to comply
          with the POTW's NPDES permit, or to otherwise meet the purposes
          and objectives of this chapter, any user determined by the POTW
          Superintendent to have a reasonable potential to discharge
          mercury to the POTW may be required to develop, submit for
          approval, and implement a mercury reduction plan (MRP). At a
          minimum, the MRP shall contain such requirements and conditions
          (including, but not limited to, requirements and conditions
          regarding source identification; best management practices;
          schedules of compliance; monitoring, sampling and analysis; and
          reporting), as determined necessary by the POTW Superintendent
          to ensure the mercury reduction efforts will be effective in
          achieving the goals of this Section. Failure to submit an
          approvable MRP within the specified deadlines or to comply with
          any condition or requirement of an approved MRP shall constitute
          a violation of this chapter, subject to the fine, penalty, and
          other enforcement provisions of this chapter.
 
      (3)   Any liquid, solid, gas or other pollutant which by reason of its
nature or quantity is sufficient either alone or by interaction with other
substances to create a fire or explosion hazard or be injurious in any other
way to persons, the POTW, or to the operation of the sewerage system,
including, but not limited to, wastestreams with a closed cup flashpoint of
less than 140º F or 60º C using test methods specified in 40 C.F.R. § 261.21.
At no time shall two successive readings on an explosion hazard meter at the
point of discharge into the POTW (or at any point in the POTW) be more than 5%
nor any single reading over 10% of the lower explosive limit (LEL) on the
meter. Prohibited materials include, but are not limited to, gasoline,
kerosene, naphtha, benzene, fuel, fuel oil, toluene, xylene, ethers, alcohols,
ketones, aldehydes, peroxides, chlorate, perchlorates, bromates, carbides,
hydrides and sulfides and any other substances which the POTW, the State or EPA
has notified the user is a fire hazard or a hazard to the system.
      (4)   Pollutants that may cause corrosive structural damage to the POTW,
or that due to their corrosive properties are capable of causing injury to
persons or POTW personnel or harm to fish, animals or the environment.
Discharges that have a pH lower than 6.5 or greater than 9.5 shall not be
discharged.
      (5)   Any solid, insoluble or viscous substance in concentrations or
quantities which may cause obstruction to the flow in the POTW, may create an
encumbrance to the POTW operations, or which otherwise may result in
interference, including, but not limited to, grease, animal entrails or
tissues, bones, hair, hides or fleshings, whole blood, feathers, ashes,
cinders, sand, cement, spent lime, stone or marble dust, metal, glass, straw,
shavings, grass clippings, rags, strings, fibers, spent grains, spent hops,
wastepaper, wood, plastics, tar, asphalt residues, residues from refining or
processing of fuel or lubricating oil, mud or glass grinding or polishing
wastes or tumbling and deburring stones.
      (6)   Pollutants, including, but not limited to, oxygen demanding
pollutants, released at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration that may
cause pass through or interference with the POTW or constitute a slug load. In
no case shall a slug load have a flow rate or contain concentrations or
qualities of pollutants that exceed for any time period longer than 15 minutes,
more than five times the average 24-hour concentration, quantities or flow
during normal production.
      (7)   Wastewater (or vapor) having a temperature that will inhibit
biological activity in the POTW resulting in interference, or heat in such
quantities that the temperature at the POTW treatment plant exceeds 104º
Fahrenheit (40º C). No discharge to the POTW shall have a temperature less than
32º Fahrenheit (0º C) or greater than 150º Fahrenheit (65.7º C).
      (8)   Petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting oil, or products of
mineral oil origin
in amounts that will cause interference or pass through.
      (9)   Pollutants that result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors or
fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems. This prohibition includes, but is not limited to, wastewaters
which contain liquids, solids or gases that cause gases, vapors or fumes from
the discharge to exceed 10% of the immediately dangerous to life and health
(IDLH) concentration. Discharges which contain more than one pollutant which
may contribute to fume toxicity shall be subject to more restrictive
limitations, as determined necessary by the WWTP Superintendent. The more
restrictive discharge limits shall be calculated based on the additive fume
toxicity of all compounds identified or reasonably expected to be present in
the discharge.
      (10)   Trucked or hauled pollutants, except those discharged at the WWTP
at the discharge point designated by the WWTP Superintendent, subject to the
prior approval of the Superintendent and issuance of a wastewater discharge
permit.
         (a)   The WWTP Superintendent shall determine whether to allow the
discharge of trucked or hauled pollutants based on the particular nature or
quantity of the proposed discharge in accordance with the discharge
prohibitions, limitations and requirements provided by this division.
         (b)   The WWTP Superintendent may impose any conditions on the
discharge determined necessary to ensure compliance with this division,
including, without limitation, conditions regarding the time, place, and manner
of discharge, restrictions on the quantity and quality of the discharge, and
sampling requirements.
         (c)   The discharge shall not commence without prior notice to, and
authorization from, the WWTP Superintendent, and a representative of the POTW
shall be present at all times during the discharge.
         (d)   All trucked or hauled wastes to be discharged to the POTW must
be accompanied by a completed waste manifest form signed by the permittee and
the hauler as provided by the minimum requirements of this section. The
permittee shall certify in writing on the manifest as to the source of all
wastes in the load proposed to be discharged and that the wastes have been
pretreated as required by applicable pretreatment standards and requirements.
The hauler shall certify in writing on the manifest that no wastes other than
those listed on the manifest have been accepted by the hauler. The manifest
must be reviewed by the WWTP Superintendent prior to commencing discharge of
the load. Failure to accurately record every load, falsification of data, or
failure to transmit the form to the WWTP Superintendent for review prior to
discharge shall constitute a violation of the permit and may result in
revocation of the permit and/or the imposition of fines and penalties as
provided by this chapter.
         (e)   The permittee's discharge of hauled wastes shall be subject to
sampling by the POTW at any time, including, without limitation, prior to and
during discharge. The WWTP Superintendent may require the permittee to refrain
from, or suspend, discharging until the sample analysis is complete.
         (f)   Trucked or hauled pollutants will be accepted only if
transported to the POTW in compliance with state and federal hazardous waste
and liquid industrial waste laws.
         (g)   For each discharge of trucked or hauled pollutants, the
permittee will be required to pay to the POTW a trucked or hauled pollutant
discharge fee to cover the POTW's administrative expenses and any additional
treatment, handling or inspection expenses incurred by the POTW in connection
with the discharge. The fee shall be established, paid, and collected as
provided by §§
53.295 to
53.299. This discharge fee shall be in addition to any sewer rates, fees,
charges, or surcharges otherwise required by this chapter.
      (11)   Solvent extractibles, including, but not limited to, oil, grease,
wax, or fat, whether emulsified or not, in excess of applicable local limits;
or other substances that may solidify or become viscous (with a viscosity of
110% of water) at temperatures between 32º Fahrenheit and 150º Fahrenheit in
amounts that may cause obstruction to the flow in sewers or other interference
with the operation of the POTW.
      (12)   Noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, or solids that either singly
or by interaction with other wastes are sufficient to create a public nuisance
or hazard to life or are sufficient to prevent entry into the sewers for
maintenance and repair.
      (13)   Wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to injure or interfere
with any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or
animals, create a toxic effect in the receiving waters of the POTW, or to
exceed the limitation set forth in a categorical pretreatment standard.
      (14)   Any substance that may cause the POTW's effluent or any other
product of the POTW such as residues, sludges, or scums, to be unsuitable for
reclamation, reuse or disposal, or otherwise interfere with the reclamation,
reuse, or disposal process. In no case shall a substance discharged to the POTW
cause the POTW to be in non-compliance with sludge use or disposal criteria,
guidelines or regulations developed under § 405 of the Act; under the Solid
Waste Disposal Act (SWDA) (including Title II, more commonly referred to as
RCRA, and including State regulations contained in any State sludge management
plan prepared pursuant to Subtitle D of the SWDA); the Clean Air Act; the Toxic
Substances Control Act; the Marine Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries Act;
or any more stringent state or local regulations, as applicable.
      (15)   Soluble substances in a concentration that may increase the
viscosity to greater than 10% over the viscosity of the water or in amounts
that will cause obstruction to the flow in the POTW resulting in interference.
      (16)   Any medical or infectious wastes, as defined by the Michigan
Department of Environmental Quality.
      (17)   Any pollutant that results in excess foaming during the treatment
process. Excess foaming is any foam that, in the opinion of the WWTP
Superintendent, may interfere with the treatment process.
      (18)   Any unpolluted water, non-contact cooling water, storm water,
surface water, groundwater, roof runoff or subsurface drainage (except to a
storm sewer as authorized by this chapter and other applicable laws and
regulations and subject to the prior approval of the WWTP Superintendent).
      (19)   Any substance that will cause the POTW to violate its NPDES
permit, the receiving water quality standards, or associated local, state or
federal laws, rules or regulations.
      (20)   Wastewater with objectionable color or light absorbency
characteristics that interfere with treatment processes or analytical
determinations, including, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable tanning
solutions.
      (21)   Wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes of a
half-life or concentration that may exceed limits established by applicable
state or federal laws, rules or regulations.
      (22)   Any contaminated groundwater or landfill leachate determined by
the WWTP Superintendent to have a reasonable potential to adversely affect the
operation of the POTW, to result in pass through or interference, or to violate
any pretreatment standard or requirement.
      (23)   Septage.
      (24)   Any hazardous waste as defined by this chapter.
      (25)   Any garbage or other solid material that has not been properly
shredded.  Garbage or solid materials having a specific gravity greater than
1.2 or a cross-section dimension of one-half inch or greater, or which are
sufficient in quantity to cause pass through or interference to the POTW shall
be deemed improperly shredded. The installation and operation of any garbage
shredder equipped with a motor of three-quarter HP or greater shall be subject
to the review and approval of the WWTP Superintendent.
      (26)   Any substance which exerts or causes a high concentration of inert
suspended solids, including, but not limited to, lime slurries, diatomaceous
earth and lime residues.
      (27)   Any substance which exerts or causes a high concentration of
dissolved solids, including, but not limited to, sodium chloride.
      (28)   Any substance which causes a high chlorine demand, including, but
not limited to, nitrite, cyanide, thiocyanate, sulfite and thiosulfate.
      (29)   Any compatible or incompatible pollutant in excess of the allowed
limits as determined by applicable local, state or federal laws, rules or
regulations.
      (30)   Any sludge, precipitate or waste resulting from any industrial or
commercial treatment or pretreatment of any person's wastewater or air
pollutants.
      (31)   Residue (total on evaporation) in an amount that will cause
obstruction to the flow in the POTW resulting in interference.
      (32)   Any wastewater containing polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs).
      (33)    Any discharge containing strong acid, iron, pickling waste or
concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not.
      (34)    Any discharge containing phenols or other taste or odor-producing
substances in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be established by
the WWTP Superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the composite sewage,
to meet the requirements of the state, federal or other public agencies having
jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters.
      (35)    Any pollutant, substance, or wastewater that, either directly or
indirectly, and either singly or by interaction with other pollutants:
         (a)   Creates a chemical reaction with any materials of construction
to impair the strength or durability of sewer structures;
         (b)   Causes a mechanical action that will damage or destroy sewer
structures;
         (c)   Impedes or restricts the hydraulic capacity of the POTW;
         (d)   Interferes with normal inspection or maintenance of sewer
structures;
         (e)   Places unusual demands upon the wastewater treatment equipment
or processes by biological, chemical or physical means; or
         (f)   Causes a hazard to human life or creates a public nuisance.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.051  PRETREATMENT STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Compliance with applicable standards and requirements. The national
categorical pretreatment standards when finalized for specific industries shall
become a part of the requirements of this chapter in accordance with federal
and state laws and regulations. A user shall comply with all categorical
pretreatment standards and any other pretreatment requirements established
under the Act that are applicable to that user. A user shall also comply with
all applicable pretreatment standards and requirements established under this
chapter or under state laws and regulations.
   (B)   Deadlines for compliance. Compliance by existing sources with
categorical pretreatment standards shall be within three years of the date the
standard is effective unless a shorter compliance time is specified by 40
C.F.R. chapter I, subchapter N. Existing sources that become industrial users
subsequent to promulgation of an applicable categorical pretreatment standard
shall be considered existing industrial users except where such sources meet
the definition of new source. New sources shall install and have in operating
condition, and shall start-up all pollution control equipment required to meet
applicable pretreatment standards and requirements before beginning to
discharge. Within the shortest feasible time (not to exceed 90 days), new
sources must meet all applicable pretreatment standards and requirements.
   (C)   Alternative categorical limits. Categorical pretreatment standards
shall apply to an industrial user subject to categorical standards, unless an
enforceable alternative limit to the corresponding national categorical
standards is derived using any of the methods specified in MAC R 323.2313
(regarding removal credits, fundamentally different factor variances, net/gross
calculations, equivalent mass per day limitations, and combined wastestream
formula alternative limitations). If local limits are more stringent than
derived alternative categorical limits, the local limits shall control.
   (D)   Compliance with other applicable laws and regulations. Users of the
POTW shall comply with all local, state and federal laws and regulations that
may apply to their discharges to the POTW, including, but not limited to,
Article II, Air Pollution Control, Part 55 of Act 451 of the Public Acts of
Michigan of 1994 (the Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Act).
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.052  RIGHT OF REVISION.
   The POTW reserves the right to establish more restrictive prohibitions,
limitations or requirements for discharges to the POTW (and to revise or revoke
wastewater discharge permits  and/or, as a condition to continued discharge to
the POTW, to require the local unit to revise this chapter accordingly) as
necessary to prevent interference or pass through, to protect the POTW, to
comply with applicable federal or state laws or regulations, to comply with the
POTW's NPDES permit, or as otherwise determined necessary by the WWTP
Superintendent. The POTW will provide reasonable advance notice to the local
unit regarding required revisions to this chapter.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.053  POTW'S RIGHT TO REFUSE OR CONDITION DISCHARGE.
   The POTW may refuse to accept, or may condition its acceptance of, all or
any portion of any proposed or existing discharge to the POTW, regardless of
whether or not a wastewater discharge permit has been issued for the discharge,
if the WWTP Superintendent determines that the discharge has a reasonable
potential to adversely affect the operation of the POTW; result in pass through
or interference; violate any pretreatment standard or requirement; cause the
POTW to violate its NPDES permit; or if the impacts of the discharge on the
POTW or the POTW's discharge are uncertain or unknown (because, for example, no
local limits or headworks analysis has been conducted for particular pollutants
in the discharge). If the WWTP Superintendent denies any person permission to
commence or continue all or any portion of a discharge to the POTW, the person
shall refrain from commencing to discharge or shall immediately terminate the
discharge to the POTW and shall not thereafter recommence discharge without
written authorization from the WWTP Superintendent. Similarly, if the WWTP
Superintendent denies any person permission to commence or continue all or any
portion of a discharge to the POTW except subject to conditions determined
necessary and appropriate by the WWTP Superintendent, the person shall refrain
from commencing or continuing the discharge except in full compliance with
those conditions.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.054  MOST RESTRICTIVE STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS APPLY.
   Notwithstanding any provision of this chapter to the contrary, the most
stringent or restrictive standard or requirement applicable to a user's
discharge shall control, whether established by this chapter, by any notice,
order, permit, decision or determination promulgated, issued or made by the
POTW or the WWTP Superintendent under this chapter, by state laws or
regulations, including the POTW's NPDES permit, or by federal laws or
regulations. Further, if state or federal laws or regulations provide for
standards and requirements not covered by this chapter that are otherwise
applicable to a user's discharge, those standards and requirements shall apply
to the user in addition to those required by this chapter, and the most
restrictive of those additional standards or requirements shall control and
shall be complied with by the user within the time period required by the law
or regulation.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.055  DILUTION PROHIBITED AS SUBSTITUTE FOR TREATMENT.
   Unless expressly authorized to do so by an applicable pretreatment standard
or requirement, no industrial user shall ever increase the use of process
water, mix separate wastestreams, or in any other way attempt to dilute a
discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate treatment to achieve
compliance with a federal, state or local standard, requirement or limitation.
The POTW may impose mass limitations on nondomestic users that are using
dilution to meet applicable pretreatment standards or requirements and in other
cases where the imposition of mass limitations is appropriate as determined by
the WWTP Superintendent.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITS
§ 53.065  REQUIRED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any significant industrial user (or any other user
as determined necessary by the WWTP Superintendent to carry out the purposes of
this chapter) to discharge to the POTW without a wastewater discharge permit as
provided by this section.
   (B)    Any violation of the terms or conditions of a wastewater discharge
permit is a violation of this chapter, subject to the fine, penalty, and other
enforcement provisions of this chapter. Obtaining a wastewater discharge permit
shall not relieve a user of its obligation to obtain other permits or approvals
that may be required by other local, state or federal laws or regulations.
   (C)   The issuance of a wastewater discharge permit shall not convey to a
user any property rights or privilege of any kind whatsoever, nor shall it be
construed to authorize any injury to private or public property or any invasion
of personal rights, nor any violation of local, state or federal laws or
regulations.
   (D)   The WWTP Superintendent may require any user to obtain a permit to
discharge to the POTW, subject to such terms and conditions as are determined
necessary and appropriate by the WWTP Superintendent to achieve the purposes,
policies and objectives of this chapter. A discharge permit issued to a user as
provided by this sub-section may contain, but shall not be required to contain,
any of the terms and conditions that would apply to a discharge permit issued
to a significant industrial user as provided by this section, including, but
not limited to, discharge limitations, and requirements regarding sampling and
monitoring, pretreatment, pollution reduction plans, and best management
practices, to comply with the general and specific discharge prohibitions of
this chapter. Failure to comply with a permit issued under this subsection
constitutes a violation of this chapter. In no case shall a permit issued to a
user under this division be construed as authorizing the illegal discharge or
otherwise excuse a violation of this chapter. To the extent determined
appropriate by the WWTP Superintendent on a case-by-case basis, permits issued
under this sub-section shall be subject to provisions otherwise applicable to
permits for significant industrial users. However, all user permits are non-
transferable, and are subject to the permit fee and permit appeals provisions
of this chapter.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.066  APPLICATION AND DEADLINES.
   Each industrial user must file an application for a wastewater discharge
permit within the following deadlines:
   (A)   Existing users.  Any industrial user discharging into the POTW as of
the effective date of this chapter that has not previously submitted an
application and/or obtained a permit to discharge to the POTW shall, within 30
days after the effective date of this chapter, apply to the WWTP Superintendent
for a wastewater discharge permit as provided by this division and shall not
cause or allow any discharges into the POTW after 120 days from the effective
date of this chapter, except in accordance with a wastewater discharge permit
as determined necessary by the WWTP Superintendent.
   (B)   New users.  Any industrial user proposing to commence (or recommence)
discharging into the POTW after the effective date of this chapter shall, at
least 90 days prior to the anticipated date on which discharging will commence,
apply to the WWTP Superintendent for a wastewater discharge permit, and shall
not cause or allow any discharges into the POTW to commence, except in
accordance with a wastewater discharge permit as determined necessary by the
WWTP Superintendent.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.067  PERMIT APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   All industrial users shall submit the following information on the
wastewater discharge permit application form supplied by the WWTP
Superintendent in units and terms as determined necessary by the WWTP
Superintendent to adequately evaluate the application, accompanied by payment
of a permit application review fee:
   (A)   The name, address, and location of facility from which discharge will
be made, including the names of the owner(s) and operator(s) of the facility.
   (B)   Whether the user is a corporation, partnership, proprietorship, or
other type of entity, and the name of the person(s) responsible for discharges
by the user.
   (C)   SIC code of both the industry (or use) as a whole and any processes
for which categorical pretreatment standards have been promulgated.
   (D)   Wastewater constituents and characteristics, including, without
limitation, any pollutants that are limited or regulated by any federal, state,
or local standards or requirements. Sampling and analysis shall be performed in
accordance with the procedures established by the U.S. EPA and contained in 40
C.F.R. part 136.
   (E)   Time and duration of discharges.
   (F)   Daily maximum and monthly average wastewater flow rates, including
daily, monthly, and seasonal variations, if any. All flows shall be measured
unless other variable techniques are approved by the WWTP Superintendent due to
cost or nonfeasibility.
   (G)   Description of activities, facilities, and plant processes on the
premises, including a list of all raw materials and chemicals used at the
facility (including copies of material safety data sheets for all such
materials and chemicals) that are, or could accidentally or intentionally be,
discharged to the POTW.
   (H)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans and details to
show all sewers, sewer connections, floor drains, inspection manholes, sampling
chambers and appurtenances by size, location and elevation.
   (I)   Each product produced by type, amount, process and rate of production.
   (J)   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum per
day).
   (K)   Number and type of employees, hours of operation, and proposed or
actual hours list of operation of the pretreatment system.
   (L)   A list of all environmental permits (and, if requested by the WWTP
Superintendent, a copy of any environmental permit) held by the user applicable
to the premises for which the wastewater discharge permit is being sought.
   (M)   Whether additional operation and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional
pretreatment is required for the user to meet all applicable federal, state and
local pretreatment standards and requirements. If additional O&M or additional
pretreatment will be required to meet the applicable standards and
requirements, then the user shall indicate the shortest time schedule necessary
to accomplish installation or adoption of the additional O&M and/or
pretreatment. The completion date in this schedule shall not be longer than the
compliance date established for the applicable pretreatment standard. The
following conditions shall apply to this schedule:
      (1)   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of dates
for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction
and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the
applicable pretreatment standards (including, without limitation, hiring an
engineer, completing preliminary plans, completing final plans, executing
contracts for major components, commencing construction, completing
construction, beginning operation, and conducting routine operation). No
increment referred to above shall exceed nine months, nor shall the total
compliance period exceed 18 months.
      (2)   No later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and the
final date for compliance, the user shall submit a progress report to the WWTP
Superintendent including, at a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress, the reason for any delay, and if appropriate, the steps
being taken by the user to return to the established schedule. In no event
shall more than nine months elapse between submission of the progress reports
to the WWTP Superintendent.
   (N)   Any other information determined necessary by the WWTP Superintendent
to adequately evaluate the application. To the extent that actual data is not
available for a new source, the applicant shall supply estimated or expected
information.
   (O)   All site plans, floor plans, or other plans required to be submitted
as a part of the application shall be prepared and sealed by a licensed
engineer.
   (P)   All applications shall be signed by an authorized representative of
the user and certified as provided by §
53.100 below.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.068  ISSUANCE, DENIAL, OR DETERMINATION THAT PERMIT NOT REQUIRED.
   (A)   The WWTP Superintendent shall evaluate the application information
furnished by the user and may require additional information as necessary to
complete and properly review the application. Within 120 days after the
submission of a complete application, the WWTP Superintendent shall either
issue a wastewater discharge permit subject to terms and conditions provided by
this chapter, deny the application, or determine that a permit is not required
as provided by this chapter.
   (B)   A permit may be denied by the WWTP Superintendent if the
Superintendent determines that the proposed discharge, or continued discharge,
will not comply with all applicable standards and requirements of this chapter;
if the user refuses to accept the terms and conditions of a permit as proposed
to be issued by the WWTP Superintendent; for any reason that would support a
suspension or revocation of the permit as provided by this chapter; if the WWTP
Superintendent determines that the POTW cannot adequately, efficiently, or
economically treat the discharge (due to insufficient capacity, quality or
quantity of pollutants, for example); or for any other reason as determined
necessary by the WWTP Superintendent to meet the intent and purposes of this
chapter or to ensure compliance by the POTW with its NPDES permit.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.069  CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Wastewater discharge permits shall be subject to all provisions of
this chapter and all other applicable regulations, user charges, surcharges,
and fees established by the local unit or by the POTW. In addition, permits
shall include any conditions determined to be reasonably necessary by the WWTP
Superintendent to prevent pass through or interference, to protect the quality
of the receiving waters, to protect worker health and safety, to facilitate
POTW sludge management and disposal, to protect ambient air quality, and to
protect against damage to the POTW. Unless determined by the WWTP
Superintendent to be inapplicable to the user in question, all permits shall
contain at least the following conditions:
      (1)   Limits on the average and/or maximum rate of discharge, time of
discharge, and/or requirements for flow regulation and equalization.
      (2)   Limits on the average and/or maximum concentration, mass, or other
measure of identified wastewater constituents or properties.
      (3)   Requirements for installation of pretreatment technology or
construction of appropriate containment devices, or similar requirements
designed to reduce, eliminate, or prevent the introduction of pollutants into
the treatment works.
      (4)   Development and implementation of spill control plans or other
special conditions, including additional management practices necessary to
adequately prevent accidental, unanticipated, or routine discharges.
      (5)   Requirements for installation, maintenance, repair, calibration and
operation of inspection and sampling facilities and discharge flow monitors.
      (6)   Specifications for monitoring programs which may include sampling
locations, frequency of sampling, number, types, and standards for tests, and
reporting schedules.
      (7)   Compliance schedules.
      (8)   Requirements for submission of technical reports or discharge
reports.
      (9)   Requirements for maintaining and retaining plant records relating
to wastewater discharge as specified by the WWTP Superintendent and affording
the POTW access to those records.
      (10)   Requirements for notification of any new introductions of
wastewater constituents or of any substantial change in the volume or character
of the wastewater being introduced into the POTW.
      (11)   Requirements for the notification of any change in the
manufacturing and/or pretreatment process used by the permittee.
      (12)   Requirements for notification of accidental or slug discharges, or
discharges that exceed a discharge prohibition.
      (13)   A statement regarding limitations on transferability of the
permit.
      (14)   A statement of the duration of the permit.
      (15)   A statement that compliance with the permit does not relieve the
permittee of responsibility for compliance with all applicable pretreatment
standards and requirements, including those that become effective during the
term of the permit.
      (16)   A statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for
violation of discharge limitations, pretreatment standards and requirements,
and compliance schedules.
      (17)   Requirements regarding development by a user of a pollutant
reduction plan (e.g., for mercury or PCBs) or requirements regarding use of
best management practices to reduce potential discharges of pollutants to the
sewer or otherwise meet the purposes, policies and objectives of this chapter.
      (18)   Other conditions as determined necessary by the WWTP
Superintendent to ensure compliance with this chapter and other applicable
laws, rules and regulations.
   (B)   If it is determined that a user is discharging substances of a
quality, in a quantity, or in a location that may cause problems to the POTW or
the receiving stream, the POTW has the authority to develop and enforce
effluent limits applicable to the user's discharge.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.070  MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   A permit may be modified by the WWTP Superintendent for any reason
determined necessary by the WWTP Superintendent to assure compliance with the
requirements of this chapter and other applicable laws and regulations,
including, without limitation, any of the following reasons:
      (1)   To incorporate any new or revised federal, state or local
pretreatment standards or requirements, or other applicable requirement of law
or regulation.
      (2)   Material or substantial changes or additions to the permittee's
operations, processes, or the character or quality of discharge that were not
considered in drafting or issuing the existing permit.
      (3)   A change in any condition in the permittee's discharge, facility,
production or operations, or in the POTW, that requires either a temporary or
permanent reduction or elimination of the permittee's discharge to assure
compliance with applicable laws, regulations or the POTW's NPDES permit.
      (4)   Information indicating that the permitted discharge poses a threat
to collection or treatment systems; the POTW's processing, use, or disposal of
sludge; POTW personnel; or the receiving waters.
      (5)   Violation of any terms or conditions of the permit.
      (6)   Misrepresentation or failure to disclose fully all relevant facts
in the permit application or in any required report or notice.
      (7)   Revision of, or a grant of a variance from, applicable categorical
standards pursuant to 40 C.F.R. § 403.13.
      (8)   To correct typographical or other errors in the permit.
      (9)   To reflect transfer of the facility ownership and/or operation to a
new owner/operator.
      (10)   To add or revise a compliance schedule for the permittee.
      (11)   To reflect changes or revisions in the POTW's NPDES permit.
      (12)   To ensure POTW compliance with applicable sludge management
requirements promulgated by EPA.
      (13)   To incorporate any new or revised requirements resulting from
reevaluation of the POTW's local limits.
      (14)   To incorporate a request for modification by the permittee, as
determined appropriate by the WWTP Superintendent and provided the request does
not create a violation of any applicable requirement, standard, law, rule or
regulation.
   (B)   The permittee shall be informed of any changes in the permit at least
30 days prior to the effective date of the change, unless a shorter time is
determined necessary by the WWTP Superintendent to meet applicable laws or to
protect human health or the environment.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.071  DURATION.
   Permits shall be issued for a specified time period, not to exceed five
years, subject to modification, reissuance, suspension or revocation as
provided by this section. At the discretion of the WWTP Superintendent, a
permit may be issued for any period less than five years and may be stated to
expire on a specific date.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.072  REISSUANCE.
   To apply for reissuance of a permit, a user must submit a complete permit
application to the WWTP Superintendent accompanied by payment of an application
fee at least 90 days prior to the expiration of the user's existing permit. It
shall be the responsibility of the user to make a timely application for
reissuance.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.073  CONTINUATION OF EXPIRED PERMITS.
   (A)   An expired permit will continue to be effective until the permit is
reissued only if:
      (1)   The user has submitted a complete permit application at least 90
days prior to the expiration date of the user's existing permit; and
      (2)   The failure to reissue the permit, prior to expiration of the
previous permit, is not due to any act or failure to act on the part of the
user.
   (B)   In all other cases, discharge to the POTW following expiration of a
permit is unlawful.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.074  SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   Permits may be suspended or permanently revoked by the WWTP
Superintendent for any reason determined necessary by the WWTP Superintendent
to assure compliance with the requirements of this chapter, the POTW's NPDES
permit, or other applicable laws and regulations, including, without
limitation, any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Falsifying self-monitoring reports.
      (2)   Tampering with monitoring equipment.
      (3)   Failure to allow reasonable access to the permittee's premises and
records by representatives of the POTW for purposes authorized by this chapter,
including, without limitation, inspection or monitoring.
      (4)   Failure to meet effluent limitations.
      (5)   Failure to pay fines or penalties.
      (6)   Failure to pay sewer charges.
      (7)   Failure to pay permit fees.
      (8)   Failure to meet compliance schedules.
      (9)   Failure to comply with any term or condition of the permit, an
order, the requirements of this chapter, or any final judicial order entered
with respect thereto.
      (10)   Failure to comply with any reporting or notice requirement.
      (11)   Failure to disclose fully all relevant facts in the permit
application or during the permit issuance process, or misrepresentation of any
relevant fact at any time.
      (12)   As determined by the WWTP Superintendent, the discharge permitted
by the permit has a reasonable potential to endanger human health or the
environment and the threat can be abated only by suspension or revocation of
the permit.
   (B)   Upon suspension or revocation of a permit, a user shall immediately
terminate its discharge to the POTW and shall not thereafter recommence
discharge without further authorization from the WWTP Superintendent as
provided by this chapter. The WWTP Superintendent may reissue a revoked permit
upon a showing satisfactory to the WWTP Superintendent that the permittee has
corrected the violation or condition that led to the revocation. A person who
has had a permit revoked may apply for a new permit.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.075  LIMITATIONS ON PERMIT TRANSFER.
   (A)   A wastewater discharge permit is issued to a specific user for
discharge from a specific facility and operation and shall not be assigned or
transferred or sold to a new or different owner, operator, user, discharger,
facility or premises, or to a new or changed facility or operation, without the
prior written approval of the WWTP Superintendent as provided by this section.
   (B)   The WWTP Superintendent may deny any request for approval of a
proposed transfer of a permit and require the proposed transferee to apply for
a new permit as provided by this chapter, as determined appropriate by the
Superintendent.
   (C)   If the transfer of a permit is approved, any succeeding transferee
permittee must also comply with the terms and conditions of the existing
permit. The Superintendent may approve the transfer of a permit only if all of
the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The transferor (permittee) shall give at least 90-days’ advance
notice to the Superintendent of the proposed transfer of the permit (unless a
shorter notice period is approved by the Superintendent in advance). The notice
shall include a written certification signed by the proposed transferee that
(a) states that the transferee has no present intent to change the facility's
operations and processes; (b) identifies the specific date on which the
transfer is to occur; (c) acknowledges that the transferee has read and fully
understands all terms and conditions of the permit; and (d) acknowledges that
the transferee accepts all of the terms and conditions of the permit as written
and accepts full responsibility for complying with the existing permit if the
transfer is approved.
      (2)   As of the date of the proposed transfer, there are no unpaid
charges, fines, penalties or fees of any kind due to the POTW or the local unit
from the transferor or the transferee related to use of the POTW.
      (3)   Except as to the identity of the new discharger (the transferee),
the application materials for the permit to be transferred as originally filed
by the transferor, as well as the terms and conditions of the permit itself,
are completely accurate with respect to, and fully applicable to, the
discharge, facilities, and activities of the transferee.
   (D)   If the transfer of a permit is approved, the WWTP Superintendent shall
make the necessary minor modifications to the permit to show the transferee as
the permittee, and a copy of the permit shall be provided to the transferee for
signature and certification by the transferee as provided by §
53.100 of this chapter. The transferor (permittee) shall remain liable for any
discharges to the POTW from the facility (along with any other persons actually
discharging from the facility to the POTW) until a transfer of the permit has
been approved as provided by this section.
   (E)   This section is not intended to, and shall not be construed to, limit
in any way the transfer of ownership of the property involved.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.076  DUTY TO PROVIDE INFORMATION.
   Users shall furnish to the WWTP Superintendent any available information
that the WWTP Superintendent requests to determine whether cause exists for
modifying, revoking and reissuing, or terminating a permit, to determine
compliance with a permit, or to determine whether a permit is required. Users
shall also, upon request, furnish to the WWTP Superintendent copies of any
records required to be kept by a permit. The information and records requested
by the WWTP Superintendent shall be provided by the user to the WWTP
Superintendent within 24 hours of the request, unless an alternative time frame
is specified by the WWTP Superintendent when making the request or unless the
WWTP Superintendent allows additional time for the user to submit the requested
information based on a showing by the user of good cause for any delay. The
user's failure to submit the requested information to the WWTP Superintendent
within 24 hours (or within any alternate time period approved by the WWTP
Superintendent as provided by this section) shall constitute a violation of
this chapter.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.077  APPEALS.
   Except as otherwise provided by this Section, an appeal to the WWTP Board of
Appeals of any final decision made by the WWTP Superintendent in connection
with issuing or implementing a wastewater discharge permit shall be governed by
§§
53.280 through
53.285 below. An appealing party must specify in its notice of appeal the
action of the WWTP Superintendent being appealed and the grounds for the
appeal. If a particular permit provision is objected to, the notice of appeal
must specify the reasons for the objection, and the alternative provision, if
any, sought to be placed in the permit. The effectiveness of a permit or any
final decision made by the WWTP Superintendent shall not be stayed pending a
decision by the WWTP Board of Appeals. If, after considering the record on
appeal including any statements provided by the WWTP Superintendent in response
to the appeal, the Board of Appeals determines that a permit or any provision
of a permit should be reconsidered, the Board of Appeals shall remand the
matter to the WWTP Superintendent for further action as determined appropriate
by the Board of Appeals. Specific provisions of a permit that are remanded by
the Board of Appeals for reconsideration by the WWTP Superintendent shall be
stayed pending further final action taken by the Superintendent as required by
the decision of the Board of Appeals. A decision of the Board of Appeals not to
remand any matter shall be considered final administrative action for purposes
of judicial review.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.078  PERMITS NOT STAYED.
   Except as otherwise expressly provided by §
53.077, no action taken or request filed by any permittee shall operate to stay
the effect of any permit or of any provision, term or condition of any permit,
including, without limitation, a request for permit modification, reissuance,
or transfer, or a notification of planned changes or anticipated noncompliance.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.079  FEES.
   Wastewater discharge permit fees shall be established, paid and collected as
provided by this section and §
53.069.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
REPORTING AND NOTICE REQUIREMENTS
§ 53.090 INDUSTRIAL USERS REQUIRED TO COMPLY.
   All industrial users shall comply with the minimum reporting and notice
requirements provided by this subchapter, as follows.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.091  REPORTS BY INDUSTRIAL USERS REGARDING CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT
STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Baseline reports. Within 180 days after the effective date of a
categorical pretreatment standard, or 180 days after the final administrative
decision made upon a category determination submission under MAC R 323.2311(2)
whichever is later, an existing industrial user subject to the categorical
pretreatment standards and that currently discharges or is scheduled to
discharge to the POTW shall submit a report to the POTW as required by MAC R
323.2310(2). At least 90 days prior to commencement of discharge, new sources,
and sources that become industrial users subsequent to the promulgation of an
applicable categorical pretreatment standard shall submit the reports to the
POTW as required by MAC R 323.2310(2). Any changes to the information required
to be submitted by an industrial user pursuant to MAC R 323.2310(2)(a) through
(e) shall be submitted by the user to the POTW within 60 days when the user
becomes aware of the change.
   (B)   Reports on compliance with categorical pretreatment standard deadline.
Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable
categorical pretreatment standard or, in the case of a new source, following
commencement of the discharge to the POTW, any industrial user subject to
categorical pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit the reports to
the POTW required by MAC R 323.2310(3).
   (C)   Periodic reports on continued compliance. Any industrial user subject
to a categorical pretreatment standard, after the compliance date of the
categorical pretreatment standard, or, in the case of a new source, after
commencement of the discharge into the public sewer or POTW, shall submit the
periodic reports to the POTW required by MAC R 323.2310(4). These periodic
reports shall be submitted at least once every six months (during the months of
June and December unless alternate months are approved by the WWTP
Superintendent), unless required more frequently by the applicable pretreatment
standard, by the WWTP Superintendent, or by the State. The reports shall
include a record of all average and maximum daily flows during the reporting
period, except that the WWTP Superintendent may require more detailed reporting
of flows. All flows shall be reported on the basis of actual measurement unless
the WWTP Superintendent agrees, due to cost or nonfeasibility, to accept
reports of average and maximum flows estimated using techniques approved by the
WWTP Superintendent.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.092  REPORTS REQUIRED FOR INDUSTRIAL USERS NOT SUBJECT TO CATEGORICAL
PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   All industrial users not subject to categorical pretreatment standards shall
submit to the POTW periodic reports providing information regarding the quality
and quantity of wastewater and pollutants discharged into the POTW (including,
without limitation, information regarding the nature, concentration (or mass),
and flow of the discharge). These reports shall be based on sampling and
analysis performed in the period covered by the report in accordance with the
sampling, analysis and monitoring requirements provided by §§
53.115 to
53.125. For significant industrial users, the reports shall be submitted at
least once every six months for the preceding six months (during the months of
June and December unless alternate months are specified by the WWTP
Superintendent), unless required more frequently by the WWTP Superintendent.
For all industrial users other than significant industrial users, the reports
shall be submitted at least once every 12 months for the preceding 12 months
(during the month of December unless an alternate month is specified by the
WWTP Superintendent), unless required more frequently or less frequently by the
WWTP Superintendent. The reports for all industrial users shall be submitted on
forms provided by (or in a format required by) the WWTP Superintendent, and
shall include, without limitation, the volume of wastewater; the concentration
of pollutants; the names of all person(s) responsible for operating and
maintaining any pretreatment equipment, pretreatment processes, or responsible
for wastewater management at the user's facilities, with a brief description of
each person's duties; information regarding materials or substances that may
cause interference or pass through; and any other information deemed necessary
by the WWTP Superintendent to assess and assure compliance with applicable
discharge requirements or to safeguard the operation of the POTW.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.093  NOTICE BY USER OF POTENTIAL PROBLEMS.
   All industrial users, whether or not subject to categorical pretreatment
standards, shall notify the POTW immediately of all discharges by the user that
could cause problems to the POTW, including, without limitation, slug loadings,
or discharges that exceed a discharge prohibition or limitation provided by
this chapter.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.094  NOTICE BY USER OF VIOLATION OF PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   If sampling performed by a user indicates a violation, the user shall notify
the WWTP Superintendent within 24 hours of becoming aware of the violation (and
shall comply with other applicable requirements provided by §
53.121 regarding repeat sampling and analysis).
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.095  NOTICE BY USER OF CHANGED DISCHARGE OR CHANGE IN USER STATUS.
   An industrial user shall promptly notify the WWTP Superintendent in advance
of any substantial change in the volume or character of pollutants in its
discharge, or of any facility expansion, production increase, or process
modifications that could result in a substantial change in the volume or
character of pollutants in its discharge. For purposes of this section,
SUBSTANTIAL CHANGE includes, without limitation, the following: (1) the
discharge of any amount of a pollutant not identified in the user's permit
application or in the permit issued; (2) an increase in concentration (or
degree) of any pollutant that exceeds 15% of the concentration (or degree) for
the pollutant as indicated in any report required under §§
53.091 or
53.092; (3) an increase in discharge volume that exceeds 15% of the volume as
indicated in any report required under §§
53.091 or
53.092; (4) any increase in the amount of any hazardous wastes discharged,
including, without limitation, the hazardous wastes for which the industrial
user has submitted initial notification under §
53.096 of this chapter; (5) the discharge of any ground waters purged for a
removal or remedial action; (6) the discharge of any pollutants that are
present in the discharge due to infiltration; or (7) a change in discharge that
may convert an industrial user into a significant industrial user. This section
shall not be construed to authorize a discharge that exceeds a discharge
prohibition or limitation provided by this chapter or a permit. In determining
whether to accept any changed discharge, or, if so, under what conditions, the
WWTP Superintendent shall evaluate the changed discharge pursuant to the
general and specific discharge prohibitions of §
53.050 and other applicable provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.096  NOTICE BY USER REGARDING WASTES THAT ARE OTHERWISE HAZARDOUS.
   Any industrial user that discharges to the POTW a substance that, if
disposed of other than by discharge to the POTW, would be a hazardous waste
under 40 C.F.R. part 261 or under the rules promulgated under the state
hazardous waste management act (Part 111 of Act 451 of the Public Acts of
Michigan of 1994, M.C.L.A. §§ 324.11101 et seq., as amended) shall notify the
WWTP Superintendent, the U.S. EPA Region V Waste Management Division Director,
and the Chief of the Waste Management Division of the Michigan Department of
Environmental Quality, of the discharge as required by MAC R 323.2310(15).
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.097  NOTICE BY USER OF INSTALLATION OF NEW PRETREATMENT FACILITIES.
   Within five days after completing installation of new pretreatment
facilities, the user shall notify the WWTP Superintendent in writing of the
time and date when it intends to commence operation of the new facilities, and
the identity of the person who will conduct any tests to be performed. The
pretreatment facilities shall not be placed in regular operation until adequate
tests have been conducted to establish that the discharges will comply with the
requirements of this chapter and other applicable laws and regulations. Upon
prior written request by the WWTP Superintendent, the user shall allow a
representative of the POTW to observe the tests at the time they are conducted.
The cost of the tests shall be paid by the user.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.098  OTHER REPORTS AND NOTICES REQUIRED BY THIS CHAPTER OR BY OTHER
APPLICABLE LAWS AND REGULATIONS.
   Users shall comply with all other reporting or notice requirements as
provided by this chapter, by any notice, order or permit issued under this
chapter, or as required by any other applicable law or regulation, including,
without limitation, the reporting and notice requirements in connection with
accidental discharge (§§
53.140 to
53.150), upset (§
53.165, and
53.166), bypass (§
53.180 to
53.183), and any other reports or notice requirements determined necessary by
the WWTP Superintendent to assess and assure compliance with the requirements
of this chapter.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.099  REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO ALL REPORTS AND NOTIFICATIONS.
   All reports and notifications submitted by a user to the POTW as required by
this chapter (or by any order, permit or determination issued or made pursuant
to this chapter) shall meet the following requirements:
   (A)   All reports required by this chapter shall be based upon data obtained
through appropriate sampling and analysis performed during the period covered
by the report. The data shall be representative of conditions occurring during
the applicable reporting period.
   (B)   If a user monitors any pollutant (or measures flow) more frequently
than required by this chapter or a wastewater discharge permit, using the
monitoring, sampling and analytical procedures as required by §
53.116, the results of all such additional monitoring shall be included in any
report or notification submitted pursuant to this chapter.
   (C)    The POTW may require that reports, notifications, and other required
documents and data be submitted in a standardized format, as specified by the
Superintendent.
   (D)   If the POTW instead of a user collects all of the information,
including flow data, required for a report required by §§
53.091 or
53.092, the WWTP Superintendent may in its discretion waive the requirement
that the report be submitted by the user.
   (E)   The reports, notifications, and other documents and data required to
be submitted or maintained by this chapter shall be subject to all of the
provisions as specified by MAC R 323.2310(13).
   (F)   Failure to provide the reports and notifications required by this
chapter constitutes an independent violation of this chapter. However,
compliance with applicable reporting and notification requirements shall not
relieve a user of any expense, loss, damage, or other liability that may be
incurred as a result of damage to the POTW, fish kills, or any other damage to
person or property; nor shall such report or notification relieve a user of any
fines, penalties, or other liability that may be imposed by applicable laws or
regulations. Further, the reporting and notification requirements required by
this chapter shall not be construed to authorize a discharge that exceeds a
discharge prohibition or limitation under this chapter or other applicable laws
or regulations.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.100  SIGNATURE AND CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   All written reports and notifications required by this chapter shall be
signed and certified as follows:
   (A)   Required signatures. The reports and notifications shall be signed by
an authorized representative of the user as defined in §
53.003 of this chapter.
   (B)   Required certification. The reports and notifications shall include
the following certification statement:
      “I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments
were prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system
designed to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the
information submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage
the system, or those persons directly responsible for gathering the
information, the information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and
belief, true, accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant
penalties for submitting false information, including the possibility of fine
and imprisonment for knowing violations.”
   (C)   Exception. If the POTW elects to perform instead of the user all or
any portion of the sampling or analysis otherwise required for a report or
notification, the user will not be required to comply with the certification
requirements for the sampling and analysis (or portion thereof) performed by
the POTW.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
SAMPLING, ANALYSIS, AND MONITORING
§ 53.115 APPLICATION OF SUBCHAPTER.
   This suchapter  provides the sampling, analysis and monitoring requirements
applicable to all users of the POTW. However, it does not apply to domestic
users except as may be determined appropriate by the POTW in specific cases.
All users required by this chapter (or by any permit, order, decision or
determination issued or made under this chapter) to sample, monitor and analyze
their discharges to the POTW shall do so according to the minimum requirements
provided by this subchapter. Additional or more restrictive sampling,
analytical or monitoring requirements may be required for a particular user by
a permit, order, decision or determination issued or made under this chapter.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.116  SAMPLING AND ANALYTICAL TECHNIQUES AND PROCEDURES.
   All sampling, measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of
discharges to the POTW shall be performed in accordance with the procedures
approved by the U.S. EPA contained in 40 C.F.R. part 136. If, as determined by
the WWTP Superintendent, the sampling and analytical techniques contained in 40
C.F.R. part 136 are not available, do not apply to the discharge or pollutants
in question, are not appropriate under the circumstances for application to the
discharge or pollutants in question, or where one or more alternate techniques
are available under 40 C.F.R. part 136, sampling and analysis shall be
performed using validated sampling and analytical methods and procedures
approved or required by the WWTP Superintendent.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.117  SAMPLING FREQUENCY.
   Users shall sample their discharges to the POTW at a frequency necessary to
assess and assure compliance with the requirements of this chapter, any permit
or order issued pursuant to this chapter, all applicable pretreatment standards
and requirements, other applicable state and federal laws and regulations, or
as otherwise determined necessary by the WWTP Superintendent consistent with
the purposes and intent of this chapter. At a minimum, all users shall sample
their effluent two times per year and report the results to the POTW unless
otherwise provided by the user's wastewater discharge permit. Each discharge
point to the POTW shall be sampled and reported individually.
§ 53.118  SAMPLE TYPES.
   Where representative samples are required to be taken, a user shall take a
minimum of four grab samples for pH, cyanide, phenols (T), residual chlorine,
oil and grease, sulfide, and volatile organics (and any other parameters
designated by the WWTP Superintendent). For all other pollutants, 24-hour
composite samples must be obtained through flow-proportional composite sampling
techniques. The WWTP Superintendent may waive flow-proportional composite
sampling for any user that demonstrates to the satisfaction of the WWTP
Superintendent that flow-proportional sampling is infeasible. If flow-
proportional sampling is waived, samples may instead be obtained through time-
proportional composite sampling techniques, or through a minimum of four grab
samples, if the user demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Superintendent
that this will provide a representative sample of the effluent being
discharged.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.119  SAMPLING METHODS, EQUIPMENT AND LOCATION.
   A user shall use the sampling methods, sampling equipment, and sampling
location specified by the user's wastewater discharge permit, or, in the
absence of a permit, as required by the WWTP Superintendent.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.120  COSTS OF MONITORING, SAMPLING AND ANALYSES.
   All required monitoring, taking of samples, and sample analyses shall be
solely at the user's cost.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.121  SELF-MONITORING.
   Except as otherwise provided by this chapter, self-monitoring shall be
conducted by each user to insure compliance with all applicable requirements of
this chapter and other applicable laws and regulations. A user performing its
own sampling shall submit the samples for analysis to a laboratory (which may
include the user's own laboratory) approved by the WWTP Superintendent. A user
performing its own sampling or monitoring shall record and maintain for all
samples and monitoring the date, exact place, time (including start time and
stop time) and method of sampling or measurement, and the name(s) of person(s)
taking the samples or measurements; sampler programming information; the sample
preservation techniques or procedures used; the full chain-of-custody for each
sample; the dates the analyses were performed; who performed the analyses; the
analytical techniques and methods used; quality assurance/quality control (QA/
QC) procedures used and QA/QC data; and the results of the analyses. If
sampling performed by a user indicates a violation, the user shall notify the
WWTP Superintendent within 24 hours of becoming aware of the violation. The
user shall also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the results of the
repeat analysis to the POTW within 30 days after becoming aware of the
violation (unless a shorter time period is specified by the WWTP Superintendent
to the user), except that the user shall not be required to resample if (a) the
POTW performs sampling at the user at a frequency of at least once per month,
or (b) the POTW performs sampling at the user between the time when the user
performs its initial sampling and the time when the user receives the results
of the sampling that indicates the violation. If a user uses its own laboratory
for sample analysis, the WWTP Superintendent may require the user to send split
samples to an independent laboratory at a frequency specified by the
Superintendent as a quality control check.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.122  SAMPLING AND ANALYSES PERFORMED BY POTW.
   (A)    The sampling and analysis required by this chapter may be performed
by the POTW instead of the user, as determined necessary by the WWTP
Superintendent for purposes of this chapter. The POTW shall provide the user
with copies of analytical results prepared by the POTW. If the results of any
sampling and analysis performed by the POTW instead of the user show that a
pretreatment standard has been violated, the POTW shall provide the user with
copies of the analytical results within ten days after the results are
available.
   (B)   If the POTW performs the required sampling and analysis for a user,
the user shall pay a sampling fee to the POTW to fully reimburse the POTW for
the sampling, including administrative and overhead costs. The POTW may
contract with an independent firm to perform the sampling and analysis and the
user shall fully reimburse the POTW for amounts paid by the POTW to the
independent firm.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.123  SPLIT SAMPLES.
   (A)   If requested by the WWTP Superintendent, the POTW shall be provided
with splits of any sample taken by a user.
   (B)   In cases of disputes arising over split samples, the portion taken and
analyzed by the POTW shall be controlling unless proven invalid by the user at
the user's sole cost.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.124  MAINTENANCE, REPAIR AND CALIBRATION OF EQUIPMENT.
   A user who is performing self-monitoring shall contract with an independent
company (unless the requirement to use an independent company is waived in
advance by the WWTP Superintendent as determined appropriate by the
Superintendent) to maintain, repair, and calibrate the sampling and flow
measurement equipment and instruments used to monitor the user. The
maintenance, repair, and calibration shall be performed as often as necessary
to ensure that monitoring data is accurate and representative, and consistent
with the accepted capability of the type of equipment used, and shall be at the
sole cost of the user. A user shall keep a complete and accurate written record
of all calibrations, inspections and maintenance done (including, without
limitation, the date and time of the activity, a description of what was done
and the methods used, the names of persons conducting the activity, and any
required or recommended follow-up). The record shall also include a description
of all problems discovered regarding the equipment whether in response to a
regularly scheduled inspection or otherwise. The POTW, in any event, may
inspect and test a user's sampling and flow measurement equipment and
instruments at all reasonable times.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.125  REQUIRED SAMPLING STRUCTURES AND DEVICES.
   (A)   The WWTP Superintendent may require any user to install at each
discharge point a suitable control structure (such as a manhole or sampling
vault) and necessary measuring and sampling devices (including automatic
devices) to facilitate the observation, sampling, and measurement of the
quantity, composition, and concentrations of discharges to the POTW.
   (B)   There shall be ample room in or near the control structure to allow
accurate monitoring, measuring, sampling and preparation of samples for
analysis, as determined necessary by the WWTP Superintendent. At a minimum, all
sewers shall have an inspection and sampling manhole or structure with an
opening of no less than 24 inches in diameter and an internal diameter of no
less than 36 inches containing flow measuring, recording and sampling equipment
as required by the WWTP Superintendent to assure compliance with this chapter.
   (C)   The location and complexity of the required control structure or
devices may vary with sampling requirements determined necessary by the WWTP
Superintendent to protect the POTW and to comply with applicable laws and
regulations.
   (D)   The required sampling structures and devices shall be constructed and
installed at the user's sole expense in accordance with plans submitted to the
WWTP Superintendent, and in compliance with all applicable local construction
standards and specifications. Construction shall be completed within 90 days
following written notification by the WWTP Superintendent, or within such other
shorter or longer time period specified by the WWTP Superintendent as required
by the particular circumstances to meet the requirements of this chapter. The
structures and devices shall be operated and maintained by the user at the
user's sole expense so as to be safe and accessible to POTW personnel during
all reasonable times and so as to provide accurate and representative
monitoring data. If a user fails to install or maintain a required structure or
device, the POTW may do so and charge the costs to the user.
   (E)   The sampling structures and devices must be provided on the user's
premises as approved by the WWTP Superintendent, but the Superintendent may, if
the Superintendent determines that such a location would be impractical or
cause undue hardship to the user, allow the facility to be constructed in the
public street or sidewalk area and located so that it will not be obstructed by
landscaping or parked vehicles.
   (F)   Samples shall be taken at a control structure approved by the WWTP
Superintendent. However, in the absence of a suitable control structure as
required by this section, samples shall be taken immediately downstream from
pretreatment facilities if pretreatment facilities exist, or immediately
downstream from the regulated process if no pretreatment facilities exist. If
other wastewaters are mixed with a regulated process wastestream prior to
pretreatment, the user must measure the flows and concentrations necessary to
allow use of the combined wastestream formula under MAC R 323.2311(7) or other
methods required by the WWTP Superintendent to evaluate compliance with
applicable pretreatment standards and requirements.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGES
§ 53.140  GENERAL.
   This suchapter sets forth minimum requirements for industrial users to
prepare for, respond to, and report, accidental discharges to the POTW.
Additional or more restrictive requirements may be required for particular
users under a wastewater discharge permit, a slug control plan, or by other
applicable laws and regulations.
   (A)   Each user shall provide and continuously maintain protection from
accidental discharge of materials or other substances regulated by this chapter
as provided by this subchapter.
   (B)   Detailed plans showing facilities and operating procedures to provide
the protections required by this subchapter shall be submitted to the WWTP
Superintendent for review. All existing users shall submit the required plans
and information with their permit applications or upon request of the WWTP
Superintendent. For new sources, facilities and operating procedures to provide
the protections required by this subchapter shall be approved by the WWTP
Superintendent prior to commencing discharge. No user who commences discharging
to the POTW after the effective date of this chapter shall be permitted to
introduce pollutants into the system until accidental discharge facilities and
procedures as provided by this section are in place and have been approved by
the WWTP Superintendent.
   (C)   Facilities to prevent accidental discharge of regulated materials or
substances shall be provided and maintained at the user's cost and expense.
Review and approval by the WWTP Superintendent of plans and operating
procedures shall not relieve the industrial user from the responsibility to
modify the user's facility as necessary to meet the requirements of this
chapter. Compliance with the requirements of this subchapter shall not relieve
a user of any expense, loss, damage, or other liability that may be incurred as
a result of damage to the POTW, or for any other damage to persons or property,
or for any other liability that may be imposed under this chapter or under
other applicable laws and regulations.
   (D)   No change shall be made in any plan or procedure approved by the WWTP
Superintendent as provided by this section without the prior review and
approval of the WWTP Superintendent.
   (E)   All users shall notify the WWTP Superintendent in writing within five
days of any change in the information required to be provided to the POTW as
set forth below in this Section (including, without limitation, information
regarding the person in charge of discharge operations, the description of
chemicals stored, used or manufactured by the user, the description of user
discharges, and the description of user premises).
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.141  DESIGNATION OF PERSON IN CHARGE OF DISCHARGE OPERATIONS.
   Each industrial user shall designate at least one person to be in charge of
and responsible for the user's discharges to the POTW, including responsibility
for maintaining pretreatment facilities and operations, if any, and prevention
of accidental discharges (person in charge). The person so designated shall be
an individual or a position with knowledge of all toxic wastes or hazardous
substances routinely or potentially generated by the user, and of all process
alterations that could, in any manner, increase or decrease normal daily flow
or waste strength to the POTW. The names of the person (or persons) designated
as provided by this Section and a phone number where the person can be reached
shall be submitted by each user to the POTW.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.142  DESCRIPTION OF CHEMICALS STORED, USED OR MANUFACTURED BY USER.
   Each industrial user shall catalog all chemicals stored, used, or
manufactured by the user at the user's premises. The list of chemicals shall
include specific chemical names (not just manufacturer's codes) and shall be
provided to the POTW.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.143  DESCRIPTION OF USER DISCHARGES.
   Each industrial user shall provide the POTW with a written description of
the user's discharge practices, including an estimate of daily average flows,
waste strengths, and flow types, separated according to appropriate categories,
including process, cooling, sanitary, and other types of discharges.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.144  DESCRIPTION OF USER PREMISES.
   Each industrial user shall provide to the POTW a sketch of the user's plant
building(s), including the location of pretreatment equipment, process and
chemical storage areas, floor drains located near process and storage areas,
manhole or other control structures, and sewer locations at the user's point of
discharge into the POTW.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.145  SEGREGATION OF WASTEWATERS REQUIRING PRETREATMENT.
   Industrial users shall segregate wastewaters requiring pretreatment
(including, without limitation, spent concentrates, toxics, and high strength
organic wastes) as necessary to prevent pollutants from interfering with or
passing through the POTW. All sludges generated by pretreatment shall be used
and disposed of only as permitted by applicable local, state and federal laws
and regulations.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.146  SECONDARY CONTAINMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   Each industrial user must provide and maintain at the user's expense
secondary spill containment structures (including diking, curbing or other
appropriate structures) adequate to protect all floor drains from accidental
spills and discharges to the POTW of any pollutants or discharges regulated by
this chapter. The containment or curbing shall be sufficient to hold not less
than 150% of the total process area tank volume and not less than 150% of
liquid polluting material stored or used, unless a lesser containment area or
alternate control measures are approved in advance by the WWTP Superintendent.
The containment area shall be constructed so that no liquid polluting material
can escape from the area by gravity through the building sewers, drains, or
otherwise directly or indirectly into the POTW. All floor drains found within
the containment area must be plugged and sealed. Spill troughs and sumps within
process areas must discharge to appropriate pretreatment tanks. Emergency
containment shall also be provided for storage tanks that may be serviced by
commercial haulers and for chemical storage areas. Solid pollutants shall be
located in security areas designed to prevent the loss of the materials to the
POTW. Detailed plans showing facilities and operating procedures to provide the
protection required by this Section shall be submitted to the WWTP
Superintendent for review, and shall be approved by the Superintendent before
construction. Construction of approved containment for existing sources shall
be completed within the time period specified by the WWTP Superintendent. No
new source shall be permitted to discharge to the POTW until emergency
containment facilities have been approved and constructed as required by this
Section. The WWTP Superintendent may order an industrial user to take interim
measures for emergency containment as determined necessary by the
Superintendent under the circumstances.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.147  SUBMISSION OF POLLUTION INCIDENT PREVENTION PLAN.
   Each industrial user required to develop a pollution incident prevention
(PIP) plan as provided by Part 5 of the Michigan Water Resources Commission
Rules, 1979 ACR 323.1151 et seq., as amended (promulgated pursuant to Part 31
of Act 451 of the Public Acts of Michigan of 1994, M.C.L.A. §§ 324.3101 et
seq., as amended), shall submit a copy of that plan to the WWTP Superintendent.
The PIP Plan shall be submitted to the Superintendent within 60 days of the
effective date of this chapter for an existing source, or 30 days prior to the
date of discharge for a new source.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.148  POSTING OF ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE INFORMATION.
   All industrial users shall post a clearly legible set of instructions in the
area where the user manages wastewater so that the applicable reporting and
notice requirements are made known and are available to the user's employees.
In addition, all industrial users shall instruct their employees on the
applicable reporting and notice requirements of this section.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.149  NOTICE OF ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE.
   In the case of an accidental discharge, an industrial user shall immediately
notify the WWTP Superintendent of the incident by telephone. The notification
shall include available information regarding the location of the discharge,
its volume, duration, constituents, loading and concentrations, corrective
actions taken and required, and other available information as necessary to
determine what impact the discharge may have on the POTW. A detailed written
report providing the same and any additional available information (including
specifying the measures that will be taken by the user to prevent similar
future discharges) shall also be provided by the user to the WWTP
Superintendent within five days of the incident.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.150  SLUG CONTROL PLAN.
   (A)   Each significant industrial user shall prepare and implement an
individualized slug control plan. Existing significant industrial users shall
submit a slug control plan to the WWTP Superintendent for approval within 90
days of the effective date of this chapter. New sources that are significant
industrial users shall submit a slug control plan to the WWTP Superintendent
for approval before beginning to discharge. Upon written notice from the WWTP
Superintendent, industrial users that are not significant industrial users may
also be required to prepare and implement a slug control plan, and the plan
shall be submitted to the WWTP Superintendent for approval as specified in the
notice. All slug control plans shall contain at least the following elements:
      (1)   A description of discharge practices, including non-routine batch
discharges;
      (2)   A description of stored chemicals;
      (3)   The procedures for immediately notifying the POTW of slug
discharges, including any discharge that would violate any discharge
prohibition, limitation or requirement under this subchapter, and procedures
for follow-up written notification within five days of the discharge;
      (4)   The procedures to prevent adverse impact from accidental spills,
including inspection and maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of
materials, loading and unloading operations, control of plant site run-off,
worker training, building of containment structures or equipment, measures for
containing toxic organic pollutants (including solvents), and measures and
equipment for emergency response.
   (B)   If a user has submitted to the WWTP Superintendent plans or documents
pursuant to other requirements of local, state or federal laws and regulations
which meet all applicable requirements of §
53.150(A), the WWTP Superintendent may in the Superintendent's discretion
determine that the user has satisfied the slug plan submission requirements of
this section.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
UPSET AND ADDITIONAL AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES
§ 53.165  UPSET.
   An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action brought for
noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards if all of the
requirements of division (A), below, are met. However, in the event of an
upset, the user may still be liable for surcharges for exceeding applicable
discharge limitations as provided by this chapter. In any enforcement
proceeding, the user seeking to establish the occurrence of an upset shall have
the burden of proof.
   (A)   Conditions necessary to demonstrate upset. A user seeking to establish
the affirmative defense of upset must demonstrate, through properly signed,
contemporaneous operating logs, or other relevant evidence, all of the
following:
      (1)   An upset occurred and the user can identify the cause(s) of the
upset;
      (2)   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workmanlike manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures;
      (3)   The user has submitted the following information to the POTW within
24 hours of becoming aware of the upset (if this information is provided
orally, a written submission containing the same information must be provided
within five days of becoming aware of the upset):
         (a)   A description of the discharge and cause of non-compliance;
         (b)   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times or,
if not corrected, the anticipated time the non-compliance is expected to
continue; and
         (c)   The steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate, and
prevent
recurrence of the noncompliance.
   (B)   User responsibility in case of upset. The user shall control
production or all discharges to the extent necessary to maintain compliance
with categorical pretreatment standards and other applicable limits upon
reduction, loss, or failure of its treatment facility until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
of the treatment facility is reduced, lost, or fails.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.166  ADDITIONAL AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES.
   A user shall have an affirmative defense in any action brought against it
alleging a violation of the general prohibitions under §
53.050(A) and specific prohibitions under §
53.050(B)(5), (6), (7) or (8) if the user can demonstrate that all of the
conditions necessary to establish the defense under MAC R 323.2303(3)(a) and
(b) are met. However, even if the affirmative defense is established, the user
may still be liable for surcharges for exceeding applicable discharge
limitations as provided by this chapter. In any enforcement proceeding, the
user seeking to establish the affirmative defenses provided by MAC R 323.2303
(3) shall have the burden of proof.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
BYPASS
§ 53.180  BYPASS NOT VIOLATING APPLICABLE PRETREATMENT STANDARDS OR
REQUIREMENTS.
   An industrial user may allow any bypass to occur that does not cause
pretreatment standards or requirements to be violated, but only if the bypass
is for essential maintenance to assure efficient operation. A bypass that meets
the requirements of the preceding sentence of this section is not subject to
the provisions in §§
53.181,
53.182 and
53.183. However, nothing in this section shall be construed to authorize a
discharge that exceeds a discharge prohibition or limitation under this chapter
or other applicable laws or regulations; nor to relieve a user for any expense,
loss, damage, or liability that may be incurred as a result of the bypass, such
as damage to the POTW, fish kills, or any other damage to person or property;
nor to relieve the user of any fines, penalties or other liability that may be
imposed by applicable laws or regulations as a result of the bypass.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.181  BYPASS PROHIBITED.
   Except as provided by §
53.180, the bypass of industrial wastes from any portion of an industrial
user's facility is prohibited, and shall be subject to enforcement action,
unless all of the following apply:
   (A)   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury, or
severe property damage.
   (B)   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the use of
auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated waste, or maintenance
during normal periods of equipment downtime. (This condition is not satisfied
if adequate backup equipment should have been installed in the exercise of
reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass that occurred during normal
periods of equipment downtime or preventative maintenance.)
   (C)   The industrial user submitted the notices as required under §
53.182.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.182  REQUIRED NOTICES.
   (A)   Anticipated bypass.  If an industrial user knows in advance of the
need for a bypass, it must submit prior notice of the bypass to the WWTP
Superintendent. Such notice shall be submitted to the WWTP Superintendent as
soon as the user becomes aware of the need for the bypass, and if possible, at
least ten days before the date of the bypass.
   (B)   Unanticipated bypass. An industrial user shall submit oral notice of
an unanticipated bypass that exceeds applicable pretreatment standards to the
WWTP Superintendent within 24 hours from the time the industrial user becomes
aware of the bypass. A written submission shall also be provided within five
days of the time the industrial user becomes aware of the bypass. The written
submission shall contain a description of the bypass and its cause; the
duration of the bypass, including exact dates and times, and, if the bypass has
not been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected to continue; and steps
taken or planned to reduce, eliminate, and prevent reoccurrence of the bypass.
The WWTP Superintendent may waive the written report on a case-by-case basis if
the oral report has been received within 24 hours.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.183  POTW APPROVED BYPASS.
   The WWTP Superintendent may approve an anticipated bypass after considering
its adverse effects, if the Superintendent determines that it meets the
conditions set forth in §
53.181(A), (B) and (C). It shall be a violation of this chapter for a user to
allow an anticipated bypass to occur without the prior approval of the
Superintendent.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION
§ 53.200  CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   The following provisions shall apply regarding the treatment by the POTW of
confidential information submitted to or obtained by the POTW in the
administration of this chapter:
   (A)    Information and data regarding a user obtained from reports,
questionnaires, permit applications, permits and monitoring programs, and from
inspections shall be available to the public or other governmental agency
without restriction unless the user specifically requests at the time of
submission and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the WWTP
Superintendent that the release of such information would divulge information,
processes or methods of production entitled to protection as trade secrets of
the user.
   (B)   Information submitted by a user for which confidentiality is requested
shall be clearly marked on each page as to the portion or portions considered
by the user to be confidential and shall be accompanied by a written
explanation of why the user considers the information to be confidential or why
the release of the information would divulge information, processes or methods
of production entitled to protection as trade secrets of the user.
   (C)   Information that may disclose trade secrets or trade secret processes,
and for which the user has requested confidentiality as provided by this
section, shall not be made available for inspection by the general public;
however, that information shall be made available upon written request to
governmental agencies for uses related to matters regulated by this chapter and
shall be made available for use by the state, any state agency, the local unit
or the POTW in judicial review or enforcement proceedings that involve the user
that furnished the information. The POTW shall notify the user ten days in
advance if it intends to release confidential information to another
governmental agency as authorized by this Section.
   (D)   Information furnished to the POTW on the volume or characteristics of
wastewater or pollutants discharged or proposed to be discharged into the POTW
shall be available to the public or other governmental agency without
restriction.
   (E)   If a user has mass-based limits as allowed by certain categorical
pretreatment standards on a production basis, the production data necessary to
determine compliance must also be provided by the user to the POTW, and shall
be available to the public. If application of the combined waste stream formula
is necessary to apply categorical pretreatment standards to a user, the flow
measurements and other data used in the calculation must be provided by the
user to the POTW, and shall be available to the public.
   (F)   Observations made by POTW inspectors shall be subject to the
confidentiality provisions of this section as if they were in writing if the
user specifies to the inspectors in writing for which particular observations
made by the inspector the user seeks confidentiality.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
RECORDS RETENTION
§ 53.210  MAINTENANCE OF RECORDS.
   All industrial users shall retain and preserve records, including, without
limitation, all books, documents, memoranda, reports, correspondence and
similar materials, related to matters regulated by this chapter as provided by
the minimum requirements of this section or as provided by a permit or order
issued pursuant to this chapter.
   (A)   Discharge records. An industrial user shall retain, preserve, and make
available to the POTW for inspection and copying, for the period specified in
division (C) below, all records related to matters regulated by this chapter,
including, without limitation, all documents, memoranda, correspondence and
similar materials; copies of all required reports and notifications; all
calibration and maintenance records and all original strip chart recordings for
continuous monitoring instrumentation; copies of results of all sampling,
monitoring, measurements and analyses; and records of all data used to complete
the application for a permit. Any industrial user subject to the sampling,
monitoring, analysis, or reporting requirements of this chapter shall maintain
copies of all records and information pertaining to those requirements or
resulting from any monitoring activities (whether or not such monitoring
activities are required by this chapter). For all samples, the records shall
include, at a minimum, the information required to be recorded by §
53.121 of this chapter.
   (B)   Hazardous or solid waste. An industrial user shall retain and preserve
all records regarding its generation, treatment, storage, or disposal of
hazardous waste or solid waste for the period specified in division (C) below,
and shall make them available to the POTW for inspection and copying, subject
to the provisions in this chapter regarding confidential information. (The
terms “hazardous waste” and “solid waste” shall have the same definition as
provided in the state hazardous waste management act, Part 111 of Act 451 of
the Public Acts of Michigan of 1994, M.C.L.A. §§ 324.11101 et seq., as amended,
and the rules promulgated under that act.)
   (C)   Retention period. Users subject to the reporting requirements of this
chapter (or of any permit or order issued pursuant to this chapter) shall
retain the records specified in divisions (A) and (B) above for a period of at
least three years from (a) the date the record was created or (b) the date the
record was first used or relied upon by the user, whichever is later. The
three-year retention period shall be extended during any administrative or
judicial action, enforcement proceeding or litigation regarding matters
regulated by this chapter (or regarding discharges of the POTW under its NPDES
permit), until all such actions, proceedings, or activities have concluded and
all periods of limitation with respect to any and all appeals have expired. The
three-year retention period may also be extended at any time at the request of
the POTW, the local unit, the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality, or
the U.S. EPA.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
ADMINISTRATION OF THE POTW
§ 53.220  OPERATION AND MANAGEMENT OF POTW.
   Except as otherwise expressly provided by this chapter, the operation,
maintenance, alteration, repair and management of the POTW shall be under the
supervision and control of the WWTP Superintendent. The WWTP Superintendent is
charged with the duty of investigating, preventing and abating violations and
enforcing the provisions of this chapter, and may establish any rules,
regulations and procedures as determined necessary to assure the efficient
management and operation of the POTW.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.221  POWERS OF WWTP SUPERINTENDENT.
   The WWTP Superintendent is empowered, either directly, through authorized
representatives, or in conjunction with the local unit, to take the following
actions:
   (A)   Supervise the implementation of this chapter.
   (B)   Review plans submitted by users for pretreatment equipment.
   (C)   Make inspections and tests of existing and newly installed,
constructed, reconstructed, or altered sampling, metering, or pretreatment
equipment to determine compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Verify the completeness, accuracy and representativeness of self-
monitoring data submitted and/or maintained by users.
   (E)   Investigate complaints of violations of this chapter, make inspections
and observations of discharges, and maintain a record of the investigations,
complaints, inspections and observations.
   (F)   Issue orders and notices of violation and take other actions as
necessary to require compliance with this chapter.
   (G)   Assess civil administrative fines for violations of this chapter or of
any permit, order, decision or determination promulgated, issued or made under
this chapter.
   (H)   Develop and implement a Control Authority Enforcement Response (CAER)
Plan as required by 40 C.F.R. § 403.8(f)(5). The CAER Plan shall provide
procedures for the POTW to investigate and respond to instances of
noncompliance by industrial users. The CAER Plan and any associated regulations
developed by the WWTP Superintendent shall become effective upon approval by
the Director.
   (I)   With the approval of the Director and notice to the local unit, and,
as necessary, in conjunction with the POTW's legal counsel and/or the local
unit and the local unit's legal counsel, institute necessary civil or criminal
judicial legal actions and proceedings in a court of competent jurisdiction
against all users violating this chapter to prosecute violations of this
chapter, to compel the abatement or prevention of violations, to compel
compliance with this chapter and any order, determination, permit or agreement
issued or entered into under this chapter, and to pursue other necessary or
advisable judicial relief or remedies with respect to violations of this
chapter.
   (J)   Issue municipal civil infraction citations and municipal civil
infraction violation notices for violations of this chapter.
   (K)   Perform any other actions authorized by this chapter, or as necessary
or advisable for the supervision, management and operation of the POTW and the
enforcement of this chapter and other applicable laws and regulations (subject
to the rights, powers and duties in respect thereto that are reserved by law to
the other officials or governmental bodies).
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE OF USER POLLUTION CONTROLS
§ 53.235  PROVISION BY USERS OF NECESSARY PRETREATMENT FACILITIES.
   Users shall provide necessary wastewater treatment as required to comply
with all applicable pretreatment standards and requirements within the time
limitations specified by applicable law or regulation. All facilities required
to pretreat wastewater shall be provided, operated, and maintained at the
user's sole expense. Detailed plans showing the pretreatment facilities and
operating procedures shall be submitted to the WWTP Superintendent for review,
and shall be acceptable to the WWTP Superintendent before construction of the
facility. The review of such plans and operating procedures does not in any way
relieve the user from the responsibility of modifying the facility as necessary
to produce an effluent acceptable to the WWTP Superintendent under the
provisions of this chapter. Any subsequent changes in the pretreatment
facilities or method of operation shall be reported to and be approved by the
WWTP Superintendent prior to the user's initiation of the changes. (Users shall
notify the WWTP Superintendent regarding the installation of new pretreatment
facilities as provided by §
53.097 of this chapter.)
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.236  PROPER OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   A user shall at all times properly operate and maintain all facilities and
systems of treatment and control (and related appurtenances) that are installed
or used by the user to comply with the requirements of this chapter, as
determined necessary by the WWTP Superintendent. Proper operation and
maintenance includes, without limitation, effective performance, adequate
funding, adequate operator staffing, and adequate quality assurance/quality
control (QA/QC) procedures for sampling and analysis.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.237  REMOVED SUBSTANCES.
   Solids, sludges, filter backwash, or other pollutants removed in the course
of treatment or control of wastewaters shall be disposed of in accordance with
§ 405 of the Clean Water Act and Subtitles C and D of the Resource Conservation
and Recovery Act, and other applicable local, state, and federal laws and
regulations.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.238  DUTY TO HALT OR REDUCE ACTIVITY.
   Upon reduction of efficiency of operation, or loss, or failure of all or
part of a user's pretreatment equipment or facility, the user shall, to the
extent necessary to maintain compliance with categorical pretreatment standards
and other applicable standards, requirements, and limits, control its
production and all discharges until operation of the equipment or facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in situations, including, without limitation, where the primary source
of power for the pretreatment equipment or facility is reduced, lost, or fails.
It shall not be a defense for a user in an enforcement action that it would
have been necessary to halt or reduce the permitted activity in order to
maintain compliance with the conditions of this chapter.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.239  DUTY TO MITIGATE.
   A user shall take all reasonable steps to minimize or correct any adverse
impact to the POTW or the environment resulting from noncompliance with this
chapter, including such accelerated or additional monitoring as necessary to
determine the nature and impact of the noncomplying discharge.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.240  DUTY TO PRETREAT PRIOR TO DISCHARGE TO POTW.
   Except as otherwise expressly required by this chapter, by a wastewater
discharge permit or order pursuant to this chapter, or other applicable law or
regulation, the prohibitions and limitations provided by this chapter or a
wastewater discharge permit shall apply at the point where wastewater and
pollutants are discharged or caused to be discharged into the POTW and any
required pretreatment shall, at a minimum, be completed before that point of
discharge is reached.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 53.255  INSPECTION, SURVEILLANCE AND MONITORING AUTHORITY; RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   In general.  The POTW is authorized to carry out all inspection,
surveillance, sampling and monitoring activities and procedures, as necessary
to determine, independent of information supplied by industrial users or any
other persons, compliance or noncompliance with applicable pretreatment
standards and requirements, with this chapter, and with other applicable laws
and regulations. This authority includes, without limitation, the authority,
either directly, or in conjunction with the local unit:
      (1)   To verify the completeness, accuracy and representativeness of
self-monitoring data submitted by users.
      (2)   To determine compliance with the requirements of this chapter or
with wastewater discharge permits.
      (3)   To support enforcement actions taken by the POTW against non-
compliant users.
      (4)   To determine if users have corrected problems identified in
previous inspections.
      (5)   To identify which (and to what degree) users influence the quality
of the POTW's influent, effluent and sludge quality.
      (6)   To evaluate the impacts of the POTW's influent on its treatment
processes and receiving stream.
      (7)   To evaluate the need for revised local limits.
      (8)   To maintain current data on each user.
      (9)   To assess the adequacy of each user's self-monitoring program and
wastewater discharge permit.
      (10)   To provide a basis for establishing sampling and monitoring
requirements for users.
      (11)   To evaluate the adequacy of each user's operation and maintenance
activities on its pretreatment system.
      (12)   To assess the potential for spills and/or slug discharge control
measures, and evaluate the effectiveness of spill and slug discharge control
measures.
      (13)   To gather information for industrial user permit development.
      (14)   To evaluate compliance with existing enforcement actions.
      (15)   To require any user to submit one or more representative samples
of the wastewater discharged or that the user proposes to discharge into the
POTW.
   (B)   Right of entry. The WWTP Superintendent and other authorized
representatives of the POTW or the local unit bearing proper credentials and
identification are authorized to enter a user's premises to conduct inspection,
surveillance and monitoring activities as necessary to determine compliance
with this chapter, and in that regard shall have, without limitation, the
following minimum authority:
      (1)   To enter into any premises of any user in which a discharge source,
treatment system or activity is located or in which records are required to be
kept as provided by this chapter, for the purpose of inspecting, observing,
measuring, sampling and testing the wastewater discharge, removing samples of
wastewater for analysis, and inspecting and making copies of required records.
      (2)   To set up and maintain on the discharger's property such devices as
are necessary to conduct sampling, inspection, compliance monitoring and/or
metering operations, or to require the discharger to do so, at the discharger's
sole expense.
      (3)   To randomly sample and analyze the effluent from users and conduct
surveillance activities to identify occasional and continuing noncompliance
with applicable standards and requirements. The POTW shall inspect and sample
the effluent from each significant industrial user at least once a year.
      (4)   To inspect any production, manufacturing, fabrication, or storage
area where pollutants, subject to regulation under this chapter, could
originate, be stored, or be discharged to the POTW.
      (5)   To enter all private properties through which the local unit, POTW,
or other governmental agency holds an easement for the purposes of, but not
limited to, inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, repair, and
maintenance of any portion of the POTW or wastewater transmission facilities
lying within the easement.
   (C)   Compliance with user’s plant safety requirements. Representatives of
the POTW entering a user's premises for purposes authorized by this chapter
shall comply with the user's plant safety requirements regarding such matters
as entry into confined spaces, use of safety glasses, and hearing protection
requirements, as requested by the user.
   (D)   Access without delay required. Users shall allow POTW representatives
ready access at all reasonable times to all parts of the user's facility where
wastewater governed by this chapter is created, handled, conveyed, treated or
discharged, or where any production, manufacturing, fabrication, or storage
area where pollutants regulated under this chapter could originate, be stored,
or be discharged to the POTW, or where wastewater records are kept, for the
purposes of inspection, sampling, records examination, or in the performance of
any of the POTW's duties. If a user has security measures in force that would
require proper identification and clearance before entry into the premises by
the POTW, the user shall make necessary arrangements in advance with its
security guards so that upon presentation of suitable identification,
authorized representatives of the POTW (or authorized state or federal
personnel) will be permitted to enter, without delay, for the purposes of
performing their specific responsibilities.
   (E)   Refusal to allow entry. If a user refuses to permit access to an
authorized POTW representative or to permit the representative to obtain, take,
and remove samples or make copies of documents or undertake other authorized
inspection, surveillance and monitoring activities as provided by this chapter,
the WWTP Superintendent may order the termination of the discharge of
wastewater to the POTW; order the user to permit access within a time certain;
issue the user a notice of violation of this section; or take other appropriate
action as provided by this chapter and other applicable laws and regulations.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.256  NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Any person found to be violating a provision of this chapter may be served
with written notice stating the nature of the violation and providing a
reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction of the violation. The
person shall, within the period of time stated in notice, permanently cease all
violations. The notice of violation shall be served and shall contain the
information as provided by §
53.258 of this chapter.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.257  ORDERS.
   The WWTP Superintendent may, either directly or in conjunction with the
local unit, issue an order to any user as determined by the Superintendent to
be appropriate under the circumstances, as provided by this section. Multiple
orders may be issued simultaneously or in combination as a single order with
respect to a single discharger.
   (A)   Service. An order shall be served upon a user and shall contain the
information as provided by §
53.258 of this chapter. However, orders to immediately cease and desist
discharge, or to terminate sewer services, or other emergency orders where
delay might endanger human health, the environment or the POTW, may be oral and
may be served by telephone (to be followed within five days by written
confirmation of the order by the WWTP Superintendent).
   (B)   Types of orders. The WWTP Superintendent may issue the following types
of orders:
      (1)   Order to immediately cease and desist discharge. The WWTP
Superintendent may issue an order to cease and desist from discharging any
wastewater, incompatible pollutant, or discharge not in compliance with this
chapter. The order shall have immediate effect if the actual or threatened
discharge of pollutants to the system presents, or may present, imminent or
substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons, to the
environment, or causes, or may cause, interference or pass through. The WWTP
Superintendent shall implement whatever action is necessary to halt the illegal
discharge. The user shall be assessed for any penalties, fines, charges,
surcharges, expenses, or losses incurred due to the actual or threatened
discharge of pollutants as provided by this chapter.
      (2)   Order to cease discharge within a time certain. The WWTP
Superintendent may issue an order to cease and desist from discharging any
wastewater, incompatible pollutant, or discharge not in compliance with this
chapter by a certain time and date. The proposed time for remedial action shall
be specified in the order. In addition to other circumstances as determined
appropriate by the WWTP Superintendent, the failure to pay applicable permit
fees or to comply with any term of a wastewater discharge permit constitutes
sufficient cause to issue an order under this section.
      (3)   Order to effect pretreatment. The WWTP Superintendent may issue an
order to a user requiring the user to pretreat its discharge in accordance with
this chapter. Any user subject to an order to pretreat shall prepare a plan to
pretreat its discharge so that the discharge complies with the requirements of
the order and this chapter. The plan shall be submitted to the WWTP
Superintendent within a reasonable period as specified in the order. The plan
shall be prepared in accordance with good engineering practice and shall state
whether construction is necessary, as well as identify measures that can be
completed without construction. The plan shall contain a schedule of compliance
for completion of each of the various phases necessary to implement full
pretreatment. The schedule of compliance must be approved by the WWTP
Superintendent. The schedule of compliance shall consist of one or more
remedial measures, including enforceable timetables for a sequence of actions
or operations leading to compliance with an effluent standard, or other
prohibition or standard. The following steps or phases shall be included in the
schedule of compliance as determined necessary by the WWTP Superintendent:
         (a)   Retain a qualified engineer and/or consultant.
         (b)   Obtain any engineering or scientific investigation or surveys
deemed
necessary.
         (c)   Prepare and submit a preliminary plan to achieve pretreatment.
         (d)   Prepare plans and specifications, working drawings, or other
engineering or architectural documents that may be necessary to effect
pretreatment.
         (e)   Establish a time to let any contract necessary for any
construction.
         (f)   Establish completion times for any construction necessary.
         (g)   Establish a time limit to complete full pretreatment pursuant to
the final order.
         (h)   If a phase or unit of construction or implementation may be
effected independently of another phase or unit, establish separate timetables
for the phases or unit.
      (4)   Order to perform affirmative action. The WWTP Superintendent may
issue an order requiring a user to perform any action required under this
chapter, including, without limitation, requiring a user to submit samples; to
install sampling, metering and monitoring equipment; to submit reports; to
permit access for inspection, sampling, testing, monitoring and investigations;
to reduce or eliminate a discharge or pollutants in a discharge; or to pay
permit fees or other applicable charges.
      (5)   Order to terminate sewer services. The WWTP Superintendent may
issue an order to terminate the sewer services of a user, including physical
blockage of the user's sewer connection, for reasons including, without
limitation, the following:
         (a)   A discharge that violates any general or specific discharge
prohibition, including any pretreatment standard or requirement, and that
reasonably appears to present an imminent endangerment to human health, the
environment or the POTW.
         (b)   Failure of a user to notify the POTW of any discharge as
described in division (B)(5)(a) of which the user was aware or reasonably
should have been aware.
         (c)   Failure of a user to sample, monitor, pretreat or report, or
failure to install monitoring or pretreatment facilities, as required by an
order of the WWTP Superintendent.
         (d)   A knowing, willful violation of any term, condition or
requirement of an order or wastewater discharge permit, or any provision of
this chapter.
         (e)   A negligent violation of any major term, condition or
requirement of an order or wastewater discharge permit. For purposes of this
Section, a “major” term, condition or requirement is one the violation of which
is reasonably likely to endanger human health, the environment or the POTW.
   (C)   Immediate response to order by user may be required. Any user issued
an order as provided by this section to immediately suspend its discharge to
the POTW shall immediately stop or eliminate the discharge using whatever means
are necessary to do so, or take any other action as required by the order. If
the user fails to comply voluntarily with the order to immediately suspend its
discharge, the POTW shall take any action determined necessary as authorized by
this chapter, including, without limitation, immediate suspension of water
service and/or severance of the sewer connection or commencement of judicial
proceedings, to prevent or minimize damage to the POTW or endangerment to
public health, safety or the environment. The POTW may reinstate the wastewater
treatment service and terminate any judicial proceedings, as applicable, upon
satisfactory proof or other demonstration by the user that the noncomplying
discharge has been eliminated or will not reoccur. A detailed written statement
submitted by the user describing the causes of the noncomplying discharge and
the measures taken to prevent any further occurrence shall be submitted to the
WWTP Superintendent within 15 days of the occurrence.
   (D)   Noncompliance due to factors beyond user's control. If noncompliance
with an order is unintentional and temporary and due to factors beyond the
reasonable control of a user, and the user can demonstrate the conditions
necessary for demonstration of an upset as provided by §
53.165(A), the WWTP Superintendent may modify the order or take other actions
as determined appropriate. However, a user shall not be relieved of liability
for noncompliance with an order to the extent caused by operational error,
improperly designed or inadequate treatment facilities, lack of preventative
maintenance, or careless or improper operation.
   (E)   Amendment, suspension and revocation of orders. An order shall be
subject to amendment, suspension or revocation as determined appropriate by the
WWTP Superintendent. Notice of the amendment, suspension or revocation shall be
served upon the user in the same manner as notice was provided for the original
order. An amendment, suspension or revocation of an order shall be subject to
the same procedures for review and appeal as the original issuance of the
order, as provided by this chapter.
   (F)   Consent orders and agreements. The WWTP Superintendent may enter into
a consent order or agreement with a user to resolve disputed claims and address
identified and potential deficiencies in the user's compliance status. The
order or agreement shall be in the form of a written agreement with the user
and may contain appropriate provisions, including, without limitation,
compliance schedules and stipulated fines and remedial actions.
   (G)   POTW authority to require financial assurances. The POTW may require a
noncompliant industrial user to post a performance bond (or other form of
surety acceptable to the POTW) sufficient to cover expenses that might
reasonably be incurred as a result of future violations. Industrial users that
have in the prior two years been responsible for causing interference or pass
through at the POTW may be required to obtain liability insurance sufficient to
cover the reasonable costs of responding or restoring the POTW in the event of
a second such incident. These requirements may also be made conditions of an
industrial user's permit.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.258  SERVICE OF NOTICES OF VIOLATIONS, ORDERS AND NOTICES OF ASSESSMENTS.
   Except as otherwise expressly provided by this chapter, all orders, notices
of violations and notices of assessments shall be served upon persons and shall
contain the information as provided by this section.
   (A)   Service. Service shall be by personal delivery or certified mail
(return receipt requested), addressed to the user, alleged violator or other
person, as applicable. The person served shall sign and date the order or
notice and shall return the signed original copy to the POTW; provided, that
the failure to do so shall not affect the person's obligation to comply with
the order or notice.
   (B)   Contents. All orders and notices shall contain at least the following
information, as applicable to the situation and to the extent known by the POTW
or the local unit:
      (1)   The name and address of the violator.
      (2)   The location and time that the violation occurred or was observed,
and the duration of the violation.
      (3)   The nature of the violation, including the provisions of this
chapter or of any permit, order, decision, determination or agreement violated.
      (4)   The basis for determining that a violation has occurred (personal
observation, pollutant analysis, or other basis).
      (5)   The amount of the fine, penalty or charge assessed or due, if any.
      (6)   The manner in which, and time and date by which, any fine, penalty
or charge must be paid, including any penalty or charge for late payment.
      (7)   The remedial action ordered, the time within which required actions
must be taken, and any consequences for failure to do so.
      (8)   The right to appeal the issuance of the order or notice and a
summary of the procedures for appeal, or other applicable administrative
procedures.
      (9)   The date and time the order or notice was issued.
   (C)   Request for additional information. A person served may request
additional information from the WWTP Superintendent regarding the contents or
requirements of any order or notice. However, a request for additional
information shall not extend the time for compliance with an order or notice.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.259  PUBLICATION OF USERS IN SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE.
   The POTW shall publish once per year in the largest daily newspaper in the
County, a list of users that, at any time during the previous 12 months, were
in significant noncompliance with applicable pretreatment standards or
requirements. For the purposes of this section, a user shall be considered to
be in significant noncompliance if its violations meet one or more of the
following criteria:
   (A)   Chronic violation of discharge limits, defined as results of analyses
in which 66% or more of all of the measurements taken during a six-month period
exceed (by any magnitude) the daily maximum limit or the average limit for the
same pollutant parameter;
   (B)   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations, defined as results of
analyses in which 33% or more of all of the measurements for each pollutant
parameter taken during a six-month period equal or exceed the product of the
daily maximum limit or the average limit times the applicable TRC (TRC = 1.4
for BOD, TSS, fats, oil and grease, and 1.2 for all other pollutants, except
pH);
   (C)   Any other violation of a pretreatment effluent limit (instantaneous
maximum concentration, daily maximum, or longer-term average) that the POTW
determines has caused, alone or in combination with other discharges,
interference or pass through (including endangering the health of POTW
personnel or the general public);
   (D)   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent endangerment to
human health, welfare, or to the environment, and has resulted in the POTW's
exercise of its emergency authority to halt or prevent the discharge;
   (E)   Failure to meet, within 90 days after the schedule date, a compliance
schedule milestone contained in a permit or enforcement order, for starting
construction, completing construction, or attaining final compliance;
   (F)   Failure to provide any required reports within 30 days after the due
date;
   (G)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; or
   (H)   Any other violation or group of violations that the WWTP
Superintendent determines will adversely affect the POTW or the operation or
implementation of the POTW's pretreatment program.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.260  MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTIONS.
   (A)   Violation; municipal civil infraction. Except as provided by §
53.999, and notwithstanding any other provision of the local unit's ordinances
to the contrary, a person who violates any provision of this chapter
(including, without limitation, any notice, order, permit, decision or
determination promulgated, issued or made by the POTW and/or the local unit
under this chapter) is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, subject to
payment of a civil fine of not less than $1,000 per day for each infraction and
not more than $10,000 per day for each infraction, plus costs and other
sanctions.
   (B)   Repeat offenses; increased fines. Increased fines may be imposed for
repeat offenses. As used in this section, REPEAT OFFENSE means a second (or any
subsequent) municipal civil infraction violation of the same requirement or
provision of this chapter (i) committed by a person within any 12-month period
and (ii) for which the person admits responsibility or is determined to be
responsible. The increased fine for a repeat offense under this chapter shall
be as follows:
      (1)   The fine for any offense that is a first repeat offense shall be
not less than $2,500, plus costs.
      (2)   The fine for any offense that is a second repeat offense or any
subsequent repeat offense shall be not less than $5,000, plus costs.
   (C)   Amount of fines. Subject to the minimum fine amounts specified in
divisions (A) and (B), the following factors shall be considered by a court in
determining the amount of a municipal civil infraction fine following the
issuance of a municipal civil infraction citation for a violation of this
chapter: the type, nature, severity, frequency, duration, preventability,
potential and actual effect, and economic benefit to the violator (such as
delayed or avoided costs or competitive advantage) of a violation; the
violator's recalcitrance or efforts to comply; the economic impacts of the fine
on the violator; and such other matters as justice may require. A violator
shall bear the burden of demonstrating the presence and degree of any
mitigating factors to be considered in determining the amount of a fine.
However, mitigating factors shall not be considered unless it is determined
that the violator has made all good faith efforts to correct and terminate all
violations.
   (D)   Authorized local official. Notwithstanding any other provision of the
local unit's laws, ordinances and regulations to the contrary, the following
persons are designated as the authorized local officials to issue municipal
civil infraction citations for violations of this chapter: the WWTP
Superintendent; any representative of the local unit designated by the
Superintendent; and any police officer.
   (E)   Other requirements and procedures. Except as otherwise provided by
this section, the requirements and procedures for commencing municipal civil
infraction actions; issuance and service of municipal civil infraction
citations; determination and collection of court-ordered fines, costs and
expenses; appearances and payment of fines and costs; failure to answer, appear
or pay fines; disposition of fines, costs and expenses paid; and other matters
regarding municipal civil infractions shall be as set forth in Act No. 236 of
the Public Acts of 1961, as amended.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.261  CONTINUING VIOLATION.
   Each act of violation, and each day or portion of a day that a violation of
this chapter, or of any permit, order, notice or agreement issued or entered
into under this chapter is permitted to exist or occur, constitutes a separate
violation and shall be subject to fines, penalties and other sanctions as
provided by this chapter.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.262  NUMBER OF VIOLATIONS.
   The number of violations resulting from a user's noncompliance with
applicable discharge prohibitions or effluent limitations shall be determined
as follows:
   (A)   Applicable concentration limitations and mass (or loading) limitations
shall be treated as separate limitations, and a user may be liable and
penalized separately for exceeding any of those limitations for a single
pollutant or sampling parameter.
   (B)   Each violation of a daily maximum limit for a single pollutant or
sampling parameter shall constitute a single violation for each day on which
the violation occurs or continues.
   (C)   Each violation of an instantaneous maximum limit for a single
pollutant or sampling parameter shall constitute a single violation for each
such exceedence, and there may be multiple violations for each day on which
such a violation occurs or continues.
   (D)   Each violation of a monthly average limit for a single pollutant or
sampling parameter shall constitute a violation for each day of the month
during which the violation occurred, regardless of the number of days on which
samples were actually taken. (For example, in a month with 31 days, a violation
of the monthly average limit for that month constitutes 31 violations for each
pollutant parameter for which the monthly average limit was exceeded during the
month.)
   (E)   If a wastewater discharge permit regulates more than one outfall, each
outfall shall be considered separately in computing the number of violations as
provided by this section.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.263  NUISANCE.
   A violation of this chapter, or of any permit, order, notice or agreement
issued or entered into under this chapter, is deemed to be a public nuisance.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.264  REIMBURSEMENT OF POTW AND/OR LOCAL UNIT.
   (A)   (1)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter; or who
discharges or causes a discharge that produces a deposit or obstruction or
otherwise damages or impairs the POTW, or causes or contributes to a violation
of any federal, state or local law governing the POTW; or whose discharge (or
proposed discharge) to the POTW requires the POTW and/or the local unit to
incur any expenses, costs, losses or damages over and above amounts covered by
standard fees and charges provided by this chapter, shall be liable to and
shall fully reimburse the POTW and/or the local unit, as applicable, for all
expenses, costs, losses or damages (direct or indirect) payable or incurred by
the POTW and/or the local unit as a result of any such discharge, violation,
exceedence or noncompliance. The costs that must be reimbursed to the POTW and/
or the local unit shall include, but shall not be limited to, all of the
following:
         (a)   All costs incurred by the POTW and/or the local unit in
responding to the violation or discharge, including, expenses for any cleaning,
repair or replacement work, and the costs of sampling, monitoring, and
treatment, as a result of the discharge, violation, exceedence or
noncompliance.
         (b)   All costs to the POTW and/or the local unit of monitoring,
surveillance, and enforcement in connection with investigating, verifying, and
prosecuting any discharge, violation, exceedence or noncompliance.
         (c)   The full amount of any fines, assessments, penalties, and
claims, including natural resource damages, levied against the POTW and/or the
local unit by any governmental agency or third party as a result of a violation
of the POTW's NPDES permit (or other applicable law or regulation) that is
caused by or contributed to by any discharge, violation, exceedence or
noncompliance.
         (d)   The full value of any POTW and/or local unit staff time
(including any required overtime), consultant and engineering fees, and actual
attorney fees and defense costs (including the POTW's attorney, the local
unit's attorney, and any special legal counsel), associated with responding to,
investigating, verifying, and prosecuting any discharge, violation, exceedence
or noncompliance or otherwise enforcing the requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   Further, the POTW and/or the local unit are authorized to correct
any violation of this chapter or damage or impairment to the POTW caused by a
discharge and to bill the person causing the violation or discharge for the
amounts to be reimbursed. The costs reimbursable under this section shall be in
addition to fees, amounts or other costs and expenses required to be paid by
users under other applicable regulations and requirements.
   (B)   In determining the amounts to be reimbursed, the POTW and/or the local
unit, as applicable, may consider factors such as, but not limited to, the
following:
      (1)   The volume of the discharge.
      (2)   The length of time the discharge occurred.
      (3)   The composition of the discharge.
      (4)   The nature, extent, and degree of success the POTW and/or the local
unit may achieve in minimizing or mitigating the effect of the discharge.
      (5)   The toxicity, degradability, treatability and dispersal
characteristics of the discharges.
      (6)   The direct and indirect costs incurred by the POTW and/or the local
unit, or imposed upon the POTW and/or the local unit to treat the discharges,
including sludge handling and disposal costs.
      (7)   Fines, assessments, levies, charges, expenses and penalties imposed
upon and/or incurred by the POTW and/or the local unit, including the costs of
defense of actions, or suits brought or threatened against the POTW and/or the
local unit by governmental agencies or third parties.
      (8)   Such other factors, including but not limited to the amount of any
attorney's fees, consultant and expert fees, expenses, costs, sampling and
analytical fees, and repairs, as the POTW and/or the local unit deem
appropriate under the circumstances.
   (C)   The failure by any person to pay any amounts required to be reimbursed
to the POTW and/or the local unit as provided by this section shall constitute
an additional violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.265  JUDICIAL RELIEF.
   With the approval of the Director and notice to the local unit, and, as
necessary, in conjunction with the POTW's legal counsel and/or the local unit
and the local unit's legal counsel, the WWTP Superintendent may institute legal
proceedings in a court of competent jurisdiction to seek all appropriate relief
for violations of this chapter or of any permit, order, notice or agreement
issued or entered into under this chapter. The action may seek temporary or
permanent injunctive relief, damages, penalties, costs, and any other relief,
at law or equity, that a court may order. The WWTP Superintendent or the local
unit, as applicable, may also seek collection of surcharges, fines, penalties
and any other amounts due to the POTW or the local unit, as applicable, that a
user has not paid. The local unit may also institute legal proceedings and seek
all appropriate legal relief for violations of this chapter as provided by this
section.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.266  CUMULATIVE REMEDIES.
   The imposition of a single penalty, fine, order, damage, or surcharge upon
any person for a violation of this chapter, or of any permit, order, notice or
agreement issued or entered into under this chapter, shall not preclude the
imposition by the POTW, the local unit, or a court of competent jurisdiction of
a combination of any or all of those sanctions and remedies or additional
sanctions and remedies with respect to the same violation, consistent with
applicable limitations on penalty amounts under state or federal laws or
regulations. A criminal citation and prosecution of a criminal action against a
person shall not be dependent upon and need not be held in abeyance during any
civil, judicial, or administrative proceeding, conference, or hearing regarding
the person.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS AND APPEALS
§ 53.280  PROCEDURES AVAILABLE.
   Any person aggrieved by any action taken by the WWTP Superintendent under
this chapter may request an informal hearing before the Superintendent or an
appeal to the WWTP Board of Appeals as provided by this subchapter. If an
informal hearing or appeal is not properly and timely requested as provided by
this subchapter, the WWTP Superintendent's action shall be deemed final.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.281  INFORMAL HEARING BEFORE THE WWTP SUPERINTENDENT.
   A request for an informal hearing before the WWTP Superintendent must be
made in writing within seven days from the date of the Superintendent's action
in question. The request must state the reasons for the appeal and shall
include all supporting documents and dates. The informal hearing shall be
scheduled at the earliest practicable date, but not later than seven days after
receipt by the WWTP Superintendent of the request, unless the seven-day time
period is extended by the mutual written agreement of the aggrieved party and
the WWTP Superintendent. The hearing shall be conducted on an informal basis at
the waste water treatment plant or at another location designated by the WWTP
Superintendent. Following the informal hearing, the WWTP Superintendent may
affirm or reverse, in whole or in part, the action appealed from, or may make
any order, requirement, decision or determination as, in the Superintendent's
opinion, ought to be made in the case under consideration. The decision of the
Superintendent may be appealed to the WWTP Board of Appeals as provided by §
53.282.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.282  APPEAL TO WWTP BOARD OF APPEALS.
   A WWTP Board of Appeals shall be established as provided by this section to
consider appeals from final decisions of the WWTP Superintendent and to
determine, in particular cases, whether any deviation from strict compliance
will violate the purposes and intent of this chapter or endanger public health,
safety or welfare, the environment, or the POTW. The WWTP Board of Appeals
shall consist of the Engineer/Manager of the Bay County Road Commission and one
representative from each local unit as appointed by resolution of each local
unit s' legislative body to serve on the Board of Appeals. The Engineer/Manager
may vote only to break a tie. A tie vote shall defeat the pending motion unless
broken by the Engineer/Manager. The following provisions shall govern appeals
of final decisions of the WWTP Superintendent made to the WWTP Board of Appeals
under this chapter:
   (A)   An appeal from any final action of the WWTP Superintendent must be
made to the WWTP Board of Appeals within seven days from the date of the action
appealed. The appeal may be taken by any person aggrieved by the action. The
appellant shall file a notice of appeal with the WWTP Superintendent and with
the Board of Appeals. The notice of appeal shall specify the grounds for the
appeal. Failure to file a timely notice of appeal shall be deemed to be a
waiver of the right to appeal.
   (B)   Prior to a hearing before the WWTP Board of Appeals regarding an
appeal, the WWTP Superintendent shall transmit to the Board of Appeals a
written summary of all previous action taken in connection with the action
being appealed. The Board of Appeals may, at the Board's discretion, request
the WWTP Superintendent to provide further information regarding the action
that is the subject of the appeal.
   (C)   The WWTP Board of Appeals shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing
of the appeal. Notice of the hearing shall be provided to require the
attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of evidence relevant
to any matter involved in the hearing. Any testimony taken at the hearing shall
be under oath and recorded. A copy of the transcript of the hearing shall be
made available at cost to any person upon payment of applicable charges for the
transcript. The Board of Appeals shall decide the appeal within a reasonable
time.
   (D)   The WWTP Board of Appeals may reverse or affirm, in whole or in part,
the action appealed from, or may make any order, requirement, decision or
determination as, in its opinion, ought to be made in the case under
consideration. To that end, the Board of Appeals shall have all the powers of
the official from whom the appeal is taken.
   (E)   The final disposition of the appeal shall be in the form of a ruling
by the WWTP Board of Appeals, either reversing, modifying, or affirming, in
whole or in part, the action of the WWTP Superintendent. The action of the WWTP
Superintendent shall not be reversed or modified, in whole or in part, and the
WWTP Board of Appeals shall not otherwise find in favor of the appellant except
by a majority vote of the Board of Appeals. The decision of the Board of
Appeals shall be final.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.283  PAYMENT PENDING OUTCOME OF APPEAL.
   All service charges, penalties, fines, fees, surcharges, costs or expenses
outstanding during any appeal process shall remain due and payable to the POTW
and/or the local unit, as applicable. Upon resolution of any appeal, the
amounts due and payable shall be adjusted accordingly. The POTW may terminate
wastewater treatment services if a corrective course of action is not taken by
a user or if service charges, penalties, fines, fees, surcharges, costs or
expenses are not paid by a user.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.284  FINALITY OF ADMINISTRATIVE ACTION.
   If an appeal is not demanded as provided by this Division within the periods
specified by this Division, the administrative action shall be deemed final. If
an appeal is properly demanded, the action appealed shall be suspended until a
final determination has been made by the WWTP Board of Appeals, except for
orders to immediately cease and desist discharge; orders to terminate sewer
services; other emergency orders or actions where a suspension or delay might
endanger human health, the environment, or the POTW; and as otherwise expressly
provided by this chapter (such as for permit appeals, §
53.077).
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.285  APPEALS FROM DETERMINATION OF WWTP BOARD OF APPEALS.
   Appeals from the determination of the WWTP Board of Appeals may be made to a
state court of appropriate jurisdiction as provided by law. All findings of
fact made by the WWTP Board of Appeals, if supported by the evidence, shall be
deemed conclusive.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
IPP FEES
§ 53.295  PURPOSE.
   It is a purpose of this chapter to provide for the recovery from users of
the POTW of all costs incurred by the POTW for the administration and
implementation by the POTW of the industrial pretreatment program (IPP)
established by this chapter. The IPP fees provided for by this Division are
separate from, and in addition to, amounts chargeable to users for sewage
disposal services by the local unit, extra-strength surcharges, and costs
required to be reimbursed to the POTW and/or the local unit under any other
provisions of this chapter or other laws and regulations.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.296  IPP FEES.
   The POTW may adopt IPP fees including, without limitation, fees for
reviewing and processing wastewater discharge permit applications, processing
permit renewal applications, and processing permit transfer requests; fees for
performing compliance monitoring, sampling, analysis, inspections and
surveillance (scheduled or unscheduled); fees for reviewing accidental
discharge procedures and construction; fees for filing appeals; fees for
consistent removal by the POTW of pollutants subject to state and federal
pretreatment standards and requirements; and other fees as deemed necessary by
the WWTP Superintendent to carry out the IPP requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.297  IPP FEE AMOUNTS.
   IPP fees shall be paid by users to the POTW in amounts determined necessary
by the POTW from time to time to reimburse the POTW for all expenses incurred
by the POTW in administering the IPP. To the extent practical, the fees shall
be set in an amount to include at least the POTW's average total costs for that
purpose. With regard to IPP activities undertaken by the POTW with regard to
particular users, the fees shall be charged to the users on a time and
materials basis, plus general administrative expenses, based on the nature and
requirements of the IPP activities undertaken.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.298  BILLING AND COLLECTION OF IPP FEES.
   All fees shall be due and payable as specified by this chapter or as
otherwise specified by the POTW, but in no case later than within 30 days of
the date of the IPP activity for which the fee is required. For fees not paid
at the time of service, the amount of the fee shall be added to the user's
waste service charge or billed separately.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.299  NO FREE SERVICE PERMITTED.
   No free service shall be rendered by the POTW to any person, firm or
corporation, public or private, or any public agency or instrumentality.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
MUNICIPAL LIABILITY
§ 53.310  LIABILITY.
   Neither the POTW nor the local unit shall be responsible for interruptions
of service due to natural calamities, equipment failures, or actions of the
system users. It shall be the responsibility of the user that all connected
equipment remain in good working order so as not to cause disruption of service
of any sewer or treatment plant equipment.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
§ 53.999  PENALTY.
   Any person who:
   (A)   At the time of a violation knew or should have known that a pollutant
or substance was discharged contrary to any provision of this chapter, or
contrary to any notice, order, permit, decision or determination promulgated,
issued or made by the POTW and/or the local unit under this chapter; or
   (B)   Intentionally makes a false statement, representation, or
certification in an application for, or form pertaining to a permit, or in a
notice, report, or record required by this chapter, or in any other
correspondence or communication, written or oral, with the POTW and/or the
local unit regarding matters regulated by this chapter; or
   (C)   Intentionally falsifies, tampers with, or renders inaccurate any
sampling or monitoring device or record required to be maintained by this
chapter; or
   (D)   Maliciously or willfully breaks, damages, destroys, uncovers, defaces
or tampers with any structure, appurtenance, or equipment that is part of the
POTW; or
   (E)   Commits any other act that is punishable under state law by
imprisonment for more than 93 days;
shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of $500
per violation, per day, or imprisonment for up to 90 days, or both in the
discretion of the court.
(Ord. 185, passed 4- -2006)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   MOTOR VEHICLE CODE
      
71.   PARKING VIOLATIONS BUREAU
CHAPTER 70:  MOTOR VEHICLE CODE
Section
   
70.01   Title
   
70.02   Michigan Vehicle Code adopted
   
70.03   References to governmental unit
   
70.04   All night parking
   
70.05   Notice to be published
   
70.06   Conflicting provisions repealed
§ 70.01  TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Auburn Vehicle Code”, and may be cited
as such and will be referred to herein as “this code”.
(Ord. 182, passed 1-24-2003; Ord. 198, passed 10-21-2013)
§ 70.02  MICHIGAN VEHICLE CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   Pursuant to M.C.L.A. § 117.3, as amended, and Art. V, § 11, of the
Charter of Auburn, the Michigan Vehicle Code, being Public Act 300 of 1949,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 257.1 to 257.923, inclusive, and as amended from time to
time, is hereby adopted by reference as if set forth herein word for word and
paragraph for paragraph, unless otherwise modified within this chapter.
   (B)   Reference to the code adopted shall be identified on citations by
using the letters “AN” as a prefix to the section violated.
   (C)   The city does not have authority to enforce any provision adopted by
reference herein for which the maximum period of imprisonment is greater than
93 days.
(Ord. 182, passed 1-24-2003; Ord. 198, passed 10-21-2013)
§ 70.03  REFERENCES TO GOVERNMENTAL UNIT.
   References in the Michigan Vehicle Code referring to GOVERNMENTAL UNIT shall
mean the City of Auburn, Michigan.
(Ord. 182, passed 1-24-2003; Ord. 198, passed 10-21-2013)
§ 70.04  ALL NIGHT PARKING.
   (A)   No person shall park a motor vehicle, between the hours of 2:00 a.m.
and 6:00 a.m., from November 1 to April 1, on the streets in the city. Proper
signs shall be erected therefor.
   (B)   A person who violates this section is responsible for a civil
infraction.
(Ord. 198, passed 10-21-2013)
§ 70.05  NOTICE TO BE PUBLISHED.
   The City Clerk shall publish this chapter in the manner required by law and
shall at the same time publish a supplementary notice setting forth the purpose
of the Michigan Vehicle Code and of the fact that a complete copy of the code
is available at the office of the Clerk for inspection by the public.
(Ord. 182, passed 1-24-2003; Ord. 198, passed 10-21-2013)
§ 70.06  CONFLICTING PROVISIONS REPEALED.
   All ordinances inconsistent with the provisions of the Michigan Vehicle Code
are, to the extent of such inconsistency, hereby repealed.
(Ord. 182, passed 1-24-2003; Ord. 198, passed 10-21-2013)
CHAPTER 71:  PARKING VIOLATIONS BUREAU
Section
   
71.01   Bureau established
   
71.02   Clerk’s duties
   
71.03   Violations handled
   
71.04   Option of violators
   
71.05   Issuing tickets
   
71.06   Schedule of penalties for Uniform Traffic Code violations
§ 71.01  BUREAU ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Pursuant to § 8395 of the Revised Judicature Act, State of Michigan,
as added by Public Act 154 of 1968, being M.C.L.A. §§ 600.8101 et seq., a
Parking Violations Bureau, for the purpose of handling alleged parking
violations within the city, is hereby established.
   (B)   The Parking Violations Bureau shall be under the supervision and
control of the City Clerk.
(1991 Code, § 10.51)
§ 71.02  CLERK’S DUTIES.
   The City Clerk shall, subject to the approval of the City Commission,
establish a convenient location for the Parking Violations Bureau, appoint
qualified city employees to administer the Bureau and adopt rules and
regulations for the operation thereof, not inconsistent herewith.
(1991 Code, § 10.52)
§ 71.03  VIOLATIONS HANDLED.
   (A)   No violation not scheduled in §
71.06 shall be disposed of by the Parking Violations Bureau.
   (B)   The fact that a particular violation is scheduled shall not entitle
the alleged violator to disposition of the violation at the Bureau; and in any
case, the person in charge of such Bureau may refuse to dispose of such
violation, in which case any person having knowledge of the facts may make a
sworn complaint before any court having jurisdiction of the offense as provided
by law.
(1991 Code, § 10.53)
§ 71.04  OPTION OF VIOLATORS.
   (A)   No violation may be settled at the Parking Violations Bureau except at
the specific request of the alleged violator.
   (B)   No penalty for any violation shall be accepted from any person who
denies having committed the offense, and in no case shall the person who is in
charge of the Bureau determine or attempt to determine the truth or falsity of
any fact or matter relating to such alleged violation.
   (C)   No person shall be required to dispose of a parking violation at the
Parking Violations Bureau, and all persons shall be entitled to have any such
violation processed before a court having jurisdiction thereof if they so
desire.
   (D)   The unwillingness of any person to dispose of any violation at the
Parking Violations Bureau shall not prejudice him or her or in any way diminish
the rights, privileges and protection accorded to him or her by law.
(1991 Code, § 10.54)
§ 71.05  ISSUING TICKETS.
   (A)   The issuance of a traffic ticket or notice of violation by a police
officer of the city shall be deemed an allegation of a parking violation.
   (B)   Such traffic ticket or notice of violation shall indicate the length
of time in which the person to whom the same was issued must respond before the
Parking Violations Bureau.
   (C)   It shall also indicate the address of the Bureau, the hours during
which the Bureau is open, the amount of the penalty scheduled for the offense
for which the ticket was issued and advise that a warrant for the arrest of the
person to whom the ticket was issued will be sought if such a person fails to
respond within the time limited.
(1991 Code, § 10.55)
§ 71.06  SCHEDULE OF PENALTIES FOR UNIFORM TRAFFIC CODE VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The City Commission shall set the penalty for violation of the Uniform
Traffic Code, from time to time.
   (B)   The penalty shall be established, and amended, by resolution adopted
by the City Commission.
   (C)   The penalty shall become effective upon publication in a newspaper of
general circulation.
(1991 Code, § 10.56)  (Ord. 139, passed 10-22-1990)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES
      
92.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION; OPEN BURNING
      
93.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
94.   PUBLIC NUISANCES
      
95.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
CHAPTER 90:  ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   Keeping farm animals
   
90.02   Running at large
   
90.03   Animal noise
   
90.04   Bees
   
90.05   Dead or injured animals
§ 90.01  KEEPING FARM ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall harbor or keep any swine or cattle in the city.
   (B)   Farm animals, such as horses, ponies, goats, poultry, but no swine, or
cattle, may be harbored and kept on a noncommercial basis when adequately
housed and fenced on a parcel of land not less than five acres in area with all
fences and buildings therefor, at least 150 feet from all property lines.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of all persons who harbor or keep animals or fowl
to maintain the premises in a clean and sanitary condition, devoid of rodents
and vermin and free from objectionable odor.
(1991 Code, § 9.61)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.02  RUNNING AT LARGE.
   No person shall permit animals or fowl to run at large to the injury or
annoyance of others, nor shall such animals or fowl be permitted at large upon
the streets or other ways or places of the city. Violations of this section are
hereby declared to be a nuisance and dangerous to the public health and safety.
(1991 Code, § 9.62)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.03  ANIMAL NOISE.
   No person shall harbor or keep any animal or bird that causes constant
annoyance in the neighborhood either in barking, howling, crowing or by any
other sounds common to its species.
(1991 Code, § 9.63)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.04  BEES.
   Honeybees may be kept according to the following conditions:
   (A)   The beekeeper must present a copy of the letter of compliance from the
State of Michigan stating the beekeeper is in compliance with the Michigan's
Right To Farm Act and is adhering to the State of Michigan Care of Farm
Animal's Generally Accepted Agricultural Management Practices (GAAMP) to the
City Clerk's Office. The City Clerk's Office shall notify the abutting property
owners that all conditions of this section have been met.
   (B)   A maximum of two hives maybe kept per parcel.
   (C)   A flyway barrier at least six feet in height shall shield any part of
a property line that is within 25 feet of a hive. The flyway barrier shall
consist of a solid wall, solid fence, dense vegetation or a combination
thereof.
   (D)   A constant supply of water shall be provided for all hives.
   (E)   Hive enclosures shall be located in the rear or side yard at least 25
feet from any dwelling on a neighboring parcel and at least 15 feet from any
sidewalk, roadway or alley.
   (F)   Hives must be located in a quiet area of the lot, not placed directly
against a neighboring property. Hive entrances should face in such a direction
that bees fly across the owner's property. Hives should be positioned so the
hive opening does not face the neighbor's property.
   (G)   Hives should not be placed within 100 feet of schools, recreation
areas, picnic grounds, or other locations that may result in adverse honey bee/
public interactions. Exception would be, if requested by schools for education
purposes.
   (H)   The beekeeper must comply with the State of Michigan's Care of Farm
Animal's Generally Accepted Agricultural Management Practices and must become
GAAMP compliant with the Michigan Right to Farm Act.
   (I)   The right to keep honeybees on one's property may be revoked if the
GAAMP compliance letter is revoked and the bees become a public nuisance. A
ten-day grace period may be granted to allow the property owner to correct the
issues.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 90.05  DEAD OR INJURED ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall deposit, place or throw any dead, fatally sick or
injured animal or bird on any public or private property or into any stream,
lake, pond, well or other body of water.
   (B)   Any dead animal lying upon any street or any public place shall be
removed by the Department of Public Works forthwith. If any dead animal is upon
private property, the owner or person in charge of such animal at the time of
death shall lawfully dispose of the same, or immediately report the fact to
Department of Public Works, and if the Department of Public Works must remove
this animal from private property, a fee shall be charged the animal owner for
such removal.
(1991 Code, § 9.65)  (2012 amendment)
CHAPTER 91:  INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES
Section
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Abandoned motor vehicles
   
91.03   Prohibition on streets
   
91.04   Outdoor storage
   
91.05   Permits
   
91.06   Nuisance
§ 91.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE.  Includes without limitation, any vehicle which has
remained on private property for a period of 18 continuous hours or more,
without the consent of the owner or occupant of the property, or for a period
of 48 continuous hours or more after the consent of the owner or occupant has
been revoked.
   DISMANTLED MOTOR VEHICLES.  Includes dismantled and partially dismantled
motor vehicles from which some part or parts which are ordinarily a component
of such motor vehicle, have been removed or is missing.
   INOPERATIVE MOTOR VEHICLES.  Includes motor vehicles which by reason of
dismantling, disrepair or other cause, are incapable of being propelled under
their own power; or any motor vehicle not licensed for use upon the highways of
the State of Michigan, for a period in excess of 60 days, excepting unlicensed,
but operative vehicles which are kept as a stock in trade of a regularly
licensed and established new or used car dealer or licensed junk dealer.
   MOTOR VEHICLE.  Includes any wheeled vehicle which is self-propelled, or
intended to be self-propelled.
(1991 Code, § 6.84)
§ 91.02  ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   No person shall abandon any motor vehicle in the rights-of-way of streets,
alleys or highways within the city, nor upon any public or private property
within the limits of the city.
(1991 Code, § 6.85)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.03  PROHIBITION ON STREETS.
   Dismantled, or inoperative motor vehicles shall not be permitted in the
right-of-way of streets, alleys or highways within the city; provided, however,
this shall not apply to towing or similar transporting of such vehicles; and
further provided, that reasonable time (not to exceed 48 hours from the time of
disability in the case of inoperative vehicles) shall be permitted for the
removal or servicing of a disabled vehicle in an emergency caused by accident
or sudden breakdown of the vehicle.
(1991 Code, § 6.86)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.04  OUTDOOR STORAGE.
   The outdoor storage of dismantled, abandoned or inoperative motor vehicles
shall not be permitted or allowed on any platted or unplatted parcel of land in
the city, unless said motor vehicle shall be kept in a wholly enclosed garage
or other wholly enclosed structure; provided, however, that any bona fide
owner, co-owner, tenant or co-tenant, may store, permit to be stored, or allow
to remain on the premises of which he or she is the owner, co-owner, tenant or
co-tenant, any dismantled or inoperative motor vehicle for a period of not to
exceed 48 hours if such motor vehicle is registered in his or her name, and
provided further that any such owner, co-owner, tenant or co-tenant may in the
event of hardship, secure a permit from the City Administrator, or such agent
as he or she shall appoint, to extend such period for an additional period of
not to exceed two weeks, for any such dismantled or inoperative motor vehicle
if such motor vehicle is registered in his or her name; provided, however, that
no permit shall be granted or construed to allow parking of such dismantled or
inoperative vehicle on any street, alley or highway within the city.
(1991 Code, § 6.87)
§ 91.05  PERMITS.
   Upon application duly made by the registered owner of a vehicle and upon
showing of hardship, the City Administrator, or his or her duly appointed
agent, is hereby authorized to issue the permit provided for in §
91.04. A fee of $1 for each such permit issued shall be collected upon issuance
and shall be paid into the General Fund.
(1991 Code, § 6.88)
§ 91.06  NUISANCE.
   The presence of a dismantled, abandoned or inoperative motor vehicle or
parts of a motor vehicle on any platted or un-platted parcel of land in
violation of the terms of this chapter is hereby declared to be a public
nuisance.
(1991 Code, § 6.89)
CHAPTER 92:  FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION; OPEN BURNING
Section
Fire Prevention Regulations Generally
   
92.01   Adoption of code by reference
   
92.02   Code on file
   
92.03   Limits of districts; storage of flammable/combustible liquids in
outside above-ground tanks prohibited
   
92.04   Limits in which bulk storage of liquefied petroleum gases is to be
restricted
   
92.05   Limits of districts in which storage of explosives and blasting agents
is to be prohibited
   
92.06   Appeals
   
92.07   New materials, processes or occupancies which may require permits
Open Rubbish Fires; Open Burning
   
92.20   Title and purpose
   
92.21   Applicability
   
92.22   Definitions
   
92.23   General prohibition on outdoor burning and open burning
   
92.24   Open burning of refuse
   
92.25   General prohibition on burning trees, leaves, grass clippings and the
like
   
92.26   Outdoor wood-fired boilers
   
92.27   Patio wood-burning units
   
92.28   Fire suppression training
   
92.29   Liability
   
92.30   Right of entry and inspection
   
92.31   Enforcement
 
   
92.99   Penalty
Cross-references:
   Public Nuisances, see
Chapter 94
   Streets and Sidewalks, see
Chapter 95
FIRE PREVENTION REGULATIONS GENERALLY
§ 92.01  ADOPTION OF CODE BY REFERENCE.
   Pursuant to the provisions of § 3(k) of Public Act 279 of 1909, State of
Michigan, being M.C.L.A. §§ 117.1 through 117.38, as amended, the Uniform Fire
Code, 1988 Edition, including the appendices listed under Division I through
Division V inclusive, as promulgated and published by International Conference
of Building Officials, 5360 S. Workman Mill Rd., Whittier, California, 90601,
is hereby adopted by reference by the city for the purpose of prescribing
regulations consistent with nationally recognized good practice for the
safeguarding to a reasonable degree of life and property from the hazards of
fire and explosion arising from the storage, handling and use of hazardous
substances, materials and devices, and from conditions hazardous to life or
property in the use or occupancy of buildings or premises.
(1991 Code, § 9.91)
§ 92.02  CODE ON FILE.
   Complete printed copies of the Uniform Fire Code, herein adopted, are
available for public use and inspection at the office of the City Clerk.
(1991 Code, § 9.92)
§ 92.03  LIMITS OF DISTRICTS; STORAGE OF FLAMMABLE/COMBUSTIBLE LIQUIDS IN
OUTSIDE ABOVE-GROUND TANKS PROHIBITED.
   The limits in which storage of flammable or combustible liquids in outside
above-ground tanks is prohibited are hereby established as follows: the storage
of flammable or combustible liquids in outside above-ground tanks is prohibited
within the limits of the city.
(1991 Code, § 9.93)
§ 92.04  LIMITS IN WHICH BULK STORAGE OF LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GASES IS TO BE
RESTRICTED.
   The limits referred to in § 82.105(a) of the Uniform Fire Code, in which
bulk storage of liquefied petroleum gas is restricted, are hereby established
as follows: the bulk storage of liquefied petroleum gas is prohibited within
the city, except where specifically permitted by Chapter 154 (zoning) of the
city code.
(1991 Code, § 9.94)
§ 92.05  LIMITS OF DISTRICTS IN WHICH STORAGE OF EXPLOSIVES AND BLASTING AGENTS
IS TO BE PROHIBITED.
   The limits referred to in § 77.196(b) of the Uniform Fire Code, in which
storage of explosives and blasting agents is prohibited, are hereby established
as follows: the storage of explosives and blasting agents is prohibited within
the limits of the city.
(1991 Code, § 9.95)
§ 92.06  APPEALS.
   Whenever the Fire Chief shall disapprove or refuse to grant a permit applied
for, or when it is claimed that the provisions of the code do not apply or that
the true intent and meaning of the code have been misconstrued or wrongly
interpreted, the applicant may appeal from the decision of the Chief to the
Zoning Board of Appeals within 30 days from the date of the decision appealed.
(1991 Code, § 9.96)
§ 92.07  NEW MATERIALS, PROCESSES OR OCCUPANCIES WHICH MAY REQUIRE PERMITS.
   The City Administrator, the Fire Chief and the Building Inspector shall act
as a committee to determine and specify, after giving affected persons an
opportunity to be heard, any new materials, processes or occupancies, which
shall require permits, in addition to those now enumerated in said code. The
Fire Chief shall post such list in a conspicuous place in his or her office,
and distribute copies thereof to interested persons.
(1991 Code, § 9.97)
OPEN RUBBISH FIRES; OPEN BURNING
§ 92.20  TITLE AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   The title of this subchapter is “Outdoor and Open Burning Ordinance
for the City of Auburn”.
   (B)   This subchapter is intended to promote the public health, safety and
welfare and to safeguard the health, comfort, living conditions, safety and
welfare of the citizens of the city due to the air pollution and fire hazards
of open burning and outdoor burning.
(2012 amendment, § 9.101)
§ 92.21  APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter applies to all outdoor burning and open burning within the
city.
   (A)   This subchapter does not apply to grilling or cooking using charcoal,
wood, propane or natural gas in cooking or grilling appliances.
   (B)   This subchapter does not apply to burning in a stove, furnace,
fireplace or other heating device within a building used for human or animal
habitation.
   (C)   This subchapter does not apply to the use of propane, acetylene,
natural gas, gasoline or kerosene in a device intended for heating,
construction or maintenance activities.
(2012 amendment, § 9.102)
§ 92.22  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAMPFIRE.  A small outdoor fire intended for recreation or cooking, but not
including a fire intended for disposal of waste wood or refuse.
   CLEAN WOOD.  Natural wood which has not been painted, varnished or coated
with a similar material; has not been pressure treated with preservatives; and
does not contain resins or glues as in plywood or other composite wood
products.
   CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION WASTE.  Building waste materials, including, but
not limited to, waste shingles, insulation, lumber, treated wood, painted wood,
wiring, plastics, packaging and rubble that results from construction,
remodeling, repair and demolition operations on a house, commercial or
industrial building, or other structure.
   FIRE CHIEF.  The Chief of the City of Auburn/Williams Fire Department or
other person designated by the Fire Chief.
   MUNICIPALITY.  A county, township, city or village.
   NUISANCE.  A hazard or other noticeable irritation that is created to
adjoining persons or property owners by reason of heat, flame, fly-ash, sparks
or odor.
   OPEN BURNING.  Kindling or maintaining a fire where the products of
combustion are emitted directly into the ambient air without passing through a
stack or a chimney. This includes burning in a burn barrel.
   OUTDOOR BURNING.  Open burning or burning in an outdoor wood-fired boiler or
patio wood burning unit.
   OUTDOOR WOOD-FIRED BOILER.  A wood-fired boiler, stove or furnace that is
not located within a building intended for habitation by humans or domestic
animals.
   PATIO WOOD-BURNING UNIT.  A chimnea, patio warmer or other portable wood-
burning device used for outdoor recreation and/or heating.
   REFUSE.  Any waste material except trees, logs, brush, stumps, leaves, grass
clippings and other vegetative matter.
(2012 amendment, § 9.104)
§ 92.23  GENERAL PROHIBITION ON OUTDOOR BURNING AND OPEN BURNING.
   Open burning and outdoor burning are prohibited in the city, unless the
burning is specifically permitted by this subchapter.
(2012 amendment, § 9.105)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.24  OPEN BURNING OF REFUSE.
   (A)   Open burning of refuse is prohibited.
   (B)   Open burning of refuse from and at a one- or two-family dwelling is
allowed if all of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The burning does not create a nuisance;
      (2)   The burning is conducted in a container constructed of metal or
masonry that has a metal covering device that does not have an opening larger
than three-quarter inch;
      (3)   The material being burned is not prohibited under division (C)
below; and
      (4)   A permit issued in accordance with §
92.30 has been obtained.
   (C)   Open burning of the following materials is prohibited:
      (1)   Construction and demolition waste;
      (2)   Hazardous substances including, but not limited to, batteries,
household chemicals, pesticides, used oil, gasoline, paints, varnishes and
solvents;
      (3)   Furniture and appliances;
      (4)   Tires;
      (5)   Any plastic materials including but not limited to nylon, PVC, ABS,
polystyrene or urethane foam and synthetic fabrics, plastic films and plastic
containers;
      (6)   Newspaper;
      (7)   Corrugated cardboard, container board, office paper; and
      (8)   Treated or painted wood including but not limited to plywood,
composite wood products or other wood products that are painted, varnished or
treated with preservatives.
(2012 amendment, § 9.106)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.25  GENERAL PROHIBITION ON BURNING TREES, LEAVES, GRASS CLIPPINGS AND THE
LIKE.
   Open burning of trees, logs, brush, stumps, leaves and gross clippings is
prohibited.
(2012 amendment, § 9.107)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.26  OUTDOOR WOOD-FIRED BOILERS.
   No person shall install, use or maintain an outdoor wood-fired boiler in the
city.
(2012 amendment, § 9.108)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.27  PATIO WOOD-BURNING UNITS.
   A patio wood-burning unit may be installed and used in the city only in
accordance with all of the following provisions.
   (A)   The patio wood-burning unit shall not be used to burn refuse.
   (B)   The patio wood-burning unit shall burn only clean wood.
   (C)   The patio wood-burning unit shall be located at least 25 feet from the
nearest structure which is not on the same property as the patio wood burning
unit.
   (D)   The patio wood-burning unit shall not cause a nuisance to neighbors.
(2012 amendment, § 9.109)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.28  FIRE SUPPRESSION TRAINING.
   Notwithstanding §§
92.23 and
92.24, structures and other materials may be burned for fire prevention
training only in accordance with all of the following provisions.
   (A)   The burn must be exclusively for fire prevention training. The burning
shall not be used as a means to dispose of waste material including tires and
other hazardous materials.
   (B)   Any standing structure that will be used in a fire suppression
training must be inspected and should be inspected by a licensed asbestos
inspector. A notification of this inspection must be submitted to the State
Department of Environmental Quality, Air Quality Division at least ten business
days prior to burning a standing structure. The notification must be submitted
using Form EQP 5661 “Notification of Intent to Renovate/Demolish”.
   (C)   All asbestos must be removed prior to conducting the fire suppression
training. If the structure is a residential dwelling, the owner may remove the
asbestos or have it removed by a licensed abatement contractor. If it is a
commercial building, all asbestos must be removed by a licensed abatement
contractor.
   (D)   All ash shall be disposed of in an approved landfill or at an
alternate location approved by the State Department of Environmental Quality
and all successor groups in or to the Department of Environmental Quality or
any organizations with which the Department of Environmental Quality may be
merged.
   (E)   Asphalt shingles and asphalt or plastic siding shall be removed prior
to the practice burn unless the Fire Chief determines that they are necessary
for the fire practice.
   (F)   At least seven days before a planned practice burn, all residents
within 2,000 feet of the site of the proposed burn shall be notified by the
city, in writing, and by public posting at City Hall.
   (G)   All fire suppression training shall conform to the guidelines
established by the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) Standard on Live
Fire Training Evolutions (NFPA 1403).
(2012 amendment, § 9.110)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.29  LIABILITY.
   A person utilizing or maintaining an outdoor fire shall be responsible for
all fire suppression costs and any other liability resulting from damage caused
by the fire.
(2012 amendment, § 9.111)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.30  RIGHT OF ENTRY AND INSPECTION.
   The Fire Chief or any authorized officer, agent, employee or representative
of the city who presents credentials may inspect any property for the purpose
of ascertaining compliance with the provisions of this subchapter may enter
upon the premises for purpose of suppressing and extinguishing fire and its
remnants.
(2012 amendment, § 9.112)
§ 92.31  ENFORCEMENT.
   The Fire Chief, Fire Chief’s designee, City Administrator or other persons
designated by the City Administrator are authorized to enforce the provisions
of this subchapter.
(2012 amendment, § 9.113(a))
§ 92.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm, association, partnership, corporation or
governmental entity who violates any of the provisions of this subchapter or
fails to comply with the duly authorized order issued pursuant to this
subchapter shall be deemed to be responsible for a municipal civil infraction
as defined by the state statute which shall be punishable by a civil fine
determined in accordance with the following schedule:
 
                                            Minimum Fine Maximum Fine
First offense within 3-year period*         $75          $500
Second offense within 3-year period*        $150         $500
Third offense within 3-year period*         $325         $500
Four or more offenses within 3-year period* $500         $500
*Determined on the basis of the date of commission of the offense(s)
 
   (C)   The violator shall pay costs which may include all expenses, direct
and indirect, which the city has incurred in connection with the municipal
infraction. In no case, however, shall costs of less than $250 nor more than
$1,000 be ordered.
      (1)   In addition, the city shall have the right to proceed in any court
of competent jurisdiction for the purpose of obtaining an injunction,
restraining order or other appropriate remedy to compel compliance with this
subchapter.
      (2)   Each day that a violation of this subchapter exists shall
constitute a separate violation of this subchapter.
(2012 amendment, § 9.113(b) and (c))
CHAPTER 93:  PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
93.01   Prohibited activities
   
93.02   Activities requiring a written permit or contract
   
93.03   Motor vehicle operation
   
93.04   Reservation rules and procedures
§ 93.01  PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   Within any city park, no person shall:
   (A)   Injure, remove or otherwise mutilate or disturb any plant or wildlife;
   (B)   Deface, mar or in any way damage any building, structure, sign,
equipment or other physical feature;
   (C)   Build an open fire, except in the places or facilities provided for
that purpose;
   (D)   Dispose of garbage, rubbish or refuse on park lands or in adjoining
waters, other than in the appropriate receptacles provided. Refuse disposed
should be that normally generated by the direct use of the park, i.e.,
accumulated household or business refuse is not to be deposited in park
containers;
   (E)   Use threatening, abusive or obscene language, which by its very use
inflicts injury or tends to incite a breach of the peace;
   (F)   Conduct themselves in a disorderly or indecent manner; or
   (G)   Fail to keep dog or dogs or other animal or animals owned by him or
her under control, or fail to assume the responsibility for damage caused by
such animals.
(1991 Code, § 3.1)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-references:
   Open rubbish fires, see §§
92.20 through
92.31
   Public place, defined as including park for purposes of regulation of
disorderly conduct, see §
130.01
§ 93.02  ACTIVITIES REQUIRING A WRITTEN PERMIT OR CONTRACT.
   (A)   Any person undertaking any of the following activities shall make
application for and obtain prior approval and/or a written permit from the city
office.
   (B)   Any person or organization to whom a written permit is issued shall
exhibit same upon request.
   (C)   Any person or organization to whom a written permit is issued shall be
subject to the provisions of this code and shall be liable for any loss, damage
or injury caused by its violation.
   (D)   Activities requiring prior approval or written permit: conduct of one
of the following:
      (1)   Parade, drill, exhibition, political or religious meeting or
sporting event;
      (2)   Temporary lodging in a trailer or tent;
      (3)   Entering, wading or swimming in any pond, pool or other water
adjacent to a park, unless such pond, pool or other water is specifically
authorized for such purposes by sign or general notification;
      (4)   Carrying or using firearms of any description, including air
rifles, slingshots or bows and arrows;
      (5)   Advertising, canvassing, soliciting, vending or renting any
service, merchandise or object, and shall be limited to civic and nonprofit
organizations; and
      (6)   Scheduled league sporting events.
(1991 Code, § 3.2)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.03  MOTOR VEHICLE OPERATION.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Fail to drive or operate vehicles with caution at all times; or
   (B)   Drive or park a vehicle anywhere except on established drives or in
designated parking areas.
(1991 Code, § 3.3)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.04  RESERVATION RULES AND PROCEDURES.
   No person or organization shall be allowed use of the city park building
without first obtaining a written permit issued by the city, under the
following conditions.
   (A)   Auburn/Williams nonprofit groups can obtain a permit from January 1
until January 31, on a first-come, first-serve basis.
   (B)   Auburn residents can obtain a permit beginning on February 1 until
February 15, on a first-come, first-serve basis.
   (C)   Auburn/Williams residents can obtain a permit beginning on February 16
until March 31, on a first-come, first-serve basis.
   (D)   All other parties can obtain a permit beginning on April 1, on a
first-come, first-serve basis.
   (E)   The city reserves the right to deny a permit if an activity is deemed
to be an overburden on the facility and/or the resources of the city.
   (F)   The permittee shall exhibit the permit upon request.
   (G)   The permittee shall hold the city harmless and be responsible for
liability of any damages, loss or injury sustained by any person.
   (H)   The permittee shall be bound to the park’s rules and regulations, as
adopted by the city.
   (I)   The permittee will be held liable for all damages over and above those
which may be considered normal wear and which occur during occupancy.
   (J)   The permittee may be required to obtain liability insurance of
$1,000,000 with the city named as an additional insured. The city
administration shall recommend the obtaining of the insurance. The City
Commission shall have the authority to enforce the insurance requirement.
   (K)   The permittee shall be responsible for policing the park and for
clean-up of the facilities.
   (L)   Concession stands and vending shall only serve nonalcoholic
refreshments, without a written permit from the City Clerk.
   (M)   A fee shall be required for park usage and/or equipment. The fee is
payable at the time reservation is made. The fee/fees shall be established by
the City Commission.
   (N)   The permittee shall be limited to use of the park building no more
than two times per calendar year.
   (O)   The city reserves the right to waive any of the requirements.
   (P)   The funds collected by the city park building use shall be restricted
in use to improvements to the city park.
   (Q)   A violation of any provisions of the park’s rules and regulations or
the city code is hereby declared to be a nuisance per se and shall be subject
to applicable criminal and civil infraction ordinances.
(1991 Code, § 3.4)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 94:  PUBLIC NUISANCES
Section
General Nuisances
   
94.01   Nuisances defined
   
94.02   Nuisances, in general, prohibited
   
94.03   Nuisances per se
Noise Control
   
94.15   Excessive noise declared nuisance
   
94.16   Specific offense
   
94.17   Exceptions
Abandoned Refrigerators
   
94.30   General prohibition
   
94.31   Lock removal
Weed Control
   
94.45   Weed growth prohibited
   
94.46   Duty of occupant or owner
   
94.47   When to do work
   
94.48   Exemptions
GENERAL NUISANCES
§ 94.01  NUISANCES DEFINED.
   (A)   Whatever annoys, injures or endangers the safety, health, comfort or
repose of the public; offends public decency; interferes with, obstructs or
renders dangerous any street, highway or navigable stream; or in any way
renders the public insecure in life or property is hereby declared to be a
public nuisance.
   (B)   PUBLIC NUISANCES shall include, but not be limited to, whatever is
forbidden by any provision of this subchapter.
(1991 Code, § 6.1)
§ 94.02  NUISANCES, IN GENERAL, PROHIBITED.
   No person shall commit, create or maintain any nuisance, or permit any
nuisance to be committed, created or maintained on any property owned, occupied
or possessed by him or her. Each day a nuisance shall remain unabated shall be
construed as a separate violation.
(1991 Code, § 6.2)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.03  NUISANCES PER SE.
   The following acts, services, apparatus and structures are hereby declared
to be public nuisances:
   (A)   The maintenance of any pond, pool of water or vessel holding stagnant
water;
   (B)   The throwing, placing, depositing or leaving in any street, highway,
lane, alley, public place, square or sidewalk, or in any private place or
premises where such throwing, placing, depositing or leaving is dangerous or
detrimental to public health, or likely to cause sickness or attract flies,
insects, rodents and/or vermin, by any person of any animal or vegetable
substance, dead animal, fish, shell, tin cans, bottles, glass or other rubbish,
dirt, excrement, filth, unclean or nauseous water, or fluids, hay, straw, soot,
garbage, swill, animal bones, hides or horns, rotten soap, grease or tallow,
offal or any other offensive article or substance whatever;
   (C)   The pollution of any stream, lake or body of water by depositing or
permitting to be deposited any refuse, foul or nauseous liquid or water,
creamery or industrial waste, or forcing or discharging into any public or
private sewer or drain any steam, vapor or gas;
   (D)   Any vehicle used for any illegal purpose;
   (E)   Betting, bookmaking and all apparatus used in such occupations;
   (F)   All gambling devices;
   (G)   All houses kept for the purpose of prostitution or promiscuous sexual
intercourse, gambling houses, houses of ill fame and bawdy houses;
   (H)   The distribution of samples of medicines or drugs, unless such samples
are placed in the hands of an adult person;
   (I)   All explosives, inflammable liquids and other dangerous substances
stored in any manner or in any amount contrary to the provisions of this code,
or statute of the state;
   (J)   Any use of the public streets and/or sidewalks which causes large
crowds to gather, obstructing the free use of the streets and/or sidewalks;
   (K)   All buildings, walls and other structures which have been damaged by
fire, decay or otherwise and all excavations remaining unfilled or uncovered
for a period of 90 days or longer, and which are so situated so as to endanger
the safety of the public;
   (L)   All dangerous, unguarded excavations or machinery in any public place,
or so situated, left or operated on private property as to attract the public;
   (M)   The owning, driving or moving upon any public streets and alleys of
trucks or other motor vehicles which are constructed or loaded so as to permit
any part of their load or contents to blow, fall or be deposited upon any
street, alley, sidewalk or other public or private place, or which deposits
from its wheels, tires or other parts onto the street, alley, sidewalk or other
public or private place dirt, grease, sticky substances or foreign matter of
any kind; however, under circumstances determined by the City Administrator to
be in the public interest, he or she may grant persons temporary exemption from
the provisions of this division (M) conditioned upon cleaning and correcting
the violating condition at least once daily and execution of an agreement by
such person to reimburse the city for any extraordinary maintenance expenses
incurred by the city in connection with such violation; and
   (N)   The placing or causing to be placed in or on any motor vehicle parked
upon any street, alley or other public place within the corporate limits of the
city any paper, posters, signs, cards or other advertising matter; but this
prohibition shall not extend to official traffic violation notices.
(1991 Code, § 6.7)  Penalty, see §
10.99
NOISE CONTROL
§ 94.15  EXCESSIVE NOISE DECLARED NUISANCE.
   All loud or unusual noises or sounds and annoying vibrations which offend
the peace and quiet of persons of ordinary sensibilities are hereby declared to
be public nuisances.
(1991 Code, § 6.10)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.16  SPECIFIC OFFENSE.
   Each of the following acts is declared unlawful and prohibited, but this
enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive.
   (A)   Animal and bird noises. The keeping of any animal or bird which, by
causing frequent or long-continued noise, shall disturb the comfort or repose
of any person.
   (B)   Construction noises. The erection (including excavating therefor),
demolition, alteration or repair of any building, and the excavation of streets
and highways, on Sundays, and other days, except between the hours of 7:00 a.m.
and 6:00 p.m., unless a permit be first obtained from the City Administrator.
   (C)   Sound amplifiers. Use of any loudspeaker, amplifier or other
instrument or device, whether stationary or mounted on a vehicle for any
purpose except one which is noncommercial in character and when so used shall
be subject to the following restrictions.
      (1)   The only sounds permitted are music or human speech.
      (2)   Operations are permitted for four hours each day, except on Sundays
and legal holidays, when no operations shall be authorized. The permitted four
hours of operation shall be between the hours of 11:30 a.m. and 1:30 p.m., and
between the hours of 4:30 p.m. and 6:30 p.m.
      (3)   Sound-amplifying equipment mounted on vehicles shall not be
operated unless the sound truck upon which such equipment is mounted is
operated at a speed of at least ten mph, except when the truck is stopped or
impeded by traffic.
      (4)   Sound shall not be issued within 100 yards of hospitals, schools or
churches.
      (5)   The volume of sound shall be controlled so that it will not be
audible for a distance in excess of 100 feet from the sound-amplifying
equipment and so that the volume is not unreasonably loud, raucous, jarring,
disturbing or a nuisance to persons within the area of audibility.
      (6)   No sound-amplifying equipment shall be operated with an excess of
15 watts of power in the last stage of amplification.
   (D)   Engine exhausts.
      (1)   The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any steam engine,
stationary internal-combustion engine, or motor vehicle, except through a
muffler or other device, which effectively prevents loud or explosive noises
therefrom.
      (2)   Further it shall be unlawful to operate any motor vehicle within
the city using exhaust breaks, engine brakes, compression release engine brakes
(also known as Jake brakes or Jacobs brakes) or similar devices.
   (E)   Handling merchandise. The creation of a loud and excessive noise in
connection with loading or unloading any vehicle or the opening and destruction
of bales, boxes, crates and containers.
   (F)   Blowers. The discharge into the open air of air from any noise-
creating blower or power fan, unless the noise from such blower or fan is
muffled sufficiently to deaden such noise.
   (G)   Hawking. The hawking of goods, merchandise or newspapers in a loud and
boisterous manner.
   (H)   Horns and signal devices. The sounding of any horn or signal device on
any automobile, motorcycle, bus or other vehicle while not in motion, except as
a danger signal if another vehicle is approaching, apparently out of control,
or to give warning of intent to get under motion, or if in motion, only as a
danger signal after or as brakes are being applied and deceleration of the
vehicle is intended; the creation by means of any such signal device of any
unreasonably loud or harsh sound; and the sounding of such device for an
unnecessary and unreasonable period of time.
   (I)   Radio and musical instruments. The playing of any radio, television
set, phonograph or any musical instrument in such a manner or with such volume,
particularly during the hours between 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., or at any time
or place so as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of persons in
any office or in any dwelling, hotel or other type of residence, or of any
persons in the vicinity.
   (J)   Shouting and whistling. Yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling or
singing, or the making of any other loud noise on the public streets between
the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., or the making of any such noise at any
time so as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of persons in any
school, place of worship or office, or in any dwelling, hotel or other type of
residence, or of any persons in the vicinity.
   (K)   Whistle or siren. The blowing of any whistle or siren, except to give
notice of the time to begin or stop work or as a warning of fire or danger.
(1991 Code, § 6.11)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.17  EXCEPTIONS.
   None of the terms or prohibitions of §§
94.15 and
94.16 shall apply to or be enforced against:
   (A)   Emergency vehicles. Any police or fire vehicle or any ambulance, while
engaged upon emergency business; or
   (B)   Highway maintenance and construction. Excavations or repairs of
bridges, streets or highways by or on behalf of the city, county or the state,
during the night, when the public safety, welfare and convenience renders it
impossible to perform such work during the day.
(1991 Code, § 6.12)
ABANDONED REFRIGERATORS
§ 94.30  GENERAL PROHIBITION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave outside of any building or
dwelling in a place accessible to children any abandoned, unattended or
discarded icebox, refrigerator or container having air-tight doors which when
closed cannot be opened from the inside.
(1991 Code, § 6.21)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.31  LOCK REMOVAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave outside of any building or
dwelling in a place accessible to children any abandoned, unattended or
discarded icebox, refrigerator or any other container of any kind which has an
air-tight snap lock or other device thereon without first removing the snap
lock or doors from the icebox, refrigerator or container.
(1991 Code, § 6.22)  Penalty, see §
10.99
WEED CONTROL
§ 94.45  WEED GROWTH PROHIBITED.
   No person occupying any premises and no person owning any unoccupied
premises shall permit or maintain on any such premises any growth of noxious
weeds; nor any growth of grass or other rank vegetation to a greater height
than 16 inches on the average; nor any accumulation of dead weeds, grass or
brush. NOXIOUS WEEDS shall include Canada thistle (Circium arvense), dodders
(any species of Cuscuta), mustards (charlock, black mustard and Indian mustard,
species of Brassica or Sina-pis), wild carrot (Daucus carota), bindweed
(Convolvulus arvensis), perennial sow-thistle (Sonchus arvensis), hoary alyssum
(Berteroa incana), ragweed (Ambrosia elatior 1) and poison ivy (Rhus
toxicodendron), poison sumac (Toxicondendron vernix).
(1991 Code, § 6.41)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.46  DUTY OF OCCUPANT OR OWNER.
   It shall be the duty of the occupant of every premises and the owner of
unoccupied premises within the city to cut and remove or destroy by lawful
means all such noxious weeds and grass, as often as may be necessary to comply
with the provisions of §
94.45; provided, that the cutting, removing or destroying of such weeds and
grass at least once in every three weeks between May 15 and September 15 of
each year, shall be deemed to be compliance with this subchapter.
(1991 Code, § 6.42)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.47  WHEN TO DO WORK.
   If the provisions of §§
94.45 and
94.46 are not complied with, the City Administrator shall notify the occupant
or owner of unoccupied premises to comply with the provisions of those sections
within a time to be specified in the notice, which notice shall be given in
accordance with §
10.21. The notice shall require compliance with this subchapter within five
days after service of such notice; and if such notice is not complied with
within the time limited, the City Administrator shall cause such weeds, grass
and other vegetation to be removed or destroyed; and the actual cost of such
cutting, removal or destruction shall be a lien against the premises and
collected as a single lot assessment as provided in
Chapter 33 (Special Assessments). The rate shall be established by the City
Commission. The City Administrator shall be Commissioner of Noxious Weeds of
the city, and shall serve as such without additional compensation.
(1991 Code, § 6.43)  (Ord. 138, passed 8-20-1990)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.48  EXEMPTIONS.
   Exempted from the provisions of this subchapter are flower gardens, plots of
shrubbery, vegetable gardens and small grain plots. An exemption under the
terms of this section cannot be claimed unless the land has been cultivated and
cared for in a manner appropriate to such exempt categories.
(1991 Code, § 6.44)
CHAPTER 95:  STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Streets and Sidewalks Generally
   
95.001   Definitions
   
95.002   Damage and obstruction prohibited
   
95.003   Permits
   
95.004   Street openings
   
95.005   Emergency openings
   
95.006   Backfilling
   
95.007   Sidewalk vaults
   
95.008   Utility poles
   
95.009   Maintenance of installations in street
Curbs and Curb Cuts
   
95.020   Construction of curbs
   
95.021   Curb cuts
Sidewalk Obstructions
   
95.035   Sidewalk obstructions
   
95.036   Pedestrian passage
Safety Requirements
   
95.050   Safeguards
   
95.051   Shoring excavations
House Moving
   
95.065   Moving of buildings and the like
Additional Regulations
   
95.080   Additional regulations
   
95.081   Removal of encroachment
   
95.082   Dumping snow
   
95.083   Temporary street closings
Public Works Construction
   
95.095   Classification of public improvements
   
95.096   Financing the cost of public improvements
   
95.097   City to construct public improvements
   
95.098   Special assessment procedure
   
95.099   Advance financing by property owners
   
95.100   Sidewalks
   
95.101   Streets
   
95.102   Waterworks extensions
   
95.103   Driveway culverts
STREETS AND SIDEWALKS GENERALLY
§ 95.001  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEPARTMENT.  The Department of Engineering of the city.
   ENGINEER.  The City Administrator or his or her duly authorized assistant or
deputy.
   STREET.  All of the land lying between property lines on either side of all
streets, alleys and boulevards in the city, and includes lawn extensions and
sidewalks and the area reserved therefor where the same are not yet
constructed.
(1991 Code, § 4.1)
§ 95.002  DAMAGE AND OBSTRUCTION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall make any excavation in, or cause any damage to any
street in the city, except under the conditions and in the manner permitted in
this subchapter.
   (B)   No person shall place any article, thing or obstruction in any street,
except under the conditions and in the manner permitted in this subchapter, but
this provision shall not be deemed to prohibit the following:
      (1)   Such temporary obstructions as may be incidental to the expeditious
movement of articles and things to and from abutting premises;
      (2)   The lawful parking of vehicles within the part of the street
reserved for vehicular traffic;
      (3)   The parking of any disabled vehicles, outside the traveled portion
of any street for a period of not to exceed 48 hours; or
      (4)   The planting of trees and shrubs as permitted by the Engineer.
(1991 Code, § 4.2)
§ 95.003  PERMITS.
   (A)   Where permits are authorized in this subchapter, they shall be
obtained upon application to the Engineer, upon such forms as he or she shall
prescribe, and there shall be a charge of $10 for each such permit, except as
otherwise provided by resolution of the City Commission.
   (B)   Such permit shall be revocable by the Engineer for failure to comply
with this subchapter, rules and regulations adopted pursuant thereto, and the
lawful orders of the Engineer or his or her duly authorized representative, and
shall be valid only for the period of time endorsed thereon.
   (C)   Application for a permit under the provisions of this subchapter shall
be deemed an agreement by the applicant to promptly complete the work
permitted, observe all pertinent laws and regulations of the city in connection
therewith, repair all damage done to the street surface and installations on,
over or within such street, including trees, and protect and save harmless the
city from all damages or actions at law that may arise or may be brought on
account of injury to persons or property resulting from the work done under the
permit or in connection therewith.
   (D)   Where liability insurance policies are required to be filed in making
application for a permit, they shall be in not less than the following amounts,
except as otherwise specified in this subchapter.
      (1)   On account of injury to, or death of, any person in any one
accident: $1,000,000.
      (2)   On account of any one accident resulting in injury to, or death of,
more than one person: $1,000,000.
      (3)   On account of damage to property in any one accident: $100,000.
   (E)   A duplicate executed copy or photostatic copy of the original of such
insurance policy, approved as to form by the City Attorney, shall be filed with
the City Clerk.
   (F)   Where cash deposits are required with the application for any permit
hereunder, such deposit shall be in the amount of $50, except as otherwise
specified by City Commission resolution, and such deposit shall be used to
defray all expenses to the city arising out of the granting of the permit and
work done under the permit or in connection therewith.
   (G)   Six months after the completion of the work done under the permit, any
balance of such cash deposit unexpended shall be refunded. In any case where
the deposit does not cover all costs and expenses of the city, the deficit
shall be paid by the applicant.
(1991 Code, § 4.3)
§ 95.004  STREET OPENINGS.
   No person shall make any excavation or opening in or under any street
without first obtaining a written permit from the Engineer. No permit shall be
granted until the applicant shall post a cash deposit and file a liability
insurance policy as required by §
95.003.
(1991 Code, § 4.4)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.005  EMERGENCY OPENINGS.
   The Engineer may, if the public safety requires immediate action, grant
permission to make a necessary street opening in an emergency, provided that a
permit shall be obtained on the following business day and the provisions of
this subchapter shall be complied with.
(1991 Code, § 4.5)
§ 95.006  BACKFILLING.
   All trenches in a public street or other public place, except by special
permission, shall be backfilled in accordance with regulations adopted pursuant
to this subchapter. Any settlement shall be corrected within eight hours after
notification to do so.
(1991 Code, § 4.6)
§ 95.007  SIDEWALK VAULTS.
   (A)   Openings through the sidewalk for the delivery of fuel, when lawfully
in existence, shall not be greater than 30 inches in diameter, shall be
circular in form and shall be effectually closed when not in actual use by an
iron cover set flush within the surface of the sidewalk, level with the
sidewalk and securely locked in place.
   (B)   All openings in the sidewalk for the admission of light and air shall
be closed and protected either by substantial iron gratings or illuminating
pavement of a design and so placed as to be satisfactory to the Engineer.
(1991 Code, § 4.7)
§ 95.008  UTILITY POLES.
   Utility poles may be placed in such streets as the Engineer shall prescribe
and shall be located thereon in accordance with the directions of the Engineer.
Such poles shall be removed or relocated as the Engineer shall from time to
time direct.
(1991 Code, § 4.8)
§ 95.009  MAINTENANCE OF INSTALLATIONS IN STREET.
   Every owner of, and every person in control of, any estate hereafter
maintaining a sidewalk vault, coal hole, manhole or any other excavation, or
any post, pole, sign, awning, wire, conduit or other structure in, under, over
or upon, any street which is adjacent to or a part of his or her estate, shall
do so only on condition that such maintenance shall be considered as an
agreement on his or her part with the city to keep the same and the covers
thereof, and any gas and electric boxes and tubes thereon, in good repair and
condition at all times during his or her ownership or control thereof, and to
indemnify and save harmless the city against all damages or actions at law that
may arise or be brought by reason of such excavation or structure being under,
over, in or upon the street, or being unfastened, out of repair or defective
during such ownership or control.
(1991 Code, § 4.9)
CURBS AND CURB CUTS
§ 95.020  CONSTRUCTION OF CURBS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to build or construct, or cause to be
built or constructed, any curb or gutter, or curb and gutter, upon any street,
alley or public highway of the city, unless the same shall be built or
constructed according to plans and specifications and of a material approved by
the City Engineer.
(1991 Code, § 4.17)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.021  CURB CUTS.
   (A)   No opening in or through any curb or any street shall be made without
first obtaining a written permit from the Department.
   (B)   Curb cuts and sidewalk driveway crossings to provide access to private
property shall comply with the following.
      (1)   The minimum width of a driveway approach at the sidewalk line shall
be ten feet, and the maximum width of a single driveway approach at the
sidewalk line shall be 30 feet.
      (2)   The minimum distance between any curb cut and a public crosswalk
shall be five feet.
      (3)   The minimum distance between curb cuts, except those serving
residential property, shall be 25 feet.
      (4)   The maximum number of lineal feet of sidewalk driveway crossings
permitted for any lot, parcel of land, business or enterprise, shall be 45% of
the total abutting street frontage up to and including 200 feet lineal feet of
street frontage plus 20% of the lineal feet of street frontage in excess of 200
feet.
      (5)   The necessary adjustments to utility poles, light standards, fire
hydrants, catch basins, street or railway signs, signals or other public
improvements or installations shall be accomplished without cost to the city.
      (6)   All construction shall be in accordance with plans and
specifications approved by the Engineer.
      (7)   In cases of practical difficulty or unnecessary hardship, the
Zoning Board of Appeals is authorized to grant variances from the requirements
of this section.
(1991 Code, § 4.18)  Penalty, see §
10.99
SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 95.035  SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTIONS.
   No person shall occupy any street with any materials or machinery incidental
to the construction, demolition or repair of any building adjacent to said
street, or for any other purpose, without first obtaining a permit from the
Engineer and posting a cash deposit and filing an insurance policy as required
by §
95.003.
(1991 Code, § 4.26)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.036  PEDESTRIAN PASSAGE.
   At least four feet of sidewalk space shall be kept clean and clear for the
free passage of pedestrians and if the building operations are such that such
free passageway is impracticable, a temporary plank sidewalk with substantial
railings or sidewalk shelter built in accordance with
Chapter 151 of this code, shall be provided around such obstruction.
(1991 Code, § 4.27)  Penalty, see §
10.99
SAFETY REQUIREMENTS
§ 95.050  SAFEGUARDS.
   All openings, excavations and obstructions shall be properly and
substantially barricaded and railed off, and at night shall be provided with
prescribed warning lights. Warning lights perpendicular to the flow of traffic
shall not be more than three feet apart, and parallel to the flow of traffic
not over 15 feet apart.
(1991 Code, § 4.31)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.051  SHORING EXCAVATIONS.
   All openings and excavations shall, where necessary, be properly and
substantially sheeted and braced as a safeguard to workers and to prevent cave-
ins or washouts which would tend to injure the thoroughfare or subsurface
structure of the street.
(1991 Code, § 4.32)  Penalty, see §
10.99
HOUSE MOVING
§ 95.065  MOVING OF BUILDINGS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   No person shall move, transport or convey any building, machinery,
truck or trailer, more than eight feet eight inches wide or higher than 13 feet
six inches above the surface of the roadway, or longer than 50 feet, into,
across or along any street, or other public place in the city without first
obtaining a permit from the Building Department.
   (B)   The applicant shall file the written clearances from the light,
telephone, gas and water utilities, stating that all connections have been
properly cut off and, where necessary, all obstructions along the proposed
route of moving will be removed without delaying moving operations.
   (C)   In addition, clearance shall be obtained from the Police Agency and
Fire Department approving the proposed route through the city streets and the
time of moving, together with an estimated cost to the Police Department due to
the moving operations.
   (D)   The applicant shall deposit with the city the total estimated cost to
the City Treasurer, and shall file with the city a liability insurance policy
in the amount of $1,000,000 for injury to one or more persons and property
damage insurance in the amount of $100,000.
(1991 Code, § 4.34)  Penalty, see §
10.99
ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS
§ 95.080  ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS.
   The City Administrator may make additional regulations pertaining to
openings and excavations in the streets, curb cuts, street obstructions and
house moving, which regulations shall be subject to the approval of the City
Commission. No person shall fail to comply with any such regulations.
(1991 Code, § 4.36)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.081  REMOVAL OF ENCROACHMENT.
   (A)   Encroachments and obstructions in the street or in the sidewalk may be
removed and excavations refilled with the expense of such removal or refilling
charge to the abutting land owner when made or permitted by him or her or
suffered to remain by him or her, otherwise and in accordance with the terms of
the conditions of this chapter.
   (B)   
Chapter 33 (Special Assessments) describes the method of collection of
expenses.
(1991 Code, § 4.37)  (2012 amendment)
§ 95.082  DUMPING SNOW.
   The pushing, dumping or depositing of snow or ice from any privately owned
premises into or upon any street or sidewalk in the city shall constitute a
violation of this code and shall be deemed an encroachment subject to the
provisions of §
95.081.
(1991 Code, § 4.38)  (2012 amendment)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.083  TEMPORARY STREET CLOSINGS.
   (A)   The City Administrator shall have authority to temporarily close any
street, or portion thereof, when he or she shall deem such street to be unsafe
or temporarily unsuitable for use for any reason.
   (B)   He or she shall cause suitable barriers and signs to be erected on
said street, indicating that the same is closed to public travel.
   (C)   When any street or portion thereof shall have been closed to public
travel, no person shall drive any vehicle upon or over said street except as
the same may be necessary incidentally to any street repair or construction
work being done in the area closed to public travel.
   (D)   No person shall move or interfere with any sign or barrier pursuant to
this section without authority from the Chief of Police.
(1991 Code, § 4.39)  Penalty, see §
10.99
PUBLIC WORKS CONSTRUCTION
§ 95.095  CLASSIFICATIONS OF PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, public works shall be divided into four
classifications as follows:
   (A)   Sidewalks;
   (B)   Streets;
   (C)   Water lines; and
   (D)   Driveway culverts.
(1991 Code, § 4.81)
§ 95.096  FINANCING THE COST OF PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.
   Construction of public works improvements in the streets of the city in
excess of the amount provided for in the annual appropriation resolution shall
be paid for by one or more of the following methods:
   (A)   Federal or state participation individually or combined with any or
all other methods of financing with the city;
   (B)   Special assessment bond issue;
   (C)   Revenue bond issue; and/or
   (D)   Advance financing by property owners.
(1991 Code, § 4.82)
§ 95.097  CITY TO CONSTRUCT PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.
   The city shall construct and repair (or cause to be constructed and
repaired) all public works improvements hereafter deemed necessary for the
public health and safety.
(1991 Code, § 4.83)
§ 95.098  SPECIAL ASSESSMENT PROCEDURE.
   Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, special assessments to
finance the construction of public improvements shall be levied in accordance
with
Chapter 33 (Special Assessments).
(1991 Code, § 4.84)
§ 95.099  ADVANCE FINANCING BY PROPERTY OWNERS.
   (A)   After determining the estimated cost and the proportion thereof to be
defrayed by the city at large, the Commission may order any public improvement,
not included in the current year’s construction program, to be made or
constructed, in any case when the same has been petitioned for by all of the
owners of property within the district to be affected or which shall constitute
a special assessment district for the payment of the cost of such improvement;
provided that, prior to the commencement of work on the improvement petitioned
for, 100% of the total estimated cost and expense of such improvement according
to the estimates of the cost thereof and the special assessment roll based
thereon, shall have been deposited with the City Treasurer by the property
owners, within the district to be affected or constituting such special
assessment district.
   (B)   In all cases where the total cost of any improvement has been
deposited with the City Treasurer prior to commencement of work thereon, the
assessment roll and each assessment appearing thereon shall immediately, upon
confirmation of such roll, be marked paid.
   (C)   In doing any work, authorized and financed under the provisions of
this section, the City Clerk shall keep an accurate record of the cost and
expense thereof, and, upon completion of the work, shall report the same to the
Commission which shall, thereupon, authorize and direct that the amount, if
any, of such money, so deposited with the City Treasurer, which is in excess of
the actual cost and expense of the improvement made, shall be repaid by the
City Treasurer to those persons making such deposit, pro rata according to the
several amounts deposited by them.
   (D)   The Commission shall report to the City Treasurer the city’s share, if
any, of the cost and expense of such improvements, as determined by the
Commission under the provisions of
Chapter 33 (Special Assessments), and shall direct that repayment of said
city’s share shall be made in one lump sum, or in five equal annual
installments to the person or persons making such deposits. Such lump sum
payments or the first of such installments shall be paid on or before the
ninetieth day of the fiscal year following the completion of the work.
(1991 Code, § 4.85)
§ 95.100  SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   A certificate of occupancy shall not be issued until a sidewalk is
constructed in compliance with the grade and specifications hereinafter set
forth in this section.
   (B)   All sidewalks hereafter laid, constructed or repaired shall be of
concrete and in strict conformity with grades and specifications pertaining
thereto as adopted or approved by the city; provided that, where it is
determined that new sidewalk construction abuts or extends on either side of
existing asphalt roadway, entry ramp, entry lane or other existing asphalt
surface, the city may determine that it is not necessary to install concrete
sidewalk over or through that portion of existing asphalt surface. This
determination may be made without resorting to the provisions of division (L)
below.
   (C)   No sidewalk shall be laid, constructed or repaired until a written
permit for the same shall have been obtained from the City Clerk.
   (D)   The owner of property adjacent to a proposed sidewalk may construct
said sidewalk upon obtaining a permit from the City Clerk for which permit he
or she shall pay a fee as established by resolution of the City Commission.
Such sidewalk shall be inspected and approved by the city.
   (E)   Wherever sidewalks are ordered constructed on any street or any part
thereof, or where a permit has been issued for the construction of a sidewalk,
it shall be the duty of the city to indicate the sidewalk line and grade by
setting stakes, and a record of the same shall be kept in the City Clerk’s
office.
   (F)   The city may accept a sidewalk as part of a public right-of-way where
such a sidewalk is constructed in a street shown on a tentative plat given
tentative approval by the city, but not, at that time, put on public record;
provided that, a special permit is given by the city, and, the city shall be
paid for the services of a City Inspector to inspect the same or to supervise
the construction thereof insofar as is necessary to assure that such
construction is according to plans and specifications adopted or approved by
the city.
   (G)   Sidewalk repair as used in this subchapter shall be held to include
any reconstruction work of existing concrete sidewalks including replacement,
relaying, patching, filling to grade or grading that may be required to bring
the existing sidewalk to a condition satisfactory for public use.
   (H)   The repair of any sidewalk may be initiated by a resolution adopted by
the Commission ordering the work done or by a written request of the owner or
owners of the property affected.
   (I)   All sidewalk repairs shall be made by the city, either by force
account or by contract, and the cost thereof, including engineering and
inspection, shall be borne equally by the city and the owner or owners of the
property abutting the work.
   (J)   Any program of sidewalk repair shall be set up in advance of the
adoption of the annual city budget and the city’s share of the work included
therein.
   (K)   Proceedings for the construction of sidewalks within the city may be
commenced by resolution of the Commission, on its own initiative, as appears
more fully in
Chapter 33 of this code (Special Assessments).
   (L)   Variations, exceptions, modifications to the sidewalk program may be
made by the Zoning Board of Appeals where, in its opinion, practical difficulty
or unnecessary hardship may result from strict compliance.
      (1)   In granting any variance, the Zoning Board of Appeals shall
prescribe only conditions that it deems necessary to or desirable for the
public interest.
      (2)   In making its findings, the Zoning Board of Appeals shall take into
account the nature of the proposed use of land and the existing use of land in
the vicinity, the number of persons who reside or work in the area, and the
probable effects upon traffic conditions in the vicinity.
      (3)   No variance shall be granted unless the Zoning Board of Appeals
finds:
         (a)   That there are special circumstances or conditions affecting
said property such that strict compliance would deprive the owner of the
reasonable use of his or her land;
         (b)   That the variance is necessary for the preservation and
enjoyment of a substantial property right of the owner; and
         (c)   That the granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the
public welfare or injurious to other property in the territory in which said
property is located.
   (M)   The cost of construction or repairing sidewalks which are ordered by
resolution of the City Commission or upon the written request of the property
owner and to be borne by the property owner shall be billed and assessed as
follows.
      (1)   In the case of sidewalk construction, the total estimated cost and
expense of such work, as determined by the Commission, shall be charged to such
owner. If the owner fails to pay the same within 30 days from the date of
invoice, the Commission shall cause the amount unpaid, together with a penalty
of 10% in addition thereto, to be reported to the City Assessor, to be levied
by him or her as a special tax or assessment upon the lot or premises adjacent
to and abutting upon such sidewalk, which special assessment shall be subject
to review, after proper notice is given as in all other cases of special
assessments, and such tax, when confirmed, shall be a lien upon such lot or
premises the same as other special assessments, and shall be spread, together
with such penalty upon the tax roll as a special assessment upon such lot or
premises, and the same shall be collected in the same manner as other city
taxes; or the city may collect such amount, together with the penalty
aforesaid, from the owner of such premises in an action of assumpsit together
with costs of suit.
      (2)   On a special assessment basis as provided for in
Chapter 33 (Special Assessments).
      (3)   In the case of sidewalk repairs, the property owner’s share of the
cost shall be charged to the property owner. If the owner fails to pay the same
within 30 days from the date of the invoice, the Commission shall cause the
amount unpaid, together with a penalty of 10% in addition thereto, to be
reported to the City Assessor, to be levied by him or her as a special tax or
assessment upon the lot or premises adjacent to and abutting upon such
sidewalk, which special assessment shall be subject to review, after proper
notice is given as in all other cases of special assessments, and such tax,
when confirmed, shall be a lien upon such lot or premises, the same as other
special assessments, and shall be spread, together with such penalty, upon the
tax roll as a special assessment upon such lot or premises and the same shall
be collected in the same manner as other city taxes, or the city may collect
such amount, together with the penalty aforesaid, from the owner of such
premises in an action of assumpsit together with costs of suit.
(1991 Code, § 4.86)  (2012 amendment)
§ 95.101  STREETS.
   (A)   Proceedings for the construction of streets, courts or alleys and the
financing thereof within the city may be commenced by resolution of the City
Commission or by an initiatory petition signed by the property owners in
accordance with
Chapter 33 (Special Assessments).
   (B)   The Commission may cause a street, court or alley to be improved and
the cost thereof financed in accordance with the provisions of §
95.099.
   (C)   The cost and expense of a street improvement may be made up of the
following items:
      (1)   Preparation of subgrade;
      (2)   Excavation;
      (3)   Fine grading;
      (4)   Outlawn;
      (5)   Curb and gutter;
      (6)   Base;
      (7)   Pavement;
      (8)   Landscaping;
      (9)   Sidewalk approaches;
      (10)   Necessary replacement or repair of existing improvements;
      (11)   Headers;
      (12)   Driveways;
      (13)   Catch basins moved or taken out;
      (14)   New catch basins;
      (15)   Water service;
      (16)   Storm sewers;
      (17)   General engineering expense;
      (18)   Legal expense;
      (19)   Accounting;
      (20)   Financing;
      (21)   Printing; and
      (22)   Advertising.
   (D)   In case of recessed parking construction, the adjacent property owner
shall pay his or her share of the cost of a 28-foot street plus 100% of the
cost of the recessed construction.
   (E)   In all street construction within a currently dedicated easement, the
city shall pay from its Street Fund 100% of the cost of intersection
construction, which is the area consisting of 20 feet from centerline of said
intersection in all road directions. The city shall also pay 100% of repair or
regrading of sidewalks, regrading of manholes, moving of water hydrants,
transplanting of trees, planting of new trees and placement of storm sewer
drainage structures within the intersection area.
   (F)   In all street construction within a currently dedicated city easement,
the city shall pay from its street fund 100% of the cost of building that part
of the roadway in excess of 28 feet in width.
   (G)   A contract for the construction of a street where such street is a
part of a tentative plat not yet put on public record may be let by the owners
of such street provided that a special permit is given by the city and provided
that the city shall be paid for the services of a City Inspector to properly
supervise the construction according to plans and specifications approved by
the city. Thereafter, the city may accept any such street as a public right-of-
way and allow the curb of the intersecting street to be cut and curb returns
built.
   (H)   In all street or alley construction taking place within a currently
dedicated city easement, the city shall pay from its Street Fund 75 feet of the
construction cost for properties designated as corner lots. This footage shall
only be credited to one side of the designated lot. Measurement of footage
shall commence at the termination point of the designated 20-foot intersection
as identified in division (E) above.
   (I)   Improvements to streets, alleys or public easements currently
dedicated to the city in order to provide enhancements or access to proposed
developments shall be financed as outlined in
Chapter 33 (Special Assessments). Assessments for said improvements shall be
determined on a linear foot basis corresponding to the properties adjacent to
the designated project area.
(1991 Code, § 4.87)  (2012 amendment)
§ 95.102  WATERWORKS EXTENSIONS.
   Proceedings for the laying and installing of extensions to the waterworks
system and the financing thereof shall be governed by the provisions of
Chapter 33 (Special Assessments) and
Chapter 51 of this Code.
(1991 Code, § 4.88)
§ 95.103  DRIVEWAY CULVERTS.
   (A)   All pipe culverts, hereafter, where deemed necessary for the public
health and safety, shall be laid, constructed and repaired by the city,
excepting as may be hereinafter provided for. Culverts may be ordered under
private driveway approaches where deemed necessary by resolution of the City
Commission.
   (B)   All pipe culverts for private driveway approaches hereafter laid,
constructed and repaired, shall be of corrugated iron pipe, cast iron pipe or
concrete culvert pipe.
   (C)   The cost of a ten-inch pipe and materials necessary to install said
culvert shall be paid for by the owner. If a size larger than ten inches is
required, the city shall pay the difference in cost between the larger size
required and the cost of a ten-inch culvert.
(1991 Code, § 4.89)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   CABLE TELEVISION
      
111.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
      
112.   TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDERS
CHAPTER 110:  CABLE TELEVISION
Section
Cable Television Transmission
   
110.01   Short title
   
110.02   Definitions
   
110.03   Permit required
   
110.04   Application
   
110.05   Financial statement
   
110.06   Indemnification
   
110.07   Insurance
   
110.08   Rights of permittee in streets
   
110.09   Conditions of street occupancy
   
110.10   Operation of CATV system
   
110.11   Duty to provide service
   
110.12   Preliminary requirement to granting permit
   
110.13   Granting of permit
   
110.14   Term of permit
   
110.15   Rate and fee changes
   
110.16   Supplying service to the city
   
110.17   Transfer
   
110.18   Termination
   
110.19   Violations declared nuisances
   
110.20   Federal law
Cable Television Rate Regulation
   
110.35   Definitions
   
110.36   Purpose; interpretation
   
110.37   Rate regulations promulgated by FCC
   
110.38   Filing; additional information; burden of proof
   
110.39   Proprietary information
   
110.40   Public notice; initial review of rates
   
110.41   Tolling order
   
110.42   Public notice; hearing on basic cable service rates following tolling
of 30-day deadline
   
110.43   Staff or consultant report; written response
   
110.44   Rate decisions and orders
   
110.45   Refunds; notice
   
110.46   Written decisions; public notice
   
110.47   Rules and regulations
   
110.48   Failure to give notice
   
110.49   Additional hearings
   
110.50   Additional powers
   
110.51   Failure to comply; remedies
   
110.52   Conflicting provisions
   
110.53   Intergovernmental cooperation
CABLE TELEVISION TRANSMISSION
§ 110.01  SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “City of Auburn Cable
Antenna Television Service Ordinance”.
(Prior Code, § 2.151)
§ 110.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. When not
inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future, words in the plural include the singular number, and words in the
singular number include the plural number. The word “shall” is always mandatory
and not merely directory.
   COMMUNITY ANTENNA TELEVISION or CATV.  The business of transmission and
distribution of television signals, including radio signals, by means of cable
to private subscribers and does not include the operation of a master
television antenna system, the distribution system of which is confined to
private property.
   PERMITTEE.  The holder of a permit issued pursuant to this chapter.
   STREET.  A street, alley or other public way in the city.
(Prior Code, § 2.152)
§ 110.03  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall provide CATV service within the limits of the city without
first obtaining a permit as provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 2.153)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.04  APPLICATION.
   Permits to provide CATV service hereunder will be granted by the Commission
and shall be applied for by written application in form approved by the City
Commission and filed with the City Clerk, which application shall include, but
not be limited to the following:
   (A)   Name of applicant;
   (B)   Local business address;
   (C)   Principal officers or owners;
   (D)   Principal stockholders of a corporation;
   (E)   Location of antenna tower or towers;
   (F)   General description of proposed distribution system in the city,
showing area proposed to be served and indicating whether the applicant will
require poles in the city streets or whether cables and appliances to be
utilized by it in city streets will be located on existing poles of utility
companies; and
   (G)   Service to be provided and rates to be charged, including installation
charge per location, service charge for one receiver and for each additional
receiver on the same premises.
(Prior Code, § 2.154)
§ 110.05  FINANCIAL STATEMENT.
   Each applicant shall attach to his or her application an authenticated
statement of financial condition and net worth, sufficient in form and content
so that the Commission may readily determine its financial responsibility and
its ability to finance the proposed undertaking.
(Prior Code, § 2.155)
§ 110.06  INDEMNIFICATION.
   The permittee shall save the city harmless from all loss sustained by the
city on account of any suit, judgment, execution, claim or demand whatsoever
resulting from the construction, operation or maintenance of its television
system in the city. The city shall notify the permittee within 30 days after
the presentation of any claim or demand, either by suit or otherwise, made
against the city under which the permittee would be liable as set forth above.
Such notice shall be given in writing to the person and at the place indicated
in the application for the permit.
(Prior Code, § 2.156)
§ 110.07  INSURANCE.
   The permittee shall provide insurance in such form as shall protect the city
and itself from and against any and all claims for injury or damage to persons
or property, both real and personal, resulting from the construction, erection,
operation or maintenance of the television system pursuant to the authority of
the permit granted hereunder, in limits of not less than $500,000 for personal
injury or death of any one person, $1,000,000 for personal injury or death of
two or more persons in any one occurrence, and $25,000 for damage to property
resulting from any one occurrence. Each policy shall provide for ten days’
notice in writing to city of change in the policy or cancellation, and said
policy shall name the city, its officers, employees and agents as additional
insureds.
(Prior Code, § 2.157)
§ 110.08  RIGHTS OF PERMITTEE IN STREETS.
   (A)   The permittee shall have the right, so long as its permit is in force
and effect, to utilize the streets of the city to the extent set forth in its
application, or as otherwise provided by the Commission in its permit for the
transmission of television and radio signals as herein authorized from its
antenna location or locations to the premises of subscribers.
   (B)   The permittee may erect all such wires, cables and appurtenances in
the said streets, subject to the written approval of the City Engineer of the
placement of any such poles, or permittee may, at its option, authorize,
subject to the same conditions as to the placement of poles, the installation
of such cables and appurtenances by others on a lease, rental, fee or other
basis, and all such wires, cables, conduits, appurtenances and poles placed or
installed by others for the use of permittee shall exist and continue to exist
solely by authority of the permission granted to said permittee.
(Prior Code, § 2.158)
§ 110.09  CONDITIONS OF STREET OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Use. All transmission and distribution structures, lines and equipment
erected by the permittee or on its behalf within the city shall be so located
as to cause minimum interference with the reasonable use of streets, and to
cause minimum interference with the rights and reasonable convenience of
property owners who adjoin any of said streets.
   (B)   Restoration. In case of any disturbance of pavement, sidewalk,
driveway or other surfacing, the permittee shall, at its own cost and expense
and in a manner approved by the City Engineer, replace and restore all paving,
sidewalk, driveway or surfacing of any street or alley disturbed, in as good
condition as before said work was commenced, and shall maintain the restoration
in an approved condition for a period of 15 years.
   (C)   Relocation. In the event that any time during the existence of a
permit granted hereunder, the city shall lawfully widen, realign or otherwise
alter the street right-of-way, or construct, reconstruct, realign, change the
grade of or otherwise alter pavement or any water main, fire hydrant, sewer or
appurtenance, the permittee and anyone acting for it in connection with the use
of the streets, upon reasonable notice by the city, shall remove, relay and
relocate its poles, wires, cables, underground conduits, manholes and other
fixtures at its own expense.
   (D)   Conduit districts. In areas of the city in which telephone lines and
electric utility lines are underground, all the permittee’s lines, cables and
wires shall be underground.
   (E)   Construction standards. The permittee’s distribution system in the
public streets shall comply with all applicable laws and regulations and
ordinances and all its wires and cables suspended from poles in the streets
shall comply with the minimum clearances above ground required for telephone
lines, cables, wires and conduits.
   (F)   Permit fee. The permittee shall pay to the city for the privilege of
operating a CATV system under the permit granted pursuant to this chapter a sum
equivalent, to 5% of the annual gross operating revenues received by it, and
not refunded, in fees from service charges to subscribers, not including
installation or drop line charges, located within the city payable quarterly.
This percentage figure shall be subject to review at the end of the 15-year
term. Nothing in this chapter shall exempt any permittee from the payment of ad
valorem taxes on its property or equipment or on the income earned by it or
from any other tax which it might be validly obligated to pay if it were not
subject to the permit fee herein imposed.
   (G)   Annual financial statement. The permittee shall file with the City
Clerk annually, an audited statement of revenues received from its operations
under its permit issued pursuant to this chapter within 60 days after the close
of its fiscal year, shall make its financial records relating thereto available
to the city for inspection at a place designated by it within the city, at any
reasonable time, and shall maintain separate records as to its business
conducted pursuant to its permit issued hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 2.159)
§ 110.10  OPERATION OF CATV SYSTEM.
   (A)   The permittee’s receiving and distribution equipment and facilities
shall be constructed, operated and maintained so as to provide usable signals
at subscribers’ television receivers essentially of the same quality as
received at the antenna site.
   (B)   The permittee shall, in the operation of its CATV system, comply with
all applicable laws, ordinances, and rules, regulations and requirements of
regulatory agencies.
   (C)   The permittee shall not, without prior approval of the Commission,
utilize the streets of the city for the furnishing of the service commonly
known as “Pay TV”. Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to prohibit, as
incidental to the transmission of television signals, the origination and
transmission of weather, time, local civic events and civil defense
announcements or programs for which no additional charge is made.
   (D)   The permittee shall not repair, service or sell television or radio
receiving sets, parts or accessories to its CATV subscribers.
(Prior Code, § 2.160)
§ 110.11  DUTY TO PROVIDE SERVICE.
   The permittee shall make its CATV service available to all residents of the
city who can be reached by its distribution system as mutually agreeable
between the Commission and the permittee.
(Prior Code, § 2.161)
§ 110.12  PRELIMINARY REQUIREMENT TO GRANTING PERMIT.
   No permit shall be granted hereunder until the applicant has established
that it has obtained any permit, license or order required by any rule, order
or regulation of the Federal Communications Commission which has been
promulgated prior to Commission action on its application; or an opinion letter
of the permittee’s counsel that such permit, license or order is not required.
(Prior Code, § 2.162)
§ 110.13  GRANTING OF PERMIT.
   The Commission shall grant a CATV permit hereunder to each applicant who
makes proper application, establishes its qualifications as herein set forth,
furnishes the required insurance and assurances and who establishes that its
operations will not impose an unreasonable burden on city streets. No permit
granted hereunder shall be exclusive.
(Prior Code, § 2.163)
§ 110.14  TERM OF PERMIT.
   Each permit granted hereunder shall be for the term of 15 years and shall be
renewed automatically for successive additional 15-year period, unless notice
is given by the city or the permittee more than 180 days prior to the end of
any 15-year period that the said permit shall not be renewed.
(Prior Code, § 2.164)
§ 110.15  RATE AND FEE CHANGES.
   The schedule of rates and changes filed with the city as part of the permit
application shall not be increased except upon approval of the City Commission.
(Prior Code, § 2.165)
§ 110.16  SUPPLYING SERVICE TO THE CITY.
   The permittee shall, at the option of the city, provide free CAT service to
buildings owned by the city. Free drop installation to also be included
excepting where, due to unusual installation conditions, the cost of such would
considerably exceed a usual CATV drop installation. In such case, the excess
cost shall be paid by the city. The installation referred to above does not
include interior of building CATV distribution systems or TV sets.
(Prior Code, § 2.166)
§ 110.17  TRANSFER.
   Permits granted hereunder are not transferable except upon approval of the
Commission. The proposed transferee shall file an application in form approved
by the City Commission and shall satisfy all other requirements of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 2.167)
§ 110.18  TERMINATION.
   (A)   The permittee may surrender its permit at any time, in which event it
shall refund to subscribers all prepaid and unearned service and other charges
collected from subscribers.
   (B)   The Commission may terminate the permit or any permittee who shall
default in any of its obligations hereunder, except for causes beyond the
reasonable control of the permittee, provided that the permittee shall be given
60 days written notice to correct any such default or noncompliance before the
Commission may proceed to terminate the permit under this section.
   (C)   The permittee shall be entitled to a hearing before the Commission to
determine the propriety of termination of the permit by it pursuant to this
section, and the decision of the Commission shall be final. Notwithstanding the
provisions hereinbefore made, the Commission may terminate the permit of any
permittee in accordance with the franchise requirements of the Constitution and
statutes of the state.
   (D)   Upon termination of its permit, the permittee shall at its own expense
remove from the city streets all its facilities and equipment therein utilized
by it in its CATV operation, unless the Commission shall specifically authorize
it to leave all or part of such facilities and equipment in place.
(Prior Code, § 2.168)
§ 110.19  VIOLATIONS DECLARED NUISANCES.
   The violation of any provision of this chapter is hereby declared to be a
nuisance per se and any court of competent jurisdiction may order such nuisance
abated and the owner and the operator guilty of maintaining a nuisance per se.
(Prior Code, § 2.169)
§ 110.20  FEDERAL LAW.
   This chapter shall be construed and administered in compliance with federal
law and regulations.
(Prior Code, § 2.170)
CABLE TELEVISION RATE REGULATION
§ 110.35  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. All other
words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the same meaning as defined
in the Act and FCC rules.
   ACT.  The Communications Act of 1934, being 47 U.S.C. §§ 201 and 521 et
seq., as amended (and specifically as amended by the Cable Television Consumer
Protection and Competition Act of 1992, Pub. L. No. 102-385), and as may be
amended from time to time.
   ASSOCIATED EQUIPMENT.  All equipment and services subject to regulation
pursuant to 47 C.F.R. § 76.923.
   BASIC CABLE SERVICE.  As defined in the FCC rules, and any other cable
television service which is subject to rate regulation by the city pursuant to
the Act and the FCC rules.
   FCC.  The Federal Communications Commission.
   FCC RULES.  All rules of the FCC promulgated from time to time pursuant to
the Act.
   INCREASE IN RATES.  An increase in rates or a decrease in programming or
customer services.
(Prior Code, § 2.231)  (Ord. 153, passed 10-18-1993)
§ 110.36  PURPOSE; INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to:
      (1)   Adopt regulations consistent with the Act and the FCC rules with
respect to basic cable service rate regulation; and
      (2)   Prescribe procedures to provide a reasonable opportunity for
consideration of the views of interested parties in connection with basic cable
service rate regulation by the city.
   (B)   This chapter shall be implemented and interpreted consistent with the
Act and FCC rules.
(Prior Code, § 2.232)  (Ord. 153, passed 10-18-1993)
§ 110.37  RATE REGULATIONS PROMULGATED BY FCC.
   In connection with the regulation of rates for basic cable service and
associated equipment, the city shall follow all FCC rules.
(Prior Code, § 2.233)  (Ord. 153, passed 10-18-1993)
§ 110.38  FILING; ADDITIONAL INFORMATION; BURDEN OF PROOF.
   (A)   A cable operator shall submit its schedule of rates for the basic
service tier and associated equipment or a proposed increase in such rates in
accordance with the Act and the FCC rules. The cable operator shall include as
part of its submission such information as is necessary to show that its
schedule of rates or its proposed increase in rates complies with the Act and
the FCC rules. The cable operator shall file ten copies of the schedule or
proposed increase with the City Clerk. For purposes of this chapter, the filing
of the cable operator shall be deemed to have been made when at least ten
copies have been received by the City Clerk. The City Commission may, by
resolution or otherwise, adopt rules and regulations prescribing the
information, data and calculations which must be included as part of the cable
operator’s filing of the schedule of rates or a proposed increase.
   (B)   In addition to information and data required by rules and regulations
of the city pursuant to division (A) above, a cable operator shall provide all
information requested by the City Administrator or city attorney in connection
with the city’s review and regulation of existing rates for the basic service
tier and associated equipment or a proposed increase in these rates. The City
Administrator or city attorney may establish deadlines for submission of the
requested information, and the cable operator shall comply with such deadlines.
   (C)   A cable operator has the burden of proving that its schedule of rates
for the basic service tier and associated equipment or a proposed increase in
such rates complies with the Act and the FCC rules, including, without
limitation, 47 U.S.C. § 543 and 47 C.F.R. §§ 76.922 and 76.923.
(Prior Code, § 2.234)  (Ord. 153, passed 10-18-1993)
§ 110.39  PROPRIETARY INFORMATION.
   (A)   If this chapter, any rules or regulations adopted by the city pursuant
to §
110.38(A), or any request for information pursuant to §
110.38(B) requires the production of proprietary information, the cable
operator shall produce the information; however, at the time the allegedly
proprietary information is submitted, a cable operator may request that
specific, identified portions of its response be treated as confidential and
withheld from public disclosure.
      (1)   The request must state the reason why the information should be
treated as proprietary and the facts that support those reasons.
      (2)   The request for confidentiality will be granted if the city
determines that the preponderance of the evidence shows that non-disclosure is
consistent with the provisions of the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. §
552.
      (3)   The city shall place in a public file for inspection any decision
that results in information being withheld. If the cable operator requests
confidentiality and the request is denied:
         (a)   Where the cable operator is proposing a rate increase, it may
withdraw the proposal, in which case the allegedly proprietary information will
be returned to it; or
         (b)   The cable operator may seek review within five working days of
the denial in any appropriate forum. Release of the information will be stayed
pending review.
   (B)   Any interested party may file a request to inspect material withheld
as proprietary with the city. The city shall weigh the policy considerations
favoring non-disclosure against the reasons cited for permitting inspection in
light of the facts of the particular case. It will then promptly notify the
requesting entity and the cable operator that submitted the information as to
the disposition of the request. It may grant, deny or condition a request. The
requesting party or the cable operator may seek review of the decision by
filing an appeal with any appropriate forum. Disclosure will be stayed pending
resolution of any appeal.
   (C)   The procedures set forth in this section shall be construed as
analogous to and consistent with the rules of the FCC regarding requests for
confidentiality including, without limitation, 47 C.F.R. § 0.459.
(Prior Code, § 2.235)  (Ord. 153, passed 10-18-1993)
§ 110.40  PUBLIC NOTICE; INITIAL REVIEW OF RATES.
   (A)   Upon the filing of ten copies of the schedule of rates or the proposed
increase in rates pursuant to §
110.38(A), the City Clerk shall publish a public notice in a newspaper of
general circulation in the city which shall state that:
      (1)   The filing has been received by the City Clerk and (except those
parts which may be withheld as proprietary) is available for public inspection
and copying; and
      (2)   Interested parties are encouraged to submit written comments on the
filing to the City Clerk not later than seven days after the public notice is
published.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall give notice to the cable operator of the date,
time and place of the meeting at which the City Commission shall first consider
the schedule of rates or the proposed increase.
   (C)   This notice shall be mailed by first class mail at least three days
before the meeting.
   (D)   In addition, if a written staff or consultant’s report on the schedule
of rates or the proposed increase is prepared for consideration of the City
Commission, then the City Clerk shall mail a copy of the report by first class
mail to the cable operator at least three days before the meeting at which the
City Commission shall first consider the schedule of rates or the proposed
increase.
(Prior Code, § 2.236)  (Ord. 153, passed 10-18-1993)
§ 110.41  TOLLING ORDER.
   After a cable operator has filed its existing schedule of rates or a
proposed increase in these rates, the existing schedule of rates will remain in
effect or the proposed increase in rates will become effective after 30 days
from the date of filing under §
110.38(A) above unless the City Commission (or other properly authorized body
or official) tolls the 30-day deadline pursuant to 47 C.F.R. § 76.933 by
issuing a brief written order, by resolution or otherwise, within 30 days of
the date of filing. The City Commission may toll the 30-day deadline for an
additional 90 days in cases not involving cost-of-service showings and for an
additional 150 days in cases involving cost-of-service showings.
(Prior Code, § 2.237)  (Ord. 153, passed 10-18-1993)
§ 110.42  PUBLIC NOTICE; HEARING ON BASIC CABLE SERVICE RATES FOLLOWING TOLLING
OF 30-DAY DEADLINE.
   (A)   If a written order has been issued pursuant to §
110.41 and 47 C.F.R. § 76.933 to toll the effective date of existing rates for
the basic service tier and associated equipment or a proposed increase in these
rates, the cable operator shall submit to the city any additional information
required or requested pursuant to §
110.38.
   (B)   In addition, the City Commission shall hold a public hearing to
consider the comments of interested parties within the additional 90-day or
150-day period, as the case may be.
   (C)   The City Clerk shall publish a notice of the public hearing in a
newspaper of general circulation within the city which shall state:
      (1)   The date, time and place at which the hearing shall be held;
      (2)   Interested parties may appear in person, by agent, or by letter at
such hearing to submit comments on or objections to the existing rates or the
proposed increase in rates; and
      (3)   Copies of the schedule of rates or the proposed increase in rates
and related information (except those parts which may be withheld as
proprietary) are available for inspection or copying from the office of the
City Clerk.
   (D)   The public notice shall be published not less than 15 days before the
hearing.
   (E)   In addition, the City Clerk shall mail by first class mail a copy of
the public notice to the cable operator not less than 15 days before the
hearing.
(Prior Code, § 2.238)  (Ord. 153, passed 10-18-1993)
§ 110.43  STAFF OR CONSULTANT REPORT; WRITTEN RESPONSE.
   Following the public hearing, the City Administrator shall cause a report to
be prepared for the City Commission which shall (based on the filing of the
cable operator, the comments or objections of interested parties, information
requested from the cable operator and its response, staff or consultant’s
review, and other appropriate information) include a recommendation for the
decision of the City Commission pursuant to §
110.44. The City Clerk shall mail a copy of the report to the cable operator by
first class mail not less than 20 days before the City Commission acts under §
110.44. The cable operator may file a written response to the report with the
City Clerk. If at least ten copies of the response are filed by the cable
operator with the City Clerk within ten days after the report is mailed to the
cable operator, the City Clerk shall forward it to the City Commission.
(Prior Code, § 2.239)  (Ord. 153, passed 10-18-1993)
§ 110.44  RATE DECISIONS AND ORDERS.
   The City Commission shall issue a written order, by resolution or otherwise,
which, in whole or in part, approves the existing rates for basic cable service
and associated equipment or a proposed increase in such rates, denies the
existing rates or proposed increase, orders a rate reduction, prescribes a
reasonable rate, allows the existing rates or proposed increase to become
effective subject to refund, or orders other appropriate relief, in accordance
with the FCC rules. If the City Commission issues an order allowing the
existing rates or proposed increase to become effective subject to refund, it
shall also direct the cable operator to maintain an accounting pursuant to 47
C.F.R. § 76.933. The order specified in this section shall be issued within 90
days of the tolling order under §
110.41 in all cases not involving a cost-of-service showing. The order shall be
issued within 150 days after the tolling order under §
110.41 in all cases involving a cost-of-service showing.
(Prior Code, § 2.240)  (Ord. 153, passed 10-18-1993)
§ 110.45  REFUNDS; NOTICE.
   The City Commission may order a refund to subscribers as provided in 47
C.F.R. § 76.942. Before the City Commission orders any refund to subscribers,
the City Clerk shall give at least seven days’ written notice to the cable
operator by first class mail of the date, time and place at which the City
Commission shall consider issuing a refund order and shall provide an
opportunity for the cable operator to comment. The cable operator may appear in
person, by agent or by letter at such time for the purpose of submitting
comments to the City Commission.
(Prior Code, § 2.241)  (Ord. 153, passed 10-18-1993)
§ 110.46  WRITTEN DECISIONS; PUBLIC NOTICE.
   (A)   Any order of the City Commission pursuant to §§
110.44 or
110.45 shall be in writing, shall be effective upon adoption or such other date
specified by the City Commission, and shall be deemed released to the public
upon adoption.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall publish a public notice of any such written order
in a newspaper of general circulation within the city which shall:
      (1)   Summarize the written decision; and
      (2)   State that copies of the text of the written decision are available
for inspection or copying from the office of the City Clerk.
   (C)   In addition, the City Clerk shall mail a copy of the text of the
written decision to the cable operator by first class mail.
(Prior Code, § 2.242)  (Ord. 153, passed 10-18-1993)
§ 110.47  RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   In addition to rules promulgated pursuant to §
110.38, the City Commission may, by resolution or otherwise, adopt rules and
regulations for basic cable service rate regulation proceedings (including,
without limitation, the conduct of hearings), consistent with the Act and the
FCC rules.
(Prior Code, § 2.243)  (Ord. 153, passed 10-18-1993)
§ 110.48  FAILURE TO GIVE NOTICE.
   The failure of the City Clerk to give the notices or to mail copies of
reports as required by this chapter shall not invalidate the decisions or
proceedings of the City Commission.
(Prior Code, § 2.244)  (Ord. 153, passed 10-18-1993)
§ 110.49  ADDITIONAL HEARINGS.
   In addition to the requirements of this chapter, the City Commission may
hold additional public hearings upon such reasonable notice as the City
Commission, in its sole discretion, shall prescribe.
(Prior Code, § 2.245)  (Ord. 153, passed 10-18-1993)
§ 110.50  ADDITIONAL POWERS.
   The city shall possess all powers conferred by the Act, the FCC rules, the
cable operator’s franchise and all other applicable law. The powers exercised
pursuant to the Act, the FCC rules, and this chapter shall be in addition to
powers conferred by law or otherwise. The city may take any action not
prohibited by the Act and the FCC rules to protect the public interest in
connection with basic cable service rate regulation.
(Prior Code, § 2.246)  (Ord. 153, passed 10-18-1993)
§ 110.51  FAILURE TO COMPLY; REMEDIES.
   The city may pursue any and all legal and equitable remedies against the
cable operator (including, without limitation, all remedies provided under a
cable operator’s consent agreement with the city) for failure to comply with
the Act, the FCC rules, any orders or determinations of the city pursuant to
this chapter, any requirements of this chapter, or any rules or regulations
promulgated hereunder. Subject to applicable law, failure to comply with the
Act, the FCC rules, any orders or determinations of the city pursuant to this
chapter, any requirements of this chapter, or any rules and regulations
promulgated hereunder shall also be sufficient grounds for revocation or denial
of renewal of a cable operator’s consent agreement.
(Prior Code, § 2.247)  (Ord. 153, passed 10-18-1993)
§ 110.52  CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   In the event of any conflict between this chapter and the provisions of any
prior ordinance or any franchise, permit, consent agreement or other agreement
with a cable operator, then the provisions of this chapter shall control.
(Prior Code, § 2.248)  (Ord. 153, passed 10-18-1993)
§ 110.53  INTERGOVERNMENTAL COOPERATION.
   Whenever a provision of this chapter requires the publication of a notice, a
public hearing, the preparation of a staff or consultant report, other
publication or similar act, the city may take such action jointly, in
cooperation with any other local unit of government served by the same cable
operator.
(Prior Code, § 2.249)  (Ord. 153, passed 10-18-1993)
CHAPTER 111:  PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License required
   
111.03   License application
   
111.04   License fee and bond
   
111.05   Police investigation
   
111.06   Identification
   
111.07   Acceptance of license
   
111.08   Regulations
   
111.09   Exemptions
§ 111.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLER.  Includes any individual, whether a resident of the city or not,
traveling either by foot, wagon, automobile, motor truck or any other type of
conveyance, from place to place, from house to house, from street to street,
carrying, conveying or transporting goods, wares, merchandise, baked goods,
fruits or vegetables, offering, exposing the same for sale or making and
delivering articles to purchasers.
   SOLICITOR or CANVASSER.  Includes any individual, whether a resident of the
city or not, traveling either by foot, wagon, automobile, motor truck or any
other type of conveyance, from place to place, from house to house, from street
to street, taking or attempting to take orders for sale of goods, wares and
merchandise, books or magazines, personal property of any nature whatsoever for
future delivery, or for services to be furnished or performed in the future,
whether or not such individual has, carries or exposes for sale a sample of the
subject of such sales or whether he or she is collecting advance payments on
such sales or not, and such definition shall include any person, who for
himself or herself, or for another person, hires, leases, uses or occupies any
building, structure, tent, railroad box car, boat, hotel room, lodging house,
apartment, shop or any other place within the city for the sole purpose of
exhibiting samples and taking orders for future delivery.
(Prior Code, § 7.71)
§ 111.02  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any solicitor, canvasser or peddler to engage in
said business in the city without first having obtained a license therefor from
the City Clerk. No such license shall be granted except upon certification of
the City Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 7.72)
§ 111.03  LICENSE APPLICATION.
   The license application shall furnish the following information:
   (A)   Name and description of the applicant;
   (B)   Permanent home address and full local address of the applicant, and
telephone number;
   (C)   A brief description of the nature of the business and the goods to be
sold;
   (D)   If employed, the name, address and telephone number of the employer,
together with credentials establishing the exact relationship;
   (E)   The length of time for which the right to do business is desired;
   (F)   The place where the goods or property proposed to be sold, or orders
taken for sale thereof are manufactured or produced, where such goods or
products are located at the time said application is filed, and the proposed
method of delivery;
   (G)   The applicant should be fingerprinted and provide a photograph taken
within 60 days immediately prior to the date of the filing of the application;
   (H)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted of
any felony, the nature of the offense, and the punishment assessed therefor;
   (I)   Where applicant has done business in the previous six months; and
   (J)   The applicant should swear to the information given on the
application.
(Prior Code, § 7.73)
§ 111.04  LICENSE FEE AND BOND.
   (A)   Fees; bonds; recovery for damages under bond. For each license issued
hereunder, the applicant shall pay to the City Clerk the sum of $25 as a
license fee, and the further sum of $5 for the first day of the use of said
license and $3 for each day thereafter; and shall deposit with the City Clerk
the sum of $500 as a cash bond, or shall file a surety company bond in a like
amount. Such cash bond or surety bond shall be conditioned for the faithful
performance of his or her promises and contracts made during his or her course
of business as a solicitor, canvasser or peddler within the city and for
compliance with all ordinances of the city. Said bonds shall further provide
that any person injured by the breach of any obligation which a bond is given
to secure may sue upon such bond in his or her own name in any court of
competent jurisdiction to recover any damages such person may have sustained by
such breach and shall be for a term of not less than six months.
   (B)   Disposition of bond. Deposits of money or bonds made with the City
Clerk as required by the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to the
claims of creditors in all cases where a judgment has been obtained against
such solicitor or peddler and the date for the appeal of the judgment has
expired. In such cases garnishment proceedings may be commenced against the
City Clerk. It shall be the duty of the City Clerk to remit to any court any
balance of the cash deposit remaining in his or her hands not exceeding the
amount of the judgment for the purpose of satisfying the same. Any balance of
the cash deposit remaining in the hands of the City Clerk for a period of six
months after the expiration of said license shall be remitted to said
solicitor, canvasser or peddler.
   (C)   Expiration of license. Any license issued hereunder shall expire and
be void as soon as the amount of the bond filed with the City Clerk as provided
herein shall have been diminished or used in whole or in part because of suits
as hereinbefore provided.
(Prior Code, § 7.74)
§ 111.05  POLICE INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Upon receipt of application, the City Administrator shall have 24
hours to investigate the applicant.
   (B)   If the applicant has been found to violate statutes or ordinances of
any state, city, village or township or the federal government, or is under
investigation for consumer fraud, the application will be denied and the
license fee shall serve to cover the cost of the application and investigation
and shall not be returned.
(Prior Code, § 7.75)
§ 111.06  IDENTIFICATION.
   Upon issuance of the license, an ID card will be provided to the applicant
containing his or her name, the organization he or she represents, his or her
picture and his or her signature.
(Prior Code, § 7.76)
§ 111.07  ACCEPTANCE OF LICENSE.
   Each licensee, upon receipt of said license, in the presence of the City
Clerk, shall affix his or her signature thereon, accepting the license and all
conditions of its use as stated in this chapter, respecting the use of said
license, and agreeing to the suspension and revocation of said license, should
any of the conditions be violated.
(Prior Code, § 7.77)
§ 111.08  REGULATIONS.
   The following conditions and regulations shall apply to the exercise of
privileges granted by licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter in
addition to those set forth elsewhere in this code.
   (A)   Approval of weights and measures device. No licensee shall use any
weighing or measuring device, unless said device shall have been examined and
approved by the sealer of weights and measures.
   (B)   Accuracy of weights and measures. No licensee shall sell or offer for
sale any article or commodity purporting to be in quantities of standard weight
or measure, whether an original or other packages or not, unless the same shall
be actually of the weight or measure purported.
   (C)   Defective merchandise. No licensee shall sell or offer for sale any
unsound or unripe or unwholesome goods, or a defective, faulty, incomplete or
deteriorated article of merchandise, unless the goods are so represented to the
prospective customers.
   (D)   Vehicle tags. Every vehicle used for peddling or vending shall have a
tag attached to each side thereof, bearing the same number as the license
issued to the owner, said tag to furnished by the City Clerk and to be marked
“Peddler’s License”. Every owner licensed to sell or vend from a vehicle or
vehicles, shall be entitled to one helper to each vehicle.
   (E)   Inspection of merchandise. The City Clerk may require that the goods,
wares and merchandise of an applicant for a license hereunder be inspected by
the Chief of Police or any inspector of the Department designated by the Chief
to act for him or her, before issuing a license under this chapter. The City
Clerk shall refuse a license to any applicant, and may revoke any license
issued hereunder where the goods, wares or merchandise are found to be a fire
hazard by the inspecting official.
   (F)   Compliance with traffic rules. Persons peddling or vending goods from
a vehicle shall comply with traffic and parking provisions of the city code
relative to vehicles and no vehicles shall be allowed to remain standing at one
place on any of the streets, alleys or public places for a longer period than
ten minutes at any one block while being used for peddling or vending purposes.
   (G)   Displaying license. The license shall be worn in full view on the
person to whom issued, whenever he or she is actively engaged in soliciting or
peddling.
(Prior Code, § 7.78)
§ 111.09  EXEMPTIONS.
   The following solicitors, canvassers and peddlers shall be exempt from the
license requirements of this chapter:
   (A)   Those selling products, produced, grown or manufactured by their own
labor;
   (B)   Those representing charitable or non-profit organizations; and
   (C)   Those involved in interstate commerce.
(Prior Code, § 7.79)
CHAPTER 112:  TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDERS
Section
   
112.01   Purpose
   
112.02   Conflict
   
112.03   Definitions
   
112.04   Permit required
   
112.05   Issuance of permit
   
112.06   Construction/engineering permit
   
112.07   Conduit or utility poles
   
112.08   Route maps
   
112.09   Repair of damage
   
112.10   Establishment and payment of maintenance fee
   
112.11   Modification of existing fees
   
112.12   Savings clause
   
112.13   Use of funds
   
112.14   Annual report
   
112.15   Cable television operators
   
112.16   Existing rights
   
112.17   Compliance
   
112.18   Reservation of police powers
   
112.19   Authorized city officials
   
112.20   Municipal civil infraction
§ 112.01  PURPOSE.
   The purposes of this chapter are to regulate access to and ongoing use of
public rights-of-way by telecommunications providers for their
telecommunications facilities, while protecting the public health, safety and
welfare and exercising reasonable control of the public rights-of-way in
compliance with the Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
Oversight Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 484.3101 through 484.3120, (Public Act 48 of
2002) (“Act”) and other applicable law, and to ensure that the city qualifies
for distributions under the Act by modifying the fees charged to providers and
complying with the Act.
(2012 amendment)
§ 112.02  CONFLICT.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed in such a manner as to conflict
with the Act or other applicable law.
(2012 amendment)
§ 112.03  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACT.  The Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
Oversight Act (Public Act 48 of 2002), being M.C.L.A. §§ 484.3101 through
484.3120, as amended from time to time.
      CITY.  The City of Auburn.
      CITY ADMINISTRATOR.  The City Administrator or his or her designee.
      CITY COMMISSION.  The City Commission of the city, or its designee. This
section does not authorize delegation of any decision or function that is
required by law to be made by the City Commission.
      PERMIT.  A non-exclusive permit issued pursuant to the Act and this
chapter to a telecommunications provider to use the public rights-of-way in the
city for its telecommunications facilities.
   (B)   All other terms used in this chapter shall have the same meaning as
defined or as provided in the Act, including, without limitation, the
following:
      AUTHORITY.  The Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
Oversight Authority created pursuant to § 3 of the Act.
      MPSC.  The Michigan Public Service Commission in the Department of
Consumer and Industry Services, and shall have the same meaning as the term
“Commission” in the Act.
      PERSON.  An individual, corporation, partnership, association,
governmental entity or any other legal entity.
      PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.  The area on, below or above a public roadway,
highway, street, alley, easement or waterway. PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY does not
include a federal, state or private right-of-way.
      TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES or FACILITIES.  The equipment or personal
property, such as copper and fiber cables, lines, wires, switches, conduits,
pipes and sheaths, which are used to or can generate, receive, transmit, carry,
amplify or provide telecommunication services or signals. TELECOMMUNICATION
FACILITIES or FACILITIES do not include antennas, supporting structures for
antennas, equipment shelters or houses, and any ancillary equipment and
miscellaneous hardware used to provide federally licensed commercial mobile
service as defined in § 332(d) of part I of Title Ill of the Communications Act
of 1934, being 47 U.S.C. §§ 201 and 521 et seq., Chapter 652, 48 Stat. 1064,47
D.S.C. 332 and further defined as commercial mobile radio service in 47 C.F.R.
§ 20.3, and service provided by any wireless, two-way communication device.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER, PROVIDER and TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES.
         (a)   Those terms as defined in § 102 of the Michigan
Telecommunications Act, Public Act 179 of 1991, being M.C.L.A. § 484.2102.
         (b)   TELECOMMUNICATION PROVIDER does not include a person or an
affiliate of that person when providing a federally licensed commercial mobile
radio service as defined in § 332(d) of Part I of the Communications Act of
934, Chapter 652,48 Stat. 1064, 47 D.S.C. 332 and further defined as commercial
mobile radio service in 47 C.F.R. § 20.3, or service provided by any wireless,
two-way communication device.
         (c)   For the purpose of the Act and this chapter only, a PROVIDER
also includes all of the following:
            1.   A cable television operator that provides a telecommunications
service;
            2.   Except as otherwise provided by the Act, a person who owns
telecommunication facilities located within a public right-of-way; and
            3.   A person providing broadband internet transport access
service.
(2012 amendment)
§ 112.04  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Permit required. Except as otherwise provided in the Act, a
telecommunications provider using or seeking to use public rights-of-way in the
city for its telecommunications facilities shall apply for and obtain a permit
pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   Application. Telecommunications providers shall apply for a permit on
an application form approved by the MPSC in accordance with § 6(1) of the Act.
A telecommunications provider shall file one copy of the application with the
City Clerk, one copy with the City Administrator and one copy with the City
Attorney. Applications shall be complete and include all information required
by the Act, including without limitation a route map showing the location of
the provider’s existing and proposed facilities in accordance with § 6(5) of
the Act.
   (C)   Confidential information. Telecommunications provider claims that any
portion of the route maps submitted by it as part of its application contain
trade secret, proprietary or confidential information, which is exempt from the
Freedom of Information Act, 1976 Public Act 442, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.231 to
15.246, pursuant to § 6(5) of the Act, the telecommunications provider shall
prominently so indicate on the face of each map.
   (D)   Application fee. Except as otherwise provided by the Act, the
application shall be accompanied by a one-time non-refundable application fee
in the amount of $500.
   (E)   Additional information. The City Administrator may request an
applicant to submit such additional information which the City Administrator
deems reasonably necessary or relevant. The applicant shall comply with all
such requests in compliance with reasonable deadlines for such additional
information established by the City Administrator. If the city and the
applicant cannot agree on the requirement of additional information requested
by the city, the city or the applicant shall notify the MPSC as provided in § 6
(2) of the Act.
   (F)   Previously issued permits. Pursuant to § 5(1) of the Act,
authorizations or permits previously issued by the city under § 251 of the
Michigan Telecommunications Act, 1991 Public Act 179, being M.C.L.A. § 484.2251
and authorizations or permits issued by the City to telecommunications
providers prior to the 1995 enactment of § 251 of the Michigan
Telecommunications Act, but after 1985 shall satisfy the permit requirements of
this chapter.
   (G)   Existing providers. Pursuant to § 5(3) of the Act, within 180 days
from November 1, 2002, the effective date of the Act, a telecommunications
provider with facilities located in a public right-of-way in the city as of
such date, that has not previously obtained authorization or a permit under §
251 of the Michigan Telecommunications Act, Public Act 179 of 1991, being
M.C.L.A. § 484.2251, shall submit to the city an application for a permit in
accordance with the requirements of this chapter. Pursuant to § 5(3) of the
Act, a telecommunications provider submitting an application under this
division (G) is not required to pay the $500 application fee required under
division (D) above. A provider under this division (G) shall be given up to an
additional 180 days to submit the permit application if allowed by the
Authority, as provided in § 5(4) of the Act.
(2012 amendment)
§ 112.05  ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Approval or denial. The authority to approve or deny an application
for a permit is hereby delegated to the City Administrator. Pursuant to § 15(3)
of the Act, the City Administrator shall approve or deny an application for a
permit within 45 days from the date a telecommunications provider files an
application for a permit under § 4(b) of this chapter for access to a public
right-of-way within the city. Pursuant to § 6(6) of the Act, the City
Administrator shall notify the MPSC when the City Administrator has granted or
denied a permit, including information regarding the date on which the
application was filed and the date on which permit was granted or denied. The
City Administrator shall not unreasonably deny an application for a permit.
   (B)   Form of permit. If an application for permit is approved, the City
Administrator shall issue the permit in the form approved by the MPSC, with or
without additional or different permit terms, in accordance with §§ 6(1), 6(2)
and 15 of the Act.
   (C)   Conditions. Pursuant to § 15(4) of the Act, the City Administrator may
impose conditions on the issuance of a permit, which conditions shall be
limited to the telecommunications provider’s access and usage of the public
right-of-way.
   (D)   Bond requirement. Pursuant to § 15(3) of the Act, and without
limitation on division (C) above, the City Administrator may require that the
telecommunications provider as a condition of the permit post a bond. If a bond
is required, it shall not exceed the reasonable cost to ensure that the public
right-of-way is returned to its original condition during and after the
telecommunications provider’s access and use.
(2012 amendment)
§ 112.06  CONSTRUCTION/ENGINEERING PERMIT.
   A telecommunications provider shall not commence construction upon, over,
across or under the public rights-of-way in the city without first obtaining a
construction or engineering permit as required under §§
95.001 through
95.083, as amended, for construction within the public rights-of-way. No fee
shall be charged for such a construction or engineering permit.
(2012 amendment)
§ 112.07  CONDUIT OR UTILITY POLES.
   Pursuant to § 4(3) of the Act, obtaining a permit or paying the fees
required under the Act or under this chapter does not give a telecommunications
provider a right to use conduit or utility poles.
(2012 amendment)
§ 112.08  ROUTE MAPS.
   (A)   Pursuant to § 6(7) of the Act, a telecommunications provider shall,
within 90 days after the substantial completion of construction of new
telecommunications facilities in the city submit route maps showing the
location of the telecommunications facilities to both the MPSC and to the city.
   (B)   The route maps should be in paper format unless and until the MPSC
determines otherwise, in accordance with § 6(8) of the Act.
(2012 amendment)
§ 112.09  REPAIR OF DAMAGE.
   Pursuant to § 15(5) of the Act, a telecommunications provider undertaking an
excavation or construction or installing telecommunications facilities within a
public right-of-way or temporarily obstructing a public right-of-way in the
city, as authorized by a permit, shall promptly repair all damage done to the
street surface and all installations under, over, below or within the public
right-of-way and shall promptly restore the public right-of-way to its
preexisting condition.
(2012 amendment)
§ 112.10  ESTABLISHMENT AND PAYMENT OF MAINTENANCE FEE.
   In addition to the non-refundable application fee paid to the city set forth
in §
112.04(D), a telecommunications provider with telecommunications facilities in
the city’s public rights-of-way shall pay an annual maintenance fee to the
Authority pursuant to § 8 of the Act.
(2012 amendment)
§ 112.11  MODIFICATION OF EXISTING FEES.
   (A)   In compliance with the requirements of § 13(1) of the Act, the city
hereby modifies, to the extent necessary, any fees charged to
telecommunications providers after November 1, 2002, the effective date of the
Act, relating to access and usage of the public rights-of-way, to an amount not
exceeding the amounts of fees and charges required under the Act, which shall
be paid to the Authority. In compliance with the requirements of § 13(4) of the
Act, the city also hereby approves modification of the fees of providers with
telecommunication facilities in public rights-of-way within the city’s
boundaries, so that those providers pay only those fees required under § 8 of
the Act.
   (B)   The city shall provide each telecommunications provider affected by
the fee with a copy of this chapter, in compliance with the requirement of § 13
(4) of the Act. To the extent any fees are charged telecommunications providers
in excess of the amounts permitted under the Act, or which are otherwise
inconsistent with the Act, such imposition is hereby declared to be contrary to
the city’s policy and intent, and upon application by a provider or discovery
by the city, shall be promptly refunded as having been charged in error.
(2012 amendment)
§ 112.12  SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   Pursuant to § 13(5) of the Act, if § 8 of the Act is found to he invalid or
unconstitutional, the modification of fees under §
112.11 shall be void from the date the modification was made.
(2012 amendment)
§ 112.13  USE OF FUNDS.
   Pursuant § 10(4) of the Act, all amounts received by the City from the
Authority shall be used by the city solely for rights-of-way related purposes.
In conformance with that requirement, all funds received by the city from the
Authority shall be deposited into the Major Street Fund and/or the Local Street
Fund maintained by the city under Public Act 51 of 1951, being M.C.L.A. §§
247.651 through 247.675.
(2012 amendment)
§ 112.14  ANNUAL REPORT.
   Pursuant to § 10(5) of the Act, the City Administrator shall file an annual
report with the Authority on the use and disposition of funds ally distributed
by the Authority.
(2012 amendment)
§ 112.15  CABLE TELEVISION OPERATORS.
   Pursuant to § 13(6) of the Act, the city shall not hold a cable television
operator in default or seek any remedy for its failure to satisfy an
obligation, if any, to pay after November 1, 2002, the effective date of this
Act, a franchise fee or similar fee on that portion of gross revenues from
charges the cable operator received for cable modem services provided through
broadband internet transport access services.
(2012 amendment)
§ 112.16  EXISTING RIGHTS.
   Pursuant to § 4(2) of the Act, except as expressly provided herein with
respect to fees, this chapter shall not affect any existing rights that a
telecommunications provider or the city may have under a permit issued by the
city or under a contract between the city and a telecommunications provider
related to the use of the public rights-of-way.
(2012 amendment)
§ 112.17  COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   The city hereby declares that its policy and intent in adopting this
chapter is to fully comply with the requirements of the Act, and the provisions
hereof should be construed in such a manner as to achieve that purpose.
   (B)   The city shall comply in all respects with the requirements of the
Act, including, but not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Exempting certain route maps from the Freedom of Information Act,
Public Act 442 of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.231 to 15.246, as provided in §
112.04(C);
      (2)   Allowing certain previously issued permits to satisfy the permit
requirements hereof, in accordance with §
112.04(F);
      (3)   Allowing existing providers additional time in which to submit an
application for a permit, and excusing such providers from the $500 application
fee, in accordance with §
112.04(G);
      (4)   Approving or denying an application for a permit within 45 days
from the date a telecommunications provider files an application for a permit
for access to and usage of a public right-of-way within the city, in accordance
with §
112.05(A);
      (5)   Notifying the MPSC when the city has granted or denied a permit in
accordance with §
112.05(A);
      (6)   Not unreasonably denying an application for a permit, in accordance
with §
112.05(A);
      (7)   Issuing a permit in the form approved by the MPSC, with or without
additional or different permit terms, as provided in §
112.05(B);
      (8)   Limiting the conditions imposed on the issuance of a permit to the
telecommunications provider’s access and usage of the public right-of-way, in
accordance with §
112.05(C);
      (9)   Not requiring a bond of a telecommunications provider which exceeds
the reasonable cost to ensure that the public right-of-way is returned to its
original condition during and after the telecommunication provider’s access and
use, in accordance with §
112.05(D);
      (10)   Not charging any telecommunications providers any additional fees
for construction or engineering permits, in accordance with §
112.06;
      (11)   Providing each telecommunications provider affected by the city’s
right-of-way fees with a copy of this chapter, in accordance with §
112.11;
      (12)   Submitting an annual report to the Authority, in accordance with §
112.14; and
      (13)   Not holding a cable television operator in default for a failure
to pay certain franchise fees, in accordance with §
112.15.
(2012 amendment)
§ 112.18  RESERVATION OF POLICE POWERS.
   Pursuant to § 15(2) of the Act, this chapter shall not limit the city’s
right to review and approve a telecommunication provider’s access to and
ongoing use of a public right-of-way or limit the city’s authority to ensure
and protect the health, safety and welfare of the public.
(2012 amendment)
§ 112.19  AUTHORIZED CITY OFFICIALS.
   The City Administrator or his or her designee is hereby designated as the
authorized city official to issue municipal civil infraction citations
(directing alleged violators to appear in court) or municipal civil infraction
violation notices (directing alleged violators to appear at the Municipal
Chapter Violations Bureau) for violations under this chapter as provided by the
city code.
(2012 amendment)
§ 112.20  MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION.
   A person who violates any provision of this chapter or the terms or
conditions of a permit is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, and
shall be subject to the penalties provided in §
10.99. Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the remedies
available to the city in the event of a violation by a person of this chapter
or a permit.
(2012 amendment)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   DISORDERLY CONDUCT
      
131.   LITTER
      
132.   FIREWORKS
CHAPTER 130:  DISORDERLY CONDUCT
Section
   
130.01   Definition
   
130.02   Acts prohibited
   
130.03   Conduct on school property
   
130.04   Misappropriation of services
§ 130.01  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUBLIC PLACE.  Any street, alley, park, public building, any place of
business or assembly upon to or frequented by the public, and any other place
which is open to the public view or hearing, or to which the public has access.
(1991 Code, § 9.1)
Cross-reference:
   Certain acts prohibited in parks, see §
93.01
§ 130.02  ACTS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Commit an assault, or an assault and battery on any person;
   (B)   Be intoxicated in a public place and either endangering directly the
safety of another person or of property or acting in a manner that causes a
public disturbance;
   (C)   Be present in any public place with his ability to walk, talk or see
significantly impaired by the use of any controlled substance as defined by the
Michigan Public Health Code (Article 7), as amended, provided, however, that
this division (C) shall not be construed to apply to a person whose faculties
have been impaired by medication prescribed by a physician and taken as
directed;
   (D)   Engage in any indecent or obscene conduct in any public place;
   (E)   Discharge any firearm, air rifle, air pistol or bow and arrow in the
city, except when lawfully acting in the defense of persons or property or the
enforcement of law or at a duly established range, the operation of which has
been approved by the City Commission;
   (F)   Fire, discharge, display or possess any fireworks except of the type
and under the conditions permitted by Chapter 39 of the Penal Code of the State
of Michigan, being M.C.L.A. §§ 750.243 through 750.243e, and (see
Chapter 132, fireworks, of this code of ordinances);
   (G)   Engage in peeping in the windows of any inhabited place in such a
manner as would be likely to interfere with the occupant’s reasonable
expectation of privacy without the occupants express or implied consent;
   (H)   Make any immoral exhibition or indecent exposure of his or her person
in any public place;
   (I)   Engage in any disturbance, fight or quarrel in a public place;
   (J)   Collect or stand in crowds, or arrange, encourage or abet the
collection of persons in crowds for illegal or mischievous purposes in any
public place;
   (K)   Jostle or roughly crowd persons in any street, alley, park, public
building or any place open to or frequented by the public;
   (L)   Loiter on any street or sidewalk or in any park or public building or
conduct himself or herself in any public place so as to obstruct the free and
uninterrupted passage of the public after having been asked to move by a peace
officer;
   (M)   Play any ball game in any public street or sidewalk or otherwise
obstruct traffic on any street or sidewalk by collecting in groups thereon, for
any purpose;
   (N)   Engage in any act of prostitution;
   (O)   Knowingly attend, frequent, operate or be an occupant or inmate of any
place where prostitution, illegal gambling, the illegal sale of intoxicating
liquor, or where any other illegal business or occupation is permitted or
conducted;
   (P)   Solicit or accost any person for the purpose of inducing the
commission of any illegal act;
   (Q)   Knowingly transport any person to a place where prostitution is
practiced, encouraged or allowed for the purpose of enabling such person to
engage in any illegal act;
   (R)   Keep or maintain a gaming room, gaming tables or any policy or pool
tickets, used for gaming; or knowingly suffer a gaming room, gaming tables or
any policy or pool tickets to be kept, maintained, played or sold on any
premises occupied or controlled by him or her, except where such activity is
authorized by state law;
   (S)   Disturb the public peace and quiet by loud, boisterous or vulgar
conduct;
   (T)   Permit or suffer any place occupied or controlled by him or her to be
a resort of noisy, boisterous or disorderly persons;
   (U)   Obstruct, resist, hinder or oppose any member of the police force, or
any peace officer in the discharge of his or her duties as such except that it
is a defense to prosecution under this section that the obstruction,
resistance, or interference alleged consisted of constitutionally-protected
speech only;
   (V)   Prowl about any alley or the private premises of any person in the
nighttime without authority or the permission of the owner of such premises;
   (W)   Spit on any street or sidewalk; or in any public carrier upon the
floor, seat or walls thereof; or upon the floor, walls, stairs or seats of any
public building or place of public assemblage;
   (X)   Willfully destroy, remove, damage, alter or in any manner deface any
property not his or her own, or any public school building, or any public
building, bridge, fire hydrant, alarm box, street light, street sign, traffic-
control device, railroad sign or signal, parking meter or shade tree belonging
to the city or located in the public places of the city; or mark or post
handbills on, or in any manner mar the walls of, any public building, or fence,
tree or pole within the city; or damage, destroy, take or meddle with any
property belonging to the city, or remove the same from the building or place
where it may be kept, placed or stored, without proper authority;
   (Y)   Wrongfully throw or propel any snowball, missile or object from any
moving automobile;
   (Z)   Wrongfully throw or propel any snowball, missile or object toward any
person or automobile, or on the private property of another person;
   (AA)   Harass, annoy or alarm or make or extend advances or invitations, by
word or act, that are offensive to any person to whom he or she is unknown, in
any public place;
   (BB)   Willfully make or assist in making any noise or diversion which
disturbs or tends to disturb the peace, quiet or good order of any meeting,
gathering or congregation lawfully assembled, whether religious, political or
otherwise;
   (CC)   Summon, as a joke or prank or otherwise without any good reason
therefor, by telephone or otherwise, the Police or Fire Department or any
public or private ambulance to go to any address where the service called for
is not needed; or
   (DD)   Enter or remain on the land, property or premises of another without
the permission of the owner, occupant or agent after being notified to leave by
the owner, occupant or agent or by an appropriate sign.
(1991 Code, § 9.2)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.03  CONDUCT ON SCHOOL PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall mark with any substance, or in any other manner deface
or do damage to any building owned, occupied or otherwise used as a school
within the city.
   (B)   No person shall mark with any substance, or in any other manner deface
or do damage to any fence, tree, lawn or other fixture situated on lands owned,
occupied or otherwise used by a school within the city.
   (C)   No person, while on public or private grounds adjacent to any building
in which a school or any class thereof is in session, shall willfully make or
assist in the making of any noise or diversion which disturbs or tends to
disturb the peace, quiet or good order of such school session or class thereof.
   (D)   No person while on public or private lands adjacent to any building or
lands owned, occupied or otherwise used by a school within the city, in or on
which any gathering or function is in progress, whether in the day or
nighttime, shall willfully make or assist in the making of any noise or
diversion which disturbs or tends to disturb the peace, quiet or good order of
such gathering or function.
   (E)   No person, while in any building owned, occupied or otherwise used by
a school within the city, shall utter any profane, indecent or immoral language
towards any person or while within the hearing of any other person.
   (F)   No person, while on any lands owned, occupied or otherwise used by a
school within the city, shall utter any profane, indecent or immoral language
towards any person or while within the hearing of any other person.
   (G)   No person not a student or employee of any school located in the city,
or parent or guardian of any student enrolled therein, shall remain within any
school during normal school hours without securing the written permission of
the principal or person in charge of said school.
   (H)   The term STUDENT as used herein is hereby defined as any person of
school age and enrolled in the school at which he or she then is present.
(1991 Code, § 9.11)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.04  MISAPPROPRIATION OF SERVICES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      FACILITIES.  Any apparatus used by a person in furnishing services to the
public, including, but not limited to, electric power lines and poles, wires,
cables, pipes, mains or other conductors or conduits used for the supplying
and/or transmission of services to the public.
      PERSON.  Any individual, partnership, corporation or other legal entity.
      SERVICES.  The furnishing to the public, by either a private or public
person, any of the following: water, sanitary sewer, steam, electricity, gas,
cable antenna radio or television communication and/or transmissions or
telephone or telegraph communications and/or transmissions.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to appropriate for its own use any
service, without paying for the service, the applicable fees, costs, rates or
charges to the person furnishing such services.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to utilize the facilities of a
person furnishing services to the public, unless prior consent from the owner
of such facilities, or its authorized agent, has been obtained.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to damage, connect to or otherwise
alter any facilities owned by a person furnishing services to the public unless
prior consent from the owner of such facilities, or its authorized agent, has
been obtained.
(1991 Code, § 9.21)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 131:  LITTER
Section
   
131.01   Definitions
   
131.02   Refuse collection
   
131.03   Disposal of litter
   
131.04   Depositing litter
   
131.05   Use of receptacles
   
131.06   Littering streets
   
131.07   Littering parks
   
131.08   Litter on private property
   
131.09   Owner’s duty
   
131.10   Littering vacant property
   
131.11   Notice to violators
   
131.12   Failure to obey notice
   
131.13   Collection of costs
   
131.14   Nuisance per se
§ 131.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LITTER.  Garbage, refuse and rubbish and all other waste material which, if
thrown or deposited as herein prohibited, tends to create a danger to public
health, safety and welfare.
   PARK.  A park, reservation, playground, beach, recreation center or any
other public area in the city, owned or used by the city and devoted to active
or passive recreation.
   PRIVATE PREMISES.  Any dwelling, house, building or other structure,
designed or used either wholly or in part for private residential purposes,
whether inhabited or temporarily or continuously uninhabited or vacant, and
shall include any yard, ground, walk, driveway, porch, steps, vestibule or
mailbox belonging or appurtenant to such dwelling, house, building or other
structure.
   PUBLIC PLACE.  Any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys or other
public ways and any and all public parks, squares, spaces, grounds and
buildings.
(1991 Code, § 6.61)
§ 131.02  REFUSE COLLECTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with or hinder the
collection of garbage or refuse.
(1991 Code, § 6.62)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.03  DISPOSAL OF LITTER.
   No person shall dispose of litter, except at locations which have been
approved and supervised by the city.
(1991 Code, § 6.63)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.04  DEPOSITING LITTER.
   No person shall throw or deposit litter in or upon any street, sidewalk or
public place within the city, except in public receptacles, in authorized
private receptacles for collection, or in official sanitary landfills.
(1991 Code, § 6.64)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.05  USE OF RECEPTACLES.
   Persons placing litter in public receptacles or in authorized private
receptacles shall do so in such a manner as to prevent it from being carried or
deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk or other public place, or
upon private property.
(1991 Code, § 6.65)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.06  LITTERING STREETS.
   No person, while a driver or passenger in a vehicle, shall throw or deposit
litter upon any street or other public place within the city, or upon private
property nor shall any person drive or move any vehicle or truck within the
city, the wheels or tires of which carry onto or deposit in any street, alley
or other public place, mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter or foreign matter
of any kind.
(1991 Code, § 6.66)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.07  LITTERING PARKS.
   (A)   No person shall throw, deposit or cause to be deposited litter in any
park within the city, except in public receptacles, and in such a manner that
the litter shall be prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements
upon any part of the park or upon any street or other public place.
   (B)   Where public receptacles are not provided, all such litter shall be
carried away from the park by the person responsible for its presence and
properly disposed of elsewhere.
(1991 Code, § 6.67)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.08  LITTER ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No person shall throw, deposit or cause to be deposited litter on any
occupied private property within the city, whether owned by such person or not.
The owner or person in control of private property may maintain authorized
private receptacles for collection in such a manner that litter will be
prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any street,
sidewalk or other public place or upon any private property.
(1991 Code, § 6.68)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.09  OWNER’S DUTY.
   The owner or person in control of any private property shall at all times
maintain the premises free of litter. This section shall not prohibit the
storage of litter in authorized private receptacles for collection.
(1991 Code, § 6.69)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.10  LITTERING VACANT PROPERTY.
   No person shall throw, deposit or cause to be deposited litter on any open
or vacant private property within the city, whether owned by such person or
not.
(1991 Code, § 6.70)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.11  NOTICE TO VIOLATORS.
   (A)   The City Administrator or his or her duly authorized representative is
hereby authorized and empowered to notify the owner of any open or vacant
private property within the city, or the agent of such owner, to properly
dispose of litter located on such owner’s property which is dangerous to public
health, safety or welfare.
   (B)   Such notice shall be by certified mail, addressed to said owner at his
or her last known address.
(1991 Code, § 6.71)
§ 131.12  FAILURE TO OBEY NOTICE.
   Upon the failure, neglect or refusal of any owner or agent so notified, to
properly dispose of litter dangerous to the public health, safety or welfare
within five days after receipt of written notice provided for herein or within
five days after the date of such notice in the event the same is returned to
the city by the Post Office Department because of its inability to make
delivery thereof, provided the same was properly addressed to the last known
address of such owner, or agent, the city is hereby authorized and empowered to
pay for the disposing of such litter, or to order its disposal by the city.
(1991 Code, § 6.72)
§ 131.13  COLLECTION OF COSTS.
   (A)   When the city has effected the removal of such dangerous litter or has
paid for its removal, the actual cost thereof shall be billed to the person or
persons responsible for payment.
   (B)   If the full amount due the city is not paid within 30 days after the
mailing of the bill therefor, a single lot assessment shall be levied against
the premises in the manner provided in
Chapter 33 (Special Assessments).
(1991 Code, § 6.73)
§ 131.14  NUISANCE PER SE.
   The violation of any provision of this chapter is hereby declared to be a
nuisance per se. Any court of competent jurisdiction may order such nuisance
abated and the violator guilty of maintaining a nuisance per se.
(1991 Code, § 6.74)
CHAPTER 132:  FIREWORKS
Section
   
132.01   Title
   
132.02   Definitions
   
132.03   Prohibition on use of all fireworks except as allowed
   
132.04   Prohibition on use of display fireworks; exception
   
132.05   Prohibition on use of consumer fireworks; exception
   
132.06   Use of low-impact or novelty fireworks
   
132.07   Enforcement
 
   
132.99   Penalty
§ 132.01  TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “City of Auburn
Fireworks Ordinance”.
(Ord. 196, passed 8-13-2012)
§ 132.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONSUMER FIREWORKS.  Fireworks devices that are designed to produce visible
effects by combustion that are required to comply with the construction,
chemical composition and labeling regulations promulgated by the United States
Consumer Product Safety Commission under 16 C.F.R. parts 1500 and 1507, and
that are listed in APA standard 87-1, 3.1.2, 3.1.3 or 3.5. CONSUMER FIREWORKS
do not include low-impact fireworks.
   DISPLAY FIREWORKS.  Large fireworks devices that are explosive material
intended for use in fireworks displays and designed to produce visual or
audible effects by combustion, deflagration or detonation, as provided in 27
C.F.R. § 555.11, 49 C.F.R. part 172, and APA standard 87-1, 4.1.
   FIREWORK or FIREWORKS.  Any composition or device, except for a starting
pistol, a flare gun or flare, designated for the purpose of producing a visible
or audible effect by combustion, deflagration or detonation. FIREWORKS consist
of consumer fireworks, low-impact fireworks, articles pyrotechnic, display
fireworks and special effects.
   LOW-IMPACT FIREWORKS.  Ground and handheld sparkling devices as that phrase
is defined under APA standard 87-1, 3.1, 3.1.1.1 to 3.1.1.8 and 3.5.
   NOVELTIES.  The term as defined under APA standard 87-1, 3.2, 3.2.1, 3.2.2,
3.2.3, 3.2.4 and 3.2.5 and all of the following:
      (1)   Toy plastic or paper caps for toy pistols in sheets, strips, rolls
or individual caps containing not more than 0.25 of a grain of explosive
content per cap, in packages labeled to indicate the maximum explosive content
per cap;
      (2)   Toy pistols, toy cannons, toy canes, toy trick noisemakers and to
guns in which toy caps are described in division (1) above are used, that are
constructed so that the hand cannot come in contact with the cap when in place
for the explosion, and that are not designed to break apart, or be separated so
as to form a missile by the explosion;
      (3)   Flitter sparklers in paper tubes not exceeding 1/8 inch in
diameter; and
      (4)   Toy snakes not containing mercury, if packed in cardboard boxes
with not more than 12 pieces per box for retail sales and if the manufacturer’s
name and the quantity contained in each box are printed on the box; and toy
smoke devices.
(Ord. 196, passed 8-13-2012)
§ 132.03  PROHIBITION ON USE OF ALL FIREWORKS EXCEPT AS ALLOWED.
   No person shall ignite, discharge or use any fireworks within the city,
except as specifically allowed by this chapter.
(Ord. 196, passed 8-13-2012)  Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.04  PROHIBITION ON USE OF DISPLAY FIREWORKS; EXCEPTION.
   No person shall ignite, discharge or use display fireworks within the city
at any time without a permit issued by the Fire Marshal or Fire Chief.
   (A)   Application for a permit shall be on a written form provided by the
State Department of Licensing and Regulatory Affairs. The permit application
shall be accompanied by a fee set by resolution of the City Commission, the
Fire Marshal or Fire Chief may grant a permit for display fireworks if
applicable provisions of the Michigan Fireworks Safety Act, 2011 Public Act
256, being M.C.L.A. §§ 28.451 through 28.471, are complied with. After a permit
has been granted, sales, possession or transportation of fireworks for the
purposes described in the permit only may be made. A permit granted under this
division (A) is nontransferable and shall not be issued to a minor.
   (B)   Before a permit authorized by this section is granted, the applicant
shall furnish proof of financial responsibility in the form of a bond, or
insurance deemed sufficient by the township to satisfy damage claims against
the applicant, and to protect the public.
   (C)   A permit shall not be issued to a non-resident of the state applicant
until the applicant has appointed in writing a member of the state bar, or a
resident agent upon whom all process in an action against the applicant may be
served.
   (D)   The Fire Marshal, or Fire Chief, shall rule on the competency and
qualifications of display fireworks operators as required under NFPA 1123 and
safety aspects of the display based upon the information provided in the
application form before any permit is granted.
(Ord. 196, passed 8-13-2012)  Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.05  PROHIBITION ON USE OF CONSUMER FIREWORKS; EXCEPTION.
   No person shall ignite, discharge or use consumer fireworks within the city,
except this prohibition shall not preclude any person from the ignition,
discharge and use of consumer fireworks on the day preceding, the day of, or
the day after a national holiday consistent with § 7(2) of 2011 Public Act 256.
Consumer fireworks ignited, discharged or used on the dates allowed by this
section shall strictly conform to the definition of consumer fireworks in this
ordinance and state statute by only creating visual, but not audible, effects
by their combustion and if not conforming shall be prohibited at all times.
(Ord. 196, passed 8-13-2012)  Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.06  USE OF LOW-IMPACT OR NOVELTY FIREWORKS.
   Low-impact fireworks shall be ignited, discharged or used so as to not cause
injury or damage to any person or property but shall not be ignited, discharged
or used inside any building or structure at any time without a license or
permit issued by the Fire Marshal or Fire Chief. Novelty fireworks may be
ignited, discharged or used without restriction, but only in a manner so as to
not cause injury or damage to any person or property.
(Ord. 196, passed 8-13-2012)  Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.07  ENFORCEMENT.
   Any police officer with arrest powers in the city may enforce the provisions
of this chapter. In addition, the City Fire Chief, Fire Marshal and Code
Enforcement Officer may issue and serve an appearance ticket upon a person for
a violation of this chapter where there is reasonable cause to believe that the
person has committed an offense.
(Ord. 196, passed 8-13-2012)
§ 132.99  PENALTY.
   A violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor
offense punishable by up to 90 days in jail, or a fine of up to $500, or both
such jail and fine.
(Ord. 196, passed 8-13-2012)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
151.   BUILDING CODE
      
152.   TRAILER COACH PARKING
      
153.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
154.   ZONING CODE
CHAPTER 150:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Site Condominium Projects and Regulations
   
150.01   Definitions
   
150.02   General requirements
   
150.03   Preliminary approval
   
150.04   Final approval
   
150.05   Appeals
   
150.06   Information required prior to occupancy
   
150.07   Revision of site condominium plan
   
150.08   Amendment of condominium documents
   
150.09   Performance bond
Floodplain Management Provisions
   
150.25   Agency designated
   
150.26   Code appendix enforced
   
150.27   Designation of regulated flood prone hazard areas
 
   
150.99   Penalty
SITE CONDOMINIUM PROJECTS AND REGULATIONS
§ 150.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONDOMINIUM ACT.  Public Act 59 of 1978, being M.C.L.A. §§ 559.101 through
559.272, as amended.
   CONDOMINIUM DOCUMENTS.  The master deed, recorded pursuant to the
Condominium Act, and any other instrument referred to in the master deed or
bylaws which affects the rights and obligations of a co-owner in the
condominium.
   CONDOMINIUM LOT.  The condominium unit, including the condominium unit and
the contiguous limited common element surrounding the condominium unit, and
shall be the counter-part of “lot” as used in connection with a project
developed under the Subdivision Control Act, Public Act 288 of 1967, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 through 560.293, as amended.
   CONDOMINIUM UNIT.  The portion of a condominium project assigned and
intended for separate ownership and use, as described in the master deed.
   GENERAL COMMON ELEMENTS.  A portion of the common elements reserved in the
master deed for the use of all of the co-owners.
   LIMITED COMMON ELEMENTS.  A portion of the common elements reserved, in the
master deed for the exclusive use of less than all of the co-owners.
   MASTER DEED.  The condominium documents recording the condominium project to
which are attached as exhibits and incorporated by reference the bylaws for the
project and the condominium subdivision plan for the project, and all other
information required by § 8 of the Condominium Act.
   SITE CONDO.  A condominium development containing residential, commercial,
office, industrial or other structures or improvements for uses permitted in
the zoning district in which located, in which each co-owner owns exclusive
rights to a volume of space within which a structure or structures may be
constructed, herein defined as a condominium unit, as described in the master
deed.
(Ord. 159, passed 1-12-1996)
§ 150.02  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Each condominium lot shall be located within a zoning district that
permits the proposed use.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any other provision of any other city ordinance to the
contrary, each condominium lot shall front on and have direct access to either
a public street or a private street approved by the City Commission. A request
for a private street shall be considered by the Planning Commission during
preliminary site plan review. In considering the approval of a private road the
Planning Commission shall consider the following conditions and standards:
      (1)   The size and location of the proposed site condominium development;
      (2)   The size of the condominium lots;
      (3)   The uniqueness of the property;
      (4)   Whether or not standards applicable to public roads, if required,
would result in the imposition of practical difficulties or unnecessary
hardship;
      (5)   The maintenance of the proposed road;
      (6)   The accessibility to structures within the proposed development by
emergency vehicles;
      (7)   The public’s health, safety and welfare; and
      (8)   Installation of sidewalks.
   (C)   Any private roads proposed by the applicant shall include sidewalk
installation and shall be reviewed and approved using accepted city standards
regarding the following:
      (1)   Width;
      (2)   Existence and/or type of curb and gutter(or the absence thereof);
      (3)   Construction material and depth; and
      (4)   Exact locations.
   (D)   Final approval of any private road must be made by the City
Commission, using the same standards set forth above, and in consideration of
the Planning Commission’s recommendation regarding the project.
(Ord. 159, passed 1-12-1996)
§ 150.03  PRELIMINARY APPROVAL.
   (A)   Site plan approval required. Preliminary approval of the site plan by
the Planning Commission and final approval of the site plan and condominium
documents by the Planning Commission, and as a final step in this procedure
approval by the City Commission of the Planning Commission’s recommendation
shall be required before the construction, expansion or conversion of a site
condominium project. Preliminary and final approval shall not be combined.
   (B)   Preliminary approval.
      (1)   A site plan pursuant to standards and procedures set forth in §
154.135 shall be submitted to the City Administrator.
         (a)   The City Administrator in consultation with other appropriate
staff and consultants shall review the site plan.
         (b)   The review shall be conducted with regard to all matters subject
to regulation by the city including, without limitation, ongoing preservation
and maintenance of drainage, retention, wetland and other natural and/or common
area; maintenance of private roads, if any; application for private roads, if
any; and maintenance of storm water, sanitary and water facilities and
utilities.
         (c)   The City Administrator shall compile the findings of this review
and provide them to the Planning Commission upon the Commission’s request at
either the preliminary approval stage or final approval stage or at both
stages.
      (2)   If the site plan conforms in all respects to applicable laws,
ordinances and design standards, preliminary approval shall be granted by the
Planning Commission.
      (3)   If the site plan fails to conform, the Planning Commission shall
either deny the application, or grant preliminary approval with conditions,
provided such conditions are met before final approval.
(Ord. 159, passed 1-12-1996)
§ 150.04  FINAL APPROVAL.
   (A)   If directed by the Planning Commission, the City Administrator shall
provide information in addition to that compiled pursuant to §
150.03(B).
   (B)   Following receipt of preliminary approval, the applicant shall also
submit to the Building Inspector engineering plans in sufficient detail for the
city, along with appropriate consultants, if necessary, to determine compliance
with applicable laws, ordinances and design standards for construction of the
project. All review comments shall be submitted to the City Administrator who
shall compile the findings prior to consideration of the site plan for final
approval by the Planning Commission.
   (C)   Upon completion of the review of the condominium documents and
engineering plans and receipt of the recommendations and findings from city
staff and consultants, the site plan shall be submitted to the Planning
Commission.
   (D)   If the site plan, condominium documents and/or engineering plans
conform in all respects to applicable laws, ordinances and design standards,
final approval shall be granted by the Planning Commission.
   (E)   If the site plan, condominium documents and/or engineering plans fail
to conform, final approval shall be denied by the Planning Commission.
   (F)   The final recommendation of the Planning Commission approving a
condominium site plan shall be reviewed by the City Commission. The City
Commission shall affirm, deny (in effect, reversing the Planning Commission
recommendation) or request modification of the condominium site plan. The City
Commission may direct that the Planning Commission reconsider the request for
modification of the site plan and make recommendation to the City Commission on
that issue or the City Commission may elect to conduct its own review of the
requested modification.
(Ord. 159, passed 1-12-1996)
§ 150.05  APPEALS.
   (A)   Any interested party may appeal any decision of the Planning
Commission made under the terms of this subchapter by filing with the City
Clerk a written notice of appeal within ten days of the decision appealed from.
   (B)   The City Commission shall hear the appeal within 30 days of the date
of filing of the notice of appeal and shall thereafter either affirm, reverse
or modify the decision of the Planning Commission.
   (C)   The decision of the City Commission shall be final.
(Ord. 159, passed 1-12-1996)
§ 150.06  INFORMATION REQUIRED PRIOR TO OCCUPANCY.
   Prior to the issuance of occupancy permits for any condominium units, the
applicant shall submit the following to the city:
   (A)   A copy of the recorded condominium documents (excluding exhibits);
   (B)   A copy of any recorded restrictive covenants;
   (C)   A copy of the site plan on laminated photostatic copy or Mylar sheet;
and
   (D)   Evidence of completion of improvements associated with the proposed
use including two copies of an “as-built survey”.
(Ord. 159, passed 1-12-1996)
§ 150.07  REVISION OF SITE CONDOMINIUM PLAN.
   Any amendment to a master deed or bylaws that substantially affects the
approved preliminary or final site plan, or any conditions of approval of the
preliminary or final site plan, shall be reviewed and approved by the City
Administrator, City Attorney and Planning Commission before any building permit
may be issued, where such permit is required.
(Ord. 159, passed 1-12-1996)
§ 150.08  AMENDMENT OF CONDOMINIUM DOCUMENTS.
   (A)   Any amendment to a master deed or bylaws that substantially affects
the approved preliminary or final site plan, or any conditions of approval of a
preliminary or final site plan, shall be reviewed and approved by the City
Administrator, City Attorney and Planning Commission before any building permit
may be issued, where such permit is required.
   (B)   The Building Inspector may require his or her review of an amended
site plan if, in his or her opinion, such changes in the master deed or bylaws
require corresponding changes in the earlier site plan.
(Ord. 159, passed 1-12-1996)
§ 150.09  PERFORMANCE BOND.
   (A)   Further, the Planning Commission is empowered to require and at its
option may require a performance bond or certified check in an amount equal to
the estimated cost of improvements associated with the project.
   (B)   Such performance guarantee shall be deposited with the City Clerk at
the time of the issuance of the permit authorizing the activity or project to
insure faithful completion of the improvements indicated with the approved site
development plan; if not, the performance bond shall be forfeited.
   (C)   The city shall rebate a proportional share of the deposit, when
requested by the depositor, based on the percent of improvements completed, as
attested to by the depositor and verified by the City Administrator.
   (D)   The City Administrator may, at his or her discretion, call upon
professional assistance from the City Engineer or Building Inspectors.
   (E)   In cases where the provisions above have not been met, the amount of
the aforementioned performance guarantee shall be used by the city to return
the property to a safe and healthy condition; and the balance, if any, shall be
returned to the applicant.
(Ord. 159, passed 1-12-1996)
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT PROVISIONS
§ 150.25  AGENCY DESIGNATED.
   Pursuant to the provisions of the State Construction Code, in accordance
with § 8b(6) of Public Act 230 of 1972, as amended, the Building Official of
Williams Township, Bay County is hereby designated as the enforcing agency to
discharge responsibility of the city under Public Act 230 of 1972, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 through 125.1531, as amended. Williams Township assumes
responsibility for the administration and enforcement of said Act through out
the corporate limits of the community adopting this subchapter.
(Ord. 191, passed 9-20-2010)
§ 150.26  CODE APPENDIX ENFORCED.
   Pursuant to the provisions of the state construction code, in accordance
with § 8b(6) of Public Act 230 of 1972, as amended, Appendix G of the Michigan
Building Code shall be enforced by the enforcing agency within the city.
(Ord. 191, passed 9-20-2010)
§ 150.27  DESIGNATION OF REGULATED FLOOD PRONE HAZARD AREAS.
   The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) flood insurance study (FIS)
entitled “Bay County Michigan (all jurisdictions)”, and dated September 17,
2010 and the flood insurance rate map (FIRMS) panel number of 26017C; 0325E
(“no special flood hazard areas identified”), and dated September 17, 2010 are
adopted by reference for the purposes of administration of the Michigan
Construction Code, and declared to be a part of § 1612.3 of the Michigan
Building Code, and to provide the content of the “flood hazards” section of
Table R301.2(1) of the Michigan Residential Code.
(Ord. 191, passed 9-20-2010)
§ 150.99  PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
CHAPTER 151:  BUILDING CODE
Section
General Building Regulations
   
151.001   Adoption of code by reference
   
151.002   Code on file
   
151.003   References in code
   
151.004   Changes in code
   
151.005   Violations
Dangerous Buildings
   
151.020   Adoption of code by reference
   
151.021   Code on file
   
151.022   Abatement by city
Plumbing Regulations
   
151.035   Code adopted
   
151.036   Requirements
   
151.037   Application
   
151.038   Abatement of nuisance
   
151.039   Enforcement
   
151.040   Issuance of permit
   
151.041   Permit required
   
151.042   When permit unnecessary
   
151.043   Permit
   
151.044   Permit fees
   
151.045   Stop-work order
   
151.046   Revocation of permit
   
151.047   No personal liability
   
151.048   Violations
Mechanical Code
   
151.060   Adoption by reference
   
151.061   References in code
   
151.062   Changes in code
   
151.063   Violations
Electrical Code
   
151.075   Code adopted
   
151.076   Scope
   
151.077   Existing installations
   
151.078   Administrative authority; appointment
   
151.079   Duties, rights of Administrative Authority
   
151.080   Permit limitations
   
151.081   License required
   
151.082   Exception to license requirement
   
151.083   Registration of state license
   
151.084   Permits required
   
151.085   Permit application
   
151.086   Plans and specifications
   
151.087   Eligibility for permits
   
151.088   Electrical permit fees
   
151.089   Inspections
   
151.090   Unsafe or hazardous equipment
   
151.091   Additions, alterations and repairs
   
151.092   Connecting electrical power
   
151.093   Violations
Property Maintenance Code
   
151.105   Adoption of code
   
151.106   Revision of certain sections
   
151.107   Ordinances in conflict
   
151.108   Effect
   
151.109   Clerk to certify
GENERAL BUILDING REGULATIONS
§ 151.001  ADOPTION OF CODE BY REFERENCE.
   Pursuant to the provisions of § 3(k) of Public Act 279 of 1909, and § 8 of
Public Act 230 of 1972, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 through 125.1531 (State
Construction Code Act of 1972), State of Michigan, as amended, the Michigan
Building Code, 2000, as written and changed in the future, is hereby adopted by
reference by the city, for the purpose of regulating the erection,
construction, enlargement, alteration, repair, moving, removal, conversion,
demolition, occupancy, equipment, use, height, area and maintenance of all
buildings and structures in the city.
(1991 Code, § 8.1)  (Ord. 148, passed 4-6-1992; Ord. 176, passed 8-20-2001)
§ 151.002  CODE ON FILE.
   Complete printed copies of the Uniform Building Code, herein adopted, are
available for public use and inspection at the office of the City Clerk.
(1991 Code, § 8.2)
§ 151.003  REFERENCES IN CODE.
   References in the Uniform Building Code to “state” and “Michigan” shall mean
the State of Michigan, references to “municipality” shall mean the City of
Auburn, references to the “municipal charter” shall mean the Charter of the
City of Auburn, and references to “local ordinances” shall mean the Auburn City
Code.
(1991 Code, § 8.3)
§ 151.004  CHANGES IN CODE.
   The following sections and subsections of the Uniform Building Code are
hereby amended or deleted as set forth, and additional sections and subsections
are added as indicated. Subsequent section numbers used in this subchapter
shall refer to the like numbered sections of the Uniform Building Code. After §
2907 a new § 2907.1 is added to read as follows:
   Section 2907.1.
      (a)   Frost line: Frost line shall in all cases be three feet and six
inches below the adjacent grade.
      (b)   Accessory buildings: Detached accessory buildings, one story in
height and wood frame constructed over 145 square feet in area but less than
1,000 square feet which are not used for human occupancy may be supported on
foundations which extend from a point at least 12 inches below grade to a point
at least six inches above grade. All detached accessory buildings with 145
square feet or less whether wood or metal frame construction may be supported
on a four-inch slab only.
      (c)   Subsoil drainage: The ground around all buildings shall be so
graded as to provide drainage away from the foundation walls and to prevent
dampness due to seepage through the ground. In buildings and structures without
basements, the enclosed portion beneath the floor or crawl space shall be at
the same or higher elevation than the immediate exterior grade except a
complete system of four-inch subsoil drain tile or other drainage system
approved by the Building Official shall encircle the footings of exterior
basement and cellar walls. The top half of the drain tile joint shall be
covered with strips of buildings paper, and the drain tile shall be covered
with 12 inches of gravel or stones. The subsoil drain may discharge into storm
sewers or other established drains.
      (d)   Foundation wall damp-proofing and water-proofing; Foundation walls
shall be so designed and constructed as to be adequately protected at all
points against penetration of moisture by the application of undiluted hot tar,
hot asphalt or a compound or system approved by the Building Official.
(1991 Code, § 8.4)
§ 151.005  VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any person erecting, using, moving, demolishing, occupying or
maintaining any building or structure in violation of the Uniform Building Code
as herein amended or causing, permitting or suffering any such violation to be
committed, shall be punished as provided in §
10.99.
   (B)   Any building or structure erected, used, moved, demolished, occupied
or maintained in violation of this subchapter is hereby declared to be a
nuisance per se.
   (C)   Upon application to any court of competent jurisdiction, the court may
order the nuisance abated and/or the violation, or threatened violation,
restrained and enjoined.
(1991 Code, § 8.5)
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
§ 151.020  ADOPTION OF CODE BY REFERENCE.
   Pursuant to the provisions of § 3(k) of Act 279 of 1909, and § 8 of Act 230
of 1972, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 through 125.1531 (State Construction Code
Act of 1972), State of Michigan, as amended, the Uniform Code for the Abatement
of Dangerous Buildings, 1991 Edition, with appendices, as promulgated and
published by the International Conference of Building Officials, Whittier,
California, is hereby adopted by reference by the city for the purpose of
providing a just, equitable and practicable method, to be cumulative with and
in addition to, any other remedy provided by the Uniform Building Code, 1991
Edition, with appendices, or otherwise available at law, whereby buildings or
structures which from any cause endanger the life, limb, health, morals,
property, safety or welfare of the general public or their occupants, may be
required to be repaired, vacated or demolished.
(1991 Code, § 8.11)  (Ord. 134, passed 7-10-1989; Ord. 148, passed 4-6-1992)
§ 151.021  CODE ON FILE.
   Complete copies of the Uniform Code for the Abatement of Dangerous
Buildings, herein adopted, are available for public use and inspection at the
office of the City Clerk.
(1991 Code, § 8.12)
§ 151.022  ABATEMENT BY CITY.
   (A)   If any person shall fail or refuse to carry out any order served upon
him or her pursuant to this subchapter, after the expiration of the time
allowed for an appeal from such order, or shall fail or refuse to carry out the
order of the Board of Appeal, within the time fixed by the order, the officer
issuing the original order shall proceed to carry out the same through his or
her agents, employees or contractors, and the cost of carrying out such order
shall constitute a lien against the premises.
   (B)   The cost of the demolition or making the building safe shall be a lien
against the real property and shall be reported to the assessing officer of the
city, who shall assess the cost against the property on which the building or
structure is located in accordance with
Chapter 33 (Special Assessments).
(1991 Code, § 8.13)
PLUMBING REGULATIONS
§ 151.035  CODE ADOPTED.
   The Michigan Plumbing Code, 2009, as written and changed in the future is
hereby adopted by as the Plumbing Code of the city the same as if fully set out
herein for regulating the installation, alteration, maintenance and inspection
of the plumbing, drainage, water supply systems and equipment in all structures
and premises in the city, except public sewers and city water supply mains and
service connections.
(1991 Code, § 8.21)  (Ord. 122, passed 7-6-1987; Ord. 148, passed 4-6-1992;
Ord. 177, passed 8-20-2001)
§ 151.036  REQUIREMENTS.
   This code establishes minimum requirements and standards for the protection
of the public health, safety and welfare.
(1991 Code, § 8.22)
§ 151.037  APPLICATION.
   The provisions of this code shall apply to the erection, installation,
alteration, addition, repair, relocation, replacement, maintenance or use of
any plumbing system, except as otherwise provided for in this code.
(1991 Code, § 8.23)
Cross-references:
   Sewer service, see
Chapter 52
   Water utility, see
Chapter 51
§ 151.038  ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   (A)   Any portion of a plumbing system found by the Administrative Authority
to be unsanitary as defined herein is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
   (B)   Where a nuisance exists or a plumbing system is maintained in
violation of this code or any notice issued pursuant to this section, the
Administrative Authority shall require the nuisance or violation to be abated
and, where necessary, shall seek such abatement in the manner provided by law.
The Administrative Authority shall be the designated Building Official of the
city.
(1991 Code, § 8.24)
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances, see
Chapter 94
§ 151.039  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Administrative Authority may appoint such assistants, deputies,
inspectors or other employees as are authorized to carry out the function of
the department and this code. The Administrative Authority has the right to
provide by agreement or contract, approved by the City Commission, with any
other city, village, township or county for joint enforcement and
administration of this subchapter and the Uniform Plumbing Code.
   (B)   Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of the
provisions of this code, or whenever the Administrative Authority or his
authorized representative has reasonable cause to believe that there exists in
any building or upon any premises any condition which makes such building or
premises unsafe as defined in this code, the Administrative Authority or his or
her authorized representative may enter such building or premises at all
reasonable times to inspect the same or to perform any duty imposed upon the
Administrative Authority by this code; provided that if such building or
premises be occupied, he or she shall first present proper credentials and
demand entry; and if such building or premises be unoccupied, he or she shall
first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other persons having
charge or control or the building or premises and demand entry. If such entry
is refused, the Administrative Authority or his or her authorized
representative shall have recourse to every remedy provided by law to secure
entry. AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE shall include the persons named in division
(A) above.
   (C)   No owner or occupant or any other person having charge, care or
control of any building or premises shall fail or neglect, after proper demand
is made as herein provided, to properly permit entry therein by the
Administrative Authority or his or her authorized representative for the
purpose of inspection and examination pursuant to this code. Any person
violating this division (C) shall be guilty of a violation of the city code.
(1991 Code, § 8.25)
§ 151.040  ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The issuance or granting of a permit of approval of plans and
specifications shall not be deemed or construed to be a permit for, or an
approval of, any violation of any of the provisions of this code. No permit
presuming to give authority to violate or cancel the provisions of this code
shall be valid, except insofar as the work or use which it authorized is
lawful.
   (B)   The issuance or granting of a permit or approval of plans shall not
prevent the Administrative Authority from thereafter requiring the correction
of errors in said plans and specifications or from preventing construction
operations being carried on thereunder when in violation of this code or of
another ordinance or from revoking any certificate of approval when issued in
error.
   (C)   Every permit issued by the Administrative Authority under the
provisions of this code shall expire by limitation and become null and void, if
the work authorized by such permit is not commenced within 120 days from the
date of issuance of such permit or if the work authorized by such permit is
suspended or abandoned at any time after the work is commenced for a period of
120 days. Before such work can be recommenced, a new permit shall be first
obtained, and the fee shall be one-half the amount required for a new permit
for such work, provided no changes have been made or will be made in the
original plans and specifications for such work; and provided further that such
suspension or abandonment has not exceeded one year.
(1991 Code, § 8.26)
§ 151.041  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to install, remove, alter, repair
or replace or cause to be installed, removed, altered, repaired or replaced any
plumbing, gas or drainage piping work or any fixture or water heating or
treating equipment in a building or premises without first obtaining a permit
to do such work from the Administrative Authority.
   (B)   A separate permit shall be obtained for each building or structure.
   (C)   No person shall allow any other person to do or cause to be done any
work under a permit secured by a permittee except persons in his or her employ.
(1991 Code, § 8.27)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.042  WHEN PERMIT UNNECESSARY.
   No permit shall be required in the case of any repair work as follows: the
stopping of leaks in drains, soil, waste or vent pipe; provided, however, that
should any trap, drainpipe, soil waste or vent pipe be or become defective and
it becomes necessary to remove and replace the same with new material in any
part or parts, the same shall be considered as such new work and a permit shall
be procured and inspection made as hereinbefore provided. No permit shall be
required for the cleaning of stoppages or the repairing of leaks in pipes,
valves or fixtures, when such repairs do not involve or require the replacement
or rearrangement of valves, pipes or fixtures.
(1991 Code, § 8.28)
§ 151.043  PERMIT.
   (A)   Any person legally entitled to apply for and receive a permit shall
make such application on forms provided for that purpose. He or she shall give
a description of the character of the work proposed to be done and the
location, ownership, occupancy and use of the premises in connection therewith.
The Administrative Authority may require plans, specifications or drawings and
such other information as he or she may deem necessary.
   (B)   If the Administrative Authority determines that the plans,
specifications, drawings, descriptions or information furnished by the
applicant is in compliance with this code, he or she shall issue the permit
applied for upon payment of the required fee as hereinafter fixed.
(1991 Code, § 8.29)
§ 151.044  PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Each applicant shall pay for each permit at the time of issuance a fee
as established from time to time by resolution of the City Commission.
   (B)   Any person who shall commence any work for which a permit is required
by this code without first having obtained a permit therefor shall, if
subsequently permitted to obtain a permit, pay double the permit fee for such
work; provided, however, that this provision shall not apply to emergency work
when it shall be proved to the satisfaction of the Administrative Authority
that such work was urgently necessary and that it was not practical to obtain a
permit therefor before the commencement of the work. In all such cases, a
permit must be obtained as soon as it is practical to do so, and if there be an
unreasonable delay in obtaining such permit, a double fee as herein provided
shall be charged.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, a sanitary plumbing outlet on or to
which a plumbing fixture or appliance may be set or attached shall be construed
to be a FIXTURE. Fees for reconnection and retest of plumbing system in
relocated buildings shall be based on the number of plumbing fixtures, gas
systems, water heaters and the like, involved.
   (D)   When interceptor traps or mobile home site traps are installed at the
same time as a building sewer on any lot, no sewer permit shall be required for
the connection of any such trap to an appropriate inlet fitting provided in the
building sewer by the permittee constructing such sewer.
   (E)   When a permit has been obtained to connect an existing building or
existing work to the public sewer or to connect to a new private disposal
facility, backfilling of private sewage disposal facilities abandoned
consequent to such connection is included in the permit.
(1991 Code, § 8.30)
§ 151.045  STOP-WORK ORDER.
   Whenever any work is being done contrary to the provisions of this code, the
Administrative Authority or his or her authorized representative may order the
work stopped by notice in writing served on any persons engaged in the doing or
causing such work to be done, and any such persons shall forthwith stop such
work until authorized by the Administrative Authority to proceed with the work.
(1991 Code, § 8.31)
§ 151.046  REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The Administrative Authority may, in writing, suspend or revoke a permit
issued under provisions of this code whenever the permit is issued in error or
on the basis of incorrect information supplied, or in violation of any
ordinance or regulation of any provision of this code.
(1991 Code, § 8.32)
§ 151.047  NO PERSONAL LIABILITY.
   The Administrative Authority or any employee charged with the enforcement of
this code, acting in good faith and without malice for the jurisdiction in the
discharge of his or her duties, shall not thereby render himself or herself
liable personally and he or she hereby is relieved from all personal liability
for any damage that may accrue to persons or property as a result of any act
required or by reason of any act of omission in the discharge of his or her
duties. Any suit brought against the Administrative Authority or his or her
authorized representative because of such act or omission performed by him or
her in the enforcement of any provisions of this code shall be defended by the
legal department of the jurisdiction until final termination of the
proceedings.
(1991 Code, § 8.33)
§ 151.048  VIOLATIONS.
   Any violation of this subchapter or the Uniform Plumbing Code or any part
thereof shall be punishable as prescribed in §
10.99. In addition, the city specifically reserves the right and shall have the
authority to proceed in any court of competent jurisdiction for the purpose of
obtaining an injunction, restraining order or other appropriate remedy to
compel compliance with this subchapter and the said Uniform Plumbing Code.
(1991 Code, § 8.35)
MECHANICAL CODE
§ 151.060  ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The Michigan Mechanical Code, 2000, as written and changed in the future is
hereby adopted as the mechanical code of the city the same as if fully set out
herein for regulating the design, construction, installation, maintenance,
service and inspection of mechanical systems, appliances and appurtenances
thereof in the city.
(1991 Code, § 8.51)  (Ord. 148, passed 4-6-1992; Ord. 178, passed 8-20-2001)
§ 151.061  REFERENCES IN CODE.
   References in the Uniform Mechanical Code to “state” (name of state) shall
mean the State of Michigan, references to “municipality” and (name of
municipality) or “city” and (name of city) shall mean the City of Auburn,
references to “local ordinances” shall mean the Auburn City Code, and
references to “department” or “official or department personnel” shall mean the
Building Department or its Director.
(1991 Code, § 8.52)
§ 151.062  CHANGES IN CODE.
   The following sections and subsections of the Uniform Mechanical Code are
hereby amended or deleted as set forth and additional sections and subsections
are added as indicated. Subsequent section numbers used in this subchapter
shall refer to the like-numbered sections of the Uniform Mechanical Code.
   Section 301(a) is amended to read:
      Sec. 301(a). Installers Permit Required. It shall be unlawful for any
person, firm or corporation who has not been issued an annual permit under
section 301(a), to erect, install, alter, repair, relocate, replace, add to,
use, or maintain any heating, ventilating, comfort cooling, refrigeration
system, incinerator or other miscellaneous heat-producing appliance in the
city, or cause the same to be done, contrary to or in violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter. Maintenance of equipment which was unlawful at the
time it was installed and which would be unlawful at the time it was installed
and which would be unlawful under this chapter if installed after the effective
date of this chapter shall constitute a continuing violation of this chapter.
(1991 Code, § 8.53)
§ 151.063  VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of
this subchapter shall be punishable as provided in §
10.99.
   (B)   Any heating, ventilating, comfort cooling, refrigeration system,
incinerator or other miscellaneous heat-producing appliance installed, altered,
repaired, replaced, relocated, used or maintained in violation of any of the
provisions of this subchapter is hereby declared to be a nuisance per se.
   (C)   In addition to the above remedies, the Building Official may institute
any appropriate action or proceedings to prevent any installation, alteration,
repair, replacement, relocation, use or maintenance of any heating,
ventilating, comfort cooling, refrigeration system, incinerator or other
miscellaneous heat-producing appliance constituting a violation of any of the
provisions of this subchapter; to restrain, correct or abate such violations;
or to prevent any unlawful act, conduct, business or use in or about such
premises.
(1991 Code, § 8.54)
ELECTRICAL CODE
§ 151.075  CODE ADOPTED.
   The Michigan Residential Code, 2000, for one- and two-family dwellings and
the 1999 Michigan Electrical Code for all other applications as written and
changed in the future is hereby adopted as the Electrical Code of the city the
same as if fully set out herein for regulating the design, and installation,
alteration and repair of electrical wiring, devices and equipment in the city,
providing for the issuance of permits, licenses and collection of fees
therefor; and providing penalties for violation thereof.
(1991 Code, § 8.71)  (Ord. 122, passed 7-6-1987; Ord. 148, passed 4-6-1992;
Ord. 179, passed 8-20-2001)
§ 151.076  SCOPE.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to the erection, installation,
alteration, addition, repair, relocation, replacement, maintenance or use of
any electrical system, except as otherwise provided for in this subchapter.
(1991 Code, § 8.72)
§ 151.077  EXISTING INSTALLATIONS.
   (A)   Any electrical system lawfully installed prior to the effective date
of this subchapter may have its existing use continued if the use is in
accordance with the original design and location and if no hazard to the public
health, safety or welfare has been created by such system.
   (B)   Where a nuisance exists or an electrical system is maintained in
violation of this subchapter or any notice issued pursuant to this subchapter,
the Administrative Authority shall require the nuisance or violation to be
abated and where necessary, shall seek such abatement in the manner provided by
law.
(1991 Code, § 8.73)
§ 151.078  ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITY; APPOINTMENT.
   The Administrative Authority shall be the person duly appointed by the City
Commission to enforce this subchapter.
(1991 Code, § 8.74)
§ 151.079  DUTIES, RIGHTS OF ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Duties and powers of the Administrative Authority. The Administrative
Authority may appoint such assistants, deputies, inspectors or other employees
as are authorized to carry out the function of the Department and enforce this
subchapter.
   (B)   Right of entry.
      (1)   Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of the
provisions of this subchapter, the Administrative Authority or his or her
authorized representative may enter such building or premises at all reasonable
times to inspect the same or to perform any duty imposed upon the
Administrative Authority by this subchapter; provided that if such building or
premises be occupied, he or she shall first present proper credentials and
demand entry; and if such building or premises be unoccupied, he or she shall
first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other persons having
charge or control of the building or premises and demand entry. If such entry
is refused, the Administrative Authority or his or her authorized
representative shall have recourse to every remedy provided by law to secure
entry.
      (2)   No owner or occupant or any other person having charge, care or
control of any building or premises shall fail or neglect, after proper demand
is made as herein provided, to properly permit entry therein by the
Administrative Authority or his or her authorized representative for the
purpose of inspection and examination pursuant to this subchapter. Any person
violating this division shall be guilty of a violation of the city code.
(1991 Code, § 8.75)
§ 151.080  PERMIT LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   The issuance or granting of a permit or approval of plans and
specifications shall not be deemed or construed to be a permit for, or an
approval of, any violation of any of the provisions of this subchapter. No
permit presuming to give authority to violate or cancel the provisions of this
subchapter shall be valid, except insofar as the work or use which it
authorized is lawful.
   (B)   The issuance or granting of a permit or approval of plans shall not
prevent the Administrative Authority from thereafter requiring the correction
of errors in said plans and specifications or from preventing construction
operations being carried on thereunder when in violation of this subchapter or
of any other ordinance or from revoking any certificate of approval when issued
in error.
   (C)   Every permit issued by the Administrative Authority under the
provisions of this subchapter shall expire by limitation and become null and
void, if the work authorized by such permit is not commenced within 120 days
from date of issuance of such permit, or if the work authorized by such permit
is suspended or abandoned at any time after the work is commenced for a period
of 120 days, before such work can be recommenced, a new permit shall be first
obtained, and the fee shall be one-half the amount required for a new permit
for such work, provided no changes have been made, or will be made in the
original plans and specifications for such work; and provided, further, that
such suspension or abandonment has not exceeded one year.
(1991 Code, § 8.76)
§ 151.081  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Only persons holding a valid license, except properly supervised
apprentices, shall in any manner undertake any electrical wiring. No person
shall engage in the business of or perform the work of erecting, installing or
altering any electrical wiring or equipment within the city, unless such person
shall have a license issued by the State Electrical Administrative Board, or a
governmental subdivision within the state having examining standards at least
equal to the state.
(1991 Code, § 8.78)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.082  EXCEPTION TO LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   No license shall be required to perform the following classes of work:
   (A)   The installation, alteration or repair of electrical wiring in a
single-family residence owned and resided in by the person performing the work;
   (B)   The manufacture, test or repair of electrical equipment;
   (C)   The installation, alteration or repair of equipment for the operation
of signals or transmission of intelligence where such work is part of a
communication system owned and/or operated by a telephone or telegraph company
in rendering its duly authorized service as a telegraph or telephone company;
   (D)   Any work installed by a public utility company specifically exempted
by this subchapter or the laws of the state; or
   (E)   Work performed by electrical employees of an electrical contractor
while under the supervision of a licensed electrical master journeyman on
property owned by said electrical contractor.
(1991 Code, § 8.79)
§ 151.083  REGISTRATION OF STATE LICENSE.
   Any person holding an electrical contractor’s license issued by the State
Electrical Administrative Board or by a governmental subdivision within the
state having examining standards at least equal to those of the state shall
register such license with the City Clerk, and pay the required fee as
specified in §
151.088 before doing any electrical work within the city. Registrations expire
on December 31 after the date of issue and shall be renewed upon presentation
of the renewed license.
(1991 Code, § 8.80)
§ 151.084  PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall install, erect or alter any wiring, cable, apparatus
or equipment for conducting or using electrical energy within or on any
building, structure or premise unless he or she shall have first obtained a
permit therefor from the Administrative Authority.
   (B)   Exception: no permit shall be required for the installation,
alteration or repair of electrical equipment installed by a public utility for
the use of such utility in the generation, transmission, distribution or
metering of electricity, or transmission of intelligence, or operation of
signals.
(1991 Code, § 8.81)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.085  PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   To obtain a permit, the applicant shall first file an application
therefor in writing on a form furnished for that purpose.
   (B)   Every such application shall:
      (1)   Identify and describe the work to be covered by the permit for
which application is made;
      (2)   Describe the land on which the proposed work is to be done by lot,
block, tract and house and street address, or similar description that will
readily identify and definitely locate the proposed building or work;
      (3)   For other than one- and two-family dwellings, be accompanied by
plans and specifications as specified in §
151.086;
      (4)   Be signed by a licensed electrical contractor or the owner and
occupant of a single-family dwelling, who will be responsible for the
electrical work covered by the permit for which application is made; and
      (5)   Be accompanied with the fee as set forth in §
151.088.
(1991 Code, § 8.82)
§ 151.086  PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   A detailed set of plans and specifications shall be submitted with
application for electrical permit for any wiring or alterations to the
electrical system in all buildings using over six circuits except single- and
two-family dwellings. The electrical drawings shall include such details as
lighting layout, circuiting, switching, conductor and raceway sizes, wattage
schedule, service location and riser diagram, calculations and proposed method
of construction drawn with symbols of a standard form. All conductors are
assumed to be copper unless otherwise stated on the plan. Specifications when
provided shall also include this information. The selection of suitable
disconnect and over-current devices to provide proper coordination and
interrupting capacity for a wiring system is the responsibility of the
designer. The Administrative Authority, when approving electrical plans assumes
no responsibility for the design nor any deviations from any applicable codes
not explicitly agreed upon at the time of approval of electrical drawings.
   (B)   One set of approved plans, specifications and computations shall be
retained by the Administrative Authority for a period of not less than 90 days
from date of completion of the work covered therein, and one set of approved
plans, and specifications shall be returned to the applicant, which set shall
be kept on such building or work at all times during which the work authorized
thereby is in progress.
(1991 Code, § 8.83)
§ 151.087  ELIGIBILITY FOR PERMITS.
   (A)   Only persons duly licensed for the current year as an electrical
contractor by the state or by a governmental subdivision within the state and
who has registered such license with the City Clerk as specified in §
151.083 shall be eligible for electrical permits.
   (B)   Exception: nothing contained in this subchapter shall prohibit any
bona fide owner from installing electrical work in his or her own single-family
residence, provided the owner shall:
      (1)   Sign an affidavit showing the applicant to be the owner and
occupant, or eventual occupant of the residence; that he or she will install
the electrical work for which application is made; that he or she has not
obtained such a permit during the past six months; and that he or she is
reasonably familiar with the requirements of the Electrical Code, and is
competent and capable of performing the installation in accordance with the
code;
      (2)   Apply for and secure a permit in accordance with the provisions of
the Electrical Code;
      (3)   Pay fees required in §
151.088;
      (4)   Apply for inspections; and
      (5)   Receive approval of the Electrical Inspector for all work performed
under such permits.
(1991 Code, § 8.84)
§ 151.088  ELECTRICAL PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   A fee for each electrical permit shall be paid to the city in such
amounts as established from time to time by resolution of the City Commission.
   (B)   When work for which a permit is required by this subchapter is started
or proceeds prior to obtaining said permit, the fees required shall be doubled,
but the payment of such double fee shall not relieve any person from duly
complying with the requirements of this subchapter in the execution of the work
nor from any other penalties prescribed herein.
   (C)   Exception:
      (1)   Permits for emergency or maintenance repair work requiring
inspection, may be obtained within 24 hours of the work without penalty; and
      (2)   When additional work is performed or additional equipment installed
not listed on the permit application, an additional permit and fee shall be
required before final approval is given.
(1991 Code, § 8.85)
§ 151.089  INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Any person conducting or performing electrical work for which a permit
is required by this subchapter, except for annual permits, shall notify the
Administrative Authority and request an inspection when such work is ready for
inspection. The Inspector shall be given a 24-hour notice of when the work will
be ready for inspection.
   (B)   No such work performed under a permit required by this subchapter
shall be concealed or covered until such work has been inspected and approved
by the Electrical Inspector. It shall be the responsibility of the permittee to
keep the electrical work from being concealed until it has been approved by the
Inspector.
   (C)   Correction notices in writing shall be issued by the Inspector to the
permittee for any electrical work performed in violation of this subchapter.
   (D)   The Administrative Authority shall order corrections to any electrical
work necessary to ensure compliance with this subchapter.
   (E)   The Administrative Authority may refuse to issue further permits to
any contractor who has failed to make necessary corrections.
   (F)   The Administrative Authority shall keep records of all inspections and
approvals.
(1991 Code, § 8.86)
§ 151.090  UNSAFE OR HAZARDOUS EQUIPMENT.
   When the use of any electrical equipment is found imminently dangerous to
human life or property, the Administrative Authority is hereby empowered to
condemn it or disconnect it from its source of electric supply. When such
equipment is so condemned or disconnected, a red tag shall be placed thereon
listing the causes for the condemnation or disconnection and the penalty under
the act for the unlawful use thereof. Written notice of condemnation or
disconnection, and the causes therefor, shall be given to the owner or the
occupant of the building, structure or premises. A person shall not remove the
tag or reconnect the electrical equipment to its source of electric supply, or
use, or permit to be used electrical current in any such electrical equipment,
until such causes for the condemnation or disconnection are remedied and a
permit for the electrical repairs thereof is obtained from the Administrative
Authority.
(1991 Code, § 8.87)
§ 151.091  ADDITIONS, ALTERATIONS AND REPAIRS.
   When additions, alterations and repairs to a building within any 12-month
period exceed 50% of the value of the existing building as determined by the
Building Inspector, all electrical wiring, cable, appliances or equipment shall
meet existing electrical code requirements.
(1991 Code, § 8.88)
§ 151.092  CONNECTING ELECTRICAL POWER.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any power company or person furnishing
electric power to make connections to and furnish power to any new or altered
installation of electric wire, cable, appliance or equipment until such company
or person is given permission to do so by the Administrative Authority.
   (B)   This permission may be withheld until the structure to which such
power supply is being furnished has met final inspection requirements of the
building, plumbing, heating and electrical codes and the zoning ordinance of
the city.
(1991 Code, § 8.89)
§ 151.093  VIOLATIONS.
   Any violation of this subchapter shall be punishable as prescribed in §
10.99. In addition, this subchapter may be enforced by suit for injunction,
action for damages or any other legal process appropriate to enforcement
thereof.
(1991 Code, § 8.90)
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
§ 151.105  ADOPTION OF CODE.
   A certain document, three copies of which are on file in the office of the
City Clerk, being marked and designated as “The International Property
Maintenance Code, First Edition, 1998" as published by the Building Officials
and Code Administrators International, Inc., the International Conference of
Building Officials, and the Southern Building Code Congress International,
Inc., be and is hereby adopted as the Property Maintenance Code of the city;
for the control of buildings and structures provided herein; and each and all
of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said
Property Maintenance Code are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part
thereof, as if fully set out in this subchapter, with the additions,
insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in §
151.106.
(Ord. 173, passed 9-20-1999)
§ 151.106  REVISION OF CERTAIN SECTIONS.
   The following sections are hereby revised:
   (A)   Section 101.1: Insert “City of Auburn”;
   (B)   Section 103.6: Insert: “At such fee as shall be determined, from time
to time, by the City Commission”;
   (C)   Section 303.15: Insert: May 1 - October 31;
   (D)   Section 602.3: Insert: September 1 - May 30;
   (E)   Section 602.4: Insert: September 1 - May 30; and
   (F)   Chapter 8, Codes: Insert: Uniform Building Code 1997 Edition with
appendices
      Uniform Fire Code 1997 Edition with appendices.
(Ord. 173, passed 9-20-1999)
§ 151.107  ORDINANCES IN CONFLICT.
   All other ordinances that are in conflict herewith are hereby repealed.
(Ord. 173, passed 9-20-1999)
§ 151.108  EFFECT.
   Nothing in this subchapter or in the Property Maintenance Code hereby
adopted shall be construed to affect any suit or proceeding impending in any
court, or any rights acquired, or liability incurred, or any cause or causes of
action acquired or existing, under any act or ordinance hereby repealed as
cited in §
151.106; nor shall any just or legal right or remedy of any character be lost,
impaired or affected by this subchapter.
(Ord. 173, passed 9-20-1999)
§ 151.109  CLERK TO CERTIFY.
   The Clerk of the city shall certify to the adoption of this subchapter, and
cause the same to be published as required by law; and this subchapter shall
take effect and be in force from and after its approval as required by law.
(Ord. 173, passed 9-20-1999)
CHAPTER 152:  TRAILER COACH PARKING
Section
   
152.01   Definition
   
152.02   Prohibited parking and uses
   
152.03   Parking on dwelling premises
   
152.04   Permits
   
152.05   Wastewater
   
152.06   Removal of wheels or tires; occupancy limit
   
152.07   Inspection
§ 152.01  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   TRAILER COACH.  Any vehicle used or so constructed as to permit its being
used as a dwelling or sleeping place, which is or may be mounted on wheels, and
is or may be propelled either by its own power or by another vehicle to which
it may be attached. The term shall not include a mobile home meeting the
standards for permanent residential use in a residential district as provided
in
Chapter 154.
(1991 Code, § 5.381)
§ 152.02  PROHIBITED PARKING AND USES.
   (A)   No person shall park or cause to be parked any trailer coach overnight
on any street, alley, highway or other public place.
   (B)   No trailer coach shall at any time be parked between the established
setback line and the curbline on any lot.
   (C)   No trailer coach shall be used or occupied, unless there is a clear
unoccupied space of at least ten feet on all sides thereof.
   (D)   No person shall park or permit the parking of any occupied trailer
coach or use or occupy or permit the use or occupancy of any trailer coach on
any site, lot, field or tract of land not specifically licensed as a trailer
coach park, for any period longer than 72 hours, except only as provided in
this chapter.
(1991 Code, § 5.382)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.03  PARKING ON DWELLING PREMISES.
   Not more than one trailer coach may be parked, used and occupied on the
premises of any dwelling except as hereinafter limited, and then only, provided
the occupants of the trailer coach have free access to and the unlimited use of
the sanitary facilities of the dwelling on said premises and the occupant or
owner of such trailer coach secures a permit as provided in this chapter.
(1991 Code, § 5.383)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.04  PERMITS.
   (A)   Application for a permit to park, use and occupy a trailer coach on
the premises of a dwelling shall be made to the Building Inspector of the city
and shall state the address of the dwelling, the name of the owner or occupant
in control thereof, the name and address of the owner or operator and license
number of such trailer coach.
   (B)   The consent in writing of the owner or occupant in control of the
dwelling premises to such parking, use and occupancy and to the use of the
sanitary facilities as herein provided shall accompany the application or be
endorsed thereon.
   (C)   Upon the filing of such application the Building Inspector shall cause
an inspection to be made of such dwelling premises and trailer coach and if he
or she finds that adequate facilities are afforded on the premises for the
disposal of waste and excreta and it appears that the parking, use and
occupancy of such trailer coach complies with the statutes of the state and
ordinances of the city, he or she shall approve such application.
   (D)   Upon the filing thereof with the City Clerk and payment of a fee of
$10 the Clerk shall issue a permit, which permit shall limit the time of such
parking, use and occupancy to a period of not longer than six weeks from the
date of the application therefor.
   (E)   Not more than one permit shall be issued for any one trailer coach or
to any one trailer coach operator or occupant in any one 12-month period.
   (F)   The owner or occupant of the land upon which a trailer coach is
parked, used and occupied shall not be permitted to have more than one trailer
coach upon said land in any one 12-month period.
   (G)   Every permit shall be displayed in or on the trailer coach for which
it was issued on the side nearest to a public street in such manner as to be
readily noticeable at all times.
(1991 Code, § 5.384)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.05  WASTEWATER.
   No person shall spill or drain any waste water or liquid waste of any kind
upon the ground or upon any paved area.
(1991 Code, § 5.385)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.06  REMOVAL OF WHEELS OR TIRES; OCCUPANCY LIMIT.
   (A)   No person shall remove or cause to be removed the wheels or tires from
any trailer coach except for the purpose of repair, nor shall any person
elevate, block or stabilize any trailer coach other than with jacks designed,
provided and intended for that purpose.
   (B)   No parked trailer coach shall be occupied for sleeping purposes by a
greater number of persons than said vehicle is designed and arranged to
accommodate.
(1991 Code, § 5.386)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.07  INSPECTION.
   The County Health Department or any member of the Police Department of the
city shall have the opportunity to enter and inspect at any reasonable time any
of the premises upon which a trailer coach is parked, used or occupied for the
purpose of ascertaining that the owner, operator or occupant thereof is
complying with all statutes, ordinances and rules and regulations governing the
same.
(1991 Code, § 5.387)
CHAPTER 153:  SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Definitions
   
153.02   Preliminary plat
   
153.03   Final plat
General Specifications and Design Standards
   
153.15   Streets and alleys
   
153.16   Utilities
   
153.17   Lots
   
153.18   Blocks
   
153.19   General requirements
Improvements
   
153.30   Improvements required
   
153.31   Financing
Procedure for Approval of Plats
   
153.45   Planning Commission procedure
   
153.46   City Commission procedure
   
153.47   Transmittal to County Plat Board
   
153.48   Nuisance
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY or SERVICE DRIVE.  A passage or way affording generally a secondary
means of vehicular access to abutting properties and not intended for general
traffic circulation.
   CITY COMMISSION.  The legislative body of the city.
   COMMISSION.  The Planning Commission of the city.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.  The master plan or development plan which has been
adopted by the Planning Commission as specified in Public Act 285 of 1931,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3831 through 125.3851, as amended.
   IMPROVEMENTS.  Street construction and surfacing, curb and gutter, water
mains, storm and sanitary sewers, sidewalks, walkways, graded outlawns and
bridges or culverts.
   LOCAL STREET.  A street intended to serve and to provide access to
neighborhoods or sub-neighborhoods.
   MAJOR STREET AND THOROUGHFARE PLAN.  The master plan of highways, major
streets and parkways adopted by the Planning Commission.
   MAJOR STREET, HIGHWAY, PARKWAY.  A street or road which serves or is
intended to serve as a major traffic way and is designated in the major street
plan.
   MUNICIPALITY or MUNICIPAL.  The City of Auburn.
   PLANNER.  The planning consultant or Planning Commission.
   SUBDIVIDE or SUBDIVISION.  The partitioning or dividing of a parcel or tract
of land by the proprietor thereof or by his or her heirs, executors,
administrators, legal representatives, successors or assigns for the purpose of
sale, or lease of more than one year, or of building development, where the act
of division creates five or more parcels of land each of which is ten acres or
less in area; or five or more parcels of land each of which is ten acres or
less in area are created by successive divisions within a period of ten years.
   SUBDIVIDER.  Includes the plural as well as the singular and may mean either
a natural person, association, partnership, corporation or a combination of any
of them.
(1991 Code, § 5.331)
§ 153.02  PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   Prior to submission of a preliminary plat, the subdivider shall
discuss tentative studies with the planner.
   (B)   In order to receive consideration at the next subsequent meeting of
the Commission, five prints of the preliminary plat along with writing
application shall be filed with the planner not less than five days prior to
such meeting.
   (C)   The following shall be shown on or accompany the preliminary plat:
      (1)   Proposed name of the subdivision and description of land to be
platted;
      (2)   Scales shall be 100 feet to the inch, or larger, except that the
location of the nearest sanitary and storm sewers and water mains may be shown
at a scale of 400 feet to the inch;
      (3)   Date and cardinal point;
      (4)   The boundary lines, accurate in scale of the tract to be
subdivided;
      (5)   The proposed names of all streets;
      (6)   The location, width, approximate grade and radii of curvature if of
proposed and existing streets, alleys, highways, walkways and easements,
including those for utilities, to be included in the plat;
      (7)   Locations and dimensions of proposed lots and parks;
      (8)   The location of all existing features within or adjacent to the
proposed subdivision, which affect the subdivision, such as railroads, roads,
buildings, wooded areas, easements, ditches, county drains, watercourses,
section lines and the like;
      (9)   The location and size of the nearest available public sanitary
sewer, water mains and power lines existing or proposed;
      (10)   The location, size and grade of the sewer which is proposed to
serve the subdivision or the location and explanation of other means of sewage
disposal which shall be acceptable by the Health Department;
      (11)   The names and addresses of the subdivider and other owners of
record of land within the proposed subdivision; and the engineer or surveyor;
      (12)   All parcels of land proposed to be dedicated to public use and
conditions of such dedication;
      (13)   When only a part of a tract is proposed to be subdivided, the
layout of the remaining area shall be shown in sketch form;
      (14)   Boundary lines of adjacent tracts or unsubdivided and subdivided
land showing owners;
      (15)   Contours when required by the Commission;
      (16)   The proposed numbers of lots shall be shown by numerical order
commencing with number “1" and with no omission or duplications;
      (17)   There shall be no block numbers or letters;
      (18)   Deed or subdivision restrictions, when desired by the subdivider,
shall be furnished; and
      (19)   A written statement of intent, of the installation of
improvements, shall be furnished.
(1991 Code, § 5.335)
§ 153.03  FINAL PLAT.
   The subdivider shall file with the Commission the following in compliance
with the requirements of the Subdivision Control Act of 1967, as amended, and
any other requirements stipulated in this chapter:
   (A)   One Mylar tracing of the final plat;
   (B)   Certificate of title by an attorney at law;
   (C)   Profile and cross-section notes of each street with grades; a plan of
the water lines with size and appurtenances in accordance with the standard
specification of the city;
   (D)   An agreement with the city containing a restriction upon the plat
whereby the Building Inspector will not be permitted to issue a building permit
for any structure upon any lot within said subdivision until the improvements
as specified herein have been completed, or satisfactory arrangements have been
made with the city for the completion of the improvements. These plat
restrictions shall be made a part of all deeds or contracts for any lot within
the subdivision;
   (E)   An agreement (when half-street rights-of-way are involved) with the
city whereby the subdivider shall be responsible for the installation of
improvements as required by this chapter on his or her half of the street at
the time the adjacent tract is developed;
   (F)   The city shall have the right to retain a professional engineer for
the purpose of reviewing preliminary, revised and final plats associated with a
proposed development for the purpose of determining whether the project
complies with the requirements of this chapter. Such review procedures shall be
at the expense of the subdivider; and
   (G)   Plat restrictions, if such are proposed by the subdivider, shall be
submitted with the final record plat. Such restrictions shall not be in
contradiction to those of
Chapter 154 (Zoning) or any other provision of this code. These restrictions
shall become a part of the final record plat and shall be recorded along with
the plat in the office of the Register of Deeds of the county.
(1991 Code, § 5.336)  (Ord. 150, passed 6-7-1993)
GENERAL SPECIFICATIONS AND DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 153.15  STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   The subdivision of land or the dedication of land for streets, alleys,
highways, parks or other public uses shall conform to the major street and
thoroughfare plan and comprehensive plan as approved by the Commission.
   (B)   In the preparation of new subdivisions, provisions shall be made for
the continuation of existing or platted streets in adjoining or adjacent
subdivisions or parcels of land, insofar as they may be necessary for public
requirements.
      (1)   The centerlines of such streets shall continue with the centerline
of existing streets.
      (2)   In general, the streets shall extend to the boundary of the
subdivision to provide proper access to the adjoining property and provide for
proper connection with the street system for continuous and adjacent land.
   (C)   Minimum rights-of-way widths shall be as follows:
      (1)   Major arterial and collector streets and parkways, 80 feet;
      (2)   Local streets, 50 feet;
      (3)   Alleys and service drives, 30 feet; and
      (4)   Walkways, ten feet.
   (D)   If there exists a dedicated and recorded half-street on an adjoining
plat, the other half must be dedicated on the proposed plat to make the street
complete.
   (E)   Intersections of streets shall be at an angle of 90 degrees or as
close to such an angle as practicable, but in no case less than 60 degrees.
Termination of streets at intersections shall be clearly defined.
   (F)   In case of approval of cul-de-sacs (courts) because of topography or
other reasons, a turning area having a radius of 50 feet, or an approved
equivalent, shall be provided; and in no case shall such a street have a length
greater than 500 feet.
   (G)   Dead-end streets shall be accepted only when the street will be
extended in the future.
   (H)   Alleys shall not be accepted in residence districts unless
specifically required by the Commission.
(1991 Code, § 5.341)
§ 153.16  UTILITIES.
   All utilities, including electrical power lines, telephone lines and
telegraph lines, shall be installed below the finish surface grade, except in
the case of unusual soil conditions wherein the Commission and/or the City
Commission may grant a variance.
(1991 Code, § 5.342)
§ 153.17  LOTS.
   (A)   All lots shall face upon a public street.
   (B)   The side lines of lots shall be approximately radial to the street
upon which the lots face.
   (C)   No lot shall be divided by a corporate boundary line. Such boundary
line may be the lot line or centerline of streets and alleys.
   (D)   Residential lot widths, depths and area shall conform to the
stipulations as set forth in
Chapter 154 (Zoning), except that no lot shall have a width of less than 100
feet when public sanitary sewer facilities are not available.
   (E)   Business lots shall have width of not less than 20 feet plus ample
off-street parking as determined by the Planning Commission.
   (F)   Corner lots shall be of sufficient width to allow conformance with
building lines as established in
Chapter 154 (Zoning).
   (G)   Lots shall not front on any major streets, highway or parkways, unless
in the opinion of the Planning Commission and City Commission such requirement
is not feasible for a specific subdivision or portion thereof. Double-frontage
lots shall be otherwise avoided.
(1991 Code, § 5.343)
§ 153.18  BLOCKS.
   (A)   No block shall be more than 1,000 feet in length except where, in the
opinion of the Commission, conditions justify a departure from this maximum. In
blocks over 900 feet in length, the Commission may require a walkway or
easement for public utilities at or near the middle of the block.
   (B)   The number of intersecting streets along highways and major streets
shall be held to a minimum, as determined by the Planning Commission.
(1991 Code, § 5.344)
§ 153.19  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   When held appropriate by the Commission, open spaces suitably located
and of adequate size for parks or other public use shall be dedicated to the
city.
   (B)   In case where variations and exceptions from the dimensional
standards, improvement requirements and open space requirements are deemed
necessary, the variation shall be recommended by the Commission to the City
Commission.
   (C)   Every subdivision shall have a dedicated means of ingress and egress.
(1991 Code, § 5.345)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 153.30  IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED.
   The minimum improvements which shall be installed according to municipal
standards in all subdivisions are as follows.
   (A)   Streets shall be constructed at the permanently established elevation
with curb and gutter on both sides of a street and with hard surface to the
following widths:
      (1)   Forty-eight feet from curb to curb on two-way traffic-movement-type
major arterial streets, of which 28 feet of the total width shall be the
responsibility of the subdivider;
      (2)   Thirty-six feet on each traffic-way from curb to curb on one-way
traffic-movement-type major arterial streets, of which 14 feet of each traffic-
way (total 28 feet) and curb and gutter on the outer edge of the two traffic-
ways shall be the responsibility of the subdivider;
      (3)   Twenty-eight feet from curb to curb on local streets, all of which
shall be the responsibility of the subdivider;
      (4)   Twenty-eight feet from curb to curb on cul-de-sacs (courts) with a
turning circle having a 50-foot radius, all of which shall be the
responsibility of the subdivider; and
      (5)   Twenty feet, without curb and gutter for alleys and service drives,
all of which shall be the responsibility of the subdivider.
   (B)   (1)   Sanitary sewer lines shall be installed, when an adequate
sanitary sewer main exists within 500 feet from any portion of the proposed
subdivision of which the subdivider shall be responsible for up to and
including ten-inch diameter mains within the subdivision being platted and
shall be responsible for any above normal cost of material and installation
thereof necessarily encountered, as determined by the city official having
jurisdiction outside the boundary of the subdivision being platted.
      (2)   If a sanitary sewer main is not available, as specified above, a
disposal system, either on a subdivision-wide or single-lot basis, may be
approved if approved by the County Department of Health.
   (C)   Water lines shall be installed when an adequate water main exists
within 500 feet from any portion of proposed subdivision, for which the
subdivision shall be responsible for up to and including eight-inch diameter
mains.
   (D)   Sidewalks of four-foot width shall be constructed along both sides of
the street right-of-way within all dedicated street and walkway rights-of-way
of responsibility of the subdivider.
   (E)   Outlawns between each curb and sidewalk shall be graded and seeded, of
which the entire construction shall be the responsibility of the subdivider.
   (F)   Culverts and bridges shall be constructed when determined to be
necessary by the city official having jurisdiction and shall be entirely the
responsibility of the subdivider.
   (G)   Storm sewer lines (including catch basins and manholes) shall be
installed at the expense of the subdivider; except that in the case of the
necessity of the installation of lines larger than those normally needed to
serve the area within the limits of the subdivision being platted, the city
will assume the additional cost encountered.
   (H)   The city shall furnish full-time inspection for the purpose of
determining whether the project complies with the requirements of this chapter.
Such inspection shall be at the expense of the subdivider.
      (1)   The subdivider shall supply the city with a project schedule of all
improvements to be submitted a minimum of 15 days before construction begins.
Revised construction schedules shall be immediately submitted to the city for
review and approval.
      (2)   If, during the process of the installation of improvements it is
necessary to remove any monuments or benchmarks, the subdivider or his or her
contractor shall obtain permission from the engineering department to make such
removal. All monuments or benchmarks removed, relocated or destroyed, shall be
replaced in their proper location by the subdivider, at the subdivider’s
expense.
   (I)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CITY STANDARDS.  Standards and specifications of construction and
installation as established and administered by the city.
      RESPONSIBILITY.  The cost of labor and materials for installation.
(1991 Code, § 5.352)  (Ord. 150, passed 6-7-1993)
§ 153.31  FINANCING.
   The financing of the installation of improvements shall be accomplished by
one (or a combination of both) of the following methods:
   (A)   The subdivider may install the required improvements under private
contract in which case the subdivider shall enter into a legal agreement, or
contract with the city to make install, and complete all of the improvements
required of the subdivider by this chapter, and shall ensure the completion of
the same by filing security as authorised by the Subdivision Control Act in
favor of the city in a sum equal to the cost of the improvements as estimated
by the City Engineer; and/or
   (B)   The subdivider may request, by petition to the City Commission, the
installation of the improvements required by the subdivider wherein the city
may install all or any part of the required improvements under contract for any
portion of the subdivision and assess the subdivider for said improvements
costs and under any conditions which the City Commission may determine.
(1991 Code, § 5.353)
PROCEDURE FOR APPROVAL OF PLATS
§ 153.45  PLANNING COMMISSION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The preliminary plat and any required accompanying data shall be
reviewed for the purpose of checking its compliance with the Comprehensive
Plan, Major Street and Thoroughfare Plan and other specifications of this
chapter, all in accord with sound engineering practice.
   (B)   Before acting on the preliminary plat, the Commission shall hold a
public hearing, notice of which shall contain the date and place of hearing and
shall be sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the subdivider
and owners of land immediately adjacent to the proposed subdivision, at least
seven days prior to the hearing date.
   (C)   Written approval by the Commission shall be indicated on the
preliminary plat along with any changes or requirements that said Commission
may make, constituting acceptance thereof as a basis for the preparation of the
final plat.
   (D)   Approval of the preliminary plat shall be valid for a duration of not
more than one year.
   (E)   Final record plat approval will be granted only under the following
conditions:
      (1)   The subdivider has submitted necessary engineering drawings, as
required by this chapter and said drawings have been checked and approved for
engineering accuracy by the city; and
      (2)   The subdivider has installed all improvements or in lieu thereof,
has made arrangements for the installation of said improvements in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter.
(1991 Code, § 5.357)
§ 153.46  CITY COMMISSION PROCEDURE.
   Upon receipt of the final record plat and other material, the City
Commission shall take action upon said plat in accordance with the requirements
of the Subdivision Control Act, the City Charter and requirements of this
chapter. In case of disapproval, the reasons for such action shall, by written
communication, be transmitted to the subdivider and the Commission, both of
whom shall, within a reasonable time, resubmit to the City Commission any
changes or alterations stipulated in the City Commission’s action of
disapproval.
(1991 Code, § 5.358)
§ 153.47  TRANSMITTAL TO COUNTY PLAT BOARD.
   When approved by the City Commission, the City Clerk shall promptly forward
all copies of the plat to the Clerk of the County Plat Board, together with the
filing and recording fee.
(1991 Code, § 5.359)
§ 153.48  NUISANCE.
   Violation of any provision of this chapter is hereby declared to be a
nuisance per se. Any court of competent jurisdiction may order such nuisance
abated and the owner and operator guilty of maintaining a nuisance per se.
(1991 Code, § 5.360)
CHAPTER 154:  ZONING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
154.001   Short title
   
154.002   Purpose and objectives
   
154.003   Interpretation
   
154.004   Liability
   
154.005   Definitions
   
154.006   Use regulations
   
154.007   General development regulations
   
154.008   Structure regulations
   
154.009   Parcel regulations
   
154.010   Yard sales in residential/business areas
District Regulations
   
154.025   Division of the city
   
154.026   Official zoning map
   
154.027   Interpretation of boundaries
   
154.028   Scope of regulations
   
154.029   District regulations tables
   
154.030   Intent and purpose; permitted uses; tables
   
154.031   Dimensions table
   
154.032   Manufactured home development regulations
Nonconforming Uses and Buildings
   
154.045   Intent
   
154.046   Historic properties
   
154.047   Legality of nonconformities
   
154.048   Loss of legal nonconforming status
   
154.049   Expansion, reconstruction and repair
   
154.050   Changing uses
   
154.051   Plans already filed
   
154.052   Regulation of nonconformities
   
154.053   Nonconforming lots
   
154.054   Inventory of nonconformities
   
154.055   Elimination of nonconforming uses by acquisition
   
154.056   Table of nonconforming situations and actions
Parking Regulations
   
154.070   Intent
   
154.071   Application to establish or change parking areas
   
154.072   Standards in construction/design/use
   
154.073   Business districts
   
154.074   Industrial districts
   
154.075   Number of parking spaces required
Sign Regulations
   
154.090   Intent
   
154.091   Fees
   
154.092   Issuance or denial of permits
   
154.093   Regulations within business and industrial zones
   
154.094   Regulations within residential zones
   
154.095   Prohibited signs
   
154.096   Maintenance and repair
   
154.097   Mandatory sign removal
   
154.098   Appeals
Special Use Permit Regulations
   
154.110   Intent, purpose and process of a special use permit
   
154.111   How a special use permit is reviewed
   
154.112   Bed and breakfast
   
154.113   Car wash
   
154.114   High intensity uses
   
154.115   Industrial park
   
154.116   Institutions
   
154.117   Mini-storage
   
154.118   Outdoor assembly
   
154.119   Planned unit development
   
154.120   Recreational vehicle (RV) park
   
154.121   Sexually oriented businesses/adult media stores
   
154.122   Soil resource extraction, mining and pond construction
   
154.123   Wireless communication facilities
   
154.124   Special use for grid systems
Site Plan Review
   
154.135   General provisions
Administration, Enforcement and Amendments
   
154.150   People involved in the zoning process
   
154.151   Administrative processes
   
154.152   Enforcement
   
154.153   Amendment
   
154.154   Notice requirements for public hearings
   
154.155   Special zoning decisions table
Zoning Board of Appeals
   
154.165   Generally
   
154.166   Administrative actions by the Zoning Board of Appeals
Wind Energy Conversion Systems
   
154.180   Purpose
   
154.181   Scope of regulations
   
154.182   Definitions
   
154.183   On-site wind energy development standards
 
   
154.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.001  SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “City of Auburn Zoning Ordinance”.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2005)
§ 154.002  PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   The general purpose of this chapter is to promote the public safety,
health, morals, convenience and general welfare.
   (B)   To accomplish this purpose, this chapter will address the following
objectives:
      (1)   Guide the use and development of land, buildings and natural
resources according to their suitability for particular activities;
      (2)   Protect the community’s quality of life and enhance the social and
economic stability of the city;
      (3)   Reduce congestion on public streets and highways and facilitate
safe and convenient access to buildings and land uses;
      (4)   Guide efforts to provide public services, such as water supply,
sewer, storm drainage, waste disposal, transportation, education, recreation
and public safety;
      (5)   Establish standards to guide physical development of each zoning
district and of the city as a whole, and provide for enforcement of these
standards;
      (6)   Educate citizens and public officials about their shared
responsibilities for wise use of community resources; and
      (7)   Strive to balance one property owner’s right to the peaceful use
and enjoyment of his or her parcel with the rights of neighboring property
owners to the peaceful use and enjoyment of theirs.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2005)
§ 154.003  INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall be held to be minimum
requirements, adopted to promote public health, safety, comfort, convenience
and general welfare. This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, annul,
impair or interfere with any existing provisions of law or ordinance. Nor is it
intended to overturn any previously approved or adopted rules, regulations or
permits that relate to the use of land or buildings. Nor is this chapter
intended to interfere with, abrogate or annul any lawful easements, covenants
or other agreements.
   (B)   Where this chapter imposes a greater restriction upon the use of land
or buildings than is imposed by other laws or ordinances, or by rules,
regulations permits, easements, covenants or agreements that may be in force,
the provisions of this chapter shall control. Where provisions of any other
ordinance or regulation of the city impose stricter requirements for the use of
land or buildings, the provisions of the other ordinance or regulation shall
govern.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2005)
§ 154.004  LIABILITY.
   The City Zoning Administrator or any person charged with the interpretation
and enforcement of this chapter, acting in good faith and without malice for
the city in the discharge of his or her duties shall not thereby render himself
or herself liable personally and he or she is hereby relieved from all personal
liability for any damage that may occur to persons or property as a result of
any act required or by reason of any act or omission in the discharge of his or
her duties.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2005)
§ 154.005  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General. When not inconsistent with the context, words in the present
tense include the future tense, words used in the singular number include the
plural number and words used in the plural number include the singular. The
word “shall” is always mandatory and not merely directory. The word “building”
includes the word “structure” or vice versa. Terms not herein defined shall
have the meaning customarily assigned to them. Definitions will be in two
locations so citizens can read relevant definitions along with ordinance
language (see also §
154.182).
   (B)   Specific terms. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ABANDONMENT.  The cessation of a permitted activity in, or a permitted
use of a dwelling structure, or lot, other than that which would normally occur
on a seasonal basis, and that has fallen into disrepair or is neglected in some
way for a period of 12 months or longer.
      ABOVE-GROUND LEVEL (AGL).  A measurement of height from the natural grade
of a site to the highest point of a structure.
      ABUTTING.  Having property or district line in common, e.g., two lots are
abutting if they have property lines in common.
      ACCELERATED SOIL EROSION.  The increased removal of the land surface that
occurs as a result of human activities.
      ACCESS.  A way of approaching or entering a property. For purposes of
this chapter, all lots of record shall have ACCESS to a public street or
highway.
      ACCESSORY BUILDING or ACCESSORY STRUCTURE.  Any unattached subordinate
building or structure, such as a private garage, which is incidental to that of
the main building, located on the same lot with the main building, or any
portion of the main building if that portion is occupied or devoted exclusively
to an accessory use.
      ACCESSORY USE.  Any use customarily incidental and subordinate to the
main use of the premises, but does not include residential occupation. These
may include, but are not limited to, private garages, permanent storage sheds,
playhouses, decks, porches and carports.
      ACRE.  A measure of land area containing 43,560 square feet.
      ACTIVITY.  See PERMITTED USE.
      ADDITION.  A structure added to the original structure at some time after
the completion of the original.
      ADJOINING LOT OR LAND.  A lot or parcel of land that shares all or part
of a common lot line with another lot or parcel of land.
      ADULT MEDIA.  Magazines, books, slides, CD-ROMs or devices used to record
computer images, or other media that are distinguished or characterized by
their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to sexually oriented
hard-core material.
      ADULT MEDIA STORE.  An establishment that rents and/or sells media, and
that meets any of the following three tests:
         (a)   Forty percent or more of the gross public floor area is devoted
to adult media;
         (b)   Forty percent or more of the stock in trade consists of adult
media; and
         (c)   It advertises or holds itself out in any form as “XXX”, “adult”,
“sex” or otherwise as a sexually oriented business other than adult media
store, adult motion picture theater or adult cabaret.
      ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER.  An establishment emphasizing or
predominately showing sexually oriented movies.
      AISLE.  The traveled way by which cars enter and depart parking places.
      ALLEY.  A public thoroughfare that affords only a secondary means of
access to abutting property.
      ALTERATION OF BUILDING.  A change in the supporting members of a
building, an addition to, or a diminution, a change in use, or a conversion of
a building or a part thereof.
      AMENITY.  A natural or artificial feature that enhances or makes a
particular property more attractive or satisfying.
      ANIMAL (SMALL).  A small animal shall mean a dog, cat, bird, reptile,
mammal, fish or other creature that can be kept in a relatively small or
confined space and normally treated as a pet.
      ANIMAL HOSPITAL.  See KENNEL.
      ANTENNA.  The surface from which wireless radio signals are sent and
received by a personal wireless facility.
      APPEAL.  The process, as prescribed in this chapter, for contesting a
zoning interpretation made by the Zoning Administrator or decision made by the
Planning Commission.
      APPLICANT.  A person or entity submitting an application for review and
action by the city or any of its departments or commissions.
      APPROVED PLAN.  A plan that has been granted final approval by the
appropriate approving authority.
      APPROVING AUTHORITY.  The agency, board, group or other legally
designated individual or authority that has been charged with review and
approval of plans and applications.
      AREA.  See LOT AREA.
      ASSEMBLY BUILDING.  A building for the primary purpose of group
gatherings of 50 people or more for any purpose.
      ATTACHED.  Any structure or part of a structure immediately adjacent to
another structure or part of a structure and fastened securely to it.
      ATTIC.  The part of a building that is immediately above the ceiling
beams of the top story and wholly or partly within the roof framing.
      AUTOMOBILE.  A self-propelled, free moving vehicle, with four or more
wheels, primarily for conveyance on a street or roadway.
      BANK.  A financial institution.
      BAR.  A building or portion thereof where liquors are sold to be consumed
on the premises, but not including restaurants where the principal business is
serving food.
      BASEMENT.  See City of Auburn’s adopted Building Code (
Chapter 151).
      BED AND BREAKFAST.  A use that is subordinate to the principal use of a
dwelling unit as a single-family dwelling unit, in which transient guests are
provided a sleeping room and breakfast in return for payment, and that does not
provide separate cooking facilities for such guests.
      BERM.  An earthen mound of definite height and location designed to serve
as an obscuring device in carrying out the requirements of this chapter.
      BLOCK.  A property surrounded by streets or abutting one side of a street
and situated between the two nearest intersecting streets, or bounded by a
combination of streets, waterways, parks, unplatted acreage, corporate boundary
lines or other natural or human-made, physical or artificial barrier to
continual development.
      BOARD OF APPEALS.  The Zoning Board of Appeals of the City of Auburn.
      BODY SHOP.  See VEHICLE REPAIR.
      BUFFER.  Open space, landscaped areas, fences, walls, berms or any
combination thereof to physically separate or screen one use or property from
another so as to visually shield or block noise, lights or other nuisances. A
greenbelt is considered a BUFFER.
      BUILDABLE AREA.  The space remaining on a lot or lots of record after the
minimum setback and open space requirements have been met.
      BUILDING.  A structure erected on-site, a manufactured home, a mobile
home or mobile structure, or a premanufactured or precut structure that is
above or below ground and is designed primarily for the use or intended use of
shelter, support or enclosure of persons, animals or property of any kind.
      BUILDING COVERAGE.  The horizontal area measured within exterior walls of
the ground floor of all principal and accessory buildings on a lot.
      BUILDING HEIGHT.  See HEIGHT OF BUILDING.
      BUILDING LINE.  A line formed by the face of the building and, for the
purposes of this chapter, a minimum building line is the same as a FRONT
SETBACK LINE.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40761c512c04a852161f3810babab8dc81854987/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1373.jpg]
 
      BUILDING OFFICIAL.  City staff appointed by the City Manager and licensed
pursuant to the state’s regulation to enforce and administer the city’s adopted
Building Code.
      BUILDING PERMIT.  A permit signifying compliance with the provisions of
this chapter as to use, activity, bulk, density and with the requirements of
all other development codes and ordinances currently in effect in the city.
      BUSINESS CENTER.  A business center is more than one business on the same
parcel.
      BUSINESS SERVICES.  Establishments primarily engaged in rendering
services to business establishments for a fee or on a contract basis, such as
advertising and mailing, building maintenance, employment services, management
and consulting services, protective services, equipment rental and leasing,
commercial research, development and testing, photo finishing and personal
supply services.
      CALIPER.  The diameter of a tree trunk measured two feet above grade.
      CAMOUFLAGE.  To disguise or hide a building or use.
      CANOPY.  A roof-like cover that projects from the wall of a building for
the purpose of shielding a doorway or window from the elements.
      CAR WASH.  A structure containing facilities for washing automobiles
using a chain conveyer or other method of moving the cars along, or machinery
that moves around a stationary vehicle, and automatic or semiautomatic
application of cleaner, brushes, rinse water and heat for drying.
      CARRIER.  A company that provides wireless service.
      CARRY-OUT RESTAURANT.  See DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT/FAST FOOD.
      CELLULAR TOWER.  See WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITY.
      CEMETERY.  Any publicly or privately owned place for the interment of
human remains.
      CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.  A document issued by the proper authority
(Building Official and Zoning Administrator) allowing the occupancy or use of a
building and certifying that the structure or use has been constructed and/or
will be used in compliance with all applicable municipal codes and ordinances
and approved plans and specifications.
      CHILD CARE ORGANIZATION.  A facility for the care of children under 18
years of age, as licensed and regulated by the state under Public Act 116 of
1973, being M.C.L.A. §§ 722.111 through 722.128, and the associated rules
promulgated by the State Department of Social Services. Such organizations
shall be further defined as follows.
         (a)   CHILD CARE CENTER or DAY CARE CENTER.  A facility, other than a
private residence, receiving more than six preschool or school age children for
group care for periods of less than 24 hours a day, and where the parents or
guardians are not immediately available to the child. It includes a facility
that provides care for not less than two consecutive weeks, regardless of the
number of hours of care per day. The facility is generally described as a child
care center, day care center, day nursery, nursery school, parent cooperative
preschool, pay group or drop-in center. CHILD CARE CENTER or DAY CARE CENTER
does not include a Sunday School conducted by a religious institution or a
facility operated by a religious organization where children are cared for
during short periods of time while persons responsible for such children are
attending religious services.
         (b)   FOSTER FAMILY HOME.  A private home in which one but not more
than four minor children, who are not related to an adult member of the
household by blood, marriage or adoption, are given care and supervision for 24
hours a day, for four or more days a week, for two or more consecutive weeks,
unattended by a parent or legal guardian.
         (c)   FOSTER FAMILY GROUP HOME.  A private home in which more than
four but less than seven children, who are not related to an adult member of
the household by blood, marriage or adoption, are provided care for 24 hours a
day, for four or more days a week, for two or more consecutive weeks,
unattended by a parent or legal guardian.
         (d)   FAMILY DAY CARE HOME.
            1.   A private home in which one but less than seven minor children
are received for care and supervision for periods of less than 24 hours a day,
unattended by a parent or legal guardian, except children related to an adult
member of the family by blood, marriage or adoption.
            2.   It includes a home that gives care to an unrelated child for
more than four weeks during a calendar year.
         (e)   GROUP DAY CARE HOME.
            1.   A private home in which more than six but not more than 12
children are given care and supervision for periods of less than 24 hours a day
unattended by a parent or legal guardian, except children related to an adult
member of the family by blood, marriage or adoption.
            2.   It includes a home that gives care to an unrelated child for
more than four weeks during a calendar year.
      CHURCHES/SYNAGOGUES/MOSQUES.  See INSTITUTION, RELIGIOUS.
      CIRCULATION PATTERN.  Systems, structures and physical improvements for
the movement of people, goods, water, air, sewage or power by such means as
streets, highways, railways, waterways, towers, airways, pipes and conduits;
and the handling of people and goods by such means as terminals, stations,
warehouses and other storage buildings or shipment points.
      CLEAR VISION.  An area 30 feet along each street at its intersection with
another street, drive or alley where no visual obstruction of sight may exist
above 36 inches from established street grades.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40761c512c04a852161f3810babab8dc81854987/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1375.jpg]
 
      CLUBHOUSE.  A building to house a club or social organization not
conducted for private profit, as documented by state or federal records, and
that is not an adjunct to or operated by or in connection with a public tavern,
café or other public place.
      CLUB/LODGE.  See INSTITUTION, SOCIAL.
      CLUSTER.  A development design technique that concentrates buildings in
specific areas on a site to allow the remaining land to be used for recreation,
common open space and preservation of environmentally sensitive features.
      COLLOCATION.  The use of a single mount on the ground by more than one
telecommunications carrier (vertical collocation) and/or several mounts on an
existing building or structure by more than one carrier.
      COMMERCIAL.  A term relating to the use of property in connection with
the purchase, sale or trading of goods for personal services or maintenance of
service offices or recreation or amusement enterprise or garage/basement/porch
sales lasting more than 14 days during any 12-month period.
      COMMERCIAL RECREATION.  Establishments with the primary purpose of
providing amusement or entertainment for a fee or admission charge, and
including such activities as dance halls, studios, bowling alleys and billiard
and pool establishments, commercial sports such as arenas, rings, racetracks,
golf courses, amusement parks, carnival operations, exposition, game parlors
and swimming pools.
      COMMERCIAL SCHOOL.  A school or facility offering training to perform any
of the uses by right in the district in which a commercial school is permitted
either by right or by special use permit. A COMMERCIAL SCHOOL is a distinct
use, not to be confused with an institution, educational.
      COMMISSION.  The Planning Commission of the City of Auburn.
      CONDOMINIUM.  See PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
      CONTIGUOUS.  Next to, abutting or touching and having a common boundary
or portion thereof, that is co-terminus.
      CONTRACTOR.  General contractors and builders engaged in the construction
of buildings, either residences or commercial structures as well as heavy
construction contractors engaged in activities such as paving, highway
construction and utility construction.
      CONTRACTOR, LANDSCAPE.
         (a)   Landscaping includes businesses principally engaged in lawn
mowing and yard maintenance. It also includes decorative and functional
alteration, planting and maintenance of such grounds. Such a business may
engage in the installation and construction of underground improvements but
only to the extent that such improvements (e.g., drainage/irrigation
facilities) are accessible and on the same parcel as the principal use.
         (b)   LANDSCAPE CONTRACTOR also includes businesses that apply
fertilizers, pesticides and other treatments for plants, trees and grass. This
definition also includes tree services and commercial plant maintenance
services.
      CONTRACTOR’S STORAGE YARD.
         (a)   An unenclosed portion of the lot or parcel upon which a
construction contractor maintains its principal office or a permanent business
office.
         (b)   Designation of the lot or parcel as a CONTRACTOR’S STORAGE YARD
would allow this area to be used to store and maintain construction equipment
and other materials customarily used in the trade carried on by a construction
contractor.
         (c)   If permitted to be used in this manner, the entire lot or parcel
would then be classified as a CONTRACTOR’S STORAGE YARD and will be required to
conform to all applicable zoning district standards and other legislative
regulations.
      CONVALESCENT OR NURSING HOME.  See INSTITUTION, HUMAN CARE.
      CORNER LOT.  See LOT. Any lot having at least two contiguous sides
abutting upon a street, provided that the interior angle of the intersection of
the two sides is less than 135 degrees. A lot abutting upon a curved street or
streets shall be considered a CORNER LOT if the tangents to the curve, at its
points of beginning within the lot or at the points of intersection of the side
lines with the street line, intersect at an interior angle of less than 135
degrees. The outside yard shall be the side yard adjacent to the street.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40761c512c04a852161f3810babab8dc81854987/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1377.jpg]
 
      COVERAGE.  See LOT COVERAGE.
      CROSS-POLARIZED.  A low mount dual polarized antenna that has three
panels flush mounted or attached very close to the shaft.
      DECK.  A horizontal structure of a single elevation or varying
elevations, commonly used as a floor attached or adjacent to the main building.
A DECK may be open or partially or completely covered by a roof and wall
structure.
      DENSITY.  The intensity of development in any given area, measured in
this chapter by the number of dwelling units per acre.
      DENSITY, HIGH RESIDENTIAL.  Fifteen or more dwelling units per acre.
      DENSITY, LOW RESIDENTIAL.  Fewer than five dwelling units per acre.
      DENSITY, MEDIUM RESIDENTIAL.  Five to 15 dwelling units per acre.
      DEVELOPMENT.  The construction of a new building or other structure on a
zoning lot, the relocation of an existing building on another zoning lot, or
the use of open land for a new use.
      DISH SATELLITE SIGNAL-RECEIVING ANTENNAE.  Also referred to as EARTH
STATIONS or GROUND STATIONS, shall mean one, or a combination of two or more of
the following:
         (a)   A signal-receiving device (antenna, dish antenna or dish-type
antenna), the purpose of which is to receive communication or other signals
from satellites in Earth orbit and other extra-terrestrial sources;
         (b)   A low-noise amplifier (LNA) that is situated at the focal point
of the receiving component and the purpose of which is to magnify, store,
transfer and/or transmit electronic or light signals; and/or
         (c)   A coaxial cable, the purpose of which is to carry or transmit
said signals to a receiver.
      DISTRIBUTION CENTER.  A use where goods are received and/or stored for
delivery to the ultimate customer at remote locations.
      DISTRICT.  See ZONE.
      DRIVE-IN.  A business establishment so developed that its retail or
service character is dependent on providing a driveway approach or parking
spaces for motor vehicles so as to serve patrons while in the motor vehicle
rather than within a building or structure, or to provide self-service for
patrons.
      DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT/FAST FOOD.  A restaurant developed so that its retail
or service character is primarily dependent on providing a driveway approach or
parking spaces for motor vehicles so as to serve patrons while in the motor
vehicle or to permit patrons to eat while in the motor vehicle, as well as
within a building or structure, or primarily to provide self-service for
patrons and food carry-out. Any establishment whose principal business is the
sale of foods, frozen desserts or beverages to the customer in a ready-to-
consume state for consumption either within the restaurant building or for
carry-out with the consumption off the premises, and whose design or principal
method of operation includes one or both of the following:
         (a)   Food, frozen desserts or beverages usually served in edible
containers or in paper, plastic or other disposable containers; and/or
         (b)   More than 45% of the available floor space devoted to food
preparation, related activities and other floor space not available to the
public.
      DUMPSTER.  A container capable of holding a volume of material greater
than two cubic yards and used for the purpose of collecting garbage, solid or
liquid waste, or refuse of any type.
      DWELLINGS.  Any building or portion thereof usable exclusively for
residential purposes. A DWELLING is classified as one of the following.
         (a)   GROUP DWELLINGS (CONGREGATE LIVING). A building or group of
buildings, designed and used for residential habitation where joint and/or
separate sleeping rooms share common living, kitchen, eating and bathroom
facilities, housing persons unrelated by blood or marriage.
         (b)   MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLING.  A building containing three or more
dwelling units designed for residential use.
         (c)   SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING.  A building containing not more than one
dwelling unit designed for residential use.
         (d)   TWO-FAMILY DWELLING (DUPLEX).  A building containing no more
than two separate dwelling units designed for residential use.
      DWELLING UNIT.  A building or portion thereof providing complete
housekeeping facilities for one family.
      EASEMENT.  Any private or dedicated public way other than a street or
alley, providing a secondary means of access to a property.
      EAVE.  The projecting lower edges of a roof overhanging the wall of a
building.
      EGRESS (EXIT).  An exit from a building or site.
      ELDERLY HOUSING.  See SENIOR HOUSING.
      ELEVATION, TOPOGRAPHIC.  The measurement of height above sea level.
      ELEVATION, VIEW.  An architectural or engineered rendering of each side
of a building for purposes of site plan review.
      EMISSION.  A discharge into the air or water.
      ENGINEERED HOME.  See MANUFACTURED HOME.
      ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (EA).  An EA is the document required by the
Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and the National Environmental Policy
Act (NEPA) when a personal wireless service facility is placed in a certain
designated area.
      ENVIRONMENTALLY SENSITIVE AREA.  An area with one or more of the
following characteristics:
         (a)   Slopes in excess of 20%;
         (b)   Floodplain;
         (c)   Soils classified as having a high water table;
         (d)   Soils classified as highly erodible, subject to erosion or
highly acidic;
         (e)   Land incapable of meeting percolation requirements;
         (f)   Land formerly used for landfill operations or hazardous
industrial uses;
         (g)   Fault areas;
         (h)   Stream corridors;
         (i)   Estuaries; and/or
         (j)   Aquifer recharge and discharge areas.
      EQUIPMENT RENTAL/SALES.  A business that provides construction, household
and other similar equipment for rent to the general public or contractors for a
limited period of time. Used equipment and a limited proportion (up to 10%) of
new items in the inventory of the business may be advertised for sale.
      EQUIPMENT SHELTER.  An enclosed structure, cabinet, shed or box at the
base of the mount within which are housed batteries and electrical equipment.
      ERECTED.  Signifies the construction, alteration, reconstruction,
placement upon or any physical alteration to a piece of land, including the
excavating, moving and filling of earth.
      EROSION.  The process by which the ground surface is worn away by action
of wind, water, gravity or a combination thereof.
      ESSENTIAL SERVICES.
         (a)   The erection, construction, alteration or maintenance by public
utilities or municipal departments or commissions of underground, surface or
overhead gas, electrical, steam or water transmission, distribution or
collection systems, communication, supply or disposal systems, including mains,
drains, sewers, pipes, conduits, wires, cables, fire alarm boxes, police call
boxes, traffic signals, hydrants, towers, electric sub-stations, telephone
exchange buildings, gas regulator stations and other similar equipment and
accessories in connection therewith.
         (b)   ESSENTIAL SERVICES are those that are reasonably necessary to
furnish adequate service by the public utilities or municipal departments or
commissions or for the public health or safety or general welfare, but do not
include buildings other than the buildings that are primarily enclosures or
shelters of the mentioned equipment in this definition.
         (c)   Private wireless communication facilities are not considered
ESSENTIAL SERVICES.
      ESTABLISHMENT.  An economic unit, generally at a single physical
location, where business is conducted or services or industrial operations are
performed.
      EXCAVATION.  The removal of rock, sand, soil or fill material below the
average grade of the surrounding land and/or road grade, whichever is highest.
This does not include alterations for farming or gardening purposes.
      FALL ZONE.  The area on the ground within a prescribed radius from the
base of a personal wireless facility. The FALL ZONE is the area within which
there is a potential hazard from falling debris (such as ice) or collapsing
material.
      FAMILY.  A person living alone, or two or more persons related by blood,
marriage or adoption, customarily living together as a single housekeeping unit
in a dwelling unit as distinguished from a group occupying a hotel, club,
religious or institutional building, boarding or lodging house, or fraternity
or sorority house.
      FAMILY DAYCARE HOME.  See CHILD CARE ORGANIZATION.
      FAST FOOD RESTAURANT.  See DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT/FAST FOOD.
      FENCE.  A permanent or temporary partition or structure (including gate)
created as a property line dividing marker, barrier or enclosure. Landscape
berms, plantings, hedges and similar effects shall be considered a FENCE for
issues related to clear vision areas. Minimum heights may apply if berms,
plantings, hedges and similar effects are required for buffers.
      FIRE STATION.  Public building devoted to the storage and housing of fire
equipment and personnel.
      FIREWORKS.
         (a)   A device made from explosive or flammable compositions used
primarily for the purpose of producing a visible display or audible effect, or
both, by combustion, deflagration or detonation. FIREWORKS include Class B
fireworks and Class C fireworks.
         (b)   Should the definitions of these items change per the Michigan
Penal Code, Public Act 328 of 1931, being M.C.L.A. §§ 750.1 through 750.568, as
amended, this chapter’s definitions will change with the state law, and must be
interpreted as those contained in the state law.
            1.   CLASS B FIREWORKS.  These are toy torpedoes, railway
torpedoes, firecrackers or salutes that do not qualify as Class C fireworks,
exhibition display pieces, airplane flares, illuminating projectiles,
incendiary projectiles, incendiary grenades, smoke projectiles or bombs
containing expelling charges but without bursting charges, flash powders in
inner units not exceeding two ounces each, flash sheets in interior packages,
flash powder or spreader cartridges containing not more than 72 grains of flash
powder each and other similar devices.
            2.   CLASS C FIREWORKS.  These are toy smoke devices, toy caps
containing not more than 25 grains of explosive mixture, toy propellant
devices, cigarette loads, trick matches, trick noise makers, smoke candles,
smoke pots, smoke grenades, smoke signals, hand signal devices, signal
cartridges, sparklers, explosive auto alarms and other similar devices.
      FLAG LOT.  A lot not fronting entirely on or abutting a public road and
where access to the road is a narrow, private right-of-way.
      FLEA MARKET.  See OUTDOOR TEMPORARY USE.
      FLOODPLAIN.
         (a)   The relatively flat area or low lands adjoining the channel of
watercourse or a body of standing water, that has been or may be covered by
flood water.
         (b)   Determination of a FLOODPLAIN is made by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency for those areas to be covered by flood insurance and consists
of:
            1.   Contiguous areas paralleling a river, stream or other body of
water that constitute at their maximum edge the highest flood levels
experienced in a period of 100 years;
            2.   Principal estuary courses of wetland areas that are part of
the river flow system; and/or
            3.   Contiguous area paralleling a river stream or other body of
water that exhibits unstable soil conditions for development.
      FLOOR AREA.  The area of all floors computed by measuring the dimensions
of the outside walls, excluding attic and basement floors, porches, patios,
breezeways, carports and garages, or portions of rooms with less than seven
feet of space between the floor and ceiling.
      FLOOR AREA, USEABLE.
         (a)   The area of a nonresidential building used for or intended to be
used for the sale of merchandise or services.
         (b)   Such floor area that is used for or intended to be used
primarily for the storage or processing of merchandise which may include
hallways, breezeways, stairways and elevator shafts, or for utilities and
sanitary facilities, shall be excluded from the computation of USEABLE FLOOR
AREA.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40761c512c04a852161f3810babab8dc81854987/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1379.jpg]
 
      FOSTER FAMILY GROUP HOME.  See CHILD CARE ORGANIZATION.
      FOSTER FAMILY HOME.  See CHILD CARE ORGANIZATION.
      FRATERNAL ORGANIZATION.  See INSTITUTION, SOCIAL.
      FUNCTIONAL EQUIVALENT SERVICES.  Cellular, personal communication
services (PCS), enhanced specialized mobile radio, specialized mobile radio and
paging.
      FUNERAL HOME/MORTUARY.  A building used for the storage and preparation
of the deceased for burial and display, and for ceremonies connected therewith
before burial or cremation.
      GARAGES.  Includes the following.
         (a)   ATTACHED.  An attached outbuilding customarily used for the
storage of vehicles, and is attached to a residential dwelling as either an
integral part thereof, or, at a minimum, connected to the dwelling by a
completely enclosed breezeway.
         (b)   PRIVATE GARAGE.  A detached accessory building or portion of a
main building used for the storage of vehicles without provision for repair or
servicing such vehicles for profit.
         (c)   SERVICE GARAGE. Any building or structure designed or used for
the hire, sale, storage, service, repair or refinishing of motor vehicles or
trailers, but not for the storage of dismantled vehicles or parts thereof for
purposes of reuse or resale.
      GARBAGE.  Animal, vegetable and mineral waste resulting from the
handling, storage, sale, preparation, cooking and serving of foods.
      GAS STATION/SERVICE STATION.
         (a)   A place where gasoline, kerosene or any other motor fuel or
lubricating oil or grease for operation of motor vehicles is offered for sale
to the public and deliveries are made directly into motor vehicles, including
sale of accessories, greasing, oiling and light motor service on the premises,
but in no case to include automobile or truck mechanical repair.
         (b)   Convenience food sales and/or fast food restaurants may also be
provided on the premises.
      GLARE.  The effect produced by brightness sufficient to cause annoyance,
discomfort or loss in visual performance and visibility.
      GRADE.
         (a)   For purposes of this chapter, the level of the ground adjacent
to the exterior walls of a building or structure.
         (b)   In the case of lots with a sloping terrain, the GRADE shall be
the average elevation of the ground adjacent to the walls.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40761c512c04a852161f3810babab8dc81854987/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1381.jpg]
 
      GRADING.  Any stripping, excavating, filling, stockpiling or any
combination thereof, and also included shall be the land in its excavated or
filled condition.
      GRADING PERMIT.  The written authority issued by the City of Auburn
permitting the grading, excavating or filling of land including drainage and
soil erosion control in conformity with the Erosion Control Section of this
chapter and Public Act 347 of 1972.
      GREEN AREA.  Land shown on a development plan, master plan or official
map for preservation, recreation, landscaping or a park.
      GREENBELT.  See BUFFER.
      GREENHOUSE.  A temporary or permanent building whose roof and sides are
made largely of glass or other transparent or translucent material, and in
which the temperature and humidity can be regulated for the cultivation of
delicate or out-of-season plants for subsequent sale or personal enjoyment.
      GROUND COVER.  Grasses or other cultivated plants grown to keep soil from
being blown or washed away, not including weeds or other overgrown, unkempt
vegetation.
      GROUNDWATER RUNOFF.  Storm water that is discharged into a stream channel
as spring or seepage water.
      GROUP DAY CARE HOME.  See CHILD CARE ORGANIZATION.
      GUYED TOWER.  A monopole or lattice tower that is tied to the ground or
other surface by cables.
      HARD CORE MATERIAL.  Media characterized by sexual activity that includes
one or more of the following: erect male organ; contact of the mouth of one
person with the genitals of another; penetration with a finger or male organ
into any orifice in another person; open female labia; penetration of a sex toy
into an orifice; male ejaculation; or the aftermath of male ejaculation.
      HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.  Any materials that have been declared to be
hazardous by any agency of the State of Michigan or of the United States,
including, but not limited to, toxic materials and metal hydroxides.
      HEALTH CARE (SERVICES) FACILITIES.  See INSTITUTION, HUMAN CARE.
      HEIGHT OF BUILDING.  The vertical distance, measured from the adjoining
curb level, to the highest point of the roof of the top story in the case of a
flat roof; to the deck line of a mansard roof; and to the mean height level
between eaves and ridge of a gable, hip or gambrel roof; however, where
buildings are set back from the street line, the HEIGHT OF THE BUILDING may be
measured from the average elevation of the finished lot grade at the front of
the building.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40761c512c04a852161f3810babab8dc81854987/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1383.jpg]
 
      HIGHWAY.  A public thoroughfare or street, excluding alleys, but
including federal, state and county roads and those appearing upon plats
recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds and accepted for public
maintenance.
      HOME OCCUPATION.
         (a)   While the city recognizes that many residents feel the necessity
to work at home, the city also recognizes the rights of all residents to be
free from actual or potential nuisance which may be caused by non-residential
activities conducted in a residential zone.
         (b)   The intent of this definition is to ensure that any HOME
OCCUPATION is compatible with other permitted uses in residential districts and
to maintain and preserve the residential character of the neighborhood.
         (c)   A HOME OCCUPATION OR BUSINESS must:
            1.   Be clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling
as a residence and must not change the residential character of the dwelling or
lot in any visible manner. The dwelling must be the primary residence of the
business owner(s);
            2.   Not produce noise, odor, fumes, vibration, dust, smoke, heat,
glare, electrical disturbance or other nuisance that is transmitted beyond the
property lines. In the case of a multi-family, no such nuisance should carry
beyond the individual dwelling;
            3.   Maintain the outside of the buildings free from the storage of
any equipment, materials or any items related to the home occupation. The
outside of the dwelling shall not hold any display of merchandise, nor should
an interior display be visible from the outside; and
            4.   Not advertise with any sign beyond what is allowed in §§
154.090 through
154.098.
      HORTICULTURE.  The cultivation of a garden or orchard. HORTICULTURE
specifically excludes operation of a landscaping business.
      HOSPITAL.  See INSTITUTION, HUMAN CARE.
      HOTEL.  See MOTEL.
      IMPERVIOUS SURFACE.  Any material that reduces and prevents the
absorption of storm water into previously undeveloped land.
      INDUSTRIAL PARK.  A planned, coordinated development of a tract of land
with two or more separate industrial buildings. Such development is planned,
designed, constructed and managed on an integrated and coordinated basis with
special attention given to on-site vehicular circulation, parking, utility
needs, building design, orientation and open space.
      INFRASTRUCTURE.  Facilities and services needed to sustain industrial,
residential and business activities.
      INGRESS.  Access or entry.
      INSTITUTION, EDUCATIONAL.  A school for kindergarten through twelfth
grade or any colleges or universities authorized by the state to award degrees.
      INSTITUTION, HUMAN CARE.  A public or private facility for physical, as
opposed to mental, care. A HUMAN CARE INSTITUTION may include hospitals,
convalescent, assisted care facilities and nursing homes. It does not include
homes for the mentally disadvantaged or substance abuse rehabilitation
facilities.
      INSTITUTION, REHABILITATION.  A public or private facility for mental or
substance abuse rehabilitation. A REHABILITATION INSTITUTION may include
inpatient or outpatient hospitals, halfway houses and similar facilities.
      INSTITUTION, RELIGIOUS.  A structure or place in which worship,
ceremonies, rituals and education pertaining to a particular system of beliefs
are held.
      INSTITUTION, SOCIAL.  Any profit or nonprofit use or facility in which
activities for pleasure or philanthropy are carried out. Such institutions may
include service clubs, scout organizations, hobby clubs and veteran’s
organizations, churches, schools, hospitals, convalescent or nursing homes,
public or quasi-public non-profit uses, community facilities, parks and
playgrounds.
      INTERSECTION.  The point where two or more roads cross at grade.
      JUNK MOTOR VEHICLE.  An automobile, truck or other motor vehicle which
has been damaged to such an extent that it cannot be operated under its own
power, and will require major repairs before being made usable; or such a
vehicle which does not comply with state or city laws or ordinances.
      JUNK/SALVAGE YARD.  A place where waste or discarded or salvaged
materials are bought, sold, exchanged, stored, baled, packaged, disassembled,
cleaned or handled, including house and vehicle wrecking yards, used lumber
yards, and places or yards for use of salvaged house and vehicle parts, and
structural steel materials and equipment. A JUNK OR SALVAGE YARD shall not
include uses conducted entirely within a completely enclosed building; pawn
shops and establishments for the sale, purchase or storage of used cars in
operable condition, salvaged machinery, used furniture and household equipment;
and the processing of used, discarded or salvaged materials as part of
manufacturing operations.
      KENNEL or ANIMAL HOSPITAL.  Any building or land used for the sale,
boarding, treatment or breeding of more than two dogs or three cats or other
household pets as a business.
      LABORATORY.
         (a)   MEDICAL OR DENTAL.  A laboratory that provides analytical or
diagnostic services to physicians and dentists. No fabrication is conducted on
the premises except the custom fabrication of dentures or surgical supports.
         (b)   EXPERIMENTAL.  A building or part of a building devoted to the
testing and analysis of any product or animal.
      LAND.  Ground, soil or earth, including structures on, above or below the
surface.
      LAND USE.  A use of land which may result in an earth change, including,
but not limited to, subdivision, residential, commercial, industrial,
recreational or other development, private and public highway, road and street
construction, drainage construction, agricultural practices and mining.
      LAND USE PLAN.  A plan showing the existing and proposed location, extent
and intensity of development of land to be used for varying types of
residential, commercial, industrial, agricultural, recreational, educational
and other public and private purposes or combination of purposes.
      LATTICE TOWER.  A type of mount that is self-supporting with multiple
legs and cross bracing of structural steel.
      LEGISLATIVE BODY.  The City Commission of the City of Auburn.
      LIBRARY.  Institutions for the storage and circulation of books, compact
discs, videotapes and other materials for use by the general public.
      LICENSED CARRIER.  A company authorized by the FCC to construct and
operate a commercial mobile radio services system.
      LOADING/UNLOADING SPACE.  An off-street space on the same lot with a
building, or group of buildings, for the temporary parking of a commercial
vehicle while loading and unloading merchandise or materials.
      LOT.  A parcel or portion of land, exclusive of any adjoining street,
separated from other parcels or portions by description, as on a subdivision of
record or survey map.
      LOT AREA.  The total horizontal area included within lot lines. Where the
front lot line is the centerline of a street or lies in part or in whole in the
street area, the LOT AREA shall not include that part of the lot in use or to
be used as the street.
      LOT, CORNER.  See CORNER LOT. See graphic for CORNER LOT.
      LOT COVERAGE.  The part or percent of the lot occupied by buildings,
including accessory buildings.
      LOT DEPTH.  The mean horizontal distance from the front street line to
the rear lot line.
      LOT, INTERIOR.  Any lot other than a corner lot. See graphic for CORNER
LOT.
      LOT LINES.  Any line bounding a lot, including the following:
         (a)   FRONT LOT LINE.  The line separating the lot from the right-of-
way of the street; in the case of a corner line, the address of record is the
front lot line.
         (b)   REAR LOT LINE.  The line opposite to and most distant from the
front line; in irregularly shaped lots, it shall be the straight line entirely
within the lot, ten feet long, parallel to and most distant from the front lot
line.
         (c)   SIDE LOT LINE.  Any line other than front or rear lot lines.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40761c512c04a852161f3810babab8dc81854987/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1385.jpg]
 
      LOT, THROUGH.  Any interior lot having frontage on two more or less
parallel streets as distinguished from a corner lot. In the case of a row of
double frontage lots, all sides of said lots adjacent to streets shall be
considered frontage, and front yards shall be provided as required. See graphic
for CORNER LOT.
      LOT OF RECORD.  A parcel of land, the dimensions of which are shown on a
document or map on file with the County Register of Deeds or in common use by
city or county officials, and which actually exists as so shown, or any part of
such parcel held in separate recorded ownership at the time of adoption of this
chapter.
      LOT WIDTH.  The average of the width between side lot lines.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40761c512c04a852161f3810babab8dc81854987/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1387.jpg]
 
      LOT, ZONING.  A single tract of land that, at the time of filing for a
building permit, is designated by its owner or developer as a tract to be used,
developed or built upon as a unit, under single ownership or control.
      LOUNGE.  See BAR.
      LUMBERYARD.  A commercial or wholesale facility where building materials
are sold and where lumber and other construction materials are warehoused
within an enclosed yard or building.
      MALLS.  A shopping center where stores front on both sides of a
pedestrian way that may be enclosed or open.
      MANUFACTURED HOME.  A dwelling unit, designed and built in a factory.
      MANUFACTURING.  The manufacture, predominantly from previously prepared
materials, of finished products or parts, including processing, fabrication,
assembly, treatment and packaging of such products, and incidental storage,
sales and distribution of such products, but excluding basic industrial
processing and custom manufacturing. The manufacturing or compounding process
of raw materials. These activities or processes would necessitate the storage
of large volumes of highly flammable, toxic matter or explosive materials
needed for the MANUFACTURING process. These activities may involve outdoor
operations as part of their MANUFACTURING process.
      MARQUEE.  Any hood, canopy, awning or permanent structure that projects
from a wall of a building, usually above an entrance.
      MASTER PLAN.  A comprehensive long-range plan intended to guide the
growth and development of a community. The plan includes analysis,
recommendations and proposals for the community’s population, economy, housing,
transportation, community facilities and land use.
      MINI-STORAGE/SELF STORAGE.  A structure containing separate storage areas
of varying sizes that are leased or rented on an individual basis.
      MIXED USE ZONING.  Regulations that permit a combination of different
uses within a single development, under special regulations.
      MOBILE HOME.  A structure, transportable in one or more sections, that is
built on a chassis and designed for use as a dwelling with or without a
permanent foundation, and which includes the plumbing, heating, air
conditioning and electrical systems contained in the structure. A MOBILE HOME
does not include a recreational vehicle.
      MANUFACTURED HOME DEVELOPMENT.  A parcel of land under the control of a
person upon which three or more mobile homes are located on a continual
nonrecreational basis and which is offered to the public for that purpose,
regardless whether a charge is made therefore, together with any building,
structure, enclosure, street, equipment or facility used or intended for use
incident to the occupancy of a mobile home.
      MOBILE HOME SITE/MANUFACTURED HOME SITE.  A measured parcel of land
within a manufactured home development that is delineated by lot lines on a
final development plan and which is intended for the placement of a mobile home
and the exclusive use of the occupants of such mobile home.
      MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION.  A manufactured home development except that the
mobile home lots are subdivided, surveyed, recorded and sold in accordance with
Michigan Act 288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 through 560.293, as
amended.
      MONOPOLE.  The type of mount that is self-supporting with a single shaft
of wood, steel or concrete, without guy wires and a platform (or racks) for
panel antennas arrayed at the top.
      MORTUARY.  See FUNERAL HOME.
      MOTEL.  A building or group of buildings, whether detached or in
connecting units, used as individual sleeping or dwelling units designed
primarily for transients traveling by automobile. The term MOTEL shall include
buildings designed as auto courts, tourist courts, motor hotels, hotels and
similar names that are designed as integrated units of individual rooms under
common ownership. For the purposes of this chapter, MOTEL and HOTEL have the
same meaning.
      MOUNT.  The structure of surface upon which antennas are mounted,
including the following four types of mounts.
         (a)   GROUND-MOUNTED.  Mounted on the ground.
         (b)   ROOF-MOUNTED.  Mounted on the roof of a building.
         (c)   SIDE-MOUNTED.  Mounted on the side of a building.
         (d)   STRUCTURE-MOUNTED.  Mounted on a structure other than a
building.
      MUNICIPAL BUILDING.  A structure housing an operation of the City of
Auburn.
      MUNICIPALITY.  The City of Auburn.
      MUSEUM.  A building having public significance by reason of its
architecture or former use or occupancy or building serving as a repository for
a collection of natural, scientific, or literary curiosities or objects of
interest, or works of art, and arranged, intended and designed to be used by
members of the public for viewing, with or without an admission charge, and
which may include as an accessory use the sale of goods to the public as gifts
or for their own use.
      NATURAL RETENTION AREA.  A naturally occurring pond or wetland that
retains storm water runoff.
      NONCONFORMING BUILDING, LEGAL.  Any building or portion thereof lawfully
existing at the time this chapter became effective and that does not comply
with this chapter’s regulations.
      NONCONFORMING LOT, LEGAL.  A lot, the area, dimensions or location of
which was lawful prior to the adoption, revisions, or amendment of the zoning
code; but which fails, by reason of such adoption, revisions or amendment, to
conform to current requirements of the Zoning District.
      NONCONFORMING SIGN, LEGAL.  Any sign lawfully existing as of the
effective date of an ordinance, or amendment thereto, that renders the sign
nonconforming because it does not conform to all the standards and regulations
of the adopted or amended ordinance.
      NONCONFORMING USE, LEGAL.  Any property use that was lawful at the time
the zoning Ordinance became effective and which now does not comply with its
regulations. A LEGAL NONCONFORMING USE is a use that is in compliance with the
requirements of this chapter.
      NORTH POINT or NORTH ARROW.  The designation on a map illustrating the
direction of north.
      NOXIOUS.  Offensive or disturbing.
      NUISANCE.  An offensive, annoying, unpleasant or obnoxious thing, or
practice, a cause or source of annoyance, especially a continual or repeated
invasion of a use or activity that invades the property line of another so as
to cause harm or discomfort to the owner or resident of that property.
      NURSERY, PLANT MATERIALS.  Any lot or structure used for the growing,
harvesting, processing, storing and/or selling of plants, shrubs, trees and
flowers, including products used for gardening and landscaping, but not
including fruit and vegetable sales.
      OCCUPANCY PERMIT.  A required permit allowing occupancy of a building or
structure after it has been determined that the building meets all of the
requirements of applicable ordinances.
      OCCUPANCY PERMIT, TEMPORARY.  A certificate of occupancy that is issued
for a fixed time period to allow occupancy, because seasonal conditions make it
impossible to complete all needed external improvements.
      OFFICE.  A room or group of rooms used for conducting the affairs of a
business, profession, service, industry or government.
      OFFICE BUILDING.  A building used primarily for conducting the affairs of
a business, profession, service, industry, government or like activity; it may
include ancillary services for office workers such as a restaurant, coffee
shop, newspaper or candy stand.
      OMNIDIRECTIONAL (WHIP) ANTENNA.  A thin rod that beams and receives
signals in all directions.
      OPEN SPACE.  The part of a zoning lot, including courts or yards, which:
         (a)   Is open and unobstructed from its lowest level to the sky;
         (b)   Is accessible to all residents upon the zoning lot;
         (c)   Is not part of the roof of that portion of a building containing
dwelling units;
         (d)   Is comprised of lawn and landscaped area; and
         (e)   Is not part of the roof of an attached garage if said roof is
used for a swimming pool deck or recreation deck; and is not higher than 23
feet above grade; and is directly accessible by passageway from the residential
building.
      ORCHARD.  The establishment, care and harvesting of more than 25 fruit-
bearing trees or vines, such as apples, cherries or grapes for the purpose of
selling the fruit to others.
      OUTDOOR AMUSEMENT FACILITY.  A commercial business that provides
amusement facilities, such as miniature golf, carnival rides, petting zoo and
other similar attractions and open to the general public.
      OUTDOOR SALES.  Uses not conducted from a wholly enclosed building,
operated for a profit, and including the following uses:
         (a)   Bicycle, mobile home, travel trailer, motor vehicle, boat or
home equipment sale or rental services;
         (b)   Outdoor display and sale of garages, swimming pools and similar
uses;
         (c)   Retail sale of trees, fruits, vegetables, shrubbery, plants,
seed, topsoil, humus, fertilizer, trellis, lawn furniture, playground equipment
and other home garden supplies and equipment; and
         (d)   Tennis courts, archery courts, shuffleboard, horseshoe courts,
miniature golf, golf driving range, children’s amusement park or similar
recreation uses.
      OUTDOOR USE.  A use, the majority of which is carried outside of a
structure of any kind. These may include outdoor displays of merchandise,
outdoor eating areas, outdoor storage and outdoor recreation under certain
circumstances.
      OUTDOOR USE, TEMPORARY.  A use carried out in an open area or uncovered
or temporary structure that is disbanded when the designated time period,
activity or use for which the temporary structure was erected has ceased.
      PANEL ANTENNA.  A flat surface antenna usually developed in multiples.
      PARK, NEIGHBORHOOD.  City- or county-owned land intended to serve the
recreation needs of people living or working within one-half mile radius of the
park. A NEIGHBORHOOD PARK is less than two and one-half acres in size.
      PARK, RECREATIONAL.  An open area designed for the active and/or passive
use of the general public and which may or may not contain playground or
exercise facilities and equipment.
      PARKING AISLE.  The area behind a parking space used for backing and
turning into and out of the parking space. See §§
154.070 through
154.075 for parking space and aisle required sizes.
      PARKING AREA.  An area used for the parking, parking aisle or access of
motor vehicles for a fee or as an accommodation for clients, customers,
residents, employees or the general public.
      PARKING AREA, TOTAL.  The parking lot and all connecting access drives
and landscaping.
      PARKING ACCESS.  The area of a parking lot that allows motor vehicles
ingress and egress from the street to the parking aisle or parking space of not
longer than 100 feet.
      PARKING BAY.  A parking module consisting of one or two rows of parking
spaces and the aisle from which motor vehicles enter and leave spaces.
      PARKING LOT.  An off-street, ground level area, surfaced and improved,
for the temporary storage of motor vehicles.
      PARKING, OFF-STREET.  Any parking area located on the same property it is
intended to serve, or in a joint use lot.
      PARKING SPACE.  Any vehicle accessible area designated for vehicle
parking and exclusive of drives and aisles.
      PATIO, PORCH.  Roofed open area that, while it may be glassed or
screened, is usually attached to, or part of, and with direct access to or from
a building.
      PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.  A set of criteria or limits relating to nuisance
elements (noise, odor, vibration, toxic and hazardous materials, radiation,
flooding and other similar occurrences) that a particular use or process may
not exceed.
      PERMANENTLY AFFIXED.  To affix a structure to the ground or to another
structure in accordance with the design and material specification of
applicable building codes.
      PERMITTED USE.  Any use allowed in a zoning district and subject to the
restrictions applicable to that zoning district.
      PERSON.  Any individual, partnership, organization, association, trust or
corporation. When used as a penalty provision, PERSON shall include the members
of such partnership, the trustees of such trust, and the officers and members
of such organization, association or corporation.
      PERSONAL SERVICES FACILITIES.  Establishments primarily engaged in
providing services involving the care of a person or his or her apparel.
      PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICE FACILITY.  A facility for the provision of
personal wireless services, as defined by the Telecommunications Act.
      PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICE.  The three types of services regulated by this
chapter as specified in the special use permit regulations. These services are
cellular, radio and satellite.
      PETROLEUM BULK PLANT.  An establishment for the purpose of storage of
petroleum products, in bulk or in packages, distributed by tank car, tank
vehicle or motor truck.
      PLAN, FINAL.  A site plan that has been approved by the Planning
Commission.
      PLAN, PRELIMINARY.  A site plan that is under review by the Planning
Commission or proper review authority and indicates the proposed layout of the
subdivision, planned unit development (PUD) or other development.
      PLAN, TENTATIVE PRELIMINARY.  A conceptual site plan or sketch showing
ideas for development and site use.
      PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT or PUD.  An area of minimum contiguous size, as
specified by ordinance, to be planned and developed as a single entity
containing one or more residential clusters or planned unit residential
developments and one or more public, quasi-public, business or industrial areas
in such range or ratios of nonresidential to residential uses as shall be
specified.
      PLANNING COMMISSION.  The duly designated Advisory Plan Commission of the
municipality.
      POND.  A permanent or temporary body of human-made open water that is
more than 0.25 acres in size and less than one acre in size.
      POOL, COMMERCIAL SWIMMING.  An artificially constructed basin for holding
water for use by paying customers or patrons of a commercial facility.
      POOL, PRIVATE SWIMMING.  Any artificially constructed basin or other
structure for holding water for use in swimming, diving and other aquatic
sports and recreation. The term SWIMMING POOL does not include any plastic,
canvas or rubber pool temporarily erected upon the ground holding less than 500
gallons of water and not over 24 inches deep. Section AG102 of Appendix G in
the 2003 Michigan Residential Code defines SWIMMING POOL as any structure
intended for swimming or recreational bathing that contains water over 24
inches (610 mm) deep. This includes in-ground, above-ground and on-ground
swimming pools, hot tubs and spas.
      POTABLE WATER.  Water suitable for drinking or cooking purposes.
      PRINCIPAL BUILDING.  A building in which is conducted the principal use
allowed of the lot in the district in which it is situated.
      PRINCIPAL USE.  The primary and predominate use of the premises including
customary accessory uses.
      PRIVATE.  Not publicly owned or otherwise regulated by the state, either
by statute or by rules and regulations of one of its administrative bodies.
      PROFESSIONAL SERVICES.  Services offered to the general public such as
law, medicine, engineering, accounting and architecture.
      PROCESSING.  Any operation changing the nature of material or materials
such as the chemical composition, physical qualities or size or shape. Does not
include operations described as fabrication or assembly.
      PUBLIC FACILITIES.  Facilities that are owned and operated by a
municipality, government agency or publicly owned utility.
      PUBLIC HEARING.  A meeting announced and advertised in advance and open
to the public, with the public being given an opportunity to speak or
participate.
      PUBLIC SERVICE INSTALLATION.  A building, structure or use of land that
provides a service that is essential to the general public’s convenience or
safety and is also defined as a PUBLIC UTILITY.
      PUBLIC UTILITY.  See PUBLIC SERVICE UTILITY.  Any person, firm,
corporation, municipal department or board, duly authorized to furnish and
furnishing under federal, state or municipal regulations to the public,
electricity, gas, steam, communication, telegraph, transportation or water,
sanitary sewer or storm sewer.
      PUBLIC WAY.  A highway, street, avenue, boulevard, road, lane, alley or
other area specifically designated and continuously maintained for public
access.
      QUASI-PUBLIC AGENCY.  A service owned and operated by a nonprofit,
religious or missionary institution and providing educational, cultural,
recreational or similar types of public programs.
      QUORUM.  A simple majority of the full membership of a board or agency.
      RADIO ANTENNA.  A signal-receiving device, the purpose of which is to
receive radio signals from radio transmitters in the area.
      RADIO FREQUENCY (RF) ENGINEER.  An engineer specializing in electrical or
microwave engineering, especially the study of radio frequencies.
      RADIO FREQUENCY RADIATION (RFR).  The emissions from personal wireless
service facilities.
      RADIO TOWER.  A signal-sending device, the purpose of which is to
distribute radio signals from a radio transmitter or transmitters in the area.
      RECREATION, COMMERCIAL INDOOR.  A commercial recreational land use
conducted entirely within a building, including arcade, arena, art gallery and
studio, art center, assembly hall, athletics and health clubs, auditorium,
bowling alley, club or lounge, community center, conference center, exhibit
hall, gymnasium, library, movie theater, museum, performance theater, pool or
billiard hall, skating rink, swimming pool and tennis court.
      RECREATION, OUTDOOR.  Recreational uses conducted almost wholly outdoors,
including golf driving ranges (not associated with a golf course), miniature
golf, firing ranges, water parks, amusement parks and similar uses.
      RECREATION, PRIVATE.  Recreational, playgrounds and parks activities that
are not open to the general public and for which a fee may or may not be
charged.
      RECREATIONAL EQUIPMENT.  Includes travel trailers, pickup campers, motor
homes, ice fishing houses, tent trailers, tents, boats and boat trailers,
personal watercraft, snowmobiles, off-road vehicles of any kind, and similar
equipment and cases or boxes used for transporting recreational equipment,
whether occupied by the equipment or not.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.  A vehicle primarily designed and used as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping or travel purposes, including a
vehicle having its own motor power or a vehicle mounted on or drawn by another
vehicle.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV) PARK/CAMPGROUND.  A parcel of land reserved for
the location of recreational vehicles, including building sites set aside for
group camping and similar recreational vehicles.
      RECYCLING FACILITY.  The process by which waste products are reduced to
raw materials and transformed into new and often different products.
      RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION.  See INSTITUTION, RELIGIOUS.
      RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT FACILITY.  Any facility that is involved in the
inquiry, examination, investigation or experimentation aimed at the discovery
and/or interpretation of facts, revision of accepted theories or laws in the
light of new facts, or practical application of such new or revised theories of
laws and the development thereof. DEVELOPMENT may include a limited number of
test units of a given product resulting from such research and shall include
limited production while a product is being test-marketed, which is the interim
step between full research and development and ultimate full-scale production.
      RESIDENCE.  A home, abode or place where an individual is residing at a
specific point in time.
      RESIDENTIAL, RESIDENTIAL USE or RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.  The use of land
parcels for human habitation under the terms of this chapter. RESIDENTIAL shall
not be construed or interpreted to mean the storage, sale (wholesale or
retail), trade, transfer, fabrication, production, manufacture or development
of goods and services.
      RESOURCE RECOVERY FACILITY.  A fully enclosed building where waste is
sorted and classified by type and material, such as ferrous metal, nonferrous
metal, aluminum, paper, newsprint, boxed board, plastic and glass colors. The
purpose of such a building is to reuse the recovered materials.
      RESTRICTION.  A limitation on property, which may be created in a deed,
lease, mortgage or other appropriate document, through certain zoning or
subdivision regulations, or as a condition of approval of an application for
development.
      RESTRICTIVE COVENANT.  A restriction on the use of land usually set forth
in a deed or other appropriate document.
      RETAIL TRADE.  Establishments engaged in selling goods or merchandise to
the general public for personal or household consumption, and rendering
services incidental to the sale of such goods.
      RESTAURANT.  A business located in a building where, in consideration for
the payment of money, meals are habitually prepared, sold and served to persons
for consumption on or off the premises, having suitable kitchen facilities
connected therewith, containing conveniences for cooking an assortment of goods
that may be required for ordinary meals, and deriving the major portion of its
receipts from the sale of food and complying with state and federal health
regulations.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY.  A strip of land acquired by reservation, dedication,
forced dedication, prescription or condemnation, and intended to be occupied or
occupied by a road, crosswalk, railroad, electric transmission lines, oil or
gas pipeline, waterline, sanitary storm sewer or other similar uses.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY LINE.  The boundary of a dedicated street, highway or strip
of land used or reserved for the placement or location of utilities and
facilities. See graphic for LOT LINES.
      RINGELMANN CHART.  A device to measure the opacity of smoke emitted from
stacks and other sources.
      ROAD FRONTAGE.  The length of the lot line that borders a public or
private road at the right-of-way line.
      RUNOFF.  The portion of rainfall, melted snow or irrigation water that
flows across ground surface and is eventually returned to streams.
      SALVAGE YARD.  A place where waste or discarded or salvaged materials are
bought, sold, exchanged, stored, baled, packaged, disassembled, cleaned or
handled, including house and vehicle wrecking yards, used lumber yards and
places or yards for use of salvaged house and vehicle parts, and structural
steel materials and equipment. SALVAGE YARD shall not include uses conducted
entirely within a completely enclosed building; pawn shops and establishments
for the sale, purchase or storage of used cars in operable condition, salvaged
machinery, used furniture and household equipment; and the processing of used,
discarded or salvaged materials as part of manufacturing operations.
      SANITARY LANDFILL.  Any operation that is licensed by the State of
Michigan or its agencies as a sanitary landfill or is subject to the
requirement of having such a license.
      SCALE.  The relationship between distances on a map and actual ground
distances.
      SCHOOL.  See INSTITUTION, EDUCATIONAL.
      SCREENING.  A method of visually shielding or obscuring one abutting or
nearby structure or use from another by fencing, walls, berms or densely
planted vegetation.
      SEASONAL BUSINESS.  A retail business or service business that is not
normally used as a business for more than six months during any one calendar
year.
      SEASONAL RESIDENCE.  A dwelling unit not normally the permanent residence
of the occupant(s) and not normally used as a dwelling unit for more than six
months during any calendar year.
      SECURITY BARRIER.  A locked, impenetrable wall, fence or berm that
completely seals an area from unauthorized entry or trespass.
      SENIOR HOUSING.  A residential complex containing multiple family
dwellings designed for and principally occupied by senior citizens. Such
facilities may include a congregate meals program in a common dining area, but
exclude institutional care such as medical or nursing care where patients are
confined to bed.
      SEPARATION.  The distance between one carrier’s array of antennas and
another carrier’s array.
      SETBACK.  The minimum required horizontal distance measured from the
front, side or rear lot line, whichever is applicable, of a lot of record for
purposes of determining the minimum amount of open space surrounding the main
structure on that lot. See graphic for LOT LINES.
      SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT.  A facility designed for the collection, removal,
treatment and disposal of waterborne sewage generated within a given service
area.
      SIGNS.
         (a)   A name identification, description, display or illustration that
is affixed to or represented directly or indirectly upon a building, structure
or piece of land and which is intended to direct attention to an object,
product, place, activity, person, institution, organization or business;
however, a SIGN shall not include a sign located completely within an enclosed
building.
         (b)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following sign or sign-
related terms are here defined.
            1.   AREA, OR SURFACE AREA, OF SIGN.  Measurement of a sign
includes the entire area within a circle, triangle or parallelogram enclosing
the extreme limits of writing, representation, emblem or any figure of similar
character, together with any frame or other material or color forming an
integral part of the display or used to differentiate the sign from the
background against which it is placed. This excludes the necessary supports or
uprights on which the sign is placed but includes any sign tower.
               a.   Where a sign has two or more faces, the area of all faces
shall be included in determining the AREA OF THE SIGN, except that where two
such faces are placed back-to-back and are at no point more than two feet from
one another, the AREA OF THE SIGN shall be taken as the area of one face if the
two faces are of equal area, or as the area of the larger face if the two faces
are of unequal area.
               b.   In the case of a sphere, the total area of the sphere shall
be divided by four to determine the maximum permitted SIGN AREA.
               c.   The height of a sign shall be measured from the average
grade of the lot at the setback line.
               d.   If a sign includes a numeric address, the portion of the
sign containing the address numbers shall not be counted toward the total
square footage of the sign.
            2.   ABANDONED SIGN. If a sign advertises a business, service,
commodity, accommodation, attraction or other enterprise or activity that is no
longer being offered on conducted at that site for a period of 14 days, that
sign shall be considered abandoned.
            3.   BANNER. Either a temporary sign or portable sign, depending on
how it is used.
            4.   DIRECTIONAL SIGNS.  Signs posted to show direction of traffic
flow through the property.
            5.   ELECTRIC SIGN. Any sign containing electric wiring. This does
not include signs illuminated by an exterior floodlight source.
            6.   ELECTRONIC MESSAGE BOARD.  Changeable copy/image signs in
which the copy/image consists of an array of lights activated and deactivated.
            7.   FREESTANDING SIGNS.  Signs that are supported from the ground
by a structure and are not attached to a building. Types:
               a.   A sign elevated high above ground level, typically on a
pole or other structure;
               b.   Ground sign: A sign low to the ground and typically used to
identify large buildings, institutions and real estate developments; and
               c.   High-rise signs/highway billboards: signs that may be
erected for visibility from the U.S. 10 freeway.
            8.   ILLUMINATED SIGN.  A sign that provides artificial light
directly or through any transparent or translucent material.
            9.   INTEGRAL SIGN.  Names of buildings or farm, date of erection,
monumental citations, commemorative tablets and the like when made an integral
part of the walls of the structure (or roof for farm buildings).
            10.   JOINT SIGN.  A sign that gives direction and identification
to a group of adjacent businesses whether or not under single management.
            11.   LOCATION.  A lot, premise, building, wall or any place
whatsoever upon which a sign is located.
            12.   MARQUEE.  An identification sign attached to or made a part
of a marquee, canopy or awning projecting from and supported by the building.
            13.   MERCHANDISING SIGNS.  Signs identifying products or services
available at the establishment and their prices. This is a descriptive term.
Regulation depends on whether the sign is permanent, portable, temporary, a
sign cover or a safety concern.
            14.   MONUMENT or GROUND MOUNTED.  A freestanding sign where the
base of the sign structure is on the ground or integrated into landscaping or
other solid structural features other than support poles.
            15.   MULTI-TENANT SIGNS.  Wall, ground or freestanding signs for
unified developments, such as shopping centers and office parks, shall identify
only the development, individual tenants or establishments.
            16.   NON-DWELLING USE SIGN.  A sign located on a parcel that does
not have a dwelling as its principal structure and is located in the R-1 or R-
2 District. Examples of the uses that may be associated with non-dwellings in
these districts include, but are not limited to, subdivisions, schools,
religious institutions, public buildings, cemeteries and agricultural retail
facilities.
            17.   POLITICAL SIGNS/POSTERS.  Signs intended for use in promoting
either a candidate for public office or proposal or similar issue that will be
placed before the public to vote.
            18.   PORTABLE SIGNS.  Those signs that are designed to be
transported. Illustrations of signs designed to be transported include, but are
not limited to, signs on a trailer or trailer frame and designed to be
transported by means of wheels; signs converted to “A” or “T” frames that sit
on the ground or lean against a permanent structure; menus and sandwich board
signs;’ balloons used as signs; umbrellas used for advertising; and signs
attached to or painted on vehicles parked and visible from the public right-of-
way, unless said vehicle is used in normal day-today operation of the business.
PORTABLE SIGNS may be a printed banner, changeable copy or portable LED
messaging units. If a sign more accurately fits the definition of a “temporary
sign”, it shall not be considered PORTABLE for the purposes of this subchapter.
            19.   REAL ESTATE SIGNS.  Signs intended for temporary use in
promoting the sale of real estate, with or without structures, shall conform to
§
154.094.
            20.   ROOF LINE.  Either the high point of the roof or the top of
the parapet, whichever forms the top line of the building silhouette and where
a building has several roof levels; this roof or parapet shall be the one
belonging to that portion of the building on whose wall the sign is located.
            21.   ROOF SIGNS.  Signs placed on the roofs of buildings,
supported by the roof and within the lines of exterior walls. If a wall extends
above a roofline and supports a sign, it shall be considered a “wall sign” and
not a ROOF SIGN in this chapter.
            22.   SETBACK.  A distance measured from the outer boundary of a
parcel in which erection of a sign is not permitted. A FRONT SETBACK is
measured from the edge of the right-of-way of any abutting roadway. A REAR
SETBACK is measured from the property line opposite the roadway. A SIDE SETBACK
is measured from any other abutting property line. Corner lots shall require
two front setbacks, but only one rear SETBACK.
            23.   SIGN.  A name identification, description, display or
illustration that is affixed to or represented directly or indirectly upon a
building, structure or piece of land and that is intended to direct attention
to an object, product, place, activity, person, institution, organization or
business. This includes changeable copy and LED (light-emitting diode) portable
signs. For this chapter, a national flag or official court or public office
notice is not considered a SIGN. A sign located inside of a window shall not be
regulated under this chapter.
            24.   SIGN COVER.  Signs are defined as SIGN COVER only when they
are located on permitted signs and cover up the content of the permitted sign.
This includes a display sign, banner or other advertising device, with or
without a structural frame, constructed of nondurable materials and intended
for a limited period of use.
            25.   STREET BANNERS.  Fabric signs, suspended across public
streets advertising a public entertainment or event. The location and contents
of each street banner must be specially approved by the city.
            26.   SUBDIVISION SIGN. A sign intended as identification for a
residential subdivision.
            27.   TEMPORARY SIGN.
               a.   A display sign, banner or other advertising device, with or
without a structural frame, intended for a limited period of use.
               b.   Signs are defined as TEMPORARY when they are attached to a
permanent structure, including but not limited to a building, light pole,
trees, bushes or fences.
               c.   If a sign more accurately fits the definition of a
“portable sign”, it shall not be considered TEMPORARY for the purposes of this
chapter.
            28.   WALL SIGNS.
               a.   Signs permanently attached to the exterior wall of a
building and projecting out from such walls no more than 14 inches.
               b.   The area of the WALL SIGN includes that area within a
continuous line enclosing all letters and graphic symbols of the sign.
            29.   WINDOW SIGNS.  Signs hung outside of a window and within the
framework of any window of a business or residence.
      SINGLE OWNERSHIP.  Ownership by one person or by two or more persons
whether jointly, as tenants by the entirety, or as tenants in common, of a
separate parcel of real property not adjacent to land in the same ownership.
      SITE.  Any plot or parcel of land or combination of contiguous lots or
parcels of land.
      SITE CONDOMINIUM.  See PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
      SITE PLAN.  The development plan for one or more lots, on which is shown
the existing and proposed conditions of the lot.
      SITE PLAN REVIEW AND APPROVAL.  The submission of plans for review and
approval, as required by this chapter and special use permits.
      SLOPE.  The degree of deviation of a surface from the horizontal, usually
expressed as percent or degrees.
      SOIL.  All unconsolidated mineral and organic material, of whatever
origin, that overlies bedrock and can be readily excavated.
      SOIL RESOURCE EXTRACTION.  All or any part of the process involved in the
mining of minerals by removing excess materials and mining directly from the
mineral deposits, open pit mining or minerals naturally exposed, mining by
auger method, dredging and quarrying, underground mining and surface work
incidental to an underground mine.
      SPECIAL LAND USE.  A use, permitted within certain zoning districts, of
such a nature that the public has reserved the right to approve its exact
location, subject to conditions stated in this chapter and to any special
conditions imposed by the Planning Commission to protect the use by right of
other properties in the city.
      SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREA.
         (a)   Less than completely opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttock, female breast below a point immediately above the top of the
areola.
         (b)   Human genitals in a discernable turgid state, even if completely
and opaquely covered.
      SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITY.  Human genitals in a state of sexual
stimulation or arousal or acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse,
sodomy or fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttock or female breast.
      SPOT ZONING.  Rezoning of a lot or parcel of land to benefit an owner for
a use incompatible with surrounding uses, and not for the purpose or effect of
furthering the objectives of the City Comprehensive Plan.
      SQUARE FOOTAGE.  The length times width of a building, structure or use.
      STADIUM.  A large open or enclosed place used for games and major events,
partly or completely surrounded by tiers of seats for spectators.
      STALL, PARKING.  The parking space in which vehicles park.
      STATE LICENSED RESIDENTIAL FACILITY.  A private home licensed by the
State Department of Social Services for care of sick, elderly or handicapped
adults. A FAMILY HOME is defined as having one to six adults; a GROUP HOME has
seven to 20.
      STORAGE, BULK.  The holding or stockpiling on land of material and/or
products where such storage constitutes 40% of the developed site area and the
storage area is at least one acre, and where at least three of the following
criteria are met by the storage activity:
         (a)   In a bulk form or in bulk containers;
         (b)   Under protective cover to the essential exclusion of other uses
of the same space due to special fixtures or exposure to the elements;
         (c)   In sufficient number, quantities or spatial allocation of the
site to determine and rank such uses as the principal use of the site;
         (d)   The major function is the collection and/or distribution of the
material and/or products rather than processing; and
         (e)   The presence of fixed bulk containers or visible stockpiles for
a substantial period of a year.
      STORAGE, INDOOR.  See WAREHOUSE.
      STORAGE, OUTDOOR.  See OUTDOOR USE.
      STORM SEWER.  A conduit that collects and transports runoff of storm
water.
      STORM WATER DETENTION.  Any storm drainage technique that retards or
detains runoff, such as a detention or retention basin, parking lot storage,
rooftop storage, porous pavement, dry wells or any combination thereof.
      STORY.  The portion of a building included between the surface of any
floor above the average elevation or ground at the foundation wall and the
surface of the next floor above it, or if there is no floor above it, then the
space between the floor and the ceiling next above it.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40761c512c04a852161f3810babab8dc81854987/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1389.jpg]
 
      STORY, HALF.  An uppermost story lying under a sloping roof having an
area of at least 200 square feet with a clear height of seven feet six inches.
For the purposes of this chapter, the USABLE FLOOR AREA is only that area
having at least four feet clear height between floor and ceiling.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40761c512c04a852161f3810babab8dc81854987/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1391.jpg]
 
      STREET.  A public right-of-way that has been dedicated to the public and
accepted for the purpose of providing access to abutting private lots or land,
including space for curb, gutter, paving and sidewalks.
      STREET, COLLECTOR.  A street that collects traffic from local streets and
connects with minor and major arterials.
      STREET, CUL-DE-SAC.  A street with a single, common ingress and egress,
and with a turnaround at the end.
      STREET, GRADE.  The top of the curb or the top of the edge of the
pavement or traveled way where no curb exists.
      STREET, LOCAL.  A street designed to provide vehicular access to abutting
property and to discourage through traffic.
      STREET, MAJOR ARTERIAL.  A street or highway so designated on the major
road plan of the City Comprehensive Plan that is designed and intended to carry
heavy traffic volumes.
      STREET, MINOR ARTERIAL.  A dedicated public way or recorded private
street that affords access to abutting properties and is designed primarily to
serve immediate neighborhood needs.
      STREET, PRIVATE.  A street that is not public as defined by this chapter.
      STREET, PUBLIC.  Any public right-of-way, conforming to the city
standards, that provides vehicular access to adjacent properties.
      STRUCTURE.  See BUILDING.
      STRUCTURE CHANGES OR ALTERATIONS.  Any change in the supporting members
of a building, such as bearing walls, columns, beams or girders, or any
substantial change in the roof.
      SUBDIVISION.  The division of single lot or parcel of land, or part
thereof, into two or more lots, tracts or parcels of land for the purpose,
whether immediate or future, of transfer of ownership for residential,
commercial or industrial purposes; or the division of a single lot, tract or
parcel of land, or a part thereof, into two or more lots, tracts or parcels by
means of buildings, building groups, streets, alleys, parking areas or
leaseholds, for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of building
development for residential, commercial or industrial purposes; provided,
however, that divisions of land for agricultural purposes only, not involving
any new street or easement of access, shall not be included.
      SUBSTANCE ABUSE REHABILITATIONS CENTER.  See INSTITUTION, REHAB-
ILITATION.
      SUPPLY YARD.  A fenced yard for the open or enclosed storage of supplies,
equipment or merchandise.
      SWALE.  A depression in the ground that channels runoff.
      SYSTEM BUILT HOME.  See MANUFACTURED HOME.
      TAVERN.  See BAR.
      TENANT.  An occupant of land or premises who occupies, uses or enjoys
real property for a fixed time, usually through a lease arrangement with the
property owner and with the owner’s consent.
      THEATER.  A building, or part of a building, devoted to showing motion
pictures, or dramatic, musical or live performances.
      TRAILER.  Any vehicle designed to be drawn by an automotive/motorized
vehicle.
      TRUCK AND RAILROAD TERMINALS.
         (a)   A place where transfer between modes of transportation takes
place.
         (b)   A terminating point where goods are transferred from a truck to
a storage area or to other trucks, or picked up by other forms of
transportation.
      TRUCK TRACTOR.  The driving and control component of a trailer rig. A
TRUCK TRACTOR is a self-propelled vehicle to which a trailer is attached.
      UNIFIED CONTROL.  The combination of two or more tracts of land, wherein
each owner has agreed that his or her tract of land shall be developed as part
of a planned development and shall be subject to the control applicable to the
planned development.
      USE, BY RIGHT.  Any use that is listed as a use by right in any given
zoning district in this chapter. USES BY RIGHT are not required to show need
for their location.
      USE, CHANGE OF.  Any use which substantially differs from the previous
use of a building or land, or which imposes other special provisions of law
governing building construction, equipment, egress or ingress.
      USE, LAWFUL.  The legal use of any structure or land that conforms with
all of the regulations of this code or any amendment that exists at the time of
the enactment of this code or any amendment thereto. All other uses are
considered “nonconforming uses” that may be deemed legal or illegal.
      USE, TEMPORARY.  A use in a temporary building or structure on a parcel,
established for a fixed period of time with the intent to discontinue such use
upon the expiration of the time period granted in the administrative permit.
      USED CAR LOT.  See VEHICLE SALES.
      VARIANCE.  A modification of the required provisions of the physical
development or land use standards of the zoning code granted when strict
enforcement of the zoning code would cause undue hardship owing to
circumstances unique to the individual property on which the VARIANCE is
granted.
      VEHICLE, MOTOR.  A self-propelled device used for transportation of
people or goods over land surfaces, and licensed as a motor vehicle.
      VEHICLE REPAIR.  General repair, rebuilding or reconditioning of engines,
motor vehicles or trailers; collision service, including body frame or fender
straightening or repair; overall painting or paint shop; vehicle steam cleaning
and oil change.
      VEHICLE SALES.  A lot or portion thereof to be used only for the display
and sale of automobiles that are in condition to be driven off the lot. A USED
CAR LOT shall not be used for the storage of wrecked automobiles, the
dismantling of automobiles or the storage of automobile parts.
      VETERINARY HOSPITAL.  See KENNEL.
      WALL, OBSCURING.  A structure of definite height and location to serve as
an obscuring screen in carrying out the requirements of this chapter.
      WAREHOUSE.  A building primarily used for the storage of goods and
materials.
      WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM.  The system for the collection, treatment, storage
and distribution of potable water from the source of supply to the consumer.
      WETLANDS.  Areas delineated by the Department of Environmental Quality as
wetlands.
      WHOLESALE SALES.  Establishments or places of business primarily engaged
in selling merchandise to retailers, to industrial, commercial, institutional
or professional business users, or to other wholesalers; or acting as agents or
brokers and buying merchandise for, or selling merchandise to, such individuals
or companies.
      WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITY.  Any device, including cellular towers,
used for transmitting and receiving radio waves, microwaves and other similar
frequencies.
      YARD SALE.  Any sale of materials within a residential or business area
for the purpose of selling, swapping or giving away residential or personal
belongings to the general public. This includes the common definitions of terms
such as rummage sale, garage sale, estate sale, block or city rummage sale and
similar terms. A YARD SALE is not determined by the visibility of materials in
front yards or within structures.
      YARDS.  Includes the following:
         (a)   FRONT YARD.  The open space, on a corner lot or otherwise,
extending the full width of the lot between the main building and front lot
line.
         (b)   REAR YARD.  The open space extending the full width of the lot
between the main building and rear lot line.
         (c)   SIDE YARD.  The open space extending from the front yard to the
rear yard between the main building and the side lot line.
         (d)   YARD, LEAST DEPTH OR WIDTH.  The shortest horizontal distance
from each of the lot lines to the building thereon.
Required Yards
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40761c512c04a852161f3810babab8dc81854987/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1393.jpg]
      ZERO LOT LINE.  The location of a building in such a manner that one or
more of the building’s sides is directly on a lot line.
      ZONE.  A specifically delineated area or district in a municipality,
within which regulations and requirements uniformly govern the use, placement,
spacing and size of lots and buildings.
      ZONING.  The dividing of a municipality into districts and the
establishment of regulations governing the use, placement, spacing and size of
land and buildings.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2005; Ord. 187, passed - -2007; Ord. 190, passed 6-7-2010;
Ord. 192, passed 3-21-2011)
§ 154.006  USE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Dumping of soil, sand, clay materials. The extensive dumping of soil,
sand, clay or similar materials not resulting in landscaping shall not be
allowed on any lot or parcel and concurring with the currently adopted
International Property Maintenance Code.
   (B)   Excavation and holes.
      (1)   The construction, maintenance or existence of unprotected or un-
barricaded holes, pits, wells, building pads or similar excavations that are in
conflict with MIOSHA regulations that cause, and are likely to cause a danger
to life, health and safety to the general public shall be prohibited. This
section shall not, however, prevent any excavation that is required for
constructing, remodeling or expanding structures, or for industrial or farming
operations, including the mining of sand and gravel, provided appropriate
precautionary measures, such as the placement of warning signs, fences and the
like, have been approved by the Zoning Administrator and placed on the
premises. Nothing in this section shall apply to bodies of water, ditches,
streams or other major natural resources created or existing by the authority
of the state, the county, the city or other units of government.
      (2)   Excavation resulting from the extraction of sand, gravel or other
minerals for commercial purposes shall be required, upon termination of such
activities for a period of one year or more, to be refilled by the person, firm
or corporation engaging in such excavation. The excavated site shall be graded
and returned, as far as possible, to its natural state, including planting of
vegetation indigenous to the area, within 90 days after the one year
anniversary of termination of excavation or extraction activities. If the site
is immediately vacated after termination of activities, the site shall be
graded and returned to its natural state within 90 days after activities are
terminated. In all other instances in which excavation of holes for
construction or remodeling has occurred, the filling and grading of such holes
shall occur as soon as practical.
   (C)   Storage, dumping of waste, junk and the like.
      (1)   In all residential districts, the use of land or water resources
for the dumping or disposal of scrap iron, metal, rubber, plastic refuse, junk,
slag, ash, wood chips or timber infected or quarantined shall not be permitted.
      (2)   In business and industrial districts, the use of land or water
resources for the dumping or disposal of scrap iron, metal, rubber, plastic
refuse, junk, slag, ash, wood chips or timber infected or quarantined shall not
be permitted, unless the following process is followed:
         (a)   Request for special permit sent to Planning Commission;
         (b)   Public hearing in accordance with Part 115 of the Michigan
Natural Resources and Environment Protection Act, as amended;
         (c)   Approval of the Planning Commission; and
         (d)   Temporary permit issued by the Zoning Administrator.
      (3)   Such permit shall not exceed one year from the date of issuance and
may be renewed on an annual basis only after approval is granted by the
Planning Commission.
      (4)   Bond/agreement: an appropriate bond and agreement shall be required
of the applicant to ensure compliance with the directives set forth by the
Planning Commission. Such dumping or disposal shall not negatively affect the
water table, or cause pollution of stagnant or running water in any area of the
city or attract rodents, vectors or other nuisances so as to create health or
safety problems to the natural environment and the inhabitants of the city. Nor
shall the natural terrain be altered in any fashion to create safety or health
hazards at the expiration date of the permit. The character of the land shall
not be substantially altered so as to make it unusable for the uses for which
it was originally zoned.
   (D)   Temporary use permit.
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator may issue temporary use permits for the
following uses after determining that these uses will not be detrimental to
adjacent conforming uses during the permitted period of use. A second temporary
use permit may be issued by the Zoning Administrator at the end of a time limit
if the applicant shows good cause.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator may attach the conditions and requirements
deemed necessary to meet the intent of the provisions of this section.
      (3)   A third temporary use permit may only be authorized by the Zoning
Board of Appeals.
         (a)   Mobile homes. An individual mobile home or other temporary
structure may be used as temporary living or working quarters for up to 90 days
while a dwelling or structure is being constructed or reconstructed on the same
premises.
         (b)   Signs and supplies. The storage of building supplies and
machinery; temporary storage buildings; the assembly of materials associated
with a customary trade; and contractor, architect and identification signs in
connection with a construction project may be authorized by the Building
Department for a period of up to 12 months.
   (E)   Zoning affects every structure and use of property. Except as
specified, no building, structure, land or premises shall be used or occupied,
and no building or part of a building or other structure shall be erected,
raised, moved, placed, reconstructed, extended, enlarged or altered, unless it
conforms with the regulations of the district in which it is located.
   (F)   Fences.
      (1)   Definitions. For the purpose of this division (F), the following
fence-related definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
         BUILDING LINE. A line formed by the face of the building and, for the
purposes of this chapter, a minimum building line is the same as a front
setback line.
         FENCE.  A permanent or temporary partition or structure (including
gate) created as a property line dividing marker, barrier or enclosure.
Landscape berms, plantings, hedges and similar effects shall be considered a
FENCE for issues related to clear vision areas. Minimum heights may apply if
berms, plantings, hedges and similar effects are required for buffers.
         GRADE.  The average elevation/level of lot lines of the property in
question. STREET GRADE is the top of the curb or the top of the edge of the
pavement or traveled way where no curb exists.
         LOT LINES.  Any line bounding a lot, including the following:
            1.   FRONT LOT LINE.  The line separating the lot from the right-
of-way of the street; in the case of a corner line, the address of record is
the FRONT LOT LINE.
            2.   REAR LOT LINE.  The line opposite to and most distant from the
front line; in irregularly shaped lots, it shall be the straight line entirely
within the lot, ten feet long, parallel to and most distant from the front lot
line.
            3.   SIDE LOT LINE.  Any line other than front or rear lot lines.
         POOL PRIVATE.  Any artificially constructed basin or other structure
for holding water for use in swimming, diving and other aquatic sports and
recreation. The term SWIMMING POOL does not include any plastic, canvas or
rubber pool temporarily erected upon the ground holding less than 500 gallons
of water and not over 24 inches deep.
         PRIVATE.  Not publicly owned or otherwise regulated by the state
either by statute or by rules and regulations of one of its administrative
bodies.
      (2)   Permits.
         (a)   Permits required. No fence shall be erected or altered without
first obtaining a permit from the city. Permits shall be valid for 12 months
from the time they are issued.
         (b)   Application. Written application for such permits shall be made
upon forms provided for by the City Clerk, which shall contain:
            1.   Name, address and telephone number of the property owner;
            2.   Address of the property proposed to be fenced;
            3.   Names and addresses of adjacent property owners; and
            4.   Type of fence to be erected, including the kind and size of
posts, proposed length and height, and types of material to be used.
         (c)   Determination of property lot lines. It shall be the obligation
and sole responsibility of persons obtaining fence permits under this section
and erecting fences to determine property or lot lines. The issuance of a fence
permit shall in no way be construed as a determination of the correct, valid or
legal location for the fence or prejudice in any way the rights of adjacent or
abutting property owners.
         (d)   Application. Fence regulations do not apply to public
playgrounds, play field, parks, school grounds or recreation areas.
      (3)   Fees. A fee established by the City Commission shall be paid with
each application for a permit filed.
      (4)   Restrictions on fence construction. This division (F) shall apply
to all classes of property.
         (a)   Any fence erected in an area from the front lot line and ten
feet toward the rear lot line shall not have a height greater than 36 inches.
From the ten-foot point to the front building line, the height shall be
restricted to five feet. Shrub plantings as fences shall be maintained at or
below these height restrictions so as to not encroach on the adjacent property
or right-of-way. Shrub plantings may require trimming to comply with visual
requirements in divisions (F)(4)(c) or (d) below.
         (b)   Any fence erected for the side yard or the rear yard shall not
have a height exceeding six feet and shall not be erected closer to the front
lot line than the front building line of the structure. Shrub plantings shall
be maintained at or below these height restrictions. Trees and shrub plantings
as fences shall be maintained so as not to encroach on the adjacent lot or
right-of-way.
         (c)   To protect clear vision at intersections, fences, walls, berm,
shrubs, hedges and other obstructions to vision (excluding trees) within the
triangular area formed by the intersection of any street right-of-way lines at
a distance along each line of 30 feet from their point of intersection shall
not exceed 36 inches in height. Trees planted in the same area that become
obstructions to vision shall have their branches trimmed to eight feet above
street grade.
         (d)   To protect clear vision at intersections, fences, walls, shrubs,
berms hedges or other obstructions to vision (excluding trees) within the
triangular area formed by the intersection of any driveway and any existing or
proposed sidewalk, alley, street or public right-of-way at a distance along
each line of 15 feet from their point of intersection shall not exceed 36
inches in height. Trees planted in the same area that become obstructions to
vision shall have their branches trimmed to eight feet above street grade.
         (e)   Fences in proximity to fire hydrants: any fence that comes
within 36 inches of a fire hydrant shall conform to requirements of the
International Fire Code to assure unfettered access in case of emergency.
Disagreements over requirements shall be resolved by the Auburn Williams
Township Fire Department.
         (f)   No spike, nail, pointed device or pointed extension of a fence
component shall be placed atop or extended from a fence. It shall not contain
barbed wire, electric current or charges of electricity.
         (g)   No fence shall be located nearer than one foot to the property
line, except by written mutual agreement of the adjoining property owners,
which agreement shall be filed with the City Clerk at the time of application
for a permit.
         (h)   Gates in fences shall not open over public property.
         (i)   All fences shall be located entirely on the property of the
person, firm or corporation erecting the fence.
         (j)   Fences over four feet in height must have posts at least three
feet into the ground.
         (k)   Fences must be built with chain link fence, standard fence wood,
or metal such as wrought iron. Fences may not be built with scrap lumber,
chicken wire, wire mesh, wood pallets or other unapproved materials.
         (l)   For vacant property, a fence across the lot or parcel shall not
be erected closer to the street than the established front building lot line
along said street.
         (m)   Fence posts, with the exception of posts for chain-link fence,
lateral supports and framework not a specific part of decoration, shall be
inside the fence, facing inward toward the property enclosed by the fence.
         (n)   A snow fence shall be allowed between November 1 and April 1
without permit. Such fences shall be subject to ordinance requirements relative
to clear vision, other safety issues and proximity to lot lines. Any fence in
violation of those requirements shall be brought into compliance immediately
upon the request of the city.
         (o)   Pool fencing:
            1.   All private pools shall be enclosed by a fence that shall be
at least four feet in height above grade and of a type not readily climbable by
children. A dwelling or accessory building may be used as part of such an
enclosure. A pool with sides at least four feet in height above grade may be
exempt from complete enclosure by a fence as specified in this section if the
ladders, steps or similar means of access to such pool or attached deck area is
enclosed within a fence with one or more gates constructed as specified in this
section. A pool with sides at least four feet in height above grade may be
exempt from complete enclosure by a fence as specified in this section if the
ladders, steps or similar means of access to such pool can be raised, removed
or secured so as to prevent access;
            2.   Each gate in such fence and all doorways giving direct access
to the enclosure shall be secured when the pool is not in use. Likewise,
ladders or steps giving access to above-ground pools shall be removed or raised
to prevent access when the pool is not in use;
            3.   Inspection and compliance: the city or its designated agents
shall have the right, at any reasonable hour, to inspect any fence surrounding
any pool for the purpose of determining compliance with this code; and
            4.   Pools, installed or erected before the date of this division
(F) (Ord. 187, passed - -2007) shall be made to comply with this division (F)
within 90 days after this division (F)’s adoption.
      (5)   Maintenance.
         (a)   Generally. All fences shall be maintained in a sound and safe
condition. Any fence that through lack of repair, type of construction,
location, deterioration or other reason, imperils life or property shall
subject the property owner to the penalty provisions of §
154.999.
         (b)   Nonconforming fences. The lawful use of a fence existing at the
effective date of this ordinance may be continued although such use does not
conform with the provisions of this chapter or the ordinance it replaces. A
nonconforming use in this chapter may be changed, repaired or altered provided
that it is not to an extent greater than 50% of the total lineal footage, with
the exception that any repairs, changes or alterations made to fences in the
required clear vision area shall comply with this chapter.
      (6)   Parallel fences.
         (a)   Fences parallel to one another shall be prohibited unless
special provision is made to specifically provide for proper maintenance of
both fences; this shall include provision for adequate distances between the
fences and construction design details.
         (b)   Fencing panels and posts shall not be structurally attached to
an existing fence where a safety concern can be identified by the city’s
Building Inspector.
      (7)   Appeals. Any person directly or indirectly affected by the strict
application of the provisions of this chapter may appeal by filing the request
in writing to the Zoning Board of Appeals. The Zoning Board of Appeals will
consider the appeal in accordance with established procedures.
      (8)   Non-applicability. This chapter shall not apply to construction
fences as authorized and required in the Building Code.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2005; Ord. 187, passed - -2007)
§ 154.007  GENERAL DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Clear vision area. No fence, wall, shrubbery, sign or other
obstruction to vision above the height of three feet from the established
street grades shall be permitted within the triangular area formed at the
intersection of any face of curb lines by a straight line drawn between said
face of curb lines at a distance along each line of 30 feet from their point of
intersection.
   (B)   Mixed occupancy.
      (1)   Before issuing a building permit for construction on any premises
that is:
         (a)   Intended for a combination of dwelling and business or dwelling
and industrial occupancy;
         (b)   That would result in an increased number of dwelling units
within a building partly occupied by business or industrial use; or
         (c)   That would result in an increased area devoted to business or
industrial use, within a building partly occupied as a dwelling, the Zoning
Administrator shall refer the plans to the Fire Chief and Health Department for
their review of any existing or anticipated fire or health hazards.
      (2)   Recommendations as to additional provisions or changes in the
interest of safety or health shall be complied with before issuance of a
permit.
   (C)   Public nuisance, per se. Any building or structure that is erected,
altered or converted, or any use of premises or land that is begun or changed
subsequent to the time of passage of this section and in violation of any of
the provisions thereof is hereby declared to be a public nuisance per se, and
may be abated by order of any court of competent jurisdiction.
   (D)   Sidewalks. Upon adoption of this chapter and subsequent to the city’s
initiative to establish city-wide sidewalks in 2004-2005, sidewalks are
required in accordance with the City Sidewalk Ordinance (contained in Chapter
95 of this code of ordinances).
   (E)   Fences.
      (1)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, certain fence-
related terms are defined as follows.
         BUILDING LINE.  A line formed by the face of the building and, for the
purposes of this chapter, a minimum building line is the same as a front
setback line.
         FENCE.  A permanent or temporary partition or structure (including
gate) created as a property line dividing marker, barrier or enclosure.
Landscape berms, plantings, hedges and similar effects shall be considered a
FENCE for issues related to clear vision areas. Minimum heights may apply if
berms, plantings, hedges and similar effects are required for buffers.
         GRADE.  The average elevation/level of lot lines of the property in
question. STREET GRADE is the top of the curb or the top of the edge of the
pavement or traveled way where no curb exists.
         LOT LINES.  Any line bounding a lot, including the following:
            1.   FRONT LOT LINE.  The line separating the lot from the right-
of-way of the street; in the case of a corner line, the address of record is
the front lot line.
            2.   REAR LOT LINE.  The line opposite to and most distant from the
front line; in irregularly shaped lots, it shall be the straight line entirely
within the lot, ten feet long, parallel to and most distant from the front lot
line.
            3.   SIDE LOT LINE.  Any line other than front or rear lot lines.
         POOL PRIVATE.  Any artificially constructed basin or other structure
for holding water for use in swimming, diving and other aquatic sports and
recreation. The term SWIMMING POOL does not include any plastic, canvas or
rubber pool temporarily erected upon the ground holding less than 500 gallons
of water and not over 24 inches deep.
         PRIVATE.  Not publicly owned or otherwise regulated by the state
either by statute or by rules and regulations of one of its administrative
bodies.
      (2)   Permits.
         (a)   Permits required. No fence shall be erected or altered without
first obtaining a permit from the city. Permits shall be valid for 12 months
from the time they are issued.
         (b)   Application. Written application for such permits shall be made
upon forms provided for by the City Clerk, which shall contain:
            1.   Name, address and telephone number of the property owner;
            2.   Address of the property proposed to be fenced;
            3.   Names and addresses of adjacent property owners; and
            4.   Type of fence to be erected, including the kind and size of
posts, proposed length and height, and types of material to be used.
         (c)   Determination of property lot lines. It shall be the obligation
and sole responsibility of persons obtaining fence permits under this section
and erecting fences to determine property or lot lines. The issuance of a fence
permit shall in no way be construed as a determination of the correct, valid or
legal location for the fence or prejudice in any way the rights of adjacent or
abutting property owners.
         (d)   Application. Fence regulations do not apply to public
playgrounds, play field, parks, school grounds or recreation areas.
      (3)   Fees. A fee established by the City Commission shall be paid with
each application for a permit filed.
      (4)   Restrictions on fence construction. This section shall apply to all
classes of property.
         (a)   Any fence erected in an area from the front lot line and ten
feet toward the rear lot line shall not have a height greater than 36 inches.
From the ten-foot point to the front building line, the height shall be
restricted to five feet. Shrub plantings as fences shall be maintained at or
below these height restrictions so as to not encroach on the adjacent property
or right-of-way. Shrub plantings may require trimming to comply with visual
requirements in divisions (E)(4)(c) or (d) below.
         (b)   Any fence erected for the side yard or the rear yard shall not
have a height exceeding six feet and shall not be erected closer to the front
lot line than the front building line of the structure. Shrub plantings shall
be maintained at or below these height restrictions. Trees and shrub plantings
as fences shall be maintained so as not to encroach on the adjacent lot or
right-of-way.
         (c)   To protect clear vision at intersections, fences, walls, berms,
shrubs, hedges and other obstructions to vision (excluding trees) within the
triangular area formed by the intersection of any face of curb lines at a
distance along each line of 30 feet from their point of intersection shall not
exceed 36 inches in height. Trees planted in the same area that become
obstructions to vision shall have their branches trimmed to eight feet above
street grade.
         (d)   To protect clear vision at intersections, fences, walls, shrubs,
berms, hedges or other obstructions to vision (excluding trees) within the
triangular area formed by the intersection of any driveway and any existing or
proposed sidewalk, alley, street or face of curb line at a distance along each
line of 15 feet from their point of intersection shall not exceed 36 inches in
height. Trees planted in the same area that become obstructions to vision shall
have their branches trimmed to eight above street grade.
         (e)   Any fence that comes within 36 inches of a fire hydrant shall
conform to requirements of the International Fire Code to assure unfettered
access in case of emergency. Disagreements over requirements shall be resolved
by the Auburn Williams Township Fire Department.
         (f)   No spike, nail, pointed device or pointed extension of a fence
component shall be placed atop or extended from a fence. It shall not contain
barbed wire, electric current or charges of electricity.
         (g)   No fence shall be located nearer than one foot to the property
line, except by written mutual agreement of the adjoining property owners,
which agreement shall be filed with the City Clerk at the time of application
for a permit.
         (h)   Gates in fences shall not open over public property.
         (i)   All fences shall be located entirely on the property of the
person, firm or corporation erecting the fence.
         (j)   Fences over four feet in height must have posts at least three
feet into the ground.
         (k)   Materials: fences must be built with chain link fence, standard
fence wood, prefabricated vinyl fence, masonry materials or metal such as
wrought iron. Fences may not be built with scrap lumber, chicken wire, wire
mesh, wood pallets or other unapproved materials.
         (l)   Masonry walls higher than 24 inches will require engineering
drawings for construction that assure the safety of such walls before a permit
will be issued.
         (m)   Fence posts, with the exception of posts for chain-link fence,
lateral supports and framework not a specific part of decoration, shall be
inside the fence, facing inward toward the property enclosed by the fence.
         (n)   A snow fence shall be allowed between November 1 and April 1
without permit. Such fences shall be subject to ordinance requirements relative
to clear vision, other safety issues and proximity to lot lines. Any fence in
violation of those requirements shall be brought into compliance immediately
upon the request of the city.
         (o)   Pool fencing:
            1.   Required. All private pools shall be enclosed by a fence that
shall be at least four feet in height above grade and of a type not readily
climbable by children. A dwelling or accessory building may be used as part of
such an enclosure. A pool with sides at least four feet in height above grade
may be exempt from complete enclosure by a fence as specified in this section
if the ladders, steps or similar means of access to such pool or attached deck
area is enclosed within a fence with one or more gates constructed as specified
in this section. A pool with sides at least four feet in height above grade may
be exempt from complete enclosure by a fence as specified in this section if
the ladders, steps or similar means of access to such pool can be raised,
removed or secured so as to prevent access;
            2.   Access. Each gate in such fence and all doorways giving direct
access to the enclosure shall be secured when the pool is not in use. Likewise,
ladders or steps giving access to above-ground pools shall be removed or raised
to prevent access when the pool is not in use; and
            3.   Inspection and compliance. The city or its designated agents
shall have the right, at any reasonable hour, to inspect any fence surrounding
any pool for the purpose of determining compliance with this code. Pools,
installed or erected before the date of Ord. 187, passed - -2007 shall be made
to comply with this section within 90 days after the Ordinance 187’s adoption.
      (5)   Maintenance.
         (a)   Generally. All fences shall be maintained in a sound and safe
condition. Any fence that through lack of repair, type of construction,
location, deterioration or other reason, imperils life or property shall
subject the property owner to the penalty provisions of §
154.999.
         (b)   Nonconforming fences.
            1.   The lawful use of a fence existing at the effective date of
this chapter may be continued although such use does not conform with the
provisions of this chapter or the ordinance it replaces.
            2.   A nonconforming use in this chapter may be changed, repaired
or altered provided that it is not to an extent greater than 50% of the total
lineal footage, with the exception that any repairs, changes or alterations
made to fences in the required clear vision area shall comply with this
chapter.
            3.   Fences parallel to one another shall be prohibited unless
special provision is made to specifically provide for proper maintenance of
both fences; this shall include provision for adequate distances between the
fences and construction design details. Fencing panels and posts shall not be
structurally attached to an existing fence where a safety concern can be
identified by the city’s Building Inspector.
      (6)   Appeals. Any person directly or indirectly affected by the strict
application of the provisions of this chapter may appeal by filing the request
in writing to the Zoning Board of Appeals. The Zoning Board of Appeals will
consider the appeal in accordance with established procedures.
      (7)   Non-applicability. This chapter shall not apply to construction
fences as authorized and required in the Building Code.
   (F)   Exterior lighting.
      (1)   All outdoor lighting in all districts used to light the general
areas shall be so arranged as to reduce glare and to reflect light away from
all adjacent residential districts or adjacent residences.
      (2)   Lighting for outdoor purposes such as sidewalks, parking, loading
areas and similar uses shall be directed toward and confined to the ground
areas. In no case should a light interfere with the vision of persons on
adjacent highways or adjacent property.
      (3)   Lighting for the purpose of external illumination of buildings or
signs shall be placed and shielded so as not to interfere with the vision of
persons on adjacent highways or adjacent property.
      (4)   Exterior lighting hardware shall be maintained in a manner so as
not to constitute a hazard or nuisance. Regulatory standards may have to be met
where mentioned elsewhere in city ordinances.
      (5)   Lighting established or maintained by city, county, state or
federal authorities shall be exempt from this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2005; Ord. 192, passed 3-21-2011)
§ 154.008  STRUCTURE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Abandoned buildings and structures. Any building or structure not in
continuous use as defined by permitted, special land use or nonconforming uses
in any district for a period greater than six months shall be considered
abandoned and come under the provisions of this chapter and other city codes
for buildings and structures. In order to obtain a certificate of occupancy as
a use in the future, once six months have passed, the building or structure
shall have to meet all the current standards of all applicable city codes.
   (B)   Accessory buildings or accessory structures in R-1, R-2 and R-3.
      (1)   No accessory building or structure may be built upon any lot on
which there is no principal building. Accessory structures and buildings may
not be inhabited. No accessory building (except for school bus shelters) shall
be placed in any required front or side yard nor closer than ten feet to any
other building.
      (2)   Size of accessory structures: no accessory structure may exceed the
square footage of the ground floor of the principal structure on the same lot.
      (3)   Structures must meet all required yards, lot coverage and height
regulations. If setback and lot coverage requirements cannot be met, the total
square footage of the accessory structure must be reduced or a variance
obtained from the Zoning Board of Appeals.
   (C)   Building and occupancy permits.
      (1)   Building permits required. Any construction related to any type of
zoning administrative approval shall be commenced only after a building permit
has been obtained.
      (2)   Prior building permits. Any building permit issued prior to the
effective date of this chapter shall be valid, even though not conforming to
the provisions of this chapter, provided that construction is commenced within
90 days, with continuous substantial progress, after the date the permit was
issued and that the building is completed according to the plans filed with the
permit application within one year of the date of issuance.
      (3)   Occupancy permit. Upon completion of a structure and all required
site improvements per approved site plan, and before moving into a building in
any district, an occupancy permit is required
   (D)   Storage and screening of garbage. In multiple-family residential,
business and industrial districts, all garbage and rubbish must be stored in
closed containers or in a dumpster. All containers and dumpsters must be
screened from view so as not to be visible to pedestrian or vehicular traffic
passing on a public thoroughfare. More specific screening may be required
during a site plan review.
   (E)   Connections to drainage system. Surface drains, ground water drains
and foundation or footing drains shall be connected whenever possible to an
enclosed storm sewer, but they shall not discharge to a sanitary sewer or
private waste water treatment plant.
   (F)   Dwelling unit standards. The following standards shall be applied to
each dwelling unit constructed or placed in the city:
      (1)   It complies with the minimum square footage requirements of the
zone in which it is located;
      (2)   It has a minimum width across any section of 20 feet and complies
in all respects with the City Building Code, including minimum heights for
habitable rooms. Where a dwelling is required by law to comply with any federal
or state standards or regulations for construction, and where the standards of
construction are less stringent than those imposed by the City Building Code,
then the more stringent city regulations shall apply;
      (3)   It is firmly attached to a permanent foundation, constructed on the
site in accordance with the City Building Code;
      (4)   It does not have exposed wheels, towing mechanism, undercarriage or
chassis; and
      (5)   The dwelling is connected to a public sewer and water.
   (G)   Height and area zoning exceptions to uses and structures. The height
and area requirements of all zones shall apply except for the following:
      (1)   Height. Height exceptions include parapet walls not exceeding four
feet in height; chimneys; cooling towers; elevator bulkhead; fire towers; gas
tanks; grain elevators; stacks; stage towers or scenery lofts; television
antennas; refineries; tanks; water towers; radio towers; ornamental towers;
monuments; cupolas; domes and spires; and necessary mechanical appurtenances.
      (2)   Permitted yard encroachments. Accessory structures, even though
they may be attached to a principal building, may project into the required
side or rear yards for the principal building to the following extent.
         (a)   Structural elements such as cornices, sills, chimneys, gutters
and similar features may project a maximum of two and one-half feet from the
principal structure.
         (b)   Fire escapes, outside stairways and balconies, if of open
construction, may project a maximum of five feet from the principal structure.
         (c)   Signs must be in compliance with §§
154.090 through
154.098 (sign regulations).
         (d)   School bus shelters when do not interfere with a clear vision
area.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2005)
§ 154.009  PARCEL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Buffering.
      (1)   The intent and purpose of the buffer zone is to protect residential
uses from the negative impacts associated with nonresidential uses where
residential and nonresidential uses abut. These negative impacts include noise,
debris, odors, dust, dirt, traffic, soil erosion, rain water runoff and in some
cases visible aspects of the abutting use. The buffer zone is also intended to
prevent and improve blight in both residential and business areas by
encouraging improvements to uses that abut residential districts.
         (a)   The objectives of this approach are:
            1.   To give the Planning Commission and the proponent as much
opportunity to achieve the regulations by any suitable means; and
            2.   To encourage business owners to continue to invest in
commercial improvements, including relocating on lots where a strict
interpretation of the distance requirement cannot be met.
         (b)   Buffers are required on business or industrial property on the
side that abuts residentially zoned property. Buffers are required even when
the adjacent lot is unimproved. A buffer will be required when any parcel used
for business or industrial purposes is expanded by way of an addition or
demolition or a special land use approval is requested or a site plan review is
requested. Buffers are not required on business lots that are already developed
as such.
         (c)   A buffer may consist of both a physical distance separation and
a physical sight, sound and odor separation as described in this chapter by a
fence, wall, berm or screen. In all cases, the buffer plan shall incorporate
the equivalent of one canopy tree and one evergreen tree per 30 lineal feet or
fraction of buffer area length.
         (d)   The Planning Commission shall determine the character of the
buffer based on the following criteria:
            1.   Traffic impact;
            2.   Increased building and parking lot coverage;
            3.   Increased outdoor sales, display and manufacturing area;
            4.   Physical characteristics of the site and surrounding area such
as topography, vegetation and the like;
            5.   Visual, noise and air pollution levels; and
            6.   Health, safety and welfare of the city.
      (2)   Buffer options:
         (a)   Buffer area width: a greenbelt alone may serve as a buffer. In
lieu of trees, shrubs, berms, fences or walls, the table below shows the
distances required between zones, in addition to the required yard on the side
on which a residential district abuts a business or industrial district:
 
District Distance from R-1, R-2, R-3 Zones
I        45 feet
B        30 feet
 
         (b)   In this buffer zone, all areas outside of planting beds shall be
covered with grass or other living ground cover; and
         (c)   Continuous rolling screen six feet in height comprised of plant
material, berming, screen walls or fences or any combination of these elements
is required.
      (3)   Construction standards:
         (a)   If a screen wall or fence is used for all or part of the buffer
area, then:
            1.   The equivalent of two shrubs are required per 30 feet of wall
or fence with at least 50% being 24 inches high at the time of planting and
none being less than 12 inches at the time of planting; and
            2.   All required plants shall be placed on the side facing the
exterior.
         (b)   If a berm is used for part of the buffer, the guiding principle
for berms is that if they do not provide six feet of screening by themselves,
then plant material, screen walls or fences shall bring the screen to a minimum
of six feet above grade. If a berm is used for all or part of the buffer zone,
all required plant material shall be placed on top and side slopes facing the
exterior of the site.
            1.   Berms shall be constructed so as to maintain a side slope not
to exceed one foot rise to three foot run ratio.
            2.   Berm areas not containing planting beds shall be covered with
grass or living ground cover maintained in a healthy growing condition.
            3.   Berms shall be constructed in such a manner so as not to alter
drainage patterns on site or adjacent properties or obstruct vision for reasons
of safety, ingress or egress.
            4.   If a berm is constructed with a retaining wall or by
terracing, the earthen slope shall face the exterior of the site.
         (c)   If berming is used for all or part of the buffer zone, all
required plant material shall be placed on top and side slopes facing the
exterior of the site.
         (d)   Buffers are required to extend into the front yard area but
shall not be closer to a road right-of way than 15 feet. The Planning
Commission may require the buffer to extend to the road right-of-way if it
deems it necessary to accomplish the intent of this chapter.
         (e)   All plantings including grass must be maintained in good healthy
condition and must be replaced if they should die at any time.
         (f)   Buffer areas may be required to be designed by a person who is a
licensed landscaper, certified landscape designer, engineer or architect. A
drawing of all required landscaping, top and side profile, must be submitted to
the Planning Commission for review prior to site plan approval.
         (g)   The Planning Commission may require a performance bond, cash,
irrevocable letter of credit or other similar financial assurance satisfactory
to the city. All financial deposits must be deposited with the city prior to
the issuance of a building permit, in the amount of the Planning Commission’s
estimated cost of installing landscaping on a parcel and shall be held until
all approved landscaping is installed. If landscaping is not installed in
accordance with the approved site plan as determined solely by the city, the
deposited financial assurance may be used to install the required landscaping
and only any unused portion thereof will be returned.
   (B)   Parking of commercial vehicles in residential zones. Commercial
vehicles, truck and/or trailers with a rated capacity exceeding one ton shall
not be parked or stored on residentially zoned property or on city streets
within residential districts. This prohibition is not intended to prevent
parking for the purpose of stopping for deliveries.
   (C)   Required area or space.
      (1)   No lot, or lots in common ownership and no yard, court, parking
area or other space shall be divided, altered or reduced to make its area
dimensions less than the minimum required under this chapter, and the area or
dimension shall not be further divided or reduced.
      (2)   Where the lot plan presented in the application for a permit
includes more than one recorded lot, the Building Inspector shall execute an
affidavit in which the facts related to the use of the platted lots, or parts
of platted lots, shall be stated and shall cause the plat and affidavit to be
recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds in the county, with the cost of
recording to be borne by the applicant.
         (a)   Minimum lot frontage. The front lot lines of all parcels shall
abut a public street and shall have a contiguous permanent frontage at the
front lot line equal to the required parcel width. Flag lots are not permitted.
In the case of a cul-de-sac, parcel width is measured at the front yard setback
line.
         (b)   Space used once. Any yard or other open space provided around
any building or structure for the purpose of complying with the provisions of
this chapter shall not again be used as a yard or other required open space for
another building or structure except where one is to be demolished upon
completion of the other.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2005)
§ 154.010  YARD SALES IN RESIDENTIAL/BUSINESS AREAS.
   (A)   Yard sales are allowed in residential/business areas.
   (B)   Because it is the intent of this chapter to maintain and preserve the
residential character of our neighborhoods, the following limitations shall
apply.
      (1)   The signage shall comply with §
154.094. Sign type: small freestanding.
      (2)   The yard sale shall not last beyond eight days.
      (3)   A previous yard sale shall not have been held at the same address
in the previous 60 days.
      (4)   Items for sale and yard sale signage should not be visible from
front yard sidewalks when the sale is over.
      (5)   Merchandise for sale in a residential area that is not considered
“personal belongings” shall be considered as part of a home occupation and
shall fall under that ordinance.
(Ord. 192, passed 3-21-2011)
DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 154.025  DIVISION OF THE CITY.
   For the purposes of this chapter, all land within the city, except streets,
are divided into the following zoning districts:
   (A)   R-1 Residential: Single- and Two-Family;
   (B)   R-2 Residential: Single- and Two-Family;
   (C)   R-3 Residential: Multiple-Family;
   (D)   R-4 Residential: Manufactured Home Development;
   (E)   B Business; and
   (F)   I Industrial.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2005)
§ 154.026  OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   The boundaries of zoning districts are defined and established as shown on a
map, entitled “City of Auburn Zoning Map” that accompanies this chapter. This
map, with all explanatory text, is a part of this chapter. The official zoning
map shall be kept and maintained by the City Clerk or his or her designee.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2005)
§ 154.027  INTERPRETATION OF BOUNDARIES.
   Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of any of the
districts indicated on the official zoning map, the following rules shall
apply.
   (A)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following streets or highways
shall be presumed to follow the centerline of said roadways.
   (B)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following city boundary lines or
property lines shall be presumed to follow said lines.
   (C)   Boundaries indicated approximately parallel to the centerlines of
streets or highways shall be interpreted as being parallel to and at such
distance from as indicated by given distance or scaled dimension.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2005)
§ 154.028  SCOPE OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No building or structure or part thereof shall be erected, moved,
constructed or altered, and no new use or change in use of a parcel shall be
made unless it conforms with the provisions of this chapter, including the
regulations for the zoning district in which it is located.
   (B)   The regulations applying to zoning districts include specific
limitations on the use of land and structures, height and bulk of structures,
parcel area and dimensions, setback of structures from public thoroughfares and
neighboring properties, and area of a parcel that can be covered by structures.
   (C)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall have the power to classify a use
that is not specifically mentioned by this chapter. Said use shall be treated
in a like manner with a comparable permitted or prohibited use for the purpose
of clarifying the district regulations of any zoning district.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2005)
§ 154.029  DISTRICT REGULATIONS TABLES.
   (A)   Regulations for all zoning districts are contained together in the
following tables. Each table specifies a related set of information for all
zoning districts.
   (B)   These tables do not include general requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   The reader is urged to become familiar with all ordinance provisions
before making any decision regarding use of a parcel or structure in the city.
      (1)   Intent and purpose table. This table lists the intent and purpose
of each zoning district.
      (2)   Uses table. This table appears on multiple pages. Each page
describes permitted activities for two to four related zoning districts that
are identified in the left-hand column of each page. Each zoning district may
be host to several types of activity, but only the activities specified for a
given zoning district will be permitted there. Uses permitted by right may be
allowed upon meeting all other requirements of this chapter. Uses permitted by
special permit are subject to the process described by §§
154.110 through
154.124.
      (3)   Dimensions table. This table specifies parcel dimensions and
setback requirements for parcels in each zoning district.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2005)
§ 154.030  INTENT AND PURPOSE; PERMITTED USES; TABLES.
 
Table A: Intent and Purpose of Zoning Districts
                                       This district is intended for single-
                                       and two-family residential uses. The
R-1 Residential Single- and Two-Family purpose of this zone is to encourage a
                                       residential environment of low-density
                                       dwellings and planned unit developments.
                                       This district is intended for single-
                                       family and two-family residential uses
                                       together with compatible recreational
R-2 Residential Single- and Two-Family and institutional uses. The purpose of
                                       this zone is to encourage a residential
                                       environment of low-density dwellings and
                                       planned unit developments.
                                       The intent and purpose of this district
                                       is to provide a variety of housing
                                       styles, designs and costs to meet the
R-3 Multiple-Family                    needs of existing and potential
                                       residents while promoting development
                                       and preservation of neighborhoods of
                                       higher density than in the R-1 and R-
                                       2 districts.
                                       The R-4 Manufactured Home Development
                                       District is intended to preserve the
                                       interests of alternate types of
                                       residential developments that should be
                                       permitted in every community and to
R-4 Manufactured Home Development      protect the residents of any
                                       manufactured home type development. The
                                       regulations applicable to this district
                                       are considered as minimum standards to
                                       be applied to all manufactured home
                                       developments in the district.
                                       The intent and purpose of this district
                                       is to provide neighborhood shopping
                                       areas to meet the day-to-day shopping,
B Business District                    service and professional needs of area
                                       residents as well as to provide
                                       essential service needs to the highway
                                       traveler and to accommodate businesses
                                       serving a regional market.
                                       This district is intended for light
                                       industrial uses and also permits non-
                                       retail business and service
                                       establishments. It is designed to permit
                                       manufacturing, production, processing,
I Industrial                           assembling, packaging and treatment of
                                       products from previously prepared or
                                       finished products. The purpose of this
                                       district is to promote industrial areas
                                       that are protected from incompatible
                                       uses.
 
Table B: City Table of Permitted Uses
District Uses Permitted by Right Uses Permitted by Special Use Permit
Table B: City Table of Permitted Uses
District                Uses Permitted by Right     Uses Permitted by Special
                                                    Use Permit
                        -Day nurseries, limited
                        size
                        -Home occupations
                        -Neighborhood parks within
                        subdivisions or residential
R-1 Residential Single- developments                -Bed and breakfasts
and Two-Family          -Single-family dwellings
                        -State licensed residential
                        facilities for six or fewer
                        residents
                        -Two-family dwellings
                        -Accessory uses
                        -Day nurseries              -Bed and breakfasts
                        -Home occupations           -Public service
                        -Public parks               installations
                        -Single-family dwellings    -Religious and educational
R-2 Residential Single- -State licensed residential institutions
and Two-Family          facilities for six or fewer -State licensed residential
                        residents                   facilities for seven or
                        -Two-family dwellings       more residents
                        -Accessory uses             -Utility grid wind energy
                                                    systems
                                                    -Museums, libraries
                                                    -Planned unit development
                                                    -Public service
                        -All uses by right in R-2   installations
                        -Accessory uses             -Religious, social,
R-3 Multiple-Fami ly    -Multi-family dwellings     educational and human care
                        -On-site wind energy        institutions
                        systems                     -State licensed residential
                        -Senior housing             facilities for seven or
                                                    more residents
                                                    -Utility grid wind energy
                                                    systems
                        -Accessory uses or
                        structures, such as
                        manufactured home
                        development, business
                        office, laundry facilities
                        and home occupations
                        -Clubhouse, swimming pool,
                        playgrounds, common areas
                        and recreation facilities
                        -Home occupations
R-4 Manufactured Home   -Manufactured home          -None
Development             developments, subject to
                        the requirements
                        established and regulated
                        by the Manufactured Housing
                        Commission rules, and the
                        provisions of this
                        subchapter
                        -On-site wind energy
                        systems
                        -Public service
                        installations
                        -Bed and breakfasts
                        -Commercial recreation
                        -Commercial schools
                        -Contractors
                        -Day nurseries
                        -Drive-in establishments    -Assembly buildings
                        -Equipment rental/sales     -Car wash
                        -Funeral homes/mortuaries   -Hotel/motel
                        -Gas stations               -Kennels
                        -Libraries                  -Mini-storage
                        -Lumber yard                -Outdoor assembly
B Business District     -Museums                    -Planned unit developments
                        -Dwellings above the first  -Religious, social,
                        floor meeting multiple-     rehabilitation and human
                        family regulations          care institutions.
                        -On-site wind energy        -RV parks
                        systems                     -Utility grid wind energy
                        -Other retail goods,        systems
                        service, repair
                        -Outdoor sales
                        -Personal services
                        -Professional and admin.
                        offices
                        -Public buildings
                        -Restaurants
                        -Retail food
                        -Senior housing
                        -Temporary outdoor uses
B Business District     -Utility service buildings
                        -Vehicle sales
                        -Veterinary hospitals
                        -Wholesale sales
                        -Accessory uses
                        -All uses allowed by right
                        in the B District
                        -Accessory uses
                        -Agricultural bulk storage
                        and processing              -Fireworks storage
                        -Commercial schools         -High intensity food
                        -Distribution               processing
                        -Fuel sales                 -Incarceration facility
                        -Greenhouses                -Incinerators
                        -Heavy vehicle repair       -Industrial parks
                        -Laboratories               -Junk yard
I Industrial            -Manufacturing              -Petroleum or flammable
                        -Mini-storage               liquid production, refining
                        -On-site wind energy        and storage
                        systems                     -Sewage treatment and
                        -Production, processing,    disposal
                        assembling, treatment or    -Sexually oriented business
                        packaging of goods          -Soil resource extraction
                        -Public utility             -Utility grid wind energy
                        installations               systems
                        -Research and development
                        -Truck terminals
                        -Vehicle repair
                        -Warehousing and storage
 
(Ord. passed 11-2-2005; Ord. 190, passed 6-7-2010)
§ 154.031  DIMENSIONS TABLE.
District R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4 B I
District                                     R-1         R-2         R-3         R-4         B    I
                                                                     7,500 sq.
                                                                     ft. for
                                                                     first two                    8,000
Lot area minimum                             8,500 sq.   8,500 sq.   units plus              None sq.
                                             ft.         ft.         2,000 sq.                    ft.
                                                                     ft. for
                                                                     each add
                                                                     unit
Lot width minimum                            80'         80'         60'                     None 40'
Front yard minimum for lots of  > 8,500 sq. 25'         25'         25'                     10'  25'
ft.
Front yard minimum for lots of 5,000 - 8,500 18'         18'         20'                     10'  10'
sq. ft.
Front yard minimum for lots of 1,600 - 4,999 10' See     10' See     15' See     See         10'  10'
sq. ft.                                      footnote B. footnote B. footnote B. district
                                             30'         30'         25'         regulations
Rear yard minimum                            Acc.        Acc.        Acc.                    8'   None
                                             structures: structures: structures:
                                             5'          5'          5'
                                             10'         10'         8'
Side yard, minimum each, lots >8,500 sq. ft. Acc.        Acc.        5' for                  8'   10'
                                             structures: structures: detached
                                             8'          8'          garages
Side yard minimum for lots of 5,000 - 8,500                          5' for
sq. ft.                                      8'          8'          detached                None None
                                                                     garages
Side yard minimum for lots of 1,600 - 4,999                          5' for
sq. ft.                                      6'          6'          detached                None None
                                                                     garages
 
District R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4 B I
District   R-1                              R-2                              R-3                              R-4       B         I
Corner lot
minimum                                                                                                       25' on    25' on
yards for  25' on outside yard, 4' interior 25' on outside yard, 4' interior 25' on outside yard, 4' interior outside   outside
principal  side yard                        side yard                        side yard                        yard, 4'  yard, 4'
and                                                                                                           interior  interior
accessory                                                                                                     side yard side yard
structures
                                                                                                              Permitted Permitted
                                                                                                              above     above
Minimum                                                                                                       first     first
housing                                                                                                       floor.    floor.
unit one-  1,000 sq. ft.                    1,000 sq. ft.                    1,000 sq. ft.                    See       See
family                                                                                                        footnote  footnote
                                                                                                              B. for    B. for
                                                                                                              sq. ft.   sq. ft.
                                                                                                              by type   by type
                                                                                                              Permitted Permitted
                                                                                                              above     above
Minimum                                                                                                       first     first
housing                                                                                                       floor.    floor.
unit two-  1,500 sq. ft.                    1,500 sq. ft.                    1,500 sq. ft.                    See       See
family                                                                                                        footnote  footnote
                                                                                                              B. for    B. for
                                                                                                              sq. ft.   sq. ft.
                                                                                                              by type   by type
                                                                                                              Permitted Permitted
                                                                                                              above     above
Minimum                                                                                                       first     first
housing                                                                                                       floor.    floor.
unit       Not permitted                    Not permitted                    See footnote A.                  See       See
multi-                                                                                                        footnote  footnote
family                                                                                                        B. for    B. for
                                                                                                              sq. ft.   sq. ft.
                                                                                                              by type   by type
Maximum                                                                                                       45' or    35' or
structure  35' or 2.5 stories               35' or 2.5 stories               35' or 2.5 stories               3.0       2.0
height                                                                                                        stories   stories
Maximum
lot        35%                              35%                              50%                              None      None
coverage
                                                                                                              See §§  See §§
Accessory  See §                           See §                           See §                           154.006   154.006
structures 154.008 “Accessory Buildings”154.008 “Accessory Buildings”154.008 “Accessory Buildings”through   through
                                                                                                              154.010   154.010
 
 
District R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4 B I
Footnotes to the Dimensions Table:
A.   Minimum required square footage per unit by unit type:
   1.   EFFICIENCY UNIT  is a dwelling unit containing a minimum floor area of
500 square feet per unit, consisting of not more than one room and sanitary
facilities.
   2.   ONE-BEDROOM UNIT  is a dwelling unit containing a minimum floor area
of at least 640 square feet per unit, consisting of not more than two rooms in
addition to kitchen, dining and sanitary facilities, and for the purposes of
computing density shall be considered a two-room unit.
   3.   TWO-BEDROOM UNIT  is a dwelling unit containing a minimum floor area
of at least 800 square feet per unit, consisting of not more than three rooms
in addition to kitchen, dining and necessary sanitary facilities, and for the
purposes of computing density shall be considered as a three-room unit.
   4.   THREE OR MORE BEDROOM UNIT  is a dwelling unit wherein for each room
in addition to the three rooms permitted in a two-bedroom unit, there shall be
provided an additional area of 200 square feet to the minimum floor area of
800 square feet. For the purpose of computing density, said three-bedroom unit
shall be considered a four-room unit and each increase in a bedroom over three
shall be an increase in the room count by one over the four.
B.   The Planning Commission recognizes that the original city lots in the
city are small and may restrict homeowners who seek to maintain and improve a
house built before the establishment of the current minimum setbacks. The
Zoning Administrator can approve building permits for projects that infringe
on the front setback requirements as long as the approval:
   1.   Is not inconsistent with the density and coverages of the immediate
neighborhood and the setback of adjacent homes.
   2.   Maintains clear vision areas.
   3.   Does not create a safety hazard.
   4.   Does not extend roof lines further into the front yard setback.
 
(Ord. passed 11-2-2005)
§ 154.032  MANUFACTURED HOME DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Purpose. The R-4 Manufactured Home Development District is intended to
preserve the interests of alternate types of residential developments that
should be permitted in every community and to protect the residents of any
manufactured home type development. These regulations are minimum standards to
be applied to all manufactured home developments in the district.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Manufactured home developments, subject to the requirements
established and regulated by the Manufactured Housing Commission rules, and the
provisions of this subchapter;
      (2)   Clubhouse, swimming pool, playgrounds, common areas and recreation
facilities for the use of manufactured home development residents;
      (3)   Accessory uses or structures such as manufactured home development
business office, laundry facilities and home occupations otherwise permitted in
residential districts under this subchapter; and
      (4)   Public service installations.
   (C)   Compliance with Michigan Manufactured Housing Commission. No
manufactured home development shall be established within the R-4 District
unless the park complies with the rules of the Michigan Manufactured Housing
Commission.
   (D)   Greenbelt buffer. Within the premises upon which a manufactured home
development is located there shall be constructed a greenbelt buffer. After
approval as a part of the preliminary plan review process, there shall be no
requirement that the buffer be changed due to future development.
      (1)   Landscaping materials: if the manufactured home development abuts
an existing residential development, the development shall be required to
provide screening along the boundary abutting the residential development.
         (a)   If a development abuts a nonresidential development, it need not
provide screening. In all cases, however, a development shall provide screening
along the boundary abutting a public right-of-way.
         (b)   The landscaping shall consist of evergreen trees or shrubs at
least three feet in height spaced so they provide a continuous screen at
maturity.
         (c)   Alternative screening devices may be utilized if they conceal
the manufactured home development as effectively as the required landscaping
above.
         (d)   Property owners are allowed flexibility in material selection as
long as these standards are met. If a wood fence is used, the materials shall
be pressure-treated lumber. If a masonry fence is used, it shall have a
foundation of at least 42 inches deep in the ground.
         (e)   Trees, shrubs and all planted vegetation within the buffer must
be appropriate to the climate and provided further, that they are not infested
with pests, insects or diseases.
         (f)   The buffer shall be landscaped in such fashion as to assure that
it will not erode and shall be landscaped with grass or ground cover
appropriate for the climate.
      (2)   Screening shall be maintained in a condition very similar to the
condition at the time of installation. This means fences shall be straight and
broken boards shall be replaced. Dead trees, bushes, shrubs and vegetation
shall be replaced with new, live, smaller plants that will grow to the same
height as the dead plant being replaced. Masonry fences shall have all cracks
repaired and maintained by pointing.
      (3)   The Planning Commission shall be authorized to grant an exception
from the foregoing screening requirements where the screening would serve no
useful practical purpose in providing peace and quiet for the occupants of the
adjoining premises and may grant an exception during the preliminary plan
review process.
   (E)   Streets, sidewalks and public ways. Every manufactured home
development shall be provided with a network of streets with access points to
adjacent public ways, at least as set forth hereinafter.
      (1)   All streets within the manufactured home development shall be paved
with a hard surface in accordance with the most recent edition of the ASSHTO
Standards.
      (2)   Every street shall be provided with drains designed according to
the design standards of the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality
drainage standards.
      (3)   Two-way streets within the manufactured home development shall have
a minimum traveled width of 21 feet of pavement with no parking.
         (a)   All streets and street rights-of-way shall be of adequate width
to allow for snow storage and removal.
         (b)   In the event that parking is permitted on any street within the
manufactured home development, the minimum width of each street, in addition to
the traveled portion, shall be ten feet wide for each parallel parking lane and
16 feet wide for each diagonal parking lane.
         (c)   If a parking lane is not provided, “no parking” signs will be
installed and enforced on the side of the street.
   (F)   Off-street parking and driveways.
      (1)   Driveways shall be provided for access to service entrances and
buildings for delivery and collection points for fuel, refuse and other
materials and elsewhere as needed. Every driveway entrance shall have a flare
or radii in horizontal alignment necessary for safe and convenient ingress and
egress.
      (2)   A minimum of one parking space for every three manufactured home
sites shall be provided for visitor parking. Each visitor parking site shall be
located within 500 feet of the manufactured home site it is intended to serve.
The 500 feet shall be measured along a road or sidewalk.
      (3)   In addition to the foregoing, a separate parking area may be
provided for vehicles that cannot be accommodated within the parking areas set
forth above, such as recreational vehicles, travel trailers, snow mobiles, and
the like.
   (G)   Illumination. All streets and sidewalks and areas open to travel by
manufactured home development residents shall be illuminated as follows.
      (1)   Access points shall be lighted. If the public thoroughfare is
lighted, the illumination level shall not exceed the average illumination level
of the public thoroughfare.
      (2)   At all internal street intersections and designated pedestrian
crosswalks, the minimum illumination shall be not less than 0.15 foot candles.
      (3)   All internal roads, parking bays and sidewalks shall be illuminated
at no less than 0.05 foot candles.
   (H)   Water supply, fire hydrants and sanitary system. Public sewer systems
shall be required in a manufactured home development if available within 200
feet at the time of preliminary plan approval. If a public sewer system is
unavailable, the development shall connect to a state-approved sewage system.
   (I)   Open space. An open space dedicated to use by manufactured home
development residents as a recreation area, playground or gathering area,
including, at the option of the owner/developer, clubhouses, swimming pools and
the like, shall be provided.
      (1)   The areas shall consist of not less than 2% of the park’s gross
acreage but not less than 25,000 square feet.
      (2)   The areas shall not be included in the border greenbelt buffer and
shall not be swamp or other marshland. This open space requirement shall not
apply to manufactured home developments with less than 50 sites.
      (3)   If a development is built in stages, when the fifty-first site is
developed, this requirement shall apply to all the sites in both stages of the
development.
   (J)   Manufactured home installation. Installation of manufactured homes
upon each manufactured home site shall be accomplished in accordance with Part
6 of the Michigan Manufactured Housing Commission rules. All manufactured homes
shall be connected to utilities and shall be skirted and anchored in accordance
with Part 6 of the Michigan Manufactured Housing Commission rules.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2005)
NONCONFORMING USES AND BUILDINGS
§ 154.045  INTENT.
   (A)   The intent of this section is to permit the continuation of any lawful
use of building or land existing as of the effective date of this chapter.
Nonconformance with the provisions of this chapter is not in the best interest
of the city and should be discontinued as circumstances permit. Any
nonconforming building, structure or use shall not be enlarged or expanded and
may be changed, repaired or reconstructed only as prescribed by this section.
   (B)   Whenever changes occur in the boundaries of zoning districts, the
provisions of this section shall apply to any uses or parcels that become
nonconforming as a result of the boundary changes.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2005)
§ 154.046  HISTORIC PROPERTIES.
   Any nonconforming property in the city that is listed on the State or
National Register of Historic Places is specifically excluded from any
requirement of this section that would damage the historic character of the
property. When any such property is the subject of any administrative decision,
the input of the State Historic Preservation Officer shall be requested in
writing not less than 30 days before any regulatory action may take effect.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2005)
§ 154.047  LEGALITY OF NONCONFORMITIES.
   (A)   Nonconformities will be classified as “legal” or “illegal” based on
the following guidelines.
   (B)   Regulation of nonconformities will vary based on their legality.
      (1)   ILLEGAL NONCONFORMITIES are those that have been developed in
conflict with zoning regulations. The buildings or structures that extend into
a public right-of-way, or over a neighboring property line are illegal
nonconformities.
      (2)   LEGAL NONCONFORMITIES are those that meet each applicable criterion
listed below. Note that temporary signs are not considered legal nonconforming
structures.
         (a)   The nonconformity existed legally before the effective date of
this chapter.
         (b)   The nonconformity complied with the district regulations of the
previous zoning ordinance, or existed legally through a special use permit or
variance.
         (c)   Nonconforming setback or lot size only: the nonconformity
resulted from land acquisition by a government agency, such as for a road
right-of-way.
         (d)   For otherwise legal nonconforming buildings or structures only:
the building or structure may not extend into a public right-of-way, or over a
neighboring property line.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2005)
§ 154.048  LOSS OF LEGAL NONCONFORMING STATUS.
   If a nonconforming use of land or structure ceases for any reason for a
period of six months or more, any reuse of the land or structure must conform
to all requirements of this chapter. If the status of the land use is
contested, it is the obligation of the owner or lessee to provide to the Zoning
Enforcement Officer documentation that a legal nonconforming use is being
continued within 30 days of written notification of abandoned status.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2005)
§ 154.049  EXPANSION, RECONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR.
   (A)   Occupied dwelling units. Occupied dwelling units in business districts
at the time of adoption of this chapter are considered legal nonconforming uses
with special rights to expand, reconstruct and repair. Any expansion,
reconstruction or repair of an occupied dwelling unit must meet all yard
requirements for dwelling units in the R-1 District.
   (B)   Expansion of structural nonconformity prohibited. No structure may be
enlarged or structurally altered in such a way as to increase its
nonconformity. A reduction of the degree of nonconformance in one respect is
not permitted to offset an increase in the degree of nonconformance in another
respect. Bartering of nonconformities is not permitted. For example, square
footage may not be “traded” from one portion of a building to another.
   (C)   Uses. One nonconforming use may be replaced by another if the degree
of nonconformance in use is reduced in some way.
   (D)   Reconstruction and restoration. Any lawful nonconforming use damaged
by fire, explosion, act of God, or by other causes may be restored, rebuilt or
repaired provided that the reconstruction or restoration work does not increase
the gross floor area. All such restoration must be started within a period of
one year of the time of such damage and diligently pursued to completion. The
Board of Appeals may extend the period of time for restoration of any such
building or structure when a bona fide emergency renders it impossible to make
the restoration of the building or structure within the required time period.
Any basements, large holes and the like remaining on the site after removal of
the structure shall be filled in and leveled within 90 days of removal of the
structure.
   (E)   Repair. Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the repair, improvement
or modernizing of a lawful nonconforming building to correct deterioration,
obsolescence, depreciation or wear, provided that such repair does not exceed
an aggregate cost thereby increasing the assessed value by more than 50% as
determined by the assessing officer unless the subject building is changed by
such repair to a conforming use. No repair may enlarge or structurally alter
the structure in such a way as to increase the nonconformity.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2005)
§ 154.050  CHANGING USES.
   The use of a lawful nonconforming building or structure may be changed only
to a conforming use or a use that is less nonconforming. This use may or may
not be a permitted use in that district. The determination of relative
nonconformance of a proposed use with respect to the previous lawful
nonconforming use shall be at the discretion of the Board of Appeals. The
proposed use shall be subject to all the. requirements applying to that use in
the district, including parking, signage and all other aspects of the site.
Where the use of a lawful nonconforming building or structure is changed to a
less lawful nonconforming use, it may not be changed back to the previous
lawful nonconforming use or to another more nonconforming use.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2005)
§ 154.051  PLANS ALREADY FILED.
   In any case where plans and specifications for a building or structure that
would conform with the zoning regulations prior to the date of this chapter or
any amendment thereof have been filed, and where a building permit for such
building or structure has been issued and construction work started at the
effective date of this chapter or amendment, such work may proceed, provided it
is completed within one year.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2005)
§ 154.052  REGULATION OF NONCONFORMITIES.
   Should any question arise concerning the interpretation of any provision of
the regulation of nonconformities table or if a situation is encountered that
was not anticipated by the table, the question shall be submitted to the Zoning
Board of Appeals for their interpretation, which shall be final.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2005)
§ 154.053  NONCONFORMING LOTS.
   (A)   In any district in which single family dwellings are permitted, a
single-family dwelling and the accessory buildings may be erected on any single
legal lot of record at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this
chapter.
   (B)   Yard dimensions shall conform to the regulations for the district in
which the lot is located. No existing conforming lots may be changed to
nonconforming lots. Contiguous lots under one ownership may not be changed back
to separate lots unless they meet lot requirements for newly created lots.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2005)
§ 154.054  INVENTORY OF NONCONFORMITIES.
   (A)   The City Zoning Administrator is hereby required to establish and
maintain an inventory of legal nonconformities known to exist in the city.
      (1)   This inventory should not list illegal nonconformities. Illegal
nonconformities are violations of the ordinance and should be kept in the
active files of the Code Enforcement Officer.
      (2)   In theory, the inventory of legal nonconformities should only
expand if a Board of Appeals action allowing the nonconformity is issued.
      (3)   All listed properties shall also be identified on a large-scale map
of the city that shall be available for public inspection.
   (B)   Each listing in the inventory of nonconformities shall include the
following information:
      (1)   Date each parcel listed on inventory;
      (2)   Parcel identification number;
      (3)   Property address;
      (4)   Current owner(s);
      (5)   Property description;
      (6)   Parcel dimensions;
      (7)   Sketch with dimensions and setbacks of buildings, structures and
parking areas on the parcel;
      (8)   Current zoning district; and
      (9)   Current use of property.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2005)
§ 154.055  ELIMINATION OF NONCONFORMING USES BY ACQUISITION.
   The City Commission may, from time to time, acquire properties on which
nonconforming uses or structures are located, by condemnation or otherwise, and
may remove such uses or develop the property for a public use. The net cost of
such acquisition may be made a special assessment against a benefit district,
or may be paid from other sources of revenue legally available to the city.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2005)
§ 154.056  TABLE OF NONCONFORMING SITUATIONS AND ACTIONS.
   Instructions: locate the situation in top line and nonconformity type in
first column.
     If           If damaged more If damaged less Change in use  Remodeling,
Type discontinued than S.E.V.     than S.E.V.     (including new maintenance,
     for 6 months                                 buildings)     code work
              If           If damaged     If damaged                                                                  Remodeling,
Type          discontinued more than      less than      Change in use (including new buildings)                      maintenance,
              for 6 months S.E.V.         S.E.V.                                                                      code work
Illegal                                                                                                               Property must
nonconforming NA           NA             NA             NA                                                           be kept in
parcel                                                                                                                safe condition
Illegal       May not be                                                                                              Property must
nonconforming resumed      NA             NA             Not permitted unless use becomes conforming                  be kept in
use of land                                                                                                           safe condition
Illegal                    Use not        Use not                                                                     Use not
nonconforming May not be   permitted; use permitted; may                                                              permitted; may
use of        resumed      must stop and  repair         Not permitted unless use becomes conforming                  repair
building or                may not be     building                                                                    building
structure                  resumed
Illegal                    Building must
nonconforming              be rebuilt to  May repair,                                                                 Permitted, but
dimensions or              fully comply   but must       New use and new building must adhere to all district         may not create
setback of    NA           with           reduce degree  regulations                                                  any greater
building or                applicable     of                                                                          degree of
structure                  district       nonconformance                                                              nonconformance
                           regulations
Legal                                                                                                                 Property must
nonconforming NA           NA             NA             Permitted, but requires a variance                           be kept in
parcel                                                                                                                safe condition
Legal         May not be                                 Permitted, but must reduce degree of nonconformance; see §  Property must
nonconforming resumed      NA             NA             154.052                                                      be kept in
use of land                                                                                                           safe condition
Legal                      May rebuild if
nonconforming May not be   all plans meet May repair to  Permitted, but must reduce degree of nonconformance; see §  Permitted so
use of        resumed      all other      pre-damage     154.052                                                      long as use is
building or                district       status                                                                      not expanded
structure                  regulations
Legal                      May rebuild,                                                                               Permitted, but
nonconforming              but must       May repair to                                                               may not create
dimensions or NA           reduce degree  pre-damage     Permitted, but requires a variance                           any greater
setback of                 of             status                                                                      degree of
building or                nonconformance                                                                             nonconformance
structure
 
(Ord. passed 11-2-2005)
PARKING REGULATIONS
§ 154.070  INTENT.
   This section is intended to provide efficient and safe access management and
adequate parking area for specific uses as well as promote the efficient use of
land. It also seeks to prevent adverse environmental impacts of large paved
areas.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2005)
§ 154.071  APPLICATION TO ESTABLISH OR CHANGE PARKING AREAS.
   (A)   Single-family dwelling in R-1 or R-2 Districts. A building permit that
is required for new construction of a dwelling shall address related parking. A
building permit shall also be required for a change of an existing parking area
when it involves a curb cut for access.
   (B)   Two-family dwellings in R-1 and R-2 Districts. A building permit that
is required for new construction of a dwelling shall address related parking. A
building permit shall also be required for a change of an existing parking area
whether or not it involves a curb cut for access.
   (C)   Multi-family R-3 District. Same requirements as for business and
industrial districts (below).
   (D)   Manufactured housing development, R-4 District. See §
154.032.
   (E)   Business and industrial districts. Development of parking areas shall
require the submittal of professional site plans to the City Manager or City
Engineer and the Zoning Administrator, who will then present them to the
Planning Commission for approval.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2005)
§ 154.072  STANDARDS IN CONSTRUCTION/DESIGN/USE.
   The design/construction/use of parking areas shall conform to the following
requirements.
   (A)   Single family dwelling in R-1 or R-2 Districts.
      (1)   Provisions shall be made for at least one usable off-street parking
space for each single-family dwelling in R-1 and R-2.
      (2)   The parking space shall be a minimum of 162 square feet excluding
the use of a sidewalk and outlawn area. Exceptions shall be made by the Zoning
Administrator when a dwelling is on an historically small city lot and lot
space is not readily available.
      (3)   No commercial repair work, commercial servicing or selling of any
kind except for periodic garage or yard sales shall be conducted on parking
areas in R-1 and R-2 Districts.
      (4)   Parking in residential zones is permitted only as an accessory use.
   (B)   Two-family dwellings. For two-family dwellings, minimal parking
provided shall be two spaces of 162 square feet each. Parking space may be
subject to shared access described for Multi-Family R-3, Business and
Industrial.
   (C)   Multi-Family R-3, Business and Industrial.
      (1)   Parking spaces shall be a minimum of ten feet by 20 feet in size.
The length of the space may be 18 feet if curbs or bumpers are designed to
define one end of the parking space. Handicapped spaces must comply with the
current Michigan Building Code.
      (2)   There shall be a curb or curb stop provided wherever an off-street
parking and loading area adjoins a public sidewalk, right-of-way or adjoining
property line. The curb or curb stop shall be designed to prevent any portion
of a vehicle from encroaching upon the sidewalk, right-of-way or adjoining
property.
      (3)   Any lighting used to illuminate any off-street parking and loading
areas shall conform to the lighting ordinance section.
      (4)   Each off-street parking driveway opening to a public street must be
approved by the agency having jurisdiction over the street following site plan
review by the Planning Commission. Lanes for entering and exiting traffic shall
be clearly marked on the pavement. Each driveway shall intersect a public
street at a 90-degree angle.
      (5)   Each off-street parking driveway shall include an on-site stacking
area that does not function as an access aisle for parking spaces, equivalent
to at least 5% of the spaces in the parking area.
      (6)   All off-street parking driveways shall have a clear vision area
unobstructed by accessory structures or plantings, within 20 feet of any public
street right-of-way, for a sight distance of 50 feet along the near edge of the
pavement in either direction.
      (7)   Except for parallel parking, all parking spaces shall be clearly
marked with striping that shall be maintained.
      (8)   Landscaping regulations apply to parking areas of 100 spaces or
more. Off-street parking shall be permitted to occupy required front, side and
rear yards after approval of the parking plan layout, provided that there shall
be maintained a minimum landscaped setback of ten feet between the nearest
point of the off-street parking area, exclusive of access driveways and the
nearest right-of-way line.
      (9)   Off-street parking areas shall be effectively screened on any side
that abuts a residentially zoned district or institutional use, by a screening
of evergreen hedge or other natural landscaping. If the owners of adjacent
residential properties request, in writing, this screening shall be done by a
solid uniformly painted fence or wall not less than four or more than six feet
in height and maintained in good condition. In all cases, the screening shall
comply with the need for a clear vision area.
      (10)   Maneuvering lanes to and from a parking area shall be paved.
Access drives are not part of the required parking area. Design and
construction of access drives must be reviewed and approved by the city staff
and be designed in accordance with the following standards.
        Maneuvering Lane                            Total width 2 tiers of
Parking Width            Min. parking Min. parking  spaces plus
Pattern                  space width1 space length2 maneuvering lane
        One-way Two-way                             One-way Two-way
              Maneuvering Lane                            Total width 2 tiers
Parking       Width            Min. parking Min. parking  of spaces plus
Pattern                        space width1 space length2 maneuvering lane
              One-way Two-way                             One-way Two-way
0 degree
(parallel     11 ft.  18 ft.   8 ft. 6 in.  25 ft.        28 ft.  35 ft.
parking)
30-50 degrees 12 ft.  20 ft.   9 ft.        21 ft.        54 ft.  62 ft.
54-70 degrees 13 ft.  24 ft.   9 ft.        21 ft.        55 ft.  66 ft.
75-90 degrees 15 ft.  26 ft.   9 ft. 6 in.  20 ft.        55 ft.  66 ft.
1- Measured perpendicular to the longitudinal space centerline
2- Measured along the longitudinal space centerline
 
      (11)   For properties that have employees, employee parking shall consist
of one parking space for every one employee on the largest shift and
handicapped parking shall be required.
      (12)   Parking surface: all parking shall be on an approved paved surface
with the exception of parking for campgrounds, RV parks, cemeteries, parks and
other outdoor recreational areas.
      (13)   In the case of multiple uses of a single structure, the following
calculations may be applied by the Planning Commission for determining off-
street requirements. The Planning Commission shall have the power to reduce
parking further in the case of shared drives, shared parking or other
circumstances where a reduction in parking will contribute to safety, function
or the overall site design.
         (a)   For two uses per structure, the parking required may be 80% of
the parking required for the two uses calculated individually.
         (b)   For three uses: 75%.
         (c)   For four uses: 70%.
         (d)   For five uses: 65%.
      (14)   In no case shall less than 65% be allowed.
   (D)   Shared access. The Planning Commission must require shared access
between and among uses where feasible, excluding single-family residential
uses.
      (1)   Feasibility is determined with respect to the physical design of
the site and not the effort or costs involved with achieving joint access.
      (2)   This requirement applies to driveways and access drives associated
with site redevelopment or new construction.
      (3)   In the case of new development, a joint driveway agreement must be
signed by all property owners involved prior to a construction permit being
issued.
      (4)   Driveways must be designed to allow joint access in the future,
where feasible, and an agreement to allow future use of the drive for joint
access must be signed at the time of site plan approval.
      (5)   Shared drives must be shown on site plans at the time of review by
the Planning Commission.
      (6)   Refusal to design a site with provisions for joint access or
refusal to participate in a joint access agreement is justification for site
plan denial by the Planning Commission.
   (E)   Driveway closure. Nonconforming driveways, per this chapter, shall be
made to be less nonconforming at the time a site is redeveloped. Lessening the
degree of driveway nonconformance may include the Planning Commission requiring
closing a driveway or combining driveways or access points at the time of site
plan review.
   (F)   Occupancy.
      (1)   The occupancy of a building or any part of a building shall not
change it from one use to a use in another classification unless the minimum
parking requirements are provided for the new use.
      (2)   No building shall be enlarged if the enlargement requires
additional parking space, unless the minimum requirements for off-street
parking are provided.
   (G)   Parking spaces. Parking spaces may count toward the requirement for a
parcel if they are located on it or on an adjoining parcel where the farthest
space is not over 500 feet from the nearest public entrance to the principal
building, with a continuous paved walkway between the lot and entrance.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2005)
§ 154.073  BUSINESS DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Off-street waiting area for drive-through facilities:
      (1)   An off-street waiting space is defined as an area with a minimum
width of ten feet and a minimum length of 20 feet and shall not include the use
of any public space, street, alley or sidewalk and shall be located entirely
within any business district;
      (2)   For uses occupied or built for the purpose of serving customers in
their vehicles by a service window or similar arrangements, off-street waiting
spaces shall be provided as shown in the following chart;
      (3)   Drive-through lanes shall not utilize any space that is necessary
for adequate access to parking spaces from internal maneuvering lanes;
      (4)   Drive-through lanes shall have a minimum centerline radius of 25
feet;
      (5)   Drive-through lanes shall be striped, marked or otherwise
distinctively delineated; and
      (6)   No space shall be located closer than 50 feet to any lot in any
residential district, unless wholly within a completely enclosed building or
enclosed on all sides facing residential zones, by a wall or uniformly painted
solid board or masonry fence of uniform appearance that is not less than six
feet in height.
   (B)   Stacking requirements:
Use Served by Drive-Through Lane Minimum Stacking Requirements (per lane)
Use Served by Drive-Through Lane Minimum Stacking Requirements (per lane)
                                 Storage shall be provided for three vehicles
1. Restaurant                    in advance of the menu board (not including
                                 the vehicles at the pick-up window and menu
                                 board)
2. Financial institution         Three vehicles per lane inclusive of the
                                 vehicle at the window
                                 Two vehicles in advance of the washing bay and
3. Car wash (coin-operated)      storage for one and one-half vehicles beyond
                                 the washing bay as a drying and vacuum area
                                 Four times the maximum capacity of the car
4. Car wash (tunnel wash)        wash in advance of the tunnel and three
                                 vehicles beyond the tunnel for drying areas
                                 One vehicle per 15 children inclusive of the
                                 vehicle at the drop-off point; no parking area
5. Child care centers            or maneuvering lanes shall be permitted
                                 between the drop-off point and the principal
                                 entrance to the building
6. Dry cleaners                  Two vehicles per lane inclusive of the vehicle
                                 at the window
7. Quick oil change              Three vehicles per lane inclusive of the
                                 vehicle being serviced
8. Convenience market            Three vehicles per lane inclusive of the
                                 vehicle at the window
                                 For uses not listed above, the Planning
                                 Commission shall make a determination of
9. Other uses                    minimum required vehicle stacking at the time
                                 of site plan review, based upon analysis by
                                 the Traffic Engineer and City Planner
 
   (C)   No such space shall be located closer than 50 feet to any lot in any
residence district, unless wholly within a completely enclosed building or
enclosed on all sides facing the residence district by a wall or uniformly
painted solid board or masonry fence of uniform appearance that is not less
than six feet in height.
   (D)   In cases where the use is not listed, regulations for the most similar
use shall apply. In cases where a similar use cannot be found, the Planning
Commission shall determine the number of parking spaces required.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2005)
§ 154.074  INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS.
   Every parcel of land used as a public or private parking area in any
industrial district shall be developed and maintained in accordance with the
following requirements.
   (A)   Parking shall be provided and maintained to service any building that
involves a use requiring the receipt or distribution of materials or
merchandise in vehicles. Parking shall be determined by the Planning
Commission.
   (B)    If retail sales or services exist within an Industrial site, required
spaces shall be determined by using §
154.075.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2005)
§ 154.075  NUMBER OF PARKING SPACES REQUIRED.
   (A)   Parking or storage of motor vehicles shall be provided for in all
districts in connection with all industrial, commercial, business, trade,
institutional, recreational or dwelling uses and similar uses.
   (B)   In the case of a building, structure or premises, the use of which is
not specifically mentioned, the provisions for a use that is mentioned and to
which the use in question is similar, shall apply.
   (C)   Handicapped parking shall be provided.
Table of Parking Uses and Spaces
Uses Number of Spaces
Table of Parking Uses and Spaces
Uses                                  Number of Spaces
Barber, salons, beauty shops          One space for each chair or booth
                                      One space for each lane. If, in addition
                                      to bowling lanes, patrons are provided
Bowling centers                       with assembly hall, bars, restaurants or
                                      other businesses, additional off-street
                                      parking spaces will be required in
                                      accordance with those uses
Commercial recreation, indoor         One space for 200 square feet of usable
                                      building floor space
                                      25% of the lot area shall be devoted to
Commercial recreation, outdoor        parking lots, but in no case less than
                                      ten parking spaces
Funeral homes                         One space per 50 square feet of building
Furniture sales, retail               One space for each 1,000 square feet of
                                      sales display area
Gasoline/service stations             One space for each service bay
Hospitals, nursing homes, health care One space for each hospital bed and one
facilities                            space for each four beds in longer-term
                                      care facilities
                                      One space for every three washing
Laundromats                           machines or 400 square feet of usable
                                      building floor area, whichever is greater
 
Table of Parking Uses and Spaces
Uses Number of Spaces
Table of Parking Uses and Spaces
Uses                                    Number of Spaces
                                        One space for each sleeping room. If,
                                        in addition to sleeping rooms, patrons
Motels, hotels, motor courts, tourist   are provided with assembly halls, bars,
or lodging homes                        restaurants or other businesses,
                                        additional off-street parking spaces
                                        will be required in accordance with
                                        those uses
Office building, banks, business and    One space for each 400 square feet of
professional offices                    usable building floor area, but in no
                                        case less than five spaces
Places of public assembly without fixed The parking lot shall be 200% of the
seating, including dance halls, clubs   building floor area used for public
and roller rinks                        activity
Places of public assembly; clubs with   One space for each four seats
seating provided
Restaurants; eat-in, including taverns, One space for each four seats for
bars, cocktail lounges and similar      patron use
eating establishments
Restaurants; carry out, grocery/food    One space per 250 square feet of public
markets                                 floor space
Restaurants; drive through              One space per 100 square feet of public
                                        floor space
                                        One space per 300 square feet of the
Retail sales and personal services      public floor area. In any case, parking
                                        greater than one space per 100 square
                                        feet shall not be required
Theaters                                One space for each four public seats
Vehicle sales                           One space per 1,000 square feet of
                                        sales display area
Vehicle service garages                 One space per 1,000 square feet of
                                        usable floor area
 
(Ord. passed 11-2-2005)
SIGN REGULATIONS
§ 154.090  INTENT.
   The intent and purpose of this subchapter is to regulate all exterior signs
so as to protect health and safety, reduce traffic hazards and visual
disturbance and to meet a community-based standard for aesthetic qualities.
Nothing in this subchapter should be taken as a constraint upon freedom of
speech.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2005; Ord. 187, passed - -2007)
§ 154.091  FEES.
   Application fees for sign permits shall be established by the City
Commission.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2005)
§ 154.092  ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF PERMITS.
   The City Administrator or designated agent shall approve the application for
a sign permit when it is found that a sign will comply with the provisions of
this chapter. When a sign permit is denied by the Administrator or designated
agent, written notice of the denial shall be given to the applicant, together
with a written statement of the reason for such denial.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2005)
§ 154.093  REGULATIONS WITHIN BUSINESS AND INDUSTRIAL ZONES.
   (A)   Generally. For the following regulations, in the event of a conflict
between regulations of signs, resolution shall be based on the principle of the
greater restriction shall apply. The signs are listed in this manner:
      (1)   Freestanding (pole/ground/highway);
      (2)   Wall;
      (3)   Unified development signs;
      (4)   Portable;
      (5)   Temporary signs;
      (6)   Directional signs;
      (7)   Political signs and posters; and
      (8)   Real estate signs.
   (B)   Freestanding signs. Each property is limited to one unless it is a
corner parcel with 300 feet or more of frontage on both streets. The sign may
be a pole sign or a ground sign. Although there may be multiple businesses or
establishments on the property, the limit does not change.
      (1)   Pole signs.
         (a)   In a permit application, each sign will require drawings of sign
structure, electrical circuits, foundation and materials.
         (b)   Maximum height: 16 feet above the grade of the frontage street.
Base of sign shall be a minimum of eight feet from that grade to the bottom of
the sign.
         (c)   Maximum area per side: 50 square feet
         (d)   Minimum setback: no portion of the sign shall be nearer than ten
feet to any street easement or dedicated public right-of-way.
         (e)   Identification: sign cabinet must display address number of
property on the leading edge to the road.
         (f)   Illuminated sign: if internal lighting is part of a sign, the
lighting equipment that is part of the sign shall have UL listings and shall be
labeled for easy reading.
      (2)   Ground signs.
         (a)   In a permit application, each sign will require drawings of sign
structure, any electrical circuits, foundation and materials.
         (b)   Maximum height: six feet above normal ground level.
         (c)   Maximum area per side: 50 square feet.
         (d)   Minimum setback: no portion of the sign shall be nearer than
eight feet to any street easement or dedicated public right-of-way.
         (e)   Identification: sign cabinet must display address number of
property on the leading edge to the road.
         (f)   Illuminated sign: if internal lighting is part of a sign, the
lighting equipment that is part of the sign shall have UL listings and shall be
labeled for easy reading.
      (3)   High-rise or highway billboard signs.
         (a)   Permit application requires engineered and approved drawings of
pole structure, any electrical circuits and structures used for illumination,
base and all sign cabinet structures.
         (b)   These signs are allowed if property is within 735 feet from the
state right-of-way for the westbound exit ramp from U.S. 10 to Garfield Road.
Other than that specific area, no billboard shall be erected or maintained in
any district within 100 feet of any sidewalk or public highway, nor within 300
feet of any residential or business building, nor within any distance from
adjoining property of less than twice the height of the billboard. The
provisions of this code are not intended to conflict with any provisions
controlling signs regulated under the authority of Public Act 106 of 1972, the
Highway Advertising Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 252.301 through 252.325, as amended.
         (c)   Maximum square feet allowed is 275 square feet.
            1.   Maximum height not to exceed 90 feet from average grade of
property.
            2.   Wind load: because signs must resist a minimum of 135 mph wind
load, the base hole must be inspected before installation is to begin. Failure
to have a base hole inspected shall be cause for removal of the sign structure
at the expense of the sign owner.
   (C)   Wall signs.
      (1)   Permit required. In a permit application, details of structure and
dimensions are required of the sign and wall that it is attached to. Outside
window signs, if permanent, are covered by this section. Interior window signs
are not regulated.
      (2)   Maximum sign area. Total number of wall sign(s) shall not exceed an
area equal to 15% of the area of the wall to which it is affixed. No wall sign
shall have an area greater than 100 square feet; except that, if the sign has a
setback greater than 50 feet from its frontage street, its area may be
increased by one square foot for each additional foot of setback up to a
maximum of 150 square feet.
   (D)   Unified development signs.
      (1)   Permit required. In a permit application, each sign will require
drawings of sign structure, any electrical circuits, foundation and materials.
      (2)   Maximum height. Sixteen feet above the grade of the frontage
street.
      (3)   Maximum area. Eighty square feet.
      (4)   Increase of area. For every foot of street frontage in excess of
200 feet, maximum sign area may be increased by one square foot for each 12
inches over 200 feet of property frontage.
   (E)   Portable signs.
      (1)   Permit required. In a permit application, each sign will require
drawings or a description of the sign structure, electrical circuits and power
supply if illuminated, and materials.
      (2)   Portable signs. These can be displayed for 14 consecutive days;
however, if a display is taken down for any reason prior to that period ending,
there is another 14 consecutive days required before a display will be allowed
to be displayed again.
         (a)   The intended dates to put such temporary advertisements and
banners in place shall be detailed in requests that shall be put on file at
City Hall prior to putting the display out.
         (b)   Permits can cover the sign(s) and the time period(s) they shall
be permitted to be displayed. Multiple signs can be described in one permit.
         (c)   The intended schedule for using the sign(s) over the year can be
detailed in one permit.
      (3)   Size. The size of portable signs shall not exceed 32 square feet or
seven feet in height.
   (F)   Temporary signs.
      (1)   Permit required. In a permit application, each sign will require
drawings or a description of the sign structure, period of use, electrical
circuits and power supply if illuminated, and materials.
      (2)   Attached to a permanent structure. To qualify as a temporary sign,
the signage must be attached to a permanent structure. The point of attachment
must be detailed in the permit.
         (a)   Buildings: if a building wall is to be used for temporary
signage, there must be a specific framed area of the wall where the sign will
be attached. Whether there is a natural architectural frame on the wall or one
that is designated, the cumulative size of the sign(s) placed within that
designated area shall be consistent with the size regulations for a permanent
wall sign; however, these temporary signs can be changed as often as the
business desires. The city can require that out-of-date signs be removed. A
history of “out-of-date” signs can be considered in denying a permit for these
signs. City Hall has the authority to determine what constitutes a “framed”
area.
         (b)   Between permanent structures or attached to a permanent
structure that is not a building. These signs are regulated in the following
manner.
            1.   A fence shall be considered a wall and the total temporary
signage attached to the fence shall not exceed an area equal to 15% of the area
of the fence to which it is affixed. Fence signage shall be confined to single
area defined in the permit. Space used for signage shall not have an area
greater than 100 square feet; except that, if the signage area has a setback
greater than 50 feet from its frontage street, its area may be increased by one
square foot for each additional foot of setback up to a maximum of 150 square
feet.
            2.   Temporary signs attached to a permanent structure other than a
building or fence shall be prohibited unless the structure is more than 90 feet
from the street. The total signage allowed for a property is 32 square feet per
100 feet of frontage.
   (G)   Directional signs.
      (1)   Permit required: permit application requires drawings, any
electrical circuits if illuminated, and base.
      (2)   Maximum square feet: four and one-half square feet.
      (3)   Maximum height: three feet from average grade of property.
      (4)   Setback: at least five feet from easement and right-of-way.
      (5)   Two directional signs shall be allowed for a single access drive.
One sign for each entrance and another for each exit shall be allowed if there
are two or more access drives.
   (H)   Political signs and posters.
      (1)   No permit required but signs shall conform to this section.
      (2)   The size of the sign or poster shall not exceed two feet by three
feet.
      (3)   The owner of the property where the sign or poster is to be placed
must be notified and must give approval for its placement.
   (I)   Real estate signs.
      (1)   No permit required but signs shall conform to this section.
      (2)   The size of the real estate sign or poster shall not exceed two
feet by three feet, provided that a “sold” sign not to exceed five inches by 16
inches may be affixed to the sign to indicate a sale.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2005: Ord. 187, passed - -2007)
§ 154.094  REGULATIONS WITHIN RESIDENTIAL ZONES.
   (A)   In residential zones R-1 and R-2, one of three signs may be used.
 
Type                     Size Limit     Placement            Height Limit
Home occupation          2 square feet  Any wall             NA
Non-dwelling use; permit 24 square feet Within required yard 5 feet
required
Small freestanding; no   6 square feet  Within required yard 4 feet
permit
Wall sign; no permit     6 square feet  Any wall             Height of wall
 
   (B)   In Residential Zones R-3 and R-4, the signage for ownership, leasing
or rental of multi-family dwellings is regulated by the standards for business
and industrial.
   (C)   Political signs in residential areas R-1 and R-2 are also governed by
the same restrictions as political signs in business or industrial.
   (D)   Home occupations may be identified to the public by a non-illuminated
wall sign no greater than two square feet.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2005; Ord. 187, passed - -2007)
§ 154.095  PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   (A)   The following signs are prohibited under this chapter.
   (B)   Temporary exceptions to certain prohibited signs are noted in this
section:
      (1)   Signs or billboards that advertise a commodity or service that is
not available on the premises on which the sign is located;
      (2)   Roof signs;
      (3)   Projecting wall signs exceeding eight square feet in area;
      (4)   Abandoned signs, including the related sign structure. Once
determined to be abandoned, structures supporting these signs cannot be reused
unless they are brought into compliance with the sign regulations.
         (a)   Owners of abandoned signs shall be responsible for removing the
sign’s message.
         (b)   If the status of an abandoned sign is challenged, it is the
obligation of the owner or lessee to provide to the Zoning Enforcement Officer
documentation that a business is still being conducted on the premises.
         (c)   Proof that a business exists on paper is not sufficient proof
for this chapter that the business is operating on a particular site.
      (5)   Signs using such words as “stop”, “danger” or similar words,
phrases, symbols or characters, in such a manner to interfere with, mislead or
confuse the public in matters of public safety as determined by the city;
      (6)   Portable signs and temporary signs will be prohibited in these
situations:
         (a)   Signs that fail to meet the height and setback requirements that
apply to ground signs will be prohibited; and
         (b)   Electrified portable/temporary signs when the power source is
not in compliance with safety requirements as deemed applicable by the City
Inspector will be prohibited.
      (7)   No signs, except those established and maintained by the city,
county, state or federal governments, shall be located in, project into or
overhand a street right-of-way or dedicated public easement. This regulation
includes railroad rights-of-way;
      (8)   Signs that block the required clear vision areas for intersections;
and
      (9)   Electronic message signs when placement is judged by a public
safety officer and City Administrator to be a public safety concern.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2005)
§ 154.096  MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR.
   Every sign, regardless of its permit requirement, shall be maintained in a
safe and presentable condition at all times, including, but not limited to, the
replacement of defective parts, painting and cleaning; however, a sign that is
not conforming to the sign regulations at the time of its adoption shall be
allowed to remain, provided the structure of such nonconforming signs shall not
be enlarged or otherwise changed. Maintenance shall be limited to replacement
of defective parts, painting and cleaning.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2005)
§ 154.097  MANDATORY SIGN REMOVAL.
   (A)   Emergency conditions. Should the City Administrator or designated
agent determine that a sign is so dangerous that it requires immediate removal,
the Administrator shall attempt to provide the sign owner or property owner
with a notice of the danger and the need for immediate abatement. If such
notice is not possible due to the emergency nature of the danger, the
Administrator or designated agent shall abate the danger. The cost of the
abatement shall be billed to the owner or become a lien against the property.
   (B)   Nuisance abatement. Any other sign regulated by this chapter that
fails to comply with the provisions of this chapter, but which does not require
emergency action, shall constitute a nuisance. The owner of such sign and the
property owner shall be given written notice of 30 days by certified mail for
the abatement thereof. If such abatement is not accomplished within the 30-day
period, the Administrator or designated agent shall abate the nuisance. The
cost of the abatement shall be billed to the owner of the sign or become a lien
against the property.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2005)
§ 154.098  APPEALS.
   Any person directly or indirectly affected by the strict application of the
provisions of this chapter may appeal by filing the request in writing to the
Zoning Board of Appeals. The Zoning Board of Appeals will consider the appeal
in accordance with established procedures.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2005)
SPECIAL USE PERMIT REGULATIONS
§ 154.110  INTENT, PURPOSE AND PROCESS OF A SPECIAL USE PERMIT.
   (A)   Intent. In contrast to the definitive and objective process desired
for most zoning decisions, the special use permit process is intended to be at
least partly subjective. It relies upon the judgment of the Planning
Commissioners, the sincerity of the applicant, and the opinions or feelings of
people who live or own property near the site of a proposed special use. The
special uses that are designated for a particular zoning district are generally
complementary to the uses permitted by right; however, because of their unique
characteristics or more intensive natures, these uses require special
consideration of the welfare of adjacent properties and the community as a
whole.
   (B)   Purpose. This chapter provides procedures and standards for regulating
activities identified as uses by special use permit for each zoning district.
Special uses represent a middle range between uses that are clearly permitted
and uses that are clearly denied in any zoning district. The purpose of
designating special uses is to allow practical latitude for a property owner or
developer to use a parcel of land while maintaining protection of the health,
safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare of neighbors and the community
at large.
   (C)   Process. Regulation of special uses includes two separate steps. First
is the review of the site plan for the proposed use. Second is the decision of
whether a special use permit will be granted.
      (1)   Standards. During the special use permit process, various
considerations will be explored before approval of the site plan or the special
use permit. Some of these are defined in this chapter as additional site plan
review standards for various special uses. These standards are intended to
reduce the impact of a special use on surrounding properties. They are minimum
requirements that must always be met.
      (2)   Conditions. The Planning Commission may attach additional
conditions to the approval of the site plan or the special use permit. These
conditions must be based on requirements or concerns defined by this chapter.
      (3)   Precaution.
         (a)   No person should think that compliance with the standards
defined by this chapter automatically grants them the right to establish a
special use in a given zoning district. Rather, the privilege of establishing a
special use is granted or denied by the Planning Commission following the
process outlined in this chapter.
         (b)   This process includes notification of nearby residents and
property owners who may voice their opinions at a public hearing before a
decision is made to grant a special use permit. Since special uses generally
impose physical, visual or psychological impacts on neighboring parcels, the
input of neighboring residents or property owners is a legitimate factor for
the Planning Commission to consider when deciding whether to allow such uses.
      (4)   Permanence. Note that once a special use permit has been granted,
it may only be revoked if the conditions mentioned above, or other requirements
of this chapter, have been violated. Otherwise, the special use permit “runs
with the land” and is one of the rights that transfers when the parcel is
rented or sold. Therefore, this chapter does not provide for placement of any
time limit on a special use permit, except that the special use permit may
expire or be revoked.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2005)
§ 154.111  HOW A SPECIAL USE PERMIT IS REVIEWED.
   (A)   Submission of application. The application package is to be submitted
to the City Zoning Administrator.
      (1)   Contents. The application package consists of a special use permit
application form completed in full by the applicant, accompanied by a fee as
established by the City Commission and a site plan.
      (2)   Application deadline. The complete application package must be
submitted to the Zoning Administrator at least 20 days before the Planning
Commission meeting at which it will be considered.
   (B)   Simultaneous consideration of rezoning and special use permit. In the
event that allowance of a desired use requires both a rezoning (change in
zoning district designation for the parcel) and a special use permit, both
requests may be submitted jointly and considered at a single meeting of the
Planning Commission, subject to the following requirements.
      (1)   Separate. The rezoning shall be considered separately from the
special use permit.
      (2)   Procedures. The ordinance procedures for each decision shall be
followed as specified. Any special use permit approval must be conditioned upon
adoption of the rezoning by the City Commission.
      (3)   Standards. All standards required by this chapter shall be observed
for each action.
      (4)   Public hearings. The public shall be given the opportunity for
input on both the rezoning and special use decisions. Thus, two separate public
hearings shall be held at the same meeting.
   (C)   Planning Commission review and hearing. The special use permit
application package shall be the subject of both a site plan review and a
public hearing conducted by the Planning Commission. If the applicant wishes to
have the site plan review and special use permit considered at a single
Planning Commission meeting, the following process occurs.
      (1)   Public hearing on special use. The Planning Commission shall hold a
public hearing on the application as part of the meeting in which the special
use permit is considered.
         (a)   Notice. A notice of public hearing shall be mailed to all
parties specified in §
154.154 and published in a newspaper of general circulation in the city not
less than five nor more than 15 days before the date of such hearing.
         (b)   Delay at applicant’s request. If a site plan for a special use
has been denied, the applicant may ask that the special use permit, including
the public hearing, be postponed; however, postponing the hearing prior to the
hearing taking place requires an additional notification of neighboring
property owners and newspaper publication of another notice. Therefore, the
applicant will be required to pay an additional application fee to offset the
Commission’s added cost.
      (2)   Consideration of special use permit. Following the close of the
public hearing, consideration of the special use permit shall take place.
         (a)   Open meeting. Note that the Open Meetings Act requires this vote
to take place in an open public meeting.
         (b)   Prompt decision. In the interest of fairness and a timely
response for all concerned parties, the Planning Commission shall render their
decision on the special use permit during the same meeting in which the public
hearing is held, unless further information must be obtained before a decision
can be made. In such cases, action upon the special use permit may be tabled to
a public meeting of the Planning Commission to be held on a specific date that
is identified in the motion to table.
      (3)   Site plan review. The Planning Commission shall conduct a site plan
review for the proposed use, using the procedure and standards presented in §
154.135, and any specific standards identified for the special use by this
chapter. The Planning Commission may approve the site plan as presented,
approve it with conditions, deny it or table approval of it to a specific
meeting date.
         (a)   Public input. The site plan review may be completed before
public input is heard on the question of granting the special use permit. This
is because the site plan review process is intended to be an objective review
of factual information to determine whether precise standards have been met;
however, the Planning Commission may choose to accept public comments or
questions relating only to design considerations of the site plan.
         (b)   If the site plan is denied. In the event the site plan is
denied, consideration of the special use permit shall still occur, including
the public hearing. The special use permit may still be approved with the
condition that site plan approval must be obtained before the special use
permit is valid.
   (D)   Re-application. An application for a special use permit that has been
denied may not be resubmitted until one year after the date of denial has
passed.
   (E)   Terms of permit. A special use permit consists of a permit that
specifies the special use which is to be allowed and any conditions which were
attached by the Planning Commission. If a use established under a special use
permit is discontinued for a period of one year, the special use permit shall
expire. To reestablish the use after such expiration will require granting a
new special use permit, starting with a new application.
   (F)   Revocation. The privilege of a special use permit is subject to all
the conditions that have been attached to it during the process described
above. Except as noted in division (F)(4) below, the permit remains valid as
long as all of those conditions are met; however, the city, via the Planning
Commission, shall revoke any special use permit after it has been proven that
the permit conditions have been violated.
      (1)   First notice. The Zoning Administrator shall send written notice of
a violation to the holder of the permit by certified mail. The notice shall
state that correction must be made within 30 days or the Planning Commission
will revoke the special use permit and order the use to cease.
      (2)   Considered nonconforming. From the time the Zoning Administrator’s
notice of violation is issued, until compliance with all special use permit
conditions is restored, the use in question shall be treated as an unacceptable
nonconforming use.
      (3)   Planning Commission action.
         (a)   The Zoning Administrator shall notify the Planning Commission of
the violation of conditions of the special use permit at the next regular
Planning Commission meeting, and revocation of the special use permit shall be
considered then.
         (b)   The Planning Commission’s meeting will usually take place before
the 30-day period for the first notice has expired. In that case, the
resolution to revoke the special use permit should be worded so that it takes
effect only if compliance with all requirements is not restored.
         (c)   It shall also include authorization for the Zoning Administrator
to order the permit holder to cease the permitted use if the violations are not
corrected by the end of the first notice period.
      (4)   Second notice and order. After expiration of the 30-day period, the
Zoning Administrator shall notify the permit holder by certified mail that the
special use permit has been revoked, and the use for which the permit was
granted must cease within 60 days from the date of this second notice.
      (5)   Enforcement of order. Failure to comply with the order to cease an
activity for which a special use permit has been revoked is a violation of this
chapter, subject to all penalties thereof.
   (G)   Standards to consider when reviewing a special use permit.
      (1)   Standards attached to site plan review. Before approving or denying
a special use permit Application, the Planning Commission reviews the site plan
for said use, to establish that all applicable standards are satisfied. The
site plan review shall determine compliance with the applicable district
regulations, the site plan review standards from §
154.135 and any applicable standards from this chapter.
      (2)   Additional conditions.
         (a)   The Planning Commission may stipulate any additional conditions
or safeguards deemed necessary to achieve the objectives of this chapter.
         (b)   These may be defined during the site plan review process or
during consideration of whether to grant the special use permit.
         (c)   All conditions attached to the approval of the site plan are
also conditions of the special use permit. These conditions, and the reasoning
behind them, must be documented in the Planning Commission’s minutes, written
on the site plan itself and communicated to the applicant in writing.
         (d)   The permit will not take affect until the conditions of approval
are accepted by the applicant, signified by the signatures on the site plan
itself, of both the applicant and the Planning Commission Chairperson.
      (3)   Enforcement of conditions. The breach of any condition shall be
cause for the Planning Commission to revoke a special use permit.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2005)
§ 154.112  BED AND BREAKFAST.
   (A)   Licensing. A bed and breakfast must be licensed by city according to
current licensing regulations.
   (B)   Single-family construction. Each premises must have been originally
designed and constructed as a single-family residence and must be occupied and
operated by its owner. The structure shall remain a residential structure;
i.e., the kitchen shall not be remodeled into a commercial kitchen.
   (C)   Maximum floor area. Not more than 25% of the total floor area of the
dwelling unit shall be used for bed and breakfast sleeping rooms.
   (D)   Location of rooms. No bed and breakfast sleeping rooms shall be
located in a basement or attic.
   (E)   Cooking. Cooking for bed and breakfast guests shall take place in the
same kitchen as used by the property owner. There shall be no separate cooking
facilities in the rented rooms for bed and breakfast stay. Breakfast is the
only meal that may be served to guests.
   (F)   Bedroom size. Bed and breakfast bedrooms shall contain a minimum of
120 square feet for the first two occupants, with an additional 30 square feet
for each additional occupant.
   (G)   Occupants. Bed and breakfast occupants shall be limited to four in one
room at any one time.
   (H)   Length of stay. The stay of bed and breakfast guests shall be no more
than 14 consecutive days and not more than 30 days in any one calendar year.
   (I)   Restroom. If one restroom, no more than six people (residents and
guests) shall occupy the residence overnight. For each additional restroom, six
additional people shall be permitted for overnight stays provided all other
aspects of this ordinance are satisfied.
   (J)   Sign. A two-foot square sign, affixed flat against the dwelling and
not illuminated, will be permitted.
   (K)   Parking surface and screening. All parking required per §§
154.070 through
154.075, shall be off the street, in the side or back (not front) yard. In
additional to parking places for the owners of a bed and breakfast, one
additional parking place must be provided for each room available to be rented.
All parking spaces shall be paved or graded to city standards with materials
that maintain the historical character of the neighborhood. Natural screening
by use of plant materials or other screening may be required to screen parking
areas from adjoining residential properties.
   (L)   Structural additions. No additions to existing structures will be
approved for the purpose of adding bed and breakfast space. New construction in
residential zones will be permitted subject to review and approval of the
Planning Commission.
   (M)   Common areas. Bed and breakfast guests shall have access to all common
areas, including, but not limited to, dining rooms, parlors, screened-in
porches and the like.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2005)
§ 154.113  CAR WASH.
   (A)   Minimum lot size shall be 12,000 square feet; minimum lot width shall
be 100 feet.
   (B)   All washing activities must be carried on within a building.
   (C)   The entrances and exits of the facility shall be from within the lot
and not directly to or from an adjoining street or alley. A street or alley
shall not be used as maneuvering or parking space for vehicles to be serviced
by the subject facility.
   (D)   Ingress and egress drives shall not be less than 15 feet wide.
   (E)   The entire lot, excluding the area occupied by a building, shall be
hard surfaced with concrete or a plant-mixed bituminous material except
desirable landscaped areas that shall be separated from all paved areas by a
low barrier or curb.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2005)
§ 154.114  HIGH INTENSITY USES.
   (A)   Standards in this section shall apply to all of the following uses in
zoning districts where they are identified as special uses in the district
regulations for each zone.
   (B)   These uses are: petroleum or inflammable liquids production, refining,
storage, junk yard, incinerator, incarceration facility, high intensity food
processing, fireworks storage and sewage treatment and disposal facility.
      (1)   General. All uses shall be established and maintained in accordance
with all applicable state statutes. If any of the requirements of this division
are less than those in applicable state statutes, the state requirements shall
prevail. All permitted installations shall be maintained in a neat, orderly
condition so as to prevent injury to any single property and individual, or to
the community in general.
      (2)   Tree buffers for junkyards. Buffers of tree cover shall be provided
on the periphery of the property. The buffer shall be no less than 50 feet in
width, and may be natural vegetation or planted evergreens if the existing
cover is destroyed.
      (3)   No hazardous or toxic waste. No hazardous or toxic wastes, as
defined by the Department of Environmental Quality, may be deposited or stored
by any use in this group.
      (4)   Truck access. Routes for truck movement to and from the site shall
be identified by the County Road Commission. Wear on public roads, traffic
hazards and encroachment of noise, dust and other nuisances upon adjacent uses
must be considered.
      (5)   Activity restrictions. No open burning shall be permitted and all
industrial processes involving the use of equipment for cutting, compressing
(other than landfill compaction operations), or packaging shall be conducted
within a completely enclosed building.
      (6)   Fence requirements.
         (a)   Around incinerator. Berms and fences shall be constructed around
any landfill or incinerator as required by the regulations promulgated by solid
waste laws of the state. The berms and fences shall be placed on the interior
of the vegetated buffers mentioned above and shall not decrease their width.
Fences shall have a gate entrance that can be locked during hours when no
operation is taking place.
         (b)   Around junk yard or resource recovery. A solid fence or wall at
least eight feet in height shall be provided around the active area of a junk
yard or resource recovery operation to screen said activity from surrounding
property. Such fence or wall shall be of sound construction, painted or
otherwise finished neatly and inconspicuously. All activities shall be confined
within the fenced-in area. There shall be no stacking of material above the
height of the fence or wall, except that moveable equipment used on the site
may exceed the wall or fence height. No equipment, material, signs or lighting
shall be used or stored outside the fenced-in area. Aesthetic and structural
qualities of fencing shall be regulated by the Planning Commission at the time
of site plan review.
         (c)   Around sewage treatment or disposal facility. All operations
shall be completely enclosed by a wire link fence not less than eight feet
high.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2005)
§ 154.115  INDUSTRIAL PARK.
   (A)   Permitted uses in industrial park. Uses primarily engaged in research
and light manufacturing activities.
      (1)   Uses are allowed that do not have or create external noise, light
or a discharge that cannot be disposed of in a municipal sanitary sewer. Uses
that meet these requirements are at the determination of the Planning
Commission.
      (2)   Distribution and warehousing plants.
      (3)   Administrative, professional and business offices associated with
and accessory to a permitted use.
      (4)   Cafeteria, café, restaurant or auditorium accessory with and
incidental to any of the foregoing uses.
      (5)   Agricultural uses, pending development.
   (B)   Development standards.
      (1)   Setbacks: no building shall be located on any one or more lots
nearer to the front line or nearer to the side lot line than the minimum
setback set forth below.
      (2)   Front yard setback: 20 feet, except that unsupported roofs or sun
screens may project six feet into the setback area.
      (3)   Side yard setback: ten feet, provided that a single building is
constructed on two or more lots. No fences shall be constructed within the
required side yard.
      (4)   Rear yard setback: the rear yard shall be 30 feet.
   (C)   Site coverage. Maximum building coverage of 50% of a site is allowed.
Parking structures shall not be calculated as a building area; however, said
structures shall be used only for the parking of company vehicles, employees’
vehicles or vehicles belonging to persons visiting the subject firm.
   (D)   Building height. The maximum building height shall be 35 feet.
   (E)   Building construction and materials.
      (1)   All buildings shall create a credible and acceptable appearance on
all four sides. Buildings, including buildings associated with the principal
structure, shall be constructed of a material other than unfinished galvanized
steel or sheet aluminum for exterior walls. All associated equipment, including
roof mounted units, shall be screened from view from any public street. At
least 35% of the wall area on the front of the building shall be of face brick,
stone, exposed aggregate or of other architectural masonry of equal standard.
      (2)   The owner shall take appropriate measures to minimize dust, storm
water runoff and construction debris during construction and shall be
prohibited from allowing construction activities from injuring other
properties.
   (F)   Parking. Each owner of a parcel shall provide adequate off-street
parking to accommodate all parking needs for the parcel. Required off-street
parking shall be provided on the parcel of the use served, or on a contiguous
parcel or within 800 feet of the subject parcel. Where parking is provided on
other than the parcel concerned, a recorded document shall be filed with the
city and signed by the owners of the alternate parcel stipulating to the
permanent reservation of the use of the parcel for said parking.
      (1)   Exceptions to these guidelines shall be made where an approved
ride-sharing program to service the industrial park is implemented.
      (3)   The following guide shall be used to determine parking
requirements: office, manufacture, research and assembly: one space for each
full time employee (per shift) and one space per 2,000 square feet of total
office space (excluding such areas as pedestrian corridors, restrooms, elevator
shafts, equipment areas). Warehouse: one parking space for each full time
employee (per shift).
   (G)   Landscaping. The front yard setback area of each site shall be
landscaped with an effective combination of trees, ground cover and shrubbery.
All unpaved areas not utilized for parking shall be landscaped in a similar
manner. The entire area between the right-of-way and a point ten feet in back
of the front property line shall be landscaped, except for any access driveway
in said area.
      (1)   Side and rear yard setback areas not used for parking or storage
shall be landscaped utilizing ground cover and/or shrub and tree materials.
      (2)   Undeveloped areas proposed for future expansion shall be maintained
in a weed-free condition.
   (H)   Loading areas. No loading shall be allowed that is visible from
adjacent streets. Street side loading shall be allowed provided the loading
dock is set back a minimum of 90 feet from the street right-of-way line, or 130
feet from the street centerline, whichever is greater. Said loading area must
be screened from view from adjacent streets.
   (I)   Storage areas. No outdoor storage shall be allowed.
   (J)   Refuse collection areas. All outdoor refuse collection areas shall be
visually screened from access streets, freeways and adjacent property by a
complete opaque screen made of materials compatible with the building materials
used in the principal structure. No refuse collection areas shall be permitted
between a frontage street and building line.
   (K)   Lighting. All employee, public and loading entrances shall be lighted.
Lights shall be deflected in such a way as to not create a traffic hazard or
affect adjoining residents.
   (L)   Telephone and electrical service. All on-site electrical lines and
telephone lines shall be placed underground. Transformer or terminal equipment
shall be visually screened from view streets and adjacent properties.
   (M)   Nuisances. No portion of the park shall be used in such a manner as to
create a nuisance to adjacent sites, such as, but not limited to, vibration,
sound, electro-mechanical disturbance, radiation, air or water pollution, dust
emission of odorous, toxic or noxious matter. The result of every action or
omission whereby any restriction or covenant in this document is violated in
whole or in part is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2005)
§ 154.116  INSTITUTIONS.
   (A)   Standards. Standards in this section shall apply to all of the
following uses in zoning districts where they are identified as special uses in
the district regulations chapter for each zone. These uses are: religious,
social, educational, rehabilitation, incarceration institutions, kennels,
museums, libraries and state licensed residential facilities for seven or more
residents.
   (B)   Site location principles.
      (1)   It is desirable that any institutional structure or use to be
located within a residential district should be located at the edge of a
residential district, abutting either a business or industrial district or
adjacent to public open space.
      (2)   Motor vehicle entrances should be made on a major thoroughfare, or
as immediately accessible from a major thoroughfare. This is to avoid the
impact of traffic generated by the institutional use upon the residential area.
      (3)   Site locations that offer a natural or human-made barrier that
would lessen the effect of the intrusion of the institutional use into a
residential area are preferred.
   (C)   Development requirements. Ambulance and delivery areas shall be
obscured from all residential view by a solid masonry wall six feet in height.
Access to and from the delivery and ambulance area shall be directly from a
major, minor or principal collector thoroughfare.
   (D)   Substance abuse rehabilitations center.
      (1)   Such uses shall front onto a primary road. The main means of access
to the facility for patients, visitors and employees shall be via the primary
road. In no case shall access be from a residential street.
      (2)   The principal building shall be set back at least 50 feet from side
and rear property lines. The front yard setback shall meet the requirements of
the district in which the facility is located.
      (3)   Open space will be required and will be site specific.
      (4)   Screening will be required and will be site specific.
   (E)   Kennels, animal shelters and veterinary hospitals. No animal runs
shall be less than 150 feet from a lot line abutting a residential district.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2005)
§ 154.117  MINI-STORAGE.
   (A)   Site shall be enclosed on side lot lines of development to the front
of the building and on the rear lot line by a privacy fence with a minimum
height of five feet and a maximum height of six feet.
   (B)   Site shall be enclosed at the front setback line of the development by
an open-face fence with a minimum height of four feet and maximum height of
five feet.
   (C)   All parking and driveways shall be paved and supplied with proper
drainage structures.
   (D)   Hours of operation must be approved as part of the site plan review
process.
   (E)   No storage of hazardous or flammable liquids, solids or gases.
   (F)   No business activity shall occur from the storage units.
   (G)   Site must contain a minimum of 40,000 square feet.
   (H)   No additional uses will be permitted per 40,000 square feet in
addition to mini-storage.
   (I)   No open storage will be permitted excluding RVs. If RVs are being
stored, they must be fully screened from residential view.
   (J)   Buffering meeting the requirements of §
154.009(A) is required.
   (K)   All access aisles and entrances to the site shall be paved with
asphalt or concrete with appropriate storm water drainage. Where possible,
access to individual units shall face the interior of the site to avoid
perimeter traffic.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2005)
§ 154.118  OUTDOOR ASSEMBLY.
   (A)   Exempt activities. School fund raising activities are exempt from the
special use permit requirements of this section. Private garage and yard sales
in any R District are exempt from the special use permit requirements of this
section.
   (B)   Evidence of ownership or permission. Evidence of ownership, lease or
permission for use of any site for which a temporary permit or approval is
sought must accompany all permit requests.
   (C)   Length of permit. A temporary permit may be granted by the Planning
Commission for a maximum of three consecutive months. Additional temporary
permits for the same proponent on the same site may be granted no sooner than
one month following the expiration of the previous permit. The total time
period for all temporary permits granted to one proponent shall not exceed six
months in one calendar year.
   (D)   Temporary structures. Temporary structures used to support outdoor
assembly activities are those with no foundation.
      (1)   No portion of the structure may become unattached or move as the
result of wind.
      (2)   The temporary structure must be anchored to withstand a 30 pounds
per square foot wind stress factor.
      (3)   Temporary structures must be removed prior to expiration of the
permit.
      (4)   Temporary structures used to support outdoor assembly activities
for which the permit is requested shall not be used to provide overnight
shelter for people participating in or requesting the special use.
   (E)   Uses requiring an official site plan and Planning Commission review.
If the use is for greater than three days, within a 30-day period, a site plan,
in conformance with the requirements outlined in Chapter 9, site plan review,
must be submitted to the Planning Commission, and all other provisions of this
section must be followed, but no fee is required. The owner of the property on
which the temporary use is located is responsible for providing the site plan
showing the temporary indoor or outdoor use and its conformance with ordinance
requirements. This site plan may be an addition to the original plan for the
property. Any violations of the temporary use are the responsibility of the
owner of the property on which it is located.
      (1)   Overnight residing on temporary site. The temporary site may not be
occupied for more than 12 hours per day. In no event shall overnight occupation
be automatically permitted. Overnight residing on a temporary site of outdoor
assembly is only allowed if specific permission is granted by the Planning
Commission or Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   Temporary signs. Temporary signs shall be allowed, by permit, for a
total of 30 days in any six-month period. A total of two temporary sign permits
may be granted for one parcel in a year.
      (3)   Sanitary facilities. Sites selling items for human consumption must
have access to hand washing and toilet facilities. Sites selling items not for
human consumption must have access to toilet facilities only.
      (4)   Display of goods. Display and sale of goods may not be within the
required yards for the zoning district.
   (F)   Uses not requiring an official site plan or Planning Commission
approval. Private temporary outdoor uses and those associated with nonprofit
organizations meeting the definition of “nonprofit organizations” in §
154.005, may be granted temporary use permits by the Zoning Administrator, at
no cost to the organization. The site plan must be approved by the Fire and
Police Departments.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2005)
§ 154.119  PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Intent. This section is intended to encourage innovation in land use
patterns and variety in design for development of parcels as well as
encouraging economy and efficiency in provision of public services, the use of
land, natural resources and energy. These regulations provide flexibility for
developers while protecting public values.
   (B)   Permitted uses and standards.
      (1)   A planned unit development (PUD) may include all uses by right and
special uses listed for the zoning district that applies to its site, and for
the zoning district that immediately precedes and follows it in the following
list of districts:
         (a)   R-1;
         (b)   R-2;
         (c)   R-3;
         (d)   B; and
         (e)   I.
      (2)   For example, a PUD proposed for a parcel zoned R-2 could include
all uses identified for the R-1, R-2 and B Zoning Districts.
      (3)   When a Use is listed only as a special use for the applicable
zoning districts, all special use permit standards for said use will apply.
When a use is listed as a special use in one of the applicable zoning
districts, and as a use by right in another, it may be treated as a use by
right for the PUD.
   (C)   Use density and parcel coverage. Parcel coverage limits for the
applicable zoning district must be met overall, with the following additions.
      (1)   Residential coverage in business zoning districts. For a PUD
located in the B Zoning Districts, up to 50% of the allowable parcel coverage
may be devoted to structures for residential uses.
      (2)   Nonresidential coverage in residential zoning districts. For a PUD
located in the R-1 or R-2 Zoning Districts, up to 20% of the allowable parcel
coverage may be devoted to structures for nonresidential uses.
      (3)   Residential density. The maximum residential density shall be one
dwelling unit for every 4,000 square feet of parcel area. Single-family or two-
family dwellings shall meet the dwelling unit area requirements specified for
the R-2 Zoning District. Multiple-family dwellings shall conform to the R-
2 requirements.
   (D)   Dimensional requirements. Front yard setback requirements for the
applicable zoning district shall apply to all boundaries of the PUD. Building
height limitations and minimum yards between dwelling structures shall be as
specified for the C-1 Zoning District; however, if plots of land in a PUD are
proposed for resale as either fee simple parcels or site condominiums, said
parcels or condominium units, and any buildings thereon, must meet the parcel
dimension and yard requirements for the R-3 Zoning District.
   (E)   Buffering for residential uses. When a PUD contains a mix of
residential and other uses, the following provisions shall be enforced.
      (1)   Separate buildings. In any PUD, a building devoted to
nonresidential use must be separated from adjacent residential buildings by a
yard area not less than 30 feet across, developed as landscaped open space and
not used for parking or circulation of motor vehicles. This area may apply
toward satisfaction of the PUD’s open space requirement, as noted below.
      (2)   Within same building. When residential and nonresidential uses
occupy space in a single building in a PUD, a continuous physical separation
must be provided between spaces devoted to said uses. Access doorways are
allowed, but the separation must provide at least a one-hour fire rating
between residential and nonresidential space.
   (F)   Open space. At least 10% of any parcel containing a PUD must be
devoted to landscaped open space. Forest, wetland or other unique environmental
areas may be left in a natural state. Cropland may not be counted as landscaped
open space, nor may yard areas of individual residential lots be included;
however, landscaped yard areas for multiple dwellings or nonresidential uses
may be included. If the PUD includes multiple dwellings, it must have at least
1,000 square feet of open space per dwelling unit.
   (G)   Parking and circulation. Parking for uses in a PUD shall conform to
the requirements of individual uses. Roadways in a PUD are intended to be
public streets, and must be built to the standards of the applicable public
agency.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2005)
§ 154.120  RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV) PARK.
   (A)   Occupancy. Spaces in RV parks or campgrounds may be used by motor
homes, travel trailers, campers, tents or other short-term housing or shelter
arrangements.
   (B)   Resident manager. Each RV park or campground shall be directly
supervised by a resident manager who may share such duties with other members
of his or her family. Management shall be accessible to park tenants at all
times (24 hours) when park spaces are rented. The manager’s residence shall
include the business office for the park and at least 1,000 square feet of
living area for the manager’s family.
   (C)   Regulatory compliance required. RV parks or campgrounds must maintain
compliance with all regulations of the State Department of Community Health and
the State Department of Natural Resources that apply to such enterprises.
Failure to comply with any such regulation shall constitute a violation of this
chapter.
   (D)   Greenbelt, fence and setback. The entire perimeter of any RV park or
campground shall be enclosed by a fence at least four feet high. Further, there
shall be a greenbelt planting strip not less than 15 feet wide around the
entire site. Said greenbelt shall contain at least one straight or staggered
row of deciduous or evergreen trees, spaced not more than 20 feet apart and at
least two rows of deciduous or evergreen shrubs that will grow to an ultimate
height of at least six feet planted not more than six feet apart. All
individual campsites are to be set back at least 75 feet from any street right-
of-way or neighboring property line.
   (E)   Access and circulation. Each park shall be served by not more than one
point of access to each abutting street or road. No such access shall require a
turn at an acute angle for vehicles moving in the direction intended. Design of
curbs and pavements at such access points shall be such as to facilitate easy
movements for vehicles with trailers attached. Clear vision areas shall be
maintained for drivers, extending 150 feet in each direction on any abutting
road and for 25 feet on the park entrance road. Roadways within the park shall
be hard surfaced, dust free and at least 24 feet wide for two-way traffic or 12
feet wide for one-way traffic. Parking shall not be permitted on these
roadways, and they shall be posted for a maximum speed of ten mph.
   (F)   Personal care facilities. Each RV park or campground shall include
men’s and women’s restroom and bathing facilities in all-weather, heated
structures. These facilities shall include adequate water outlets, washbasins,
toilets, showers and waste containers. These facilities shall be provided
uniformly through out the park at a ratio not less than one toilet and sink for
each eight camping or RV sites. These facilities shall be kept in good working
order and each structure shall be cleaned thoroughly daily.
   (G)   Other public facilities. Each park shall have waste pump-out
facilities for recreational vehicles that shall have an approved connection to
a municipal sewage collection and treatment system or shall have waste removed
by a licensed waste hauler for treatment at a municipal treatment facility.
Each park shall be served by a commercial solid waste disposal service,
providing on-site storage container(s) large enough to accommodate a three-day
accumulation of solid waste with all sites in the park occupied. Said service
shall provide pick up of waste at least weekly when the park is operating and
frequently enough to insure that said container(s) are never overloaded.
Finally, at least 15% of the site, not including the greenbelt and setback
areas as defined in this section, shall be devoted to shared open space uses,
including, but not limited to, playgrounds, picnic areas, court or field
sports, or natural areas. This shall not include parking and vehicle
circulation areas.
   (H)   Individual campsite requirements. Each RV parking site or campsite
shall be a minimum of 1,200 square feet in area and shall include the following
amenities: an electrical power outlet and fixed facilities for cooking using
charcoal or wood as fuel with a fire that is not placed directly upon the
ground, unless in a specified metal fire ring in a specified location. Metal
trash container with a lid and volume of at least two cubic feet that shall be
emptied daily by park personnel to the solid waste facility and a gravel or
hard surfaced parking area of at least 200 square feet.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2005)
§ 154.121  SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES/ADULT MEDIA STORES.
   (A)   Intent. There are some uses that because of their very nature are
recognized as having serious objectionable operational characteristics,
particularly when several of them are grouped. Such uses may have deleterious
effects upon the adjacent areas. Special regulation of these uses is necessary
to ensure that these adverse affects will not contribute to blighting or
downgrade the surrounding neighborhood. These special regulations are itemized
in this section. The primary control or regulation is for the purpose of
preventing a concentration of these uses in any one area or next to residential
zones or certain institutional uses.
   (B)   Distance restrictions.
      (1)   Sexually oriented businesses or adult media stores shall not be
permitted to be established within 1,000 feet of each other. This distance
shall be measured from the property lot line of one sexually oriented business
or adult media store to the property lot line of the other sexually oriented
business or adult media store.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to hereafter establish any sexually oriented
business or adult media store, as defined, within 1,500 feet of any
agriculturally or residentially zoned property or within 1,500 feet of any
religious or educational institution, library, day care center, public park or
recreational land use. This distance shall be measured from the property lot
line of the sexually oriented business to the property lot line of the
agriculturally or residentially zoned property or the property lot line of any
religious or educational institution, public park or recreational land use.
   (C)   Signs and public or exterior display.
      (1)   Window displays, signs, decorative or structural elements of
buildings shall not include or convey specific examples of actual adult uses,
and are limited to the sign provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   No sexually oriented business or adult media store shall be
conducted in any manner that permits the observation of any material depicting,
describing or relating to “specific sexual activities”, “specified anatomical
areas” or “sexually oriented toys or novelties” (as defined in this chapter)
from any public way or from any property not licensed as a sexually oriented
business or adult media store. This provision shall apply to any display,
decoration, sign, show window, structural elements or other opening.
   (D)   Precautionary note to the Zoning Board of Appeals. When considering
any appeal from a sexually oriented business or adult media store for reduction
of spacing or separation standards established herein, the Zoning Board of
Appeals shall address each of the following issues and include the findings
regarding each point in their minutes.
      (1)   Chapter intent. The proposed use shall not be contrary to the
intent and purpose of this chapter, or injurious to nearby properties.
      (2)   Blighting influence. The proposed use shall not enlarge or
encourage the development of a concentration of such uses or blighting
influences.
      (3)   Neighborhood conservation. The proposed use shall not be contrary
to any program of neighborhood conservation, revitalization or urban renewal.
      (4)   Other standards. The proposed use, and its principal building,
shall comply with all other regulations and standards of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2005)
§ 154.122  SOIL RESOURCE EXTRACTION, MINING AND POND CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Scope of regulations.
      (1)   This section regulates extraction, filling or repositioning of
soil, sand, gravel, clay or other geologic deposit involving disturbance of
more than 1,000 cubic yards of material, when such disturbance is not related
to construction of a building, structure or parking lot.
      (2)   This section also applies to artificial ponds created by soil
excavation or intervention in watercourses, surface drainage or groundwater
aquifers, regardless of size and whether the creation of the pond is an end in
itself or merely a by-product of soil extraction activity.
      (3)   Ponds created by embankments or dams across streams or watercourses
are not permitted in the city.
      (4)   Finally, oil wells are specifically exempted from this section,
because they are regulated solely by the State Department of Natural Resources.
   (B)   Additional information required for site plan. The site plan for any
activity regulated by this section must include the following additional
information.
      (1)   A profile of the proposed excavation, illustrating elevations and
changes in slope, with elevations noted in five-foot intervals. If water is
expected to accumulate in the excavation, the projected water level must also
be shown.
      (2)   A soil evaluation report describing the excavation site and any
needed drainage or seepage corrections.
      (3)   The specifications for any spillway or drain for a proposed,
including the proposed methods of foundation preparation or fill placement.
   (C)   Excavation site requirements.
      (1)   Avoid sites of ecological significance, such as wetlands or mature
forest. If wetlands are to be affected, a state permit may be needed.
      (2)   Excavations that create ponds should be located to minimize the
chance of pollution from sources such as feedlots, corrals or septic tanks.
      (3)   Excavations may be no closer than 50 feet, measured horizontally,
to a power line, and may not be within a public utility or transportation
easement.
   (D)   Construction and operation requirements.
      (1)   An excavation should not change surface drainage or underwater
aquifers so as to adversely impact neighboring uses.
      (2)   Any pond banks shall have a maximum slope of one foot vertical to
four feet horizontal that extends below the projected low water surface
elevation to a depth of at least eight feet.
      (3)   Minimum designed water depth of a pond must be 15 feet to ensure
proper aeration and circulation of the water.
      (4)   All required environmental permits shall be obtained and obeyed,
including the soil and sedimentation control permit under Public Act 347 of
1972, being M.C.L.A. §§ 324.9101 through 324.9123a.
      (5)   Any excavated material not removed from the site shall be graded to
a continuous slope that does not exceed one foot vertical to three feet
horizontal and arranged to prevent runoff from impacting adjacent properties.
Said fill shall blend visually with the surrounding landscape.
      (6)   By October 15 of each year, the completed portion of an excavation
and any disturbed area around it shall be graded and seeded.
      (7)   No machinery or equipment shall operate, and no trucks, trailers or
other conveyances shall arrive at any excavation site before 7:00 a.m. or after
8:00 p.m..
      (8)   Proper measures shall be taken to minimize the nuisance of traffic
noise and flying dust or soil while a site is being excavated.
      (9)   When two or more dwellings are located within 200 feet of the edge
of any water body on an excavation site or on any parcel, said water body shall
be enclosed by a fence at least four feet high with a lockable gate.
      (10)   Ponds constructed for recreational purposes must be located behind
the principal structure and outside of the rear and side yards.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2005)
§ 154.123  WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITIES.
   (A)   Intent and purpose. The intent and purpose of these regulations is to
accommodate the communications needs of people while protecting the public
health, safety and general welfare of the community. These regulations will:
      (1)   Facilitate the provision of wireless telecommunication services to
the residents and businesses of the city;
      (2)   Minimize adverse visual effects of towers through design and siting
standards;
      (3)   Avoid potential damage to adjacent property from tower failure
through structural standards and setback requirements; and
      (4)   Maximize the use of existing approved towers and buildings to
accommodate new wireless telecommunication facilities in order to reduce the
number of towers necessary to serve the community.
   (B)   Existing towers and/or structural supports. A wireless communication
facility shall require a building permit in all instances and may be permitted
in all districts as follows.
      (1)   A wireless service facility may locate on any existing commercial
guyed tower, lattice tower, monopole, electric utility transmission tower, fire
tower or water tower, provided that the installation of the new facility does
not increase the height of the existing structure except as provided in the
height regulations in this chapter. Such installations shall be permitted by
right in all zoning districts and be permitted through city staff review.
      (2)   Towers supporting amateur radio antennas and conforming to all
applicable provisions of this chapter shall be allowed in the rear yard of
parcels. Amateur towers shall not support any commercial use antennas.
      (3)   Commercial or municipal towers conforming to all applicable
provisions of this chapter shall be allowed only on the following sites by
right and shall be permitted through the site plan review procedures outlined
in this chapter:
         (a)   Church sites, when camouflaged as steeples or bell towers;
         (b)   Park sites, when compatible with the nature of the park; and
         (c)   Government, school, utility and institutional sites, according
to the statement of priority of users and minimum requirements for use of city-
owned properties.
      (4)   Wireless telecommunication antennas on roofs, walls and existing
towers may be approved by the city staff provided the antennas meet the
requirements of this chapter after submittal of a final site plan and a report
prepared by a licensed professional engineer indicating the existing structure
or tower’s suitability to accept the antenna and the proposed method for
affixing the antenna to the structure. Complete details of all fixtures and
couplings and the precise point of attachment shall be indicated.
   (C)   Newly constructed towers. A wireless communication facility shall
require a building permit in all instances and may be permitted in all
districts as follows.
      (1)   Newly constructed towers in residentially zoned areas are only
permitted if they are towers supporting amateur radio antennas and conforming
to all applicable provisions of this chapter. Amateur radio towers shall only
be allowed in the rear yard of parcels. Amateur towers shall not support any
commercial use antennas.
      (2)   Newly constructed towers in business or industrial district areas
are allowed by special use permit under the following situations. The City
Commission finds that the telecommunications equipment planned for the proposed
tower cannot be accommodated on an existing or approved tower or building
within a one and one-half mile radius of the proposed tower location due to one
or more of the following reasons:
         (a)   The planned equipment would exceed the structural capacity of
the existing or approved tower or building, as documented by a qualified and
licensed engineer, and the existing or approved tower cannot be reinforced,
modified or replaced to accommodate planned or equivalent equipment at a
reasonable cost;
         (b)   The planned equipment would cause interference materially
impacting the usability of other existing or planned equipment at the tower or
building as documented by a qualified and licensed professional engineer and
the interference cannot be prevented at a reasonable cost;
         (c)   Existing or approved towers and buildings within the search
radius cannot accommodate the planned equipment at a height necessary to
function reasonably as documented by a qualified and licensed professional
engineer; and/or
         (d)   Other unforeseen reasons make it infeasible to locate the
planned telecommunications equipment upon an existing or approved tower or
building.
   (D)   Collocation.
      (1)   Licensed carriers shall share wireless service facilities and sites
where feasible and appropriate, thereby reducing the number of wireless service
facilities that are stand-alone facilities.
      (2)   All applicants for a special use permit for a wireless service
facility shall demonstrate a good faith effort to collocate with other
carriers.
      (3)   Such good faith effort includes:
         (a)   A survey of all existing structures that may be feasible sites
for collocating wireless service facilities;
         (b)   Contact with all the other licensed carriers for commercial
mobile radio services operating in the county; and
         (c)   Sharing information necessary to determine if collocation is
feasible under the design configuration most accommodating to collocation.
      (4)   In the event that collocation is found to be infeasible, a written
statement of the reasons for the lack of feasibility shall be submitted to the
city.
      (5)   The city may retain a technical expert in the field of RF
engineering to verify if collocation at the site is not feasible or is feasible
given the design configuration most accommodating to collocation. The cost for
such a technical expert will be at the expense of the applicant. The city may
deny a special use permit to an applicant who has not demonstrated a good faith
effort to provide for collocation.
   (E)   Tower construction.
      (1)   Any proposed commercial wireless telecommunication service tower
shall be designed, structurally, electrically and in alt respects to
accommodate both the applicant’s antennas and comparable antennas for at least
two additional users.
      (2)   Towers must be designed to allow for future rearrangement of
antennas upon the tower and to accept antennas mounted at varying heights.
Towers shall be constructed to ANSI EIA TIA-222-F Structural Standards for
Steel Antenna Towers and Antenna Supporting Structures and National Building
Code construction standards for steel structures.
   (F)   Tower, and accessory building design. Proposed or modified towers and
antennas shall meet the following design requirements.
      (1)   Towers and antennas shall be designed to blend into the surrounding
environment through the use of color and camouflaging architectural treatment,
except in instances where the color is dictated by federal or state authorities
such as the Federal Aviation Administration.
      (2)   Commercial wireless telecommunication service towers shall be of a
monopole design unless the City Commission determines that an alternative
design would better blend into the surrounding environment.
      (3)   All utility buildings and structures accessory to a transmission
structure shall be architecturally designed to blend in with the surrounding
environment and shall meet the minimum setback requirements of the underlying
zoning district. Ground-mounted equipment shall be screened from view by
suitable vegetation, except where a design of non-vegetative screening better
reflects and complements the architectural character of the surrounding
neighborhood.
   (G)   Tower setbacks. Towers shall conform to each of the following minimum
setback requirements.
      (1)   Towers shall meet the setbacks of the underlying zoning district
with the exception of industrial zoning districts, where towers may encroach
into the rear setback areas, provided that the rear property line abuts another
industrially zoned property and the tower does not encroach upon any easements.
      (2)   Towers shall be set back from planned public rights-of-way as shown
on the city’s Master Plan by a minimum distance equal to one-half of the height
of the tower including all antennas and attachments.
      (3)   Towers shall not be located between a principal structure and a
public street, with the following exceptions:
         (a)   In industrial zoning districts, towers may be placed within a
side yard abutting an internal industrial street; and
         (b)   On sites adjacent to public streets on all sides, towers may be
placed within a side yard abutting a local street.
      (4)   A tower’s setback may be reduced or its location in relation to a
public street varied at the discretion of the City Planning Commission to allow
the integration of a tower into an existing or proposed structure such as a
church steeple, light standards, power line support device or similar
structure.
      (5)   Towers and associated structures, including fencing, may not be
constructed within 500 feet of a dwelling unit, except where they are being
collocated on existing towers or structures.
   (H)   Tower height. In all zoning districts, the maximum height of any
tower, including antennas and other attachments, shall not exceed 150 feet,
except as granted by the Zoning Board of Appeals.
   (I)   Tower lighting. Towers shall not be illuminated by artificial means
and shall not display strobe lights unless such lighting is specifically
required by the Federal Aviation Administration or other federal or state
authority for a particular tower. When incorporated into the approved design of
the tower, light fixtures used to illuminate ball fields, parking lots or
similar areas may be attached to the tower.
   (J)   Signs and advertising. The use of any portion of a tower for signs or
other forms of advertising other than warning or equipment information signs
are prohibited.
   (K)   Abandoned or unused towers or portions of towers. Abandoned or unused
towers or portions of towers shall be removed as follows.
      (1)   All abandoned or unused towers and associated facilities shall be
removed within 12 months of the cessation of operations at the site unless a
time extension is approved by the Zoning Administrator. A copy of the relevant
portions of a signed lease that requires the applicant to remove the tower and
associated facilities upon cessation of operations at the site shall be
submitted at the time of application. In the event that a tower and associated
facilities are not removed within 12 months of the cessation of operations at a
site, the tower and associated facilities may be removed by the city and the
costs of removal assessed against the property.
      (2)   Unused portions of towers above a manufactured connection shall be
removed within six months of the time of antenna relocation. The replacement of
portions of a tower previously removed requires the issuance of a new special
use permit.
      (3)   If the abandoned status of a tower or facility is contested, it is
the obligation of the owner or lessee to provide documentation that the tower
is currently in use within 30 days of written notification of abandoned status.
   (L)   Interference with public safety telecommunications.
      (1)   No new or existing telecommunications service shall interfere with
public safety telecommunications.
      (2)   All applications for new service shall be accompanied by an inter-
modulation study that provides a technical evaluation of existing and proposed
transmission and indicates all potential interference problems.
      (3)   Before the introduction of new service or changes in existing
service, telecommunication providers shall notify the city at least ten
calendar days in advance of such changes and allow the city to monitor
interference levels during the testing process.
   (M)   Modifications. A modification of a wireless service facility may be
considered equivalent to an application for a new wireless service facility and
will require a special use permit when the following events apply:
      (1)   The applicant and/or co-applicant wants to alter the terms of the
special use permit by changing the wireless service facility in one or more of
the following ways:
         (a)   Change in the number of facilities permitted on the site; and/or
         (b)   Change in the technology used for the wireless service facility.
      (2)   The applicant and/or co-applicant wants to add any equipment or
additional height not specified in the original design filing.
   (N)   Site plan submission requirements.
      (1)   General filing requirements.
         (a)   Name, address and telephone number of applicant and any co-
applicants as well as any agents for the applicant or co-applicants;
         (b)   Co-applicants may include the landowner of the subject property,
licensed carriers and tenants for the personal wireless service facility; and
         (c)   Original signatures for the applicant and all co-applicants
applying for the special permit. If the applicant or co-applicant will be
represented by an agent, original signature authorizing the agent to represent
the applicant and/or co-applicant. Photo reproductions of signatures will not
be accepted.
      (2)   Location filing requirements.
         (a)   Identify the subject property by including the municipality as
well as the name of the locality, name of the nearest road or roads, and street
address, if any;
         (b)   Tax map and parcel number of subject property;
         (c)   Zoning district designation for the subject parcel; and
         (d)   A line map to scale showing the lot lines of the subject
property and all properties within 300 feet and the location of all buildings,
including accessory structures, on all properties shown.
      (3)   Siting filing requirements.
         (a)   A one-inch equals 40-feet vicinity plan showing the following:
            1.   Property lines for the subject property;
            2.   Property lines of all properties adjacent to the subject
property within 300 feet;
            3.   Tree cover on the subject property and adjacent properties
within 300 feet, by dominant species and average height, as measured by or
available from a verifiable source;
            4.   Outline of all existing buildings, including purpose (e.g.,
residential buildings, garages, accessory structures and the like) on subject
property and all adjacent properties within 300 feet;
            5.   Proposed location of antenna mount and equipment shelter(s);
            6.   Proposed security barrier, indicating type and extent as well
as point of controlled entry;
            7.   Location of all roads, public and private, on the subject
property and on all adjacent properties within 300 feet, including driveways
proposed to serve the personal wireless service facility;
            8.   Distances, at grade, from the proposed personal wireless
service facility to each building on the vicinity plan;
            9.   All proposed changes to the existing property, including
grading, vegetation removal and temporary or permanent roads and driveways; and
            10.   Representations, dimensioned and scale, of the proposed
mount, antennas, equipment shelters, cable runs, parking areas and any other
construction or development attendant to the personal wireless service
facility.
         (b)   Siting elevations, or views at-grade from the north, south, east
and west for a 50-foot radius around the proposed personal wireless service
facility plus from all existing public and private roads that serve the subject
property. Elevations shall be at either one-quarter inch equals one foot or
one-eighth-inch-equals-one-foot scale and show the following:
            1.   Antennae, mounts and equipment shelter(s), with total
elevation dimensions and AGL of the highest point;
            2.   Security barrier. If the security barrier will block views of
the personal wireless service facility, the barrier drawing shall be cut away
to show the view behind the barrier;
            3.   Any and all structures on the subject property; and
            4.   Existing trees and shrubs at current height and proposed trees
and shrubs at proposed height at time of installation, with approximate
elevations dimensioned.
      (4)   Design filing requirements.
         (a)   Equipment brochures for the proposed personal wireless service
facility such as manufacturer’s specifications or trade journal reprints shall
be provided for the antennas, mounts, equipment shelters, cables as well as
cable runs, and security barrier, if any.
         (b)   Materials of the proposed personal wireless service facility
specified by generic type and specific treatment (e.g., anodized aluminum,
stained wood, painted fiberglass and the like). These shall be provided for the
antennas, mounts, equipment shelters, cables, as well as cable runs, and
security barrier, if any.
         (c)   Dimensions of the personal wireless service facility specified
for all three directions: height, width and breadth. These shall be provided
for the antennas, mounts, equipment shelters and security barrier, if any.
         (d)   Landscape plan including existing trees and shrubs and those
proposed to be added, identified by size of specimen at installation and
species.
         (e)   If lighting of the site is proposed, the applicant shall submit
the manufacturer’s computer-generated point-to-point printout, indicating the
horizontal foot candle levels at grade, within the property to be developed and
25 feet beyond the property lines. The printout shall indicate the locations
and types of luminaries proposed.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2005)
§ 154.124  SPECIAL USE FOR GRID SYSTEMS.
   Utility grid wind energy systems, on-site use wind energy system over 60
feet high, and anemometer towers over 60 feet high.
   (A)   Intent and purpose. The intent and purpose of these regulations for
the utility grid wind energy systems, on-site use wind energy systems over 60
feet high, and anemometer towers over 60 feet high shall meet the following
standards in addition to the general special use standards (§§ 154.110 and
154.111). These regulations will:
      (1)   Facilitate the safe development of wind conversion energy on the
scale that supports the state utility grid or for those larger installations
for on-site use;
      (2)   Minimize adverse visual effects of towers through design an siting
standards; and
      (3)   Avoid potential damage to adjacent property from tower failure
through structural standards and setback requirements.
   (B)   Property setback.
      (1)   Anemometer tower setback shall be the greater distance of the
following:
         (a)   The setback from property lines of the respective zoning
district;
         (b)   The setback from the road right-of-way; and
         (c)   A distance equal to the height of the tower from property lines
or from the lease unit boundary, whichever is less.
      (2)   Utility grid and on-site use wind energy system setback shall be
greater distance the following:
         (a)   The setback from property lines of the respective zoning
district;
         (b)   The setback from the road right-of-way; and
         (c)   A distance equal to the 110% if the height of the system
including the top of the blade in its vertical position from property lines or
from the lease unit boundary, whichever is less.
      (3)   An operations and maintenance office building, a sub-station, or
ancillary equipment shall comply with any property set-back requirement of the
respective zoning district. Overhead transmission lines and power poles shall
comply with the setback and placement requirements applicable to public
utilities.
   (C)   Sound pressure level. The sound pressure level shall not exceed 55 dB
(A) measured at the property lines or the lease unit boundary, whichever is
farther from the source of the noise. This sound pressure level shall not be
exceeded for more than three minutes in any hour of the day. If the ambient
sound pressure level exceeds 55 dB(A), the standard shall be ambient dB(A) plus
5 dB(A).
   (D)   Safety. Shall be designed to prevent unauthorized access to electrical
and mechanical components and shall have access doors that are kept securely
locked at all times when service personnel are not present.
      (1)   All spent lubricants and cooling fluids shall be properly and
safely removed in a timely manner from the site of the wind energy system.
      (2)   A sign shall be posted near the tower or operations and maintenance
office building that will contain emergency contact information.
      (3)   Signage placed at the road access shall be used to warn visitors
about the potential danger of falling ice.
      (4)   The minimum vertical blade tip clearance from grade shall be 20
feet for a wind energy system employing a horizontal axis rotor.
   (E)   Post-construction permits. Construction codes, towers and
interconnection standards shall comply with all applicable state construction
and electrical codes and local building permit requirements.
   (F)   Pre-application permits.
      (1)   Utility infrastructure: shall comply with Federal Aviation
Administration (FAA) requirements, the Michigan Airport Zoning Act (Public Act
23 of 1950 as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 259.431 et seq.), the Michigan Tall
Structures Act (Public Act 259 of 1959 as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 259.481 et
seq.) and local jurisdiction airport overlay zone regulations. The minimum FAA
lighting standards shall not be exceeded. All tower lighting required by the
FAA shall be shielded to the extent possible to reduce glare and visibility
from the ground. The tower shaft shall not be illuminated unless required by
the FAA. Utility grid wind energy systems shall comply with applicable utility,
the State Public Service Commission and Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
interconnection standards.
      (2)   Environment:
         (a)   The site plan and other documents and drawings shall show
mitigation measures to minimize potential impacts on the natural environment
including, but not limited to wetlands and other fragile ecosystems, historical
and cultural sites, and antiquities, as identified in the environmental
analysis.
         (b)   Comply with applicable parts of the Michigan Natural Resources
and Environmental Protection Act (Public Act 451 of 1994, being M.C.L.A. §§
324.101 et seq.) including, but not limited to:
            1.   Part 31 Water Resources Protection (M.C.L.A. §§ 324.3101 et
seq.)
            2.   Part 91 Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Control (M.C.L.A. §§
324.9101 et seq.)
            3.   Part 301 Inland Lakes and Streams (M.C.L.A. §§ 324.30101 et
seq.)
            4.   Part 303 Wetlands (M.C.L.A. §§ 324.30301 et seq.) as shown by
having obtained each respective permit with requirements and limitations of
those permits reflected on the site plan.
   (G)   Performance bond. Performance bond, pursuant to §
154.135, shall be provided for the applicant making repairs to public roads
damaged by the construction of the wind energy system
   (H)   Utilities. Power lines should be placed underground, when feasible, to
prevent avian collisions and electrocutions. All above-ground lines,
transformers or conductors should comply with the Avian Power Line Interaction
Committee (APLIC, http://www.aplic.org/) published standards to prevent avian
mortality.
   (I)   Application. The following standards apply only to utility grid wind
energy systems.
      (1)   Visual impact: utility grid wind energy system projects shall use
tubular towers and all utility grid wind energy systems in a project shall be
finished in a single, non-reflective matte finished color. A project shall be
constructed using wind energy systems of similar design, size, operation and
appearance throughout the project. No lettering, company insignia, advertising
or graphics shall be on any part of the tower, hub or blades. Nacelles may have
lettering that exhibits the manufacturer’s and/or owner’s identification. The
applicant shall avoid state or federal scenic areas and significant visual
resources listed in the local unit of government’s plan.
      (2)   Avian and wildlife impact: site plan and other documents and
drawings shall show mitigation measures to minimize potential impacts on avian
and wildlife, as identified in the avian and wildlife impact analysis.
      (3)   Shadow flicker: site plan and other documents and drawings shall
show mitigation measures to minimize potential impacts from shadow flicker, as
identified in the shadow flicker impact analysis.
      (4)   Decommissioning: a Planning Commission approved decommissioning
plan indicating:
         (a)   The anticipated life of the project;
         (b)   The estimated decommissioning costs net of salvage value in
current dollars;
         (c)   The method of ensuring that funds will be available for
decommissioning and restoration; and
         (d)   The anticipated manner in which the project will be
decommissioned and the site restored.
      (5)   Complaint resolution: a Planning Commission approved process shall
be put in place to resolve complaints from nearby residents concerning the
construction or operation of the project.
      (6)   Electromagnetic interference: no utility grid wind energy system
shall be installed in any location where its proximity to existing fixed
broadcast, retransmission or reception antennas for radio, television or
wireless phone or other personal communication systems would produce
electromagnetic interference with signal transmission or reception, unless the
applicant provides a replacement signal to the affected party that will restore
reception to at least the level present before operation of the wind energy
system.
   (J)   Installation. No utility grid wind energy system shall be installed in
any location within the line of sight of an existing microwave communications
link where operation of the wind energy system is likely to produce
electromagnetic interference in the link’s operation unless the interference is
insignificant.
(Ord. 190, passed 6-7-2010)
SITE PLAN REVIEW
§ 154.135  GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Various provisions of this chapter require review of site plans before
certain types of administrative approval may be granted. This section defines
the procedures and standards to be used for such a review.
      (1)   Situations requiring a formal site plan review.
         (a)   The City Planning Commission must review and approve site plans
before granting approval to special use permits, except in those cases such as
bed and breakfasts and outdoor assembly where the City Administrator judges a
site plan to be unnecessary.
         (b)   In addition, and in the case of new development, site plan
review before the City Planning Commission is required for any project meeting
one of the following conditions:
            1.   The proposed project will have more than two dwelling units;
            2.   The proposed project is in a business zoning district; or
            3.   The proposed project is in an industrial district. In the case
of existing development, a site plan review is required when:
               a.   The project involves increasing the footprint by 10% or
more of any residential structure with more than two units, or any business or
industrial structure or use;
               b.   The project involves expansion of a legal nonconforming
use, building or structure under the terms of this chapter. Illegal or
unacceptable nonconforming uses may not expand; or
               c.   The project is a special use.
      (2)   Required. At no time shall a site plan review be required as a part
of the decision process for a rezoning. This is because the decision to rezone
property should be based on consideration of its effects on long-range plans
for the city, and on the merits of the proposed zoning district, and the uses
it would allow, as they relate to the subject property and surrounding area.
   (B)   Site plan review process.
      (1)   Application deadlines. If a zoning application requires a site plan
review by the Planning Commission, a complete application package must be
received at least 30 days before the date of a Planning Commission meeting in
order to be reviewed at said meeting. If a site plan review is being conducted
for a special use permit or subdivision plat, the application timetable
specified for that process applies.
      (2)   Application material. Applications requiring site plan review must
be accompanied by a fee as established by the City Commission, and by at least
ten 11-inch by 17-inch copies of a site plan that meets the following
requirements stipulated below. The application will not be reviewed until the
complete application package has been submitted, including the fee.
      (3)   Site plan requirements. All applicants shall complete the site plan
review checklist. The site plan review checklist is available at the city
offices. Site plans shall conform to the provisions approved on the checklist.
All site plans must bear the stamp of a licensed engineer or architect with
civil engineering or architecture qualifications. Note that any proposed
construction, landscaping, retention of natural features or other property
conditions depicted in the site plan submission will be relied upon by the
Planning Commission in its review. Therefore, these conditions become
requirements for approval of the site plan. Failure to abide by such conditions
constitutes a violation of the terms of the site plan approval.
         (a)   Scale. The site plan must be drawn to a consistent scale of not
less than one inch equals 50 feet for sites of three acres or less, or one inch
equals 200 feet for larger sites.
         (b)   Identification. The applicant’s name, address and telephone
number and the name and address of the firm(s) responsible for preparation of
the site plan must be included. If the applicant does not own the property, the
owner must be identified and must sign a statement certifying that the
applicant is acting in the owner’s behalf.
         (c)   Property information. The site plan must accurately depict the
subject property and land adjacent to and across any thoroughfare from it,
including all existing and proposed easements or rights-of-way. Zoning of the
site, and of adjacent properties, must be identified. A legal description and
computation of the area of the property must accompany the site plan. Where
more than one description exists for a parcel of land, the legal description on
file with the County Register of Deeds will be the legal description upon which
a site plan decision is based.
         (d)   Site features. The site plan should depict existing
environmental conditions, including the locations of wooded areas or isolated
trees over six inches in diameter, topography, drainage features showing the
type and direction of flow, wetlands, any existing structures, including those
proposed for removal, and other significant conditions. The approximate
location and use of structures and the location of the nearest driveways on
adjacent or opposing parcels should be shown.
         (e)   Transportation features. The site plan must show the location
and surface type of all existing and proposed public and private roads, access
drives, internal vehicle circulation areas, parking lots (including number and
location of handicapped parking spaces), sidewalks (required for all
development), loading areas or docks, truck bays and refuse pickup stations.
         (f)   Shared access. The Planning Commission must require shared
access between and among uses where feasible, excluding single-family
residential uses. Feasibility is determined with respect to the physical design
of the site and not the effort or costs involved with achieving joint access.
This requirement applies to driveways and access drives associated with site
redevelopment or new construction. In the case of new development, a joint
driveway easement must be signed by all property owners involved prior to a
construction permit being issued. Driveways must be designed to allow joint
access in the future, where feasible, and an easement to allow future use of
the drive for joint access must be signed at the time of site plan approval.
Shared drives must be shown on site plans at the time of review by the Planning
Commission. Refusal to design a site with provisions for joint access or
refusal to participate in a joint access easement is justification for site
plan denial by the Planning Commission.
         (g)   Utilities. The site plan must show the location and size of all
existing and proposed public utilities. Water line information shall include
locations of existing and proposed fire hydrants and valves. Sanitary sewer
information shall include location of any pumping stations and approximate
location of manholes. Storm drainage information shall include any enclosed
drains, flow restrictors and on-site retention. The site plan must also include
any existing or proposed private utilities, such as natural gas, electricity,
telephone and cable television.
         (h)   Structures. The site plan must show the location and dimensions,
including height, of all proposed buildings, accessory structures and related
features. For multi-family housing developments, the number of units in each
building must be identified. Schematic plans and elevations of all structures
exceeding 5,000 square feet of total floor area must be included. The site plan
should also show the location, arrangement, dimensions and type of proposed
signs, lighting, landscaping, dumpsters, screening, fences and decorative
walls.
         (i)   Supplementary material. The site plan shall be complemented by
any additional information that, in the Zoning Administrator’s discretion, is
important for the site plan review process. This could include, but not be
limited to, an assessment of the proposed project’s impact on environmental,
historic social or economic conditions; traffic studies; or proposed measures
to control or mitigate such impacts as noise, smoke, particulates, vibration,
odors or fire hazards.
         (j)   Performance bond. Further, the Planning Commission is empowered
to require and at its option may require a performance bond or certified check
in an amount equal to the estimated cost of improvements associated with the
project. Such performance guarantee shall be deposited with the City Clerk at
the time of the issuance of the permit authorizing the activity or project to
insure faithful completion of the improvements indicated with the approved site
development plan; if not, the performance bond shall be forfeited. The city
shall rebate a proportional share of the deposit, when requested by the
depositor, based on the percent of improvements completed, as attested to by
the depositor and verified by the City Administrator. The City Administrator
may, at his or her discretion, call upon professional assistance from the City
Engineer, or Building Inspectors. In cases where the provisions above have not
been met, the amount of the aforementioned performance guarantee shall be used
by the city to return the property to a safe and healthy condition and the
balance, if any, shall be returned to the applicant.
      (4)   Staff review of site plan.
         (a)   Persons involved. Before the site plan is reviewed by the
Planning Commission, the City Building Inspector, Engineer or contracted
engineering services, Public Works Director and Fire Chief, or their designees,
shall be given an opportunity to review and comment upon it. In addition, the
Zoning Administrator may submit the site plan to any other department of city
government that he or she believes would have an interest in some aspect of the
proposed project. Staff members wishing to comment upon the site plan must
transmit their comments in writing to the Zoning Administrator at least five
days before the Planning Commission meeting at which the site plan is to be
reviewed. After receiving any staff comments, the Zoning Administrator shall
recommend to the Planning Commission what action should be taken.
         (b)   Standards to be used. Reviewers shall address the considerations
identified by the review standards in this chapter. If a site plan review is
being conducted for a proposed special use permit, the additional special use
permit review standards listed for the particular use and zoning district shall
be considered also.
      (5)   Planning Commission review of site plan. The Planning Commission
shall address the site plan review at a public meeting. A public hearing will
be held only if any party submits a written request to the City Clerk prior to
the Planning Commission meeting at which the site plan is to be considered. In
such cases, the public shall be heard before the Planning Commission acts upon
the site plan; however, a site plan review does not require either a public
hearing or special notification of anyone. The findings of a staff review of
the site plan and any public comments shall be taken into consideration by the
Planning Commission, but are not binding upon it in any way. In the interest of
providing a timely response to the applicant, the Planning Commission must take
one of the following actions at the meeting during which the site plan review
is conducted:
         (a)   Approval. An affirmative vote of the majority of Planning
Commission members present at the meeting is necessary to approve a site plan;
         (b)   Conditional approval. The Planning Commission may elect to
attach conditions to its approval of a site plan. Conditions must be justified
by one or more requirements of this chapter, or by provisions of other local,
state or federal laws. These conditions, together with the regulatory authority
and reasoning that justifies them, must be identified in the motion for site
plan approval and communicated to the applicant in writing. The conditions
shall become a part of the site plan, as inseparably as if they were part of
the applicant’s original submission. Approval of any proposed site plan that
must also receive approvals from other public agencies must obtain approvals
from those agencies before seeking site plan review. This shall include any
variances that must be issued by the City Zoning Board of Appeals. Approval of
a variance for conditions that differ from those depicted on the site plan must
be obtained prior to site plan review by the Planning Commission; or
         (c)   Denial with explanation. Failure to comply with one or more of
the review standards is the only justification for denial of a site plan. The
vote of a majority of Planning Commission members present at the meeting in
which the site plan is reviewed is required to deny it. The motion to deny must
state which of the review standards was not met by the site plan, and how the
plan failed to meet the standard. The motion to deny may also suggest methods
by which the shortcoming might be corrected. The applicant shall be notified in
writing of the Planning Commission’s denial of the site plan, with the full
text of the motion to deny reproduced in the communication.
      (6)   Deviations from approved site plan.
         (a)   It is recognized that unforeseen circumstances can necessitate
changes in a project during its development. Therefore, minor deviations from
an approved site plan are permitted if the Zoning Administrator determines that
all site plan review standards have been complied with.
         (b)   However, if the Zoning Administrator finds that a deviation from
the approved site plan does not comply with the review standards, he or she
shall notify the permit holder immediately, the City Building Inspector, and
the Planning Commission, in writing that the site plan approval has been
suspended. The permit holder’s notice shall be delivered by certified mail. If
construction has begun, a stop-work order shall be issued by the Building
Inspector, affecting that portion of the project that is not in compliance with
the site plan review standards.
         (c)   Once a site plan approval for a project has been suspended, the
permit holder has the option of changing the project plans to conform to the
review standards, or of restarting the site plan review process. When the issue
has been resolved, the Zoning Administrator shall send a written notice to the
permit holder, the Building Inspector and the Planning Commission that the
project’s site plan has again been approved.
         (d)   This provision should not be construed to prohibit phased
development of a project, provided that each phase complies with the
requirements of the review standards and with the approved site plan.
         (e)   If any deviations from an approved site plan are made, an “as
built” version of the site plan shall be provided to the Zoning Administrator
before the Building Inspector issues final approval for the project and before
any performance guarantee may be fully refunded.
      (7)   Record to be maintained. The record relating to any approved site
plan shall be maintained by the Zoning Administrator. This record shall include
an official copy of the final site plan as it was approved by the Planning
Commission, dated and signed by the permit holder, the Planning Commission
Chairperson and the Zoning Administrator. The record shall also include
documentation of any conditions attached to the site plan approval and evidence
of the satisfaction of these conditions. It shall also include documentation of
any allowed deviations from the approved site plan, dated and signed by the
permit holder and the Zoning Administrator.
   (C)   Site plan review standards. All site plan reviews shall use only the
following set of standards to judge whether the site plan should be approved or
denied. No off-site improvements can be required as conditions for site plan
approval, unless the applicant had volunteered to construct such improvements
as documented by his or her original site plan drawing(s); however, if the lack
of such off-site improvements will create unacceptable conditions, said lack is
sufficient justification for denial of a site plan.
      (1)   District regulations. The project must comply with the applicable
district regulations regarding use, dimensions, off-street parking and any
other aspects. (When the site plan review is being conducted as part of the
consideration process for a special use permit or a planned unit development,
the use of the site will be addressed after the site plan review. Therefore, it
must be presumed for this purpose that the use of the site will conform to the
district regulations.)
      (2)   Supplementary regulations. The project must comply with any and all
of the supplementary regulations that may apply to it.
      (3)   Special use standards. If the site plan review is being conducted
for a proposed special use permit, any special use standards relating to the
proposed use must be satisfied.
      (4)   Building arrangements. Site plans will be evaluated on the basis of
scale, circulation of air, provisions of adequate access to and around
buildings for police and fire protection services, establishment of pleasant
vistas, arrangements conducive to enhancing the environmental quality of the
site when developed, minimizing the extent of impervious ground cover and
minimizing the destruction of natural features that contribute to environmental
quality.
      (5)   Transportation. Transportation facilities serving the parcel must
be sufficient to provide safe and efficient access to the parcel and
circulation within it. Consideration shall be given to road rights-of-way,
surface type, number of lanes, driveway design and location, vehicular
circulation within the parcel, parking, snow removal from transportation
facilities, public transit, pedestrian circulation, emergency vehicle access
and accessibility for handicapped persons.
      (6)   Driveways. All driveways serving customer or employee parking lots
shall provide two-way traffic, unless otherwise part of a one-way entrance and
exit system. All driveways shall be a minimum of 20 feet wide. A lesser width
may be permitted if it can be proven that the driveway will be increased to 20
feet due to a joint arrangement with an adjacent property owner. Driveways must
have a raised curb that continues to the edge of the travel portion of the
public street if curbing is in place or planned for the public right-of-way.
Except for large parking lots, driveways shall be limited to one per
development.
      (7)   Utilities. Public utilities, including water, sewer and storm
drainage facilities, must be adequate to serve the proposed use, or sufficient
provisions shall be made to provide these services on the site. Private utility
services, including electricity, telephone, natural gas and cable television,
must also be sufficient to serve the needs of the project. When the adequacy of
any public utility service to the site is in question, the input of the
appropriate public utility provider shall be sought.
      (8)   Signs and lighting. Lighting is intended to illuminate parking and
vehicular areas for the purpose of increasing the safety of the users.
Appropriate lighting standards should be located on separate ground-mounted
standards adjacent to or the parking lot or vehicular use areas.
      (9)   Fire protection. The proposed project must comply with applicable
fire safety regulations. Also, current City Fire Department personnel and
equipment must be sufficient to serve the project. Finally, location, number
and capacity of fire hydrants must be adequate to serve fire suppression needs.
      (10)   Environment. Natural features of the landscape should be retained
wherever practicable to furnish a buffer between the project and adjoining
property(ies) or help to control erosion, contain storm water runoff, absorb
noise, deflect wind currents, reduce glare or otherwise benefit the general
health, safety or appearance of the neighborhood. Any buildings, fences,
lighting, vegetation or other features that are introduced into the landscape
should be designed to complement the site’s surrounding environment and enhance
the positive features of the project. The site plan should be developed with
the goal of controlling any negative impacts the project may have, such as
noise, smoke, vibration, odor, glare, heat or dust so that they will not be
discernible beyond the property boundaries. Further, projects shall fully
adhere to applicable environmental regulations promulgated by the State
Department of Natural Resources or other agencies.
      (11)   Storm drainage. Surface drainage, otherwise referred to as sheet
drainage, to the right-of-way, or adjacent properties is unacceptable.
      (12)   Consistency with ordinance intent. The site plan should be
generally consistent with the purpose and objectives of this chapter, as stated
in §
154.002, and with the purpose of the district in which the subject parcel is
located, as expressed in the intent and purpose table in §
154.030.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2005; Ord. 192, passed 3-21-2011)
ADMINISTRATION, ENFORCEMENT AND AMENDMENTS
§ 154.150  PEOPLE INVOLVED IN THE ZONING PROCESS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be carried out by the City Planning
Commission, the Zoning Board of Appeals, the City Commission, and the City
Zoning Administrator in conformance with applicable state enabling legislation.
   (A)   Zoning Administrator.
      (1)   The City Commission, with the recommendation of the Planning
Commission, shall employ a Zoning Administrator to carry out day-to-day
administration and enforcement of this chapter. The City Commission may
designate the Building Inspector as the Zoning Administrator. Conditions of the
Zoning Administrator’s employment, including compensation, shall be established
by the City Commission. Additional staff may be employed, under the supervision
of the Zoning Administrator, to assist with administration and enforcement of
this chapter.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator’s duties shall include the following items
and any other tasks that may be assigned by the City Commission or provisions
of this chapter.
         (a)   Accept and record applications, issue and record permits. All
applications for site plans shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator who
shall keep a record of all applications that have been submitted and their
disposition. When all applicable provisions of this chapter have been met
regarding any application, the Zoning Administrator shall allow a building
permit to be issued for the proposed use. When conditions are not met, the
Zoning Administrator shall consult with the applicant to determine the proper
course of action (see “review process” table in §
154.151(G)). The Zoning Administrator shall maintain a record of all
applications, including documentation for each.
         (b)   Issue written denial. When any application for a site plan is
denied, the Zoning Administrator shall provide the applicant with a written
denial, stating the reasons for the denial.
         (c)   Notice of hearings. Whenever a zoning matter is the subject of a
public hearing before the Planning Commission or the Zoning Board of Appeals,
the Zoning Administrator shall prepare notices of the hearing and disseminate
said notices as required by this chapter.
         (d)   Inspections. The Zoning Administrator shall be empowered to make
inspections of buildings or premises to carry out enforcement of this chapter.
         (e)   Record nonconforming uses. The Zoning Administrator shall record
all nonconforming uses existing at the effective date of this chapter.
         (f)   Record special uses. The Zoning Administrator shall keep a
record of all special use permits issued under the terms of this chapter.
         (g)   Record interpretations of chapter. The Zoning Administrator
shall maintain a concise record of all interpretations of this chapter rendered
by the Zoning Board of Appeals. Interpretations of this chapter do not include
dimensional or administrative issues. This record shall be consulted whenever
questions arise concerning interpretation of any provision of this chapter to
determine whether any applicable precedents have been set.
         (h)   Public information. The Zoning Administrator shall respond to
inquiries and dispense information or copies of this chapter to make the public
aware of and familiar with the provisions of this chapter. Public awareness and
acceptance of this chapter will help to maintain compliance with it.
         (i)   Respond to complaints. The Zoning Administrator shall respond
within five business days, whenever possible, to any complaint regarding an
alleged violation of the terms or conditions of this chapter or any permit
issued pursuant to it. The Zoning Administrator shall provide a report at each
regular Planning Commission meeting summarizing the nature and disposition of
complaints that have been received. A written record of all complaints,
responses and dispositions of the complaint will be maintained.
         (j)   May not change chapter. Under no circumstances is the Zoning
Administrator permitted to make changes in this chapter or to vary the terms of
this chapter.
   (B)   Planning Commission.
      (1)   Membership. The Planning Commission shall be composed of nine
members, appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the City Commission.
      (2)   Terms of office. The term of service for each member shall be three
years. Rotation of membership is encouraged.
      (3)   Rules of procedure. The Planning Commission shall adopt its own
rules of procedure as may be necessary to conduct its meetings and carry out
its function. The Commission shall choose its Chairperson, Vice Chairperson and
Secretary.
      (4)   Meetings. The Planning Commission shall meet monthly and by
resolution shall determine the time and place of meetings. All meetings shall
be properly noticed and open to the public.
      (5)   Per diem or expenses. Members of the Planning Commission may be
compensated for their services as provided by the City Commission. The Planning
Commission may make and administer regulations relative to compensation for the
travel of its members and employees when engaged in the performance of
activities authorized by the Planning Commission.
      (6)   Development plan. The Planning Commission shall make and adopt a
basic plan as a guide for the development of the city. Plan contents, adoption,
amendment, approval by the County Planning Commission, hearing and publication
shall be according to M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 through 125.3702 and M.C.L.A. §§
125.3801 through 125.3885, as amended.
      (7)   Zoning ordinance. The zoning ordinance shall be based on a plan
designed to promote the public health, safety and general welfare.
      (8)   Administration and enforcement. The Planning Commission shall be
responsible for the following administrative and enforcement activities under
this chapter.
         (a)   Site plan approval. The Planning Commission shall review site
plans and issue its approval, conditional approval or denial.
         (b)   Special use permits. The Planning Commission shall conduct a
public hearing on any application for a special use permit. Following a public
hearing, the Planning Commission shall review and approve or deny said
application. The Planning Commission shall also take any necessary action to
revoke a special use permit.
         (c)   Rezoning or amendment. The Planning Commission shall conduct
public hearings for proposals to rezone property or amend the text of this
chapter. Following a public hearing, the Planning Commission shall make its
recommendation regarding the proposed rezoning or text change to the City
Commission. The Planning Commission may initiate a text change or rezoning,
subject to the requirements for notice, hearing and City Commission approval.
   (C)   Zoning Board of Appeals. See §§
154.165 and
154.166.
   (D)   City Commission.
      (1)   On recommendation of the Planning Commission, the City Commission
has adopted the zoning ordinance, making it the enforceable policy of city
government.
      (2)   Likewise, the City Commission may amend the text of this chapter or
the boundaries of zoning districts (rezoning).
      (3)   The City Commission may review all zoning decisions of the Planning
Commission. The City Commission shall, by resolution, set fees to be charged
for any administrative action under this chapter. The Commission may also act
to waive any fee.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2005)
§ 154.151  ADMINISTRATIVE PROCESSES.
   (A)   Building permit required. The issuance of a building permit, showing
compliance with this chapter, signifies compliance with the requirements of
this chapter. A building permit must be obtained from the Building Official
before any of the following activities may legally take place:
      (1)   Occupancy and use of vacant land (including parking lot
construction);
      (2)   Any change in the use of a parcel of land or a building, including
any construction or structural alteration of a building that requires issuance
of a building permit by the City Building Inspector;
      (3)   Any use of land or a building that would be identified as a use by
special use permit by the Uses Table in §
154.030, for the zoning district in which the parcel is located; and
      (4)   Any change of a nonconforming use or building.
   (B)   Application for building permit. Application for a building permit
shall be made ten days before construction of a new or enlarged building or
structure, or a new or enlarged use of a parcel, is intended to begin. Form and
content of the application package shall be as specified by the following
material:
      (1)   Application form.
         (a)   Applicants for a building permit shall submit a zoning
application form with all requested information completely filled in.
         (b)   If the City Building Inspector also acts as Zoning
Administrator, the Inspector may elect to accept information submitted for a
building permit without duplicating it on the building application form.
      (2)   Property information. The building application form must be
accompanied by a copy of a property survey, deed or tax records sufficient to
allow identification of the parcel in the City Assessor’s property maps. When
the applicant is anyone other than the property owner identified by the
Assessor’s records, evidence of the owner’s concurrence or a change in
ownership must also be submitted.
      (3)   Plot plan.
         (a)   The Building Application Form must also be accompanied by a plot
plan drawn at size and scale sufficient to clearly identify the exact
dimensions of the parcel, all abutting streets, alleys or easements, and the
size, position and height of all existing and proposed buildings or structures
thereon.
         (b)   The Zoning Administrator may also require any other information
deemed necessary for the proper enforcement of this chapter.
   (C)   Application review process.
      (1)   On submission of an application for a site plan, the Zoning
Administrator will review the application material as described by the Review
Process Table in division (G) below.
      (2)   Whenever possible, it is desirable for this review to be conducted
with the applicant present to facilitate any necessary explanation.
      (3)   The review will address each question identified by the Review
Process Table in order, moving through each column in the question from left to
right.
   (D)   Record maintained. The Zoning Administrator shall keep a record of
each application for a site plan that has been submitted, including the
disposition of each one. This record shall be a public record, open for
inspection upon request.
   (E)   Validity of building permit.
      (1)   A building permit remains in effect for a period of one year from
the date it is issued. By that time, the activity authorized by the permit must
have begun.
      (2)   This means that any use of land or of an existing building must be
underway, or a building permit for any new construction must have been issued
and construction commenced.
      (3)   The validity of a building permit may be extended by the Zoning
Administrator not more than one time, for a period not to exceed one additional
year.
      (4)   Said extension must be requested in writing by the permit holder
before the expiration of the initial permit period.
   (F)   Voiding of a building permit.
      (1)   (a)   If the permit holder fails to initiate the activity
authorized by the building permit by the end of the one-year extension, the
building permit is automatically null and void.
         (b)   Any additional rights associated with the building permit that
have been granted by the Planning Commission or the Zoning Board of Appeals,
such as special use permits or variances, expire together with the building
permit.
      (2)   Any performance guarantee shall be refunded to the permit holder
unless the failure to initiate activity has resulted in costs to the city that
were to be covered by the guarantee. If any amount of the guarantee remains
after said costs are satisfied, the balance of the guarantee shall be released
and returned to the permit holder.
      (3)   Re-issuance of a building permit that has expired requires a new
building application form to be filed with the Zoning Administrator and
processed without consideration of any previous action.
   (G)   Review process table. This table follows on the next two pages.
Review Process Table; Initial Review Process
Question Refer To If All Standards Are If Standards Are Not Met
                  Met, Next Step       Situation Applicant’s OptionNext Step
Review Process Table; Initial Review Process
                                   If All    If Standards Are Not Met
Question   Refer To                Standards                                                 Applicant’s
                                   Are Met,  Situation                                       Options        Next Step
                                   Next Step
                                   Activity  Activity is permitted in a different zoning     Request a      Actions Table:
                                   is a use  district                                        rezoning       Rezoning
                                   by right:                                                 Request an     Actions Table:
                                   go to     Activity is not listed for any zoning district  interpretation Interpretation
                                   question                                                  appeal
                                   #2; or    Applicant does not agree with Administrator’s Request an     Actions Table:
#1 Is                              activity  finding                                         administrative Administrative
proposed                           is a                                                      appeal         appeal
activity                           special
permitted  §                      use; go
in this    154.030                 to
zoning                             Actions
district?                          Table:
                                   Special   Any situation                                   Withdraw       Denial letter
                                   Use
                                   Permit.
                                   Continue
                                   to
                                   Question
                                   #2
#2 Does                                                                                      Request a      Actions Table:
the parcel                                   Any situation                                   dimensions     Variance
meet       §                      Go to                                                     variance
standards  154.031 - “Lot Size”Question                                                  Withdraw       Denial letter
for this                           #3        Applicant does not agree with Administrator’s Request an     Actions Table:
zoning                                       finding                                         administrative Administrative
district?                                                                                    appeal         appeal
                                                                                             Request a      Actions Table:
                                                                                             dimensions     Variance
                                             Existing facility violates standards            variance
#3 Does                                                                                      Continue with  Nonconformities
existing                                                                                     process as is
or                                                                                           Request a      Actions Table:
proposed                           Go to                                                     dimensions     Variance
structure  §                      Question                                                  variance
or         154.031                 #4        Proposed facility will violate standards        Amend
building                                                                                     application to Go to Question
meet yard                                                                                    meet all       #4
and area                                                                                     standards
standards?                                   Applicant does not agree with Administrator’s Request an     Actions Table:
                                             finding                                         administrative Administrative
                                                                                             appeal         appeal
                                             Any situation                                   Withdraw       Denial letter
 
Review Process Table; Initial Review Process
Question Refer To If All Standards Are If Standards Are Not Met
                  Met, Next Step       Situation Applicant’s OptionNext Step
Review Process Table; Initial Review Process
                           If All    If Standards Are Not Met
Question      Refer To     Standards                                                 Applicant’s
                           Are Met,  Situation                                       Options        Next Step
                           Next Step
                                                                                     Request a      Actions Table:
                                                                                     dimensions     Variance
                                     Existing facility violates standards            variance
                                                                                     Continue with  §
                                                                                     process as is  154.006 -
                                                                                                    Nonconformities
#4 Will       Parking                                                                Request a      Actions Table:
proposed      Table and    Go to                                                     dimensions     Variance
activity meet Off-Street   Question                                                  variance
parking       Parking      #5        Proposed facility will violate standards        Amend
requirements? Requirements                                                           application to Go to Question
                                                                                     meet all       #5
                                                                                     standards
                                                                                     Withdraw       Denial letter
                                     Applicant does not agree with Administrator’s Request an     Actions Table:
                                     finding                                         administrative Administrative
                                                                                     appeal         appeal
                                                                                     Request a      Actions Table:
                                                                                     dimensions     Variance
                                                                                     variance
                                     Proposed activity will violate measurable       Amend
                                     standards                                       application to Go to Question
                                                                                     meet all       #6
#5 Will                                                                              standards
proposed      §§         Go to                                                     Withdraw       Denial letter
activity meet 154.006      Question                                                  Request a text Actions Table:
all           through      #6                                                        change         Text change
supplementary 154.010                Proposed activity will violate non-measurable,  Amend
regulations?                         written standards                               application to Go to Question
                                                                                     meet all       #6
                                                                                     standards
                                                                                     Withdraw       Denial letter
                                     Applicant does not agree with Administrator’s Request an     Actions Table:
                                     finding                                         administrative Administrative
                                                                                     appeal         appeal
#6 Has permit              Issue                                                     Request a fee  Actions Table:
fee been      Fee schedule permit    Fee represents a serious hardship to applicant  waiver         Fee waiver
paid?                                                                                Withdraw       Denial letter
 
(Ord. passed 11-2-2005)
§ 154.152  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Responsibility. The Zoning Administrator shall enforce the provisions
of this chapter.
   (B)   Violations and penalties. Violations of any provisions of this chapter
are declared to be a nuisance per se. Any and all building or land use
activities that are considered to be possible violations of the provisions of
this chapter, and that are observed by or communicated to a city official or
employee, shall be reported to the Zoning Administrator.
      (1)   Inspection of violation. The Zoning Administrator shall inspect
each alleged violation he or she observes or is made aware of and shall order
correction, in writing, of all conditions found to be in violation of this
chapter.
      (2)   Correction period. All violations shall be corrected within a
reasonable time period determined by the Zoning Administrator, but not to
exceed 30 days.
      (3)   Action by city attorney.
         (a)   A violation not corrected within this period shall be reported
to the City Attorney, who shall initiate procedures to eliminate such
violation.
         (b)   Once a violation has been referred to the City Attorney, any
legal action that the Attorney deems necessary to restore compliance with all
terms and conditions of this chapter is hereby authorized.
      (4)   Cumulative rights and remedies. The rights and remedies provided
herein are cumulative and in addition to any other remedies provided by law.
   (C)   Conflicting regulations. In the interpretation, application and
enforcement of the provisions of this chapter, whenever any of the provisions
or limitations imposed or required by this chapter are more stringent than any
other law or ordinance, then the provisions of this chapter shall govern,
provided also that whenever the provisions of any other law or ordinance impose
more stringent requirements than are imposed or required by this chapter, the
provisions of such other law or ordinance shall govern.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2005)
§ 154.153  AMENDMENT.
   (A)   City Commission may amend. The regulations and provisions stated in
the text of this chapter and the boundaries of zoning districts shown on the
zoning district map may be amended, supplemented or changed by ordinance by the
City Commission in accordance with the applicable enabling legislation of the
state.
   (B)   Initiation of amendments. Proposals for amendments, supplements or
changes may be initiated by the City Commission of its own action, by the
Planning Commission or by petition of one or more persons having an interest,
by ownership or option to purchase, in property to be affected by the proposed
amendment.
   (C)   Amendment procedure.
      (1)   Petition to City Clerk and payment of fee.
         (a)   Each petition by one or more owners or their agents for an
amendment shall be submitted upon an application of standard form to the City
Clerk.
         (b)   A fee as established by the City Commission shall be paid at the
time of application to cover costs of necessary advertising for public hearings
and processing of the amendment request.
         (c)   The City Clerk shall transmit the application to the Planning
Commission for recommended action.
      (2)   Recommendation. The Planning Commission shall consider each
proposed amendment in terms of the likely effect of such proposal upon the
development plans for the community as well as in terms of the merits of the
individual proposal. The Planning Commission may recommend any additions or
modifications to the original amendment petition.
      (3)   Public hearing. Before voting on any proposed amendment to this
chapter, the Planning Commission shall conduct a public hearing, with notice
being given as specified by the following section.
      (4)   Notice requirements for public hearing. Preparation, publication
and distribution of notices for the public hearing shall be the responsibility
of the City Clerk.
         (a)   Content. Every notice of said hearing shall contain all
information required by §
154.154.
         (b)   Distribution.
            1.   Published. Notice shall be given by one publication in a
newspaper of general circulation in the community, printed not less than 15
days before the date of such hearing.
            2.   Certified mail. Not less than 20 days notice shall also be
given by certified mail to each public utility company servicing the community,
at the mailing address identified by each company for the purpose of receiving
such notice, if they request notification.
            3.   Other mailed notice. In any instance involving the rezoning of
one or more parcels, or when the owner or other party having an interest in any
parcel has requested a text change, notice of the proposed amendment shall be
mailed to the owner of the property in question and to all persons residing,
doing business or owning property within 300 feet of the premises in question.
These persons shall be identified as specified by §
154.154.
            4.   Affidavit of mailing. An affidavit of mailing, identifying all
parties to whom notice has been sent, shall be prepared and filed with other
material relating to the proposed amendment prior to the Planning Commission
meeting at which the hearing is to be conducted.
            5.   Bay County Planning Commission. Following the conclusion of
the public hearing and review by the City Planning Commission, the proposed
amendment and any applicable zoning district map may be submitted to the County
Planning Commission for their review. The approval of the County Planning
Commission shall be presumed, conclusively, unless such Commission notifies the
City Commission of its approval or disapproval within 30 days of its receipt of
the amendment.
            6.   Amendment to conform to court decree. An amendment for the
purpose of conforming a provision of this chapter to the decree of a court of
competent jurisdiction as to any specific lands may be adopted by the City
Commission and the notice of the adopted amendment published without referring
the amendment to any other board or agency provided for in this chapter.
            7.   City Commission change. If the City Commission deems advisable
any changes to the amendment recommended by the Planning Commission, it shall
refer these changes back to the Planning Commission for a report thereon within
30 days. The City Commission may deny or adopt the amendment with or without
changes, by a majority vote of its membership, following the Commission’s
standard procedures for adoption of ordinances.
            8.   Resubmittal. No application for a rezoning that has been
denied by the City Commission shall be resubmitted for a period of one year
from the date of the last denial, except on grounds of newly discovered
evidence or proof of changed conditions which, upon inspection by the City
Commission, are found to be valid.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2005)
§ 154.154  NOTICE REQUIREMENTS FOR PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   (A)   Content. Each notice for any public hearing required by this chapter
shall include the following information:
      (1)   Identification of the applicant, if any;
      (2)   Identification of the property that is the subject of the request;
      (3)   Nature of the matter to be considered;
      (4)   Identification of the public body that will be conducting the
public hearing and will decide upon the matter;
      (5)   Date, time and place of the public hearing;
      (6)   The places and times at which any proposed text and/or map
amendment to this chapter may be examined; and
      (7)   Statement of where and when written comments will be received
concerning the request.
   (B)   Notification of residents, businesses or property owners within 300
feet. Whenever provisions of this chapter require mailing of public hearing
notices to persons who reside, do business or own property within 300 feet of a
certain parcel, the mailing list shall be compiled from the following sources:
      (1)   The owner(s) of property for which approval is being considered;
      (2)   All persons to whom real property is assessed where any part of
their parcel lies within 300 feet of the boundary of the property in question;
and
      (3)   Occupants of all structures where any part of the structure lies
within 300 feet. Each dwelling unit or rental area within said structures shall
receive one notice; however, separate notice need not be sent for accessory
structures where the primary structure also lies within the 300 foot distance.
         (a)   If the name of the occupant is not known, the term OCCUPANT may
be used in making notification.
         (b)   In the case of a single structure containing more than four
dwelling units or other distinct areas, the notice may be mailed to the manager
or owner of the structure who shall be requested to post the notice at the
primary entrance of the structure.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2005)
§ 154.155  SPECIAL ZONING DECISIONS TABLE.
 
                                                  Published  Notice to  Body to
               Parties Who   Body       Public    Notice(s); All Owners Which
Type of Action May Initiate  Making     Hearing   Number of  and        Applicant
               Action        Decision   Required? Days       Occupants  May Appeal
                                                  Before     Within 300 a Denial
                                                  Hearing    Feet
                             Zoning     No;
Variance       Applicant or  Board of   meeting   Reasonable Reasonable Circuit
               Administrator Appeals    open to   notice     notice     Court only
                                        public
                             Zoning     No;
Interpretation Applicant or  Board of   meeting   Reasonable Reasonable Circuit
               Administrator Appeals    open to   notice     notice     Court only
                                        public
               Any aggrieved
Appeal of      party or      Zoning     No;
administrative state,        Board of   meeting   Reasonable Reasonable Circuit
decision       officer,      Appeals    open to   notice     notice     Court only
               board bureau             public
               or dept.
                                                                        Planning
                                                                        Comm.
Site plan      Applicant or  Planning   No        Not        Not        after 1
approval       Administrator Commission           required   required   year, or
                                                                        City
                                                                        Commission
                                        If                              Planning
                                        requested Once,      Once,      Comm.
Special use    Applicant or  Planning   by        between 5- between 5- after 1
permit         Administrator Commission property  15 days    15 days    year, or
                                        owner     before     before     Circuit
                                        within    date       date       Court
                                        300 feet
 
                                           Published   Notice to
        Parties Who              Public    Notice(s);  All Owners Body to Which
Type of May Initiate Body Making Hearing   Number of   and        Applicant May
Action  Action       Decision    Required? Days Before Occupants  Appeal a
                                           Hearing     Within 300 Denial
                                                       Feet
                                               Published  Notice to  Body to
            Parties Who   Body       Public    Notice(s); All Owners Which
Type of     May Initiate  Making     Hearing   Number of  and        Applicant
Action      Action        Decision   Required? Days       Occupants  May Appeal
                                               Before     Within 300 a Denial
                                               Hearing    Feet
                                               Once,      Once,      Planning
Planned                                        between 5- between 5- Comm.
unit        Applicant or  Planning   Yes       15 days    15 days    after 1
development Administrator Commission           before     before     year, or
                                               date       date       Circuit
                                                                     Court
                                               Once, not  Once, not  Planning
                                               less than  less than  Commission
            Applicant,    Planning   Yes       15 days    15 days    after 1
            Planning      Commission           before     before     year
Rezoning    Commission or recommends           date       date
            City          to City    If        Once,
            Commission    Commission requested between 5- Not        Circuit
                                     by any    15 days    required   Court
                                     party     before
                                               date
                                               Once, not  Once, not  Planning
                                               less than  less than  Commission
Zoning      Applicant,    Planning   Yes       15 days    15 days    after 1
ordinance   Planning      Commission           before     before     year
or zoning   Commission or recommends           date       date
map text    City          to City    If        Once, not
change      Commission    Commission requested less than  Not        Circuit
                                     by any    15 days    required   Court
                                     party     before
                                               date
            Applicant,    Planning             Once, not             Planning
Development Planning      Commission           less than             Commission
plan or map Commission or recommends Yes       15 days    Not        after 1
change      City          to City              before     required   year or
            Commission    Commission           date                  Circuit
                                                                     Court
Fee waiver  Applicant     City       No        Not        Not        Circuit
                          Commission           required   required   Court
 
(Ord. passed 11-2-2005)
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
§ 154.165  GENERALLY.
   (A)   Establishment. The City Commission, exercising the authority of
M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 through 125.3702 and M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3801 through
125.3885, as amended, hereby provides that a City Zoning Board of Appeals be
established. Upon adoption of this chapter, the Zoning Board of Appeals
established under the terms of the previous zoning ordinance shall remain in
office, including all members thereof.
   (B)   Membership. The City Zoning Board of Appeals shall consist of five
members. The first member of the Board of Appeals shall be a member of the City
Planning Commission; two members shall be property owners within the city. An
elected officer of the city may not serve as Chairperson of the Zoning Board of
Appeals. An employee or contractor of the City Commission may not serve as a
member or employee of the Zoning Board of Appeals. The City Commission shall
have the power to remove members of the Board of Appeals for nonperformance of
duty or misconduct in office upon written charges and after a public hearing.
   (C)   Terms of office. Terms of Zoning Board of Appeals members shall be for
three years, except for members serving because of their membership on the
Planning Commission or City Commission, whose terms shall be limited to the
time they are members of said bodies and the period stated in the resolution
appointing them. A successor shall be appointed not more than one month after
the term for the preceding member has expired. All vacancies for unexpired
terms shall be filled for the remainder of the term. Rotation of membership is
encouraged.
   (D)   Rules of procedure. The Board of Appeals may adopt its own rules of
procedure as may be necessary to conduct its meetings and carry out its
function. The Board shall choose its Chairperson, and in the Chairperson’s
absence, an acting Chair may be appointed.
   (E)   Meetings. Meetings shall be held at the call of the Chairperson and at
such times as the Board of Appeals may determine. A simple majority of the
membership of the Board of Appeals shall constitute a quorum and may conduct
any items of business brought before the Board. All meetings of the Board shall
be open to the public. The Board may declare any meeting, or part of any
meeting, a study meeting to pursue matters of business with out comment or
interruption from the public in attendance.
   (F)   Records. Minutes shall be recorded of all proceedings that shall
contain evidence and dates relevant to every case considered together with the
votes of the members and the final disposition of each case. Such minutes shall
be filed in the office of the City Clerk and shall be public records.
   (G)   Decisions. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall return a decision upon
each case within 30 days of the filing of a request or appeal unless a further
time is agreed upon by the parties concerned. Any decision of the Zoning Board
of Appeals shall not take effect until the expiration of five days after the
date of said decision, unless the Board of Appeals certifies on the record that
the decision must be given immediate effect for the preservation of property or
personal rights.
   (H)   Majority vote. The concurring vote of a majority of the membership of
the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be necessary to decide upon any issue brought
before the Board. For example, if three members are present, out of a total of
five members, all three must concur to pass a motion.
   (I)   Conflict of interest. A member of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall
disqualify himself or herself from discussion and voting in which the member
has a conflict of interest. Failure of a member to disqualify himself or
herself from a vote in which the member has a conflict of interest shall
constitute misconduct in office.
   (J)   Duties. The City Zoning Board of Appeals shall have the power to act
on those matters where this chapter provides for an administrative review,
interpretation or variance as defined in this section. The Board of Appeals
shall not have the power to alter or change the zoning district classification
of any property, or to make any change in the terms or intent of this chapter.
      (1)   Administrative review. The Board of Appeals shall hear and decide
appeals where it is alleged by the appellant that there is an error in any
order, requirement, permit, decision or refusal made by the Zoning
Administrator or by any other official administering or enforcing provisions of
this chapter.
      (2)   Interpretation. The Board of Appeals shall have the power to
interpret, upon request, the provisions of this chapter in such a way as to
carry out the intent and purpose of this chapter.
      (3)   Variances. The Board of Appeals shall have the power to authorize
variances from any quantifiable requirements of this chapter where practical
difficulties or unnecessary hardships prevent carrying out the strict letter of
this chapter. Creation of nonconforming lots is prohibited.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2005)
§ 154.166  ADMINISTRATIVE ACTIONS BY THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   Duties of the Board of Appeals. The Board of Appeals may only hear
requests for a variance, administrative review or interpretation of this
chapter or zoning map. Circumstances resulting from an act of the applicant,
after adoption of this chapter, shall not be allowed to be heard by the Board
of Appeals.
      (1)   Variance. The Zoning Board of Appeals is empowered to grant
variances to such requirements as lot area and width regulations, yard and
depth regulations, and off-street parking and loading space requirements. Any
requirement of this chapter that can be expressed in terms of numbers may be
brought before the Zoning Board of Appeals to be considered for a variance.
      (2)   Administrative review. The Zoning Board of Appeals is empowered to
review and reverse or modify any order, decision or determination made by an
administrative official charged with enforcing or administering this chapter.
The Board is not empowered to overturn decisions of the Planning Commission
regarding special use permits, including such permits for planned unit
developments. The Board may not overturn the denial of a site plan in
connection with any special use permit proceedings.
         (a)   Requests for administrative review. An administrative review by
the Zoning Board of Appeals may be requested by any person aggrieved, or by any
officer, department or board of the local government. Any such request must be
made in writing not more than ten days after the date of the Zoning
Administrator’s decision. The request shall be filed with the Zoning
Administrator and shall specify the grounds for the review. The Zoning
Administrator shall immediately transmit to the Chairperson of the Board of
Appeals any papers constituting the record upon which the action being reviewed
was taken.
         (b)   Stay. An administrative review shall stay all proceedings in
furtherance of the action being reviewed, except as follows. If the Zoning
Administrator certifies in writing to the Zoning Board of Appeals, after a
request for an administrative review has been filed, that a stay would cause
imminent peril to life or property, the proceedings shall not be stayed unless
a restraining order is issued by the Zoning Board of Appeals or by court
action.
      (3)   Interpretation.
         (a)   The Zoning Board of Appeals may interpret provisions of this
chapter as outlined below.
         (b)   Each such interpretation shall establish the precedent for
future treatment of the issue being addressed.
         (c)   To achieve the objective of consistent enforcement of this
chapter, whenever an interpretation question arises that has been addressed
previously by the Zoning Board of Appeals, the earlier interpretation shall
apply without requiring further action by the Board. Interpretation issues do
not include dimensional variance issues.
         (d)   The Zoning Administrator shall keep a concise record of all
interpretations made by the Zoning Board of Appeals to facilitate such
reference.
            1.   The Board may determine the precise location of the boundary
lines between zoning districts.
            2.   The Board may classify any activity that is not specifically
mentioned in the Uses Table in §
154.030 for any zoning district as a use by right or special use within at
least one zoning district, provided that said classification shall be
consistent with the classification of similar uses and with the purpose and
intent of each zoning district.
            3.   The Board may determine the off-street parking and loading
space requirements of any use for which these requirements are not determinable
using the information provided in the parking subchapter (§§
154.070 through
154.075).
            4.   The Board may interpret any portion of this chapter when the
Zoning Administrator is unable to clearly determine its intent or effect.
   (B)   Conditions for granting a variance. A variance may be granted when any
one of the following special conditions can be demonstrated clearly:
      (1)   There are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships that
prevent carrying out the strict letter of this chapter. These hardships or
difficulties shall not be deemed economic, but shall be evaluated in terms of
the use of a particular parcel of land;
      (2)   There are exceptional circumstances or physical conditions such as
narrowness, shallowness, shape or topography of property involved; or, due to
the intended use of the property, that will not apply to other property or uses
in the same zoning district. Circumstances resulting from an act of the
applicant, after the adoption of this chapter, shall not be allowed a variance;
or
      (3)   Variation is necessary for the preservation of a substantial
property right possessed by other properties in the same zoning district.
   (C)   Fees. A fee as established by the City Commission shall be paid to the
City Treasurer at the time of filing application with the Board of Appeals. The
purpose of such fee is to cover, in part, the necessary advertisements,
investigations and other expenses incurred by the Board of Appeals in
connection with the appeal.
   (D)   Rules for Zoning Board of Appeals actions.
      (1)   A public hearing must be held by the Zoning Board of Appeals prior
to making a decision on a variance, an administrative review or interpretation
that relates to a specific parcel; mailed notice shall be given not less than
five days nor more than 15 days before the date of the meeting at which the
action will be considered. The contents and distribution of said notice shall
be as specified by this chapter.
      (2)   Any decision by the Zoning Board of Appeals must not be contrary to
the public interest or to the intent and purpose of this chapter.
      (3)   In no way may a variance, site plan approval or finding of an
administrative review be construed to allow the establishment within a zoning
district of any use that is not permitted by right or by special use permit
within that zoning district. The Zoning Board of Appeals may only expand the
list of permitted uses for any zoning district as a result of an interpretation
regarding a use that is not listed anywhere in the Uses Table in §
154.030.
      (4)   Prior to any decision by the Board of Appeals, the Planning
Commission may comment on the issue before the Board and provide a written
recommendation of action.
      (5)   In making any decision, the Zoning Board of Appeals must endeavor
to avoid causing a substantial adverse effect upon property values in the
immediate vicinity of the subject property. Nor shall such actions have the
effect of substantially impacting property values for land in the zoning
district in which the subject property is located.
      (6)   Any action brought before the Zoning Board of Appeals may relate
only to a single parcel that must be under control of the applicant. If the
applicant is not the owner of the property, evidence must be provided that the
owner concurs with the request for Zoning Board of Appeals action.
      (7)   Approval by the Zoning Board of Appeals of any request may not be
granted-simply to prevent an economic loss. Improving an owner’s chance to
profit from sale of a parcel is not an objective of this chapter.
      (8)   Any request that has been denied wholly or in part by the Zoning
Board of Appeals may not be resubmitted for a period of one year from the date
of the last denial; however, if new evidence or changed conditions are found,
the Board may elect to rehear a case, subject to all notice requirements
defined by the Actions Table.
      (9)   The Board of Appeals may attach any reasonable conditions to the
approval of any request to secure the objectives and purposes of this chapter.
The breach of any such condition shall automatically invalidate any permits
granted pursuant to the Zoning Board of Appeals action. When it attaches any
conditions to the approval of a request, the Board of Appeals may require that
a bond of ample sum be furnished to ensure compliance with the conditions
imposed. Said bond shall not exceed $5,000.
      (10)   A variance must be necessary to overcome practical difficulties or
unnecessary hardships that prevent carrying out the strict letter of this
chapter. These hardships or difficulties are to be evaluated in terms of the
applicant’s ability to physically locate a permitted use on the particular
parcel of land. Creation of a nonconforming lot is prohibited.
      (11)   When a variance is being considered to overcome unique
circumstances or physical conditions regarding the configuration of the
property involved, these circumstances or conditions must not have resulted
from any act of the applicant or property owner subsequent to the adoption of
this chapter.
      (12)   A variance granted under the provisions of this chapter becomes a
condition of any permit granted pursuant to the variance or approval. If a
building permit issued pursuant to such action is allowed to expire under the
provisions of this chapter, any rights granted by the action expire together
with the building permit.
      (13)   The minutes of the Zoning Board of Appeals meeting at which any
decision was made regarding a variance, administrative review or interpretation
shall include the grounds used by the Board in making said decision, and any
conditions that may have been attached to authorization for issuance of a
building permit.
      (14)   If the specific conditions relating to a certain class of property
are so general or recurrent in nature as to make similar variances a perennial
issue for the Board of Appeals, the Board shall suggest a general regulation
for such conditions for the Planning Commission’s consideration. Distribution:
         (a)   Published. Notice shall be given by one publication in a
newspaper of general circulation in the community, printed not less than 15
days before the date of such hearing.
         (b)   Certified mail. Not less than 20 days’ notice shall also be
given by certified mail to each public utility company servicing the community,
at the mailing address identified by each company for the purpose of receiving
such notice, if they request notification.
         (c)   Other mailed notice. In any instance involving the rezoning of
one or more parcels, or when the owner or other party having an interest in any
parcel has requested a text change, notice of the proposed amendment shall be
mailed to the owner of the property in question and to all persons residing,
doing business or owning property within 300 feet of the premises in question.
These persons shall be identified as specified by §
154.154.
         (d)   Affidavit of mailing. An affidavit of mailing, identifying all
parties to whom notice has been sent, shall be prepared and filed with other
material relating to the proposed amendment prior to the Planning Commission
meeting at which the hearing is to be conducted.
         (e)   County Planning Commission. Following the conclusion of the
public hearing and review by the City Planning Commission, the proposed
amendment and any applicable zoning district map may be submitted to the County
Planning Commission for its review. The approval of the County Planning
Commission shall be presumed, conclusively, unless such Commission notifies the
City Commission of its approval or disapproval within 30 days of its receipt of
the amendment.
         (f)   Amendment to conform to court decree. An amendment for the
purpose of conforming a provision of this chapter to the decree of a court of
competent jurisdiction as to any specific lands may be adopted by the City
Commission and the notice of the adopted amendment published without referring
the amendment to any other board or agency provided for in this chapter.
         (g)   City Commission change. If the City Commission deems advisable
any changes to the amendment recommended by the Planning Commission, it shall
refer these changes back to the Planning Commission for a report thereon within
30 days. The City Commission may deny or adopt the amendment with or without
changes, by a majority vote of its membership, following the Commission’s
standard procedures for adoption of ordinances.
         (h)   Resubmittal. No application for a rezoning that has been denied
by the City Commission shall be resubmitted for a period of one year from the
date of the last denial, except on grounds of newly discovered evidence or
proof of changed conditions which, upon inspection by the City Commission, are
found to be valid.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2005)
WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS
§ 154.180  PURPOSE.
   The regulation of wind energy conversion systems is intended to provide for
an alternative source of power generation while protecting the health, safety
or welfare of residents. This subchapter addresses issues such as height,
construction, minimum distances from lot lines and noise generated. As shown
below, there is a distinction between on-site wind energy systems vs. utility
grid wind energy systems.
(Ord. 190, passed 6-7-2010)
§ 154.181  SCOPE OF REGULATIONS.
   Wind energy conversion systems may be erected, relocated, enlarged,
structurally changed or altered in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 190, passed 6-7-2010)
§ 154.182  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words and
phrases not defined by these definitions but defined in §
154.005 shall be given the meanings set forth in §
154.005.
   AMBIENT.  The sound pressure level exceeded 90% of the time or L90.
   ANEMOMETER TOWER.  A freestanding tower containing instrumentation such as
anemometers that is designed to provide present moment wind data.
   APPLICANT.  The person or entity filing an application under this
subchapter.
   dB(A).  The sound pressure level in decibels. It refers to the “a” weighted
scale defined by ANSI. A method for weighting the frequency spectrum to mimic
the human ear.
   DECIBEL.  The unit of measure used to express the magnitude of sound
pressure and sound intensity.
   FAA.  Federal Aviation Administration.
   HEIGHT FOR WIND GENERATORS.  The height of the wind energy conversion system
measured from grade to the tip of the rotor blade or assembly at its highest
point or blade tip height.
   IEC.  International Electrotechnical Commission: the leading global
organization that prepares and publishes international standards for all
electrical, electronic and related technologies.
   ON-SITE USE WIND ENERGY SYSTEM.  A land use for generating electric power
from wind and is an accessory use that is intended to primarily serve the needs
of the consumer at that site.
   PEDESTAL.  A structure no taller than 12 feet that is designed and
constructed primarily for the purpose of supporting one wind turbine.
   ROOF MOUNTED.  Any part of a wind energy conversion system that is located
on the roof of a building, fire or parapet walls, stage lofts, chimneys,
smokestacks, water tower or roof structures for the housing of elevators,
stairways, tanks, ventilating fans or similar equipment required to operate and
maintain a building.
   ROTOR.  An element of a wind energy system that acts as a multi-bladed
airfoil assembly, thereby extracting, through rotation, kinetic energy directly
from the wind.
   SHADOW FLICKER.  Alternating changes in light intensity caused by the moving
blade of a wind energy system casting shadows on the ground and stationary
objects, such as, but not limited to, a window at a dwelling.
   SYSTEM OWNER.  The entity or entities having controlling or majority equity
interest in the wind energy conversion system, including their respective
successors and assignees.
   TOWER.  Any structure, including its supports, that is ground mounted,
taller than 12 feet, and designed and constructed primarily for the purpose of
supporting one or more wind energy conversion systems. This includes self
supporting lattice towers, guyed lattice towers or monopole towers.
   UTILITY GRID WIND ENERGY SYSTEM.  A land use for generating power by use of
wind at multiple tower locations in a community and includes accessory uses
such as but not limited to a SCADA tower, electric substation. A UTILITY GRID
WIND ENERGY SYSTEM is designed and built to provide electricity to the electric
utility grid.
   WIND ENERGY SYSTEM.  A land use for generating power by use of wind;
utilizing use of a wind turbine generator and includes the turbine, blades and
tower as well as related electrical equipment. This does not include wiring to
connect the wind energy system to the grid. See also ON-SITE USE WIND ENERGY
SYSTEM and UTILITY GRID WIND ENERGY SYSTEM.
(Ord. 190, passed 6-7-2010)
§ 154.183  ON-SITE WIND ENERGY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   All on-site wind energy conversion systems and supporting anemometer towers,
if under 60 feet in height, shall conform to the following standard.
   (A)   Purpose. Designed to primarily serve the needs of a home, farm or
small business.
   (B)   Height. Shall have a height of 60 feet or less. Applicants may request
special use approval from the Planning Commission to waive height restrictions
for towers located at school, institutional or governmental properties.
   (C)   Property setback.
      (1)   The distance between an on-site use wind energy system and the
owner’s property lines shall be equal to 110% of the height of the wind energy
system including the top of the blade in its vertical position.
      (2)   If a system is installed on a roof, the setback shall be calculated
based on the total system height above the roof, not including the structure
below the point it is mounted on the roof.
      (3)   The distance between an anemometer tower and the owner’s property
lines shall be equal to the height of the tower. No part of the wind energy
system structure, including guy wire anchors, may extend closer than ten feet
to the owner’s property lines, or the distance of the required setback in the
respective zoning district, whichever results in the greater setback. Wind
energy conversion systems shall not be located between the front lot line and
the front wall of a dwelling.
Graphic 1 Ground systems
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40761c512c04a852161f3810babab8dc81854987/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1400.jpg]
Graphic 1 B Roof Mounted
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40761c512c04a852161f3810babab8dc81854987/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1402.jpg]
   (D)   Sound pressure level. On-site use wind energy systems shall not exceed
55 dB(A) at the property line closest to the wind energy system. This sound
pressure level may be exceeded during short-term events such as utility outages
and/or severe wind storms. If the ambient sound pressure level exceeds 55 dB
(A), the standard shall be ambient dB(A) plus 5 dB(A).
   (E)   Construction codes and towers. On-Site Use wind energy systems
including towers shall comply with all applicable state construction and
electrical codes and local building permit requirements. On-site use wind
energy systems including towers shall comply with Federal Aviation
Administration (FAA) requirements, the Michigan Airport Zoning Act (Public Act
23 of 1950, M.C.L.A. §§ 259.431 et seq.), the Michigan Tall Structures Act
(Public Act 259 of 1959, M.C.L.A. §§ 259.481 et seq.), and local jurisdiction
airport overlay zone regulations.
   (F)   Interconnection standards. An interconnected on-site use wind energy
system shall comply with the State Public Service Commission and Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission standards. Off-grid systems are exempt from this
requirement.
   (G)   Braking. An on-site use wind energy system shall have automatic
braking, governing or a feathering system to prevent uncontrolled rotation or
over speeding.
   (H)   Lightning protection. All wind towers shall have lightning protection.
   (I)   Guy wires. If a tower is supported by guy wires, the wires shall be
clearly visible to a height of at least six feet above the guy wire anchors.
   (J)   Blade to ground clearance. The minimum vertical blade tip clearance
from grade shall be 20 feet for a wind energy system employing a horizontal
axis rotor.
   (K)   Engineering approval. Engineering considerations in this subchapter
shall involve the approval of a certified engineer. That shall include, but not
be limited to: FAA compliance; airport zoning; tall structures; public service
commission; federal energy regulations; braking; and lightning protection. The
structural integrity shall conform to the design standards of the International
Electrical Commission, specifically:
      (1)   IEC 61400- 1 Wind Turbine Safety and Design; and/or
      (2)   IEC 61400- 2 Small Wind Turbine Safety;
      (3)   IEC 61400-22 Wind Turbine Certification; and
      (4)   IEC 61400-23 Blade Structure Testing or any similar successor
standards.
   (L)   Illumination. Wind energy conversion systems may not be artificially
lighted unless otherwise required by the FAA or approved authority or
authorized by the Planning Commission.
   (M)   Access.
      (1)   Ground access. Towers that are not roof-mounted shall be enclosed
with a six-foot tall fence or the base of the tower or pedestal shall not be
climbable for a distance of 12 feet.
      (2)   Roof access. When roof mounted wind energy conversion systems are
meant to be accessed by the public, the Planning Commission or City Manager may
require additional guards or warnings to ensure safety.
   (N)   Unsafe or inoperative systems.
      (1)   Any wind energy conversion systems found to be unsafe by a City
Building Official shall be repaired by the system owner to meet all code
requirements or be removed as directed by the city.
      (2)   If any wind energy conversion systems are not used for a period of
12 months, the system owner will be notified by certified mail to set forth
reasons for the operational difficulty and provide a reasonable timetable for
corrective action. If one is not provided to the satisfaction of the city, the
landowner shall remove the wind energy conversion system(s) with 60 days of
receipt of a certified mail notice to remove.
   (O)   Signal interference. wind energy conversion systems shall not
interfere with communication systems such as, but not limited to, radio,
telephone, television, satellite or emergency communication.
   (P)   Number. Wind energy conversion systems in residential areas may
consist of one to five wind turbines, tower or pedestals and their associated
control or conversion electronics.
(Ord. 190, passed 6-7-2010)
§ 154.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Every person, whether as principal agent, servant, employee or
otherwise, including the owners of any building, structure or premise or part
thereof where any violation of this chapter shall exist or shall be created,
who shall violate or refuse to comply with any of the provisions of this
chapter, shall be guilty of maintaining a nuisance per se and upon conviction
thereof shall be punished by a fine of not less than $100, and not more than
$500 by imprisonment for a term not to exceed 90 days, or by both such fine and
imprisonment, within the discretion of the court.
   (B)   For each and every day the violation continues beyond the correction,
a separate offense shall be declared.
   (C)   Additionally, the proper court shall have power and authority to issue
an injunctive order in connection with any violation of the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2005)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
      
II.   REZONING
TABLE I:  FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
125      5-2-1988    Consumers Power Company; gas and electric
 
TABLE II:  REZONING
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.     Date Passed Description
155          9-19-1994   Rezones three parcels from R-1 to I
158          6-26-1995   Rezoning from R-3 to B
168          - -1997     Rezones seven properties from B to R-1
165          7-7-1997    Rezoning from R-2 to B
166          7-7-1997    Rezones seven properties from B to R-1
174          3-20-2000   Rezones parcels from B to R-2; rezones parcels from B
                         to R-1; rezones parcels from B to R-3
180          - -2002     Rezones property from R-1 to R-2
Res. 2006-02 4-3-2006    Changes zoning of parcel to Business
193          5-2-2011    Changes zoning of parcel to Light Industrial
195          5-21-2012   Changes zoning of parcel to Light Industrial
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Michigan Compiled Laws Annotated
References to 1991 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MICHIGAN COMPILED LAWS ANNOTATED
M.C.L.A. Reference Code Section
M.C.L.A. Reference Code Section
15.231             10.17
                   31.07;
15.231—15.246    112.04,
                   112.17
15.231 et seq.     10.17
15.261—15.275    10.21,
                   31.07
15.261 et seq.     30.01
28.451—28.471    132.04
41.801—41.813    34.02
117.1—117.38     92.01
117.3              70.02
                   150.25;
125.1501—125.1531151.001;
                   151.020
                   31.01;
125.1651—125.168031.02;
                   31.03;
                   31.09
125.1651—125.168134.25
125.1655           31.06
125.3101—125.3702154.150;
                   154.165
125.3801—125.3885154.150;
                   154.165
125.3801 et seq.   32.01;
                   32.11
125.3831—125.3851153.01
168.1—168.992    30.15
168.642(a)(4)      30.15
211.741            33.05
247.651—247.675  112.13
252.301—252.325  154.093
259.431 et seq.    154.124;
                   154.183
259.481 et seq.    154.124
324.101 et seq.    154.124
                   53.001;
324.3101 et seq.   53.147;
                   154.124
324.9101 et seq.   154.124
324.9101—324.9123154.122
324.11101 et seq.  53.096;
                   53.210
324.30101 et seq.  154.124
324.30301 et seq.  154.124
418.101—418.941  30.47
484.2102           112.03
484.2251           112.04
484.3101—484.3120112.01;
                   112.03
559.101—559.272  150.01
560.101—560.293  150.01;
                   154.005
600.8101 et seq.   71.01
600.8701—600.873535.01
722.111—722.128  154.005
750.1—750.568    154.005
750.243—750.243e 130.02
764.9c             30.47
 
REFERENCES TO 1991 CODE
1991 Code Section 2013 Code Section
1991 Code Section 2013 Code Section
1.4               10.18
1.5               10.05
1.6               10.19
1.9               10.20
1.10              10.21
1.11              10.22
1.12              10.23
1.14              10.24
1.31              30.15
1.32              30.16
1.71              30.30
1.72              30.31
1.73              30.32
1.81              30.45
1.82              30.46
1.83              30.47
1.91              30.60
1.92              30.61
1.93              30.62
1.94              30.63
1.121             30.01
1.122             30.02
1.171             33.01
1.172             33.02
1.173             33.03
1.174             33.04
1.175             33.05
1.176             33.06
1.177             33.07
1.178             33.08
1.179             33.09
1.180             33.10
1.181             33.11
1.182             33.12
1.183             33.13
1.184             33.14
1.185             33.15
1.186             33.16
1.187             33.17
1.188             33.18
1.189             33.19
1.190             33.20
1.191             33.21
1.192             33.22
1.193             33.23
1.194             33.24
1.195             33.25
1.211             31.01
1.212             31.02
1.213             31.03
1.214             31.04
1.215             31.05
1.216             31.06
1.217             31.07
1.218             31.08
1.219             31.09
2.0               50.01
2.1               50.02
2.2               50.03
2.3               50.04
2.4               50.05
2.5               50.06
2.6               50.07
2.31              51.01
2.32              51.02
2.33              51.03
2.34              51.04
2.35              51.05
2.39              51.06
2.40              51.07
2.41              51.08
2.42              51.09
2.43              51.10
2.44              51.11
2.45              51.12
2.46              51.13
2.48              51.14
2.49              51.15
2.50              51.16
2.131             52.01
2.133             52.03
2.134             52.04
2.135             52.05
2.151             110.01
2.152             110.02
2.153             110.03
2.154             110.04
2.155             110.05
2.156             110.06
2.157             110.07
2.158             110.08
2.159             110.09
2.160             110.10
2.161             110.11
2.162             110.12
2.163             110.13
2.164             110.14
2.265             110.15
2.166             110.16
2.167             110.17
2.168             110.18
2.169             110.19
2.170             110.20
2.231             110.35
2.232             110.36
2.233             110.37
2.234             110.38
2.235             110.39
2.236             110.40
2.237             110.41
2.238             110.42
2.239             110.43
2.240             110.44
2.241             110.45
2.242             110.46
2.243             110.47
2.244             110.48
2.245             110.49
2.246             110.50
2.247             110.51
2.248             110.52
2.249             110.53
3.1               93.01
3.2               93.02
3.3               93.03
3.4               93.04
4.1               95.001
4.2               95.002
4.3               95.003
4.4               95.004
4.5               95.005
4.6               95.006
4.7               95.007
4.8               95.008
4.9               95.009
4.17              95.020
4.18              95.021
4.26              95.035
4.27              95.036
4.31              95.050
4.32              95.051
4.34              95.065
4.36              95.080
4.37              95.081
4.38              95.082
4.39              95.083
4.81              95.095
4.82              95.096
4.83              95.097
4.84              95.098
4.85              95.099
4.86              95.100
4.87              95.101
4.88              95.102
4.89              95.103
5.331             153.01
5.335             153.02
5.336             153.03
5.341             153.15
5.342             153.16
5.343             153.17
5.344             153.18
5.345             153.19
5.352             153.30
5.353             153.31
5.357             153.45
5.358             153.46
5.359             153.47
5.360             153.48
5.381             152.01
5.382             152.02
5.383             152.03
5.384             152.04
5.385             152.05
5.386             152.06
5.387             152.07
6.1               94.01
6.2               94.02
6.7               94.03
6.10              94.15
6.11              94.16
6.12              94.17
6.21              94.30
6.22              94.31
6.41              94.45
6.42              94.46
6.43              94.47
6.44              94.48
6.61              131.01
6.62              131.02
6.63              131.03
6.64              131.04
6.65              131.05
6.66              131.06
6.67              131.07
6.68              131.08
6.69              131.09
6.70              131.10
6.71              131.11
6.72              131.12
6.73              131.13
6.74              131.14
6.84              91.01
6.85              91.02
6.86              91.03
6.87              91.04
6.88              91.05
6.89              91.06
7.71              111.01
7.72              111.02
7.73              111.03
7.74              111.04
7.75              111.05
7.76              111.06
7.77              111.07
7.78              111.08
7.79              111.09
8.1               151.001
8.2               151.002
8.3               151.003
8.4               151.004
8.5               151.005
8.11              151.020
8.12              151.021
8.13              151.022
8.21              151.035
8.22              151.036
8.23              151.037
8.24              151.038
8.25              151.039
8.26              151.040
8.27              151.041
8.28              151.042
8.29              151.043
8.30              151.044
8.31              151.045
8.32              151.046
8.33              151.047
8.35              151.048
8.51              151.060
8.52              151.061
8.53              151.062
8.54              151.063
8.71              151.075
8.72              151.076
8.73              151.077
8.74              151.078
8.75              151.079
8.76              151.080
8.78              151.081
8.79              151.082
8.80              151.083
8.81              151.084
8.82              151.085
8.83              151.086
8.84              151.087
8.85              151.088
8.86              151.089
8.87              151.090
8.88              151.091
8.89              151.092
8.90              151.093
9.1               130.01
9.2               130.02
9.11              130.03
9.21              130.04
9.61              90.01
9.62              90.02
9.63              90.03
9.65              90.05
9.91              92.01
9.92              92.02
9.93              92.03
9.94              92.04
9.95              92.05
9.96              92.06
9.97              92.07
10.51             71.01
10.52             71.02
10.53             71.03
10.54             71.04
10.55             71.05
10.56             71.06
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Description
2006-02  4-3-2006    TSO, Table II
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        - -         90.04
122      7-6-1987    151.035;
                     151.075
123      9-21-1987   50.01
125      5-2-1988    TSO, Table I
134      7-10-1989   151.020
138      8-20-1990   94.47
139      10-22-1990  71.06
140      5-6-1991    31.09
147      3-16-1992   31.04
                     151.001;
                     151.020;
148      4-6-1992    151.035;
                     151.060;
                     151.075
150      6-7-1993    153.03;
                     153.30
153      10-18-1993  110.35—
                     110.53
155      9-19-1994   TSO, Table II
158      6-26-1995   TSO, Table II
159      1-12-1996   150.01—
                     150.09
168      - -1997     TSO, Table II
165      7-7-1997    TSO, Table II
166      7-7-1997    TSO, Table II
173      9-20-1999   151.105—
                     151.109
174      3-20-2000   TSO, Table II
176      8-20-2001   151.001
177      8-20-2001   151.035
178      8-20-2001   151.060
179      8-20-2001   151.075
180      - -2002     TSO, Table II
181      4-1-2002    34.01—
                     34.10
182      1-24-2003   70.01—
                     70.05
                     154.001—
                     154.009;
                     154.025—
                     154.032;
                     154.045—
                     154.056;
                     154.070—
                     154.075;
-        11-2-2005   154.090—
                     154.098;
                     154.110—
                     154.123;
                     154.135;
                     154.150—
                     154.155;
                     154.165;
                     154.166;
                     154.999
                     53.001—
                     53.004;
                     53.020;
                     53.030;
                     53.040;
                     53.050—
                     53.055;
                     53.065—
                     53.079;
                     53.090—
                     53.100;
                     53.115—
                     53.125;
                     53.140—
                     53.150;
                     53.165;
185      4--2006     53.166;
                     53.180—
                     53.183;
                     53.200;
                     53.210;
                     53.220;
                     53.221;
                     53.235—
                     53.240;
                     53.255—
                     53.266;
                     53.280—
                     53.285;
                     53.295—
                     53.299;
                     53.310;
                     53.999
                     154.005;
                     154.006;
187      - -2007     154.090;
                     154.093;
                     154.094
                     154.005;
                     154.030;
190      6-7-2010    154.124;
                     154.180—
                     154.183
191      9-20-2010   150.25—
                     150.27
                     154.005;
192      3-21-2011   154.007;
                     154.010;
                     154.135
193      5-2-2011    TSO, Table II
194      5-2-2011    34.25;
                     34.26
195      5-21-2012   TSO, Table II
                     132.01—
196      8-13-2012   132.07;
                     132.99
                     Adopting Ordinance;
198      10-21-2013  30.15;
                     70.01—
                     70.06
199      7-14-2014   34.40—
                     34.49
 
