VILLAGE OF BINGHAM FARMS, MICHIGAN
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-20 Supplement contains
Local legislation current through Ord. 277, passed 8-26-2024
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Internet:_http://www.amlegal.com
CHARTER OF
VILLAGE OF BINGHAM FARMS, MICHIGAN
Section
   
Chapter I
   Boundaries and ward
   
Chapter II: Powers in General
   1.   Sue, contract
   2.   Express powers
   3.   [Reserved]
   
Chapter III: Plan of Government
   1.   Village council
   2.   Powers of council
   3.   Qualifications for office
   3-A.   Defaulters; oath of office
   4.   President; term
   5.   Trustees; terms
   6.   Meetings
   7.   Quorum; vote required
   8.   Duties of president; village marshal; appointed officers; president pro
tem
   9.   Election of president pro tem
   10.   Compensation of officers
   11.   Absences
   12.   Advisory committees; holding multiple offices
   13.   Clerk, treasurer, assessor, election and term
   14.   Clerk; powers and duties
   15.   Establishing additional officers
   16.   Treasurer; duties
   17.   Assessor; duties
   18.   Village officers; powers and duties
   19.   Officers; holding over
   20.   Vacancy of office
   21.   Officers; acceptance of gifts
   22.   Notice of election
   23.   Oath of office; form
   24.   Appointments; deferral
   25.   Vacancies
   26.   Board of health
   27.   Public peace; health and safety
   
Chapter IV: Registration, Nomination and Election
   1.   Single ward; registration
   2.   Nomination of candidates
   3.   Nominating petition form; signing; non-partisan
   4.   Nominating petition; filing
   5.   Approval by clerk
   6.   Notice nominee; acceptance
   7.   Petitions; open for inspection
   8.   Village election
   9.   Special elections
   10.   Notice of elections
   11.   Non-partisan form; write-in votes
   12.   Form of ballots
   13.   Preparation of ballot
   14.   Counting vote
   15.   Recounts
   16.   Canvass of vote
   17.   False oath; election matters
   18.   Village electors
   19.   Polls; when open
   20.   Election supplies
   21.   State election laws
   22.   Inspectors and clerks
   23.   Inspectors, removal and vacancy
   24.   Elections; tie votes
   25.   Informality not to invalidate
   
Chapter V: Recall
   1.   Recall
   
Chapter VI: Ordinances
   1.   Enacting clause
   2.   Amendments
   3.   Recording; publication
   4.   Effective date
   5.   Violations; penalties
   6.   Prosecutions; time limit
   7.   Ordinances; citation of
   8.   Judicial limit
   9.   Proof of ordinance
   
Chapter VII: Initiative and Referendum
   1.   Initiative petition
   2.   Filing with clerk
   3.   Examination for compliance
   4.   Notice of insufficiency; additional signatures
   5.   Certification to council
   6.   Action by council
   7.   Referendum petition
   8.   Referendum by council action
   9.   Inconsistent provisions in ordinances; vote
   10.   Proposed ordinances submitted to voters
   11.   Ballot proposition
   12.   Ordinances adopted by electors; amendment or repeal
   13.   Petitions; stale signatures
   
Chapter VIII: Contracts
   1.   Building specifications; cost
   2.   Construction by village employees
   3.   Plans and specifications; approval
   4.   Council; conflict of interest
   
Chapter IX: General Finance – Village Budget and Funds
   1.   Fiscal year
   2.   Treasurer's duties
   3.   Funds, withdrawal; issuance of warrants
   4.   Tax collection
   5.   Fees
   6.   Funds; establishment
   7.   Annual financial report
   8.   Budget, preparation
   9.   Annual appropriation resolution
   10.   Surplus fund
   11.   Special assessment bonds
   
Chapter X: General Assessments and Taxation
   1.   Assessment roll, preparation
   2.   Subjects of taxation
   3.   Board of review; meetings
   4.   Board of review; duties
   5.   Notice of meeting
   6.   Roll; endorsement
   7.   Tax levy
   8.   Authority to levy
   9.   Tax increases; limits
   10.   Certificate of levy to assessor
   11.   Preparation of tax roll
   12.   President; tax warrant
   13.   Taxes; when due
   14.   Lien of tax
   15.   Unpaid taxes; return of
   16.   Treasurer's certification for unpaid taxes
   17.   Certifying taxes to treasurer
   18.   Tax anticipation notes
   19.   Tax not to be levied for cemetery
   
Chapter XI: Streets and Sidewalks
   1.   Control of council
   2.   Council powers
   3.   Financing street construction; special assessments
   4.   Establishing grade of streets and sidewalks
   5.   Sidewalk construction
   
Chapter XII: Franchises
   1.   Public utilities; franchises: vote required
   2.   Irrevocable franchises; vote
   3.   Franchises; time limit
   4.   Exclusive franchise prohibited
   5.   Streets; permit
   6.   Franchise ordinances; acceptance
   7.   Conditions to grant
   
Chapter XIII: Planning and plats
   1.   Village planning commission
   
Chapter XIV: Maintenance of Village Utilities
   1.   Lighting, water service, vote required
   2.   Sewers, drains, special assessments
   
Chapter XV: Interim Legislation
   Interim legislation
   
Chapter XVI: Miscellaneous
   1.   Definitions
   2.   Official time
   3.   Construction and interpretation; joint authority
   4.   Construction and interpretation
   5.   Severability
   6.   Records
   7.   Audit of books
   8.   Publication; proof
   9.   Claims against village
   10.   Village seal
   11.   Offenses; penalty
   12.   Amendments to Charter
   
Chapter XVII: Submission and Election
   1.   Submission to electors
   2.   Publication
   3.   Nomination; time to nominate
   4.   Election district
   5.   Ballots; form
   6.   Polls; time
   7.   Registration of electors
   8.   Canvassing board
   9.   Charter approved at election; copies; certification; filing
Preamble
   We; the residents of Bingham Farms, by virtue of the rights granted us by
the Constitution and the laws of the State of Michigan, wishing to preserve our
simple rural way of life and the character of our neighborhood, do hereby
ordain and establish this Village of Bingham Farms Charter.
CHAPTER I
BOUNDARIES AND WARD
   The Village of Bingham Farms shall include those portions of Sections 4, 5,
8 and 9, Town 1 North, Range 10 East, Southfield Township, Oakland County,
Michigan, included within the following described boundaries, to-wit:
   “Part of Sections 4, 5, 8 and 9, Town 1 North, Range 10 East, Southfield
Township, Oakland County, Michigan, described as beginning at the N. ¼ corner
of said Section 4; thence southerly along N. and S. ¼ Section line to the S. ¼
corner of said Section 4 or North ¼ corner of said Section 9; thence southerly
along N. and S. ¼ Section line to the center of said Section 9; thence easterly
along the north line of Brooks Park Subdivision to the N.E. corner of said
subdivision; thence southerly along the east line of said subdivision to the
S.E. corner of lot 13 of said subdivision; thence westerly along the south line
of lot 13 of said subdivision to the S.W. corner of said lot 13, thence
northerly 60 feet to the S.E. corner of lot 12 of said subdivision; thence
westerly along the south line of lots 12, 11, 10 and 9 of said subdivision to
the S.W. corner of lot 9 of said subdivision; thence southerly 60 feet to the
S.E. corner of lot 8; thence westerly along the south line of lot 8 of said
subdivision to the S.W. corner of lot 8 of said subdivision; thence northerly
along the west line of lot 8 of said subdivision to the south line of “Franklin
River Heights” subdivision; thence westerly along the southerly line of said
“Franklin River Heights” subdivision to S.W. corner of said subdivision; thence
northerly along westerly line of said subdivision to N.W. corner of said
“Franklin River Heights” subdivision located in E. and W. ¼ Section 9; thence
westerly along E. and W. ¼ Section line of said Sections 9 and 8 to the
westerly line of 150 ft. Telegraph Road; thence northerly along said westerly
line of Telegraph Road to the northerly line of said Section 5; thence easterly
along northerly line of said Sections 5 and 4 to the point of beginning,” be
incorporated as a village pursuant to the provisions of Act No. 278 of the
Public Acts of 1909 as amended.
   (Note: 9.2 acres of the above description were detached from the Village and
attached to the Village of Beverly Hills at an election held March 11, 1963.)
CHAPTER II
POWERS IN GENERAL
SECTION 1. The Village of Bingham Farms shall have a corporate seal, may sue
and be sued, may contract and be contracted with and shall have, exercise and
enjoy such powers as are conferred by the Constitution and laws of the State of
Michigan and by this charter and also such powers as are necessarily or fairly
implied in or incidental to those expressly granted or are essential to the
declared objects and purposes of the Village. The enumeration of specific
powers in this charter shall not be construed as a limitation upon the general
powers granted by State law or by this charter.
SECTION 2. The Village shall have the power:
   (1)   To acquire by purchase, gift or lease, personal property of a value
not to exceed $20,000, for any public use or purpose within the scope of its
powers, and to hold, manage, control, sell or otherwise dispose of the same
without approval of the electorate and to acquire and dispose of personal
property of a value exceeding $20,000 with the prior approval of a majority
vote of the electors voting thereon; (Section 2(1) as amended November 6, 2018)
   (2)   To provide by ordinance for Village planning and zoning as provided
for by the statutes of the State of Michigan;
   (3)   To enact a building and housing code; to regulate the erection and
repair of buildings and to require building permits therefor; to prevent the
erection of unsafe buildings; to provide for the removal of unsafe buildings
and to regulate the maintenance and occupancy of buildings insofar as the same
affects health and safety;
   (4)   To establish and maintain definite fire limits and to prohibit within
such limits the construction of buildings and other structures of wood and
other materials easily inflammable; to enact ordinances in relation to the
prevention and suppression of fires; and to provide for the inspection of
private property for the purpose of determining whether a fire hazard exists;
   (5)   To regulate the location, construction, size and height of billboards
and the maintenance thereof;
   (6)   To prohibit hunting within the Village limits;
   (7)   To regulate and license trades, occupations and public places of
amusement, not inconsistent with state and federal laws, whether the same be
specifically herein mentioned or not;
   (8)   To prescribe the terms and conditions upon which licenses shall be
granted and may require the payment of such license fees and the furnishing of
such bond as the Commission shall deem reasonable and proper. Licenses shall be
subject to revocation by the Commission as provided in each particular
ordinance;
   (9)   To regulate the speed of motor vehicles and to prohibit the reckless
driving thereof upon the streets, highways and alleys of the Village and also
upon any private road dedicated as such upon any recorded plat;
   (10)   To regulate traffic and parking of automobiles and other vehicles; to
prohibit such parking on designated highways, streets, and alleys or parts
thereof; to provide for the impounding of vehicles parked in violation of such
regulations or prohibitions and of vehicles abandoned and left on the streets,
highways and alleys of the Village; and to provide for the sale of any
impounded vehicle which shall not be claimed and the impounding and other
charges paid within sixty days after being impounded. The word “highways” as
used in this paragraph shall include any private road dedicated as such upon
any recorded plat;
   (11)   To prohibit by ordinance the pollution of any stream or water course
within the Village limits;
   (12)   To make contracts or arrangements with the Franklin Village Volunteer
Fire Department, Inc., and/or any governmental unit, individual or corporation
for fire protection and for the services of a fire department and with any
governmental unit for police protection and the services of a police
department. (Section 2 as amended September 13, 2005)
SECTION 3.  (Section 3 as amended September 13, 2005, repealed November 8,
2022)
CHAPTER III
PLAN OF GOVERNMENT
SECTION 1. All powers of the Village of Bingham Farms, except as otherwise
provided by statute or this charter, shall be vested in the Council which shall
consist of a president and six (6) trustees to be elected at large.
SECTION 2. The Council shall constitute the legislative and governing body of
said Village of Bingham Farms, with power and authority to pass such ordinances
and adopt such resolutions as they shall deem proper in order to exercise the
powers possessed by said Village of Bingham Farms.
SECTION 3. The president and trustees shall be elected on a non-partisan ticket
from the Village of Bingham Farms at large and shall be subject to recall as
hereinafter provided. No person shall be eligible to the office of president or
trustee who shall not be at the time of his election or appointment 25 years of
age, a citizen of the United States, a resident of the territory incorporated
as the Village of Bingham Farms, and an owner of real property in the Village
of Bingham Farms, or the lawful wife or husband of such person.
SECTION 3-A. No person shall be eligible for the elective offices of president
or trustee, or for appointment to the Planning Commission, unless he or she
shall be an elector of the Village of Bingham Farms. No person shall be elected
or appointed to any office in the Village of Bingham Farms who has been or is a
defaulter to the Village or to any board or municipal corporation of the State.
All votes for any appointment of such defaulter shall be void. Not more than 30
days after receiving notice of his or her election or appointment, all officers
of the Village, whether elected or appointed, shall take and subscribe the oath
of office prescribed by the constitution of the State, and
Chapter III, Section 23 of this Charter and file the oath with the Village
Clerk. An officer who fails to comply with the requirements of this subsection
shall be considered to have declined the office. (Section 3-A as amended
September 13, 2005 and November 8, 2022)
SECTION 4. At the election at which this charter shall be submitted there shall
be elected a president whose term of office shall begin upon the taking effect
of this charter and who shall serve until 8:00 p.m. on the second Monday
following the regular municipal election in the year 1957. At the regular
municipal election in the year 1957 and every second year thereafter shall be
elected a president, whose term of office shall begin at 8:00 p.m. on the
second Monday following the regular municipal election in the second year
thereafter.
SECTION 5. At the election at which this charter shall be submitted there shall
be elected six (6) trustees whose terms of office shall begin upon the taking
effect of this charter. The three (3) candidates for trustee receiving the
highest number of votes at said election shall be deemed to be elected and
shall serve until 8:00 p.m. on the second Monday following the regular
municipal election in the year 1957, and the three candidates for trustee
receiving the next highest number of votes at said election shall be deemed to
be elected and shall serve until 8:00 p.m. on the second Monday following the
regular municipal election in the year 1956. In the event that the
determination of the term of office of two or more candidates is impossible
because of a tie vote, then the same shall be determined by lot. At the regular
municipal election in the year 1956 and every year thereafter there shall be
elected three trustees. The term of office of each trustee, except those
elected at the election at which this charter is submitted, shall begin at 8:00
p.m. on the second Monday following his election, and shall expire at 8:00 p.m.
on the second Monday following the regular municipal election in the second
year thereafter. The Council shall be the judge of election and qualification
of its own members, subject, however, to the provisions of the laws of the
State in respect to recounts and to review by the courts in appropriate
proceedings.
SECTION 6. At 8:00 p.m. of the day upon which this charter shall take effect,
and at the same time on the second Monday following each regular municipal
election thereafter, the Council shall meet for the purpose of organization.
The first organization meeting shall be held on the premises of the Outland
Riding Academy or such other place as council may adjourn to and thereafter the
organization meetings shall be held at the usual place for holding meetings of
the Council. Other meetings of the Council shall be held at such times as may
be prescribed by ordinance or resolution, provided that it shall meet regularly
and not less than once a month. The president or any two trustees may call
special meetings of the Council upon at least twenty-four (24) hours' written
notice to each member, served personally or left at his usual place of
residence, provided, however, any special meeting at which all members of the
Council are present shall be a legal meeting for all purposes, without such
written notice. All meetings of the Council shall be public and any person may
have access to the minutes and records thereof at all reasonable times. The
Council shall determine its own rules and order of business. It shall keep a
journal of the proceedings in English which shall be signed by the President
and Clerk.
SECTION 7. Four members of the Council shall constitute a quorum, but a less
number may adjourn from time to time and compel the attendance of absent
members in such manner and under such penalties as may be prescribed by
ordinance, and all pending business noticed or set down for hearing at such
meeting shall be taken up and heard at such adjourned meeting or at the next
regular meeting without further notice. The Council shall act only by ordinance
or resolution. The affirmative vote of a majority of the Council shall be
required for the passage of any ordinance or resolution unless in any given
case a different number is required by this Charter or State law. (Section 7 as
amended March 11, 1974)
SECTION 8. Duties of President.
   (1)   The President shall be the chief executive of the village of Bingham
Farms. He shall preside at the meetings of the Council. He shall be deemed a
member of the Council. He shall from time to time give the Council information
concerning the affairs of the corporation and recommend such measures as he may
deem expedient. It shall be his duty to exercise supervision over the affairs
of the Village of Bingham Farms and over the public property belonging thereto
and see that the laws relating to the Village of Bingham Farms and the
ordinances and regulations of the Council are enforced. (Section 8 (1) as
amended March 11, 1974)
   (2)   The Council may establish and/or contract for a Police Department,
including appointing and/or contracting a Police Chief. The Police Department
and Police Chief shall be subject to the direction of the President and
Council. It shall be the Police Department and Police Chief's duty to see that
all ordinances and regulations of the Council made for the preservation of
quiet, good order, and for the safety and protection of the inhabitants of the
Village, are promptly enforced. The Police Department and Police Chief shall,
within said Village, be vested with all the powers conferred upon sheriffs for
the preservation of quiet and good order. The Police Department and Police
Chief shall have the power to serve and execute all process directed or
delivered to them, in all proceedings for violations of the Ordinances of the
Village. Such process may be served anywhere within the County in which said
Village is located. (Section 8(2) as amended November 6, 2018)
   (3)   The President may remove any officer appointed by him at any time when
he shall deem it for the public interest. He shall have authority at all times
to examine and inspect the books, records and papers of any agent, employee, or
officer of the corporation, and shall perform generally all such duties as are
or may be prescribed by the ordinances of the Village of Bingham Farms.
(Section 8(3) as amended November 6, 2018)
   (4)   In the absence or disability of the President, the President Pro
Tempore of the Council shall perform the duties of the President.
SECTION 9. The Council shall at its organization meeting following the adoption
of this Charter and at each organization meeting following each regular
municipal election, elect by ballot a member of the Council as President Pro-
Tem, who, during the absence or disability of the President to perform his
duties, shall act in his stead and shall exercise all the duties and possess
all the powers of the President. In the absence or disability of the President
Pro-Tem, the Council may temporarily appoint one of its members to preside.
SECTION 10. The President and Trustees shall receive not less than one dollar
($1) for each meeting but not more than twenty-five dollars ($25) in any one
year. Said officers shall receive no other compensation for services performed
for and on behalf of said Village of Bingham Farms during their term of office.
All other officers except where other provision is made herein or by law
regulating fees for services shall receive such compensation as the Council
shall prescribe.
SECTION 11. Absence from 4 regular meetings of the Council in a twelvemonth
period by a member of Council is deemed neglect of duty and shall be cause for
removal from office unless the member's absence is excused by resolution of the
Council setting forth such excuse. (Section 11 as amended November 8, 2022)
SECTION 12. The Village of Bingham Farms Council shall have authority to
appoint advisory committees, and to change the same from time to time. One
person may be appointed to two or more offices except that the office of the
Clerk and Treasurer shall not be filled by the same person.
SECTION 13. The Council shall whenever a vacancy occurs elect a Village Clerk,
Treasurer and Assessor who shall serve for a period of one year and the term of
office of such officials shall begin at 8:00 p.m. on the second Monday
following their election. The salaries of the Clerk, Treasurer and Assessor
shall be set by the Council and the salary of the Clerk shall not be less than
the salary of the President and/or Trustee. (Section 13 as amended March 9,
1987)
SECTION 14.  Village Clerk Powers and Duties.
   The Clerk shall keep the corporate seal and all the documents, official
bonds, papers, files and records of the Village, not by this act or the
ordinances of the Village entrusted to some other officer; he shall be Clerk of
the Council and shall attend its meetings. In case of the absence of the Clerk,
or if from any cause he shall be unable to discharge, or be disqualified from
performing the duties required of him, then the Council may appoint one (1) of
their own number, or some other person, to perform the duties of the Clerk for
the time being. The Clerk shall record all the proceedings and resolutions of
the Council, and shall, when required, make and certify, under the seal of the
Village, copies of the papers and records filed and kept in his office; and
such copies shall be evidence in all places of the matters therein contained,
to the same extent as the original would be. He shall possess and exercise the
powers of the Township Clerk so far as the same are required to be performed
within the Village, except as to the filing of chattel mortgages; and he shall
have authority to administer oaths and affirmations.
SECTION 15. The Council may provide by ordinance for the appointment of
additional officers for the Village of Bingham Farms.
SECTION 16. Village Treasurer and Duties.
   The Treasurer shall have the custody of all moneys, bonds other than
official, mortgages, notes, leases, and evidences of value belonging to the
Village; he shall receive all moneys belonging to, and receivable by the
corporation and keep an account of all receipts and expenditures thereof; he
shall pay no money out of the treasury, except in pursuance of, and by
authority of law, and upon warrants signed by the Clerk and President, which
shall specify the purpose for which the amounts thereof are to be paid; he
shall collect and keep an account of and be charged with all taxes and moneys
appropriated, raised, or received for each fund, and shall credit thereto all
moneys raised, paid in, or appropriated therefor, and shall pay every warrant
out of the particular fund raised for the purpose for which the warrant was
issued. He shall give bond in such amount and with such sureties as is
satisfactory to the Council. Premium on all bonds of officials shall be paid by
the Village of Bingham Farms.
SECTION 17. The Village Assessor shall perform such duties in relation to the
assessing of property and levying of taxes as are prescribed by this Charter.
SECTION 18. All officers of the Village of Bingham Farms shall perform such
duties and possess such powers as are or may be prescribed by this Charter, by
the general laws of the State and by the Council. (Section 18 as amended
September 13, 2005)
SECTION 19. All elective officers, and all officers who are appointed for a
definite term or periodically, shall hold office until their successors are
elected or appointed, and duly qualify. (Section 19 as amended September 13,
2005)
SECTION 20. In addition to other provisions herein contained, vacancy shall
exist in any elective office when an elected officer fails to qualify as in
this Charter provided, dies, resigns, is removed from office, moves from the
Village of Bingham Farms or is convicted of a felony. (Section 20 as amended
September 13, 2005)
SECTION 21. No member of the Council or other officer or employee of the
Village of Bingham Farms shall solicit or accept a gift or loan of money,
goods, services, or other thing of value for the benefit of a person, firm or
corporation which tends to influence the manner in which he or another Council
member, officer or employee of the Village of Bingham Farms performs official
duties. (Section 21 as amended March 8, 1982 and September 13, 2005)
SECTION 22. It shall be the duty of the Village Clerk, within two (2) days
after the meeting and determination of the Council, as provided in this
Charter, to notify each person elected, in writing, of his election; and he
shall also, within two days after the appointment of any person to any office,
in like manner notify such person of the appointment. (Section 22 as amended
September 13, 2005)
SECTION 23. Every officer elected or appointed to any Village office, before
entering upon the duties of the office, shall take and subscribe to an oath of
office, which shall be filed and kept in the office of the Village Clerk, to
support the Constitution of the State of Michigan; endeavor to secure and
maintain an honest and efficient administration in the affairs of the Village
of Bingham Farms, free from partisan distinction or control; and to perform the
duties of the office to the best of his or her ability. An officer that fails
to do so within thirty (30) days of receiving notice of his or her election or
appointment shall be deemed to have declined the office. (Section 23 as amended
September 13, 2005)
SECTION 24. If for any reason any appointment shall not be made by the Council
within the time provided in this Charter, it may be made at any subsequent
regular or special meeting. (Section 24 as amended September 13, 2005)
SECTION 25. A vacancy in any elective office shall within thirty (30) days
after such vacancy occurs be filled by appointment by a majority of the members
of the Council, or of the remaining members of the Council when the vacancy is
in the Council. Such appointee shall hold office until the next regular
municipal election, taking place more than forty (40) days after such vacancy
occurs, at which election a successor shall be elected for the unexpired term
of the person in whose office the vacancy occurs. Provided, however, that the
term of no member shall be lengthened by his resignation and subsequent
appointment. When a vacancy occurs in any office to which a person has been
appointed for a definite term, such vacancy shall within thirty (30) days be
filled for the unexpired term, by appointment made in the manner provided for
full term appointment to such office. (Section 25 as amended September 13,
2005)
SECTION 26. When the Council shall deem it necessary, they may establish a
Board of Health for the Village of Bingham Farms and appoint officers therefor,
make rules for its government and invest it with such powers and authority as
may be necessary for the protection and preservation of the health of the
inhabitants. (Section 26 as amended September 13, 2005)
SECTION 27. The Council shall provide for the public peace and health, and for
the safety of persons and property. (Section 27 as amended September 13, 2005)
CHAPTER IV
REGISTRATION, NOMINATION AND ELECTION
Registration
   The Village of Bingham Farms originally shall consist of one ward and one
voting precinct. The Council may from time to time establish by ordinance
convenient election precincts.
SECTION 1. The registration and re-registration of electors in the Village of
Bingham Farms shall be conducted as provided for in the Constitution and
general laws of the State of Michigan.
Nomination
SECTION 2. Candidates for any elective office, to be voted for at any municipal
election under the provisions of this Charter, shall be nominated by petition
in the manner hereinafter prescribed and the names of such candidates for any
office and no others shall be printed on the election ballot to be voted for at
the next regular municipal election.
SECTION 3. Such petition for nomination shall be in substantially the following
form:
      We, the undersigned, being duly qualified electors of the Village of
Bingham Farms do hereby request that the name of (name of candidate) be placed
on the ballot as a candidate for (name of office) at the election to be held in
said Village on                        the              day of              ,
19       . We further state that we know him to be a qualified elector of said
Village and a person of good moral character and qualified in our judgment for
the duties of such office.
   Names of qualified electors:
                                                          
                                                          
                                                          
                                                          
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sign more than one such nominating
petition for the same office, except where two or more candidates are to be
elected for the same office, then he may sign as many petitions as there are
persons to be elected for said office.
   Such petition shall be without any mark or designation showing the party
affiliation of the person being so nominated. The person circulating a
nominating petition shall, before the acceptance of such petition by the
Village Clerk, subscribe to the following oath:
State of Michigan
      ss.
County of Oakland
                                             being duly sworn deposes and says
that he is the circulator of the foregoing petition containing               
signatures, that the signatures appended thereto were made in his presence and
are the signatures of the persons whose names they purport to be, and that all
of said signers are qualified electors of said Village to the best of his
knowledge and belief.
                           Signed                                    
      Subscribed and sworn to before me this               day of
                , 19          .
                                                                                     
                           , Notary Public
                  Oakland County, Michigan
                  My commission expires                                  
SECTION 4. All nominating petitions shall be filed with the Village Clerk on or
before four p.m. on the sixth Monday prior to any regular or special election
at which any officer or officers of the Village is or are to be elected. No
person shall be nominated to any office in the Village unless the petition or
petitions filed in his behalf for such office have been signed by not less than
fifteen (15) qualified electors of the Village. The petition or petitions filed
for any candidate shall not contain more than twenty (20) signatures of
qualified electors. (Section 4 as amended March 14, 1983)
SECTION 5. The Village Clerk shall forthwith examine the petition or petitions
filed for each candidate and if satisfied that the required number of electors
have signed the same, he shall endorse thereon the word “APPROVED” with the
date of filing the same; but should he find that the petition or petitions for
any candidate do not contain the required number of names of the electors as
herein provided, he shall immediately notify such candidate of the additional
number of names of electors required.
SECTION 6. When the petitions for nomination of any candidate shall be found to
contain the required number of names of electors, the Village Clerk shall
forthwith notify the persons therein placed in nomination. Any person, desiring
to become a candidate for any elective office, shall on or before four p.m. of
the fourteenth day prior to such election, file with the Clerk an acceptance of
such nomination in substantially the following form:
State of Michigan
      ss.
County of Oakland
      I,                          , being first duly sworn, say that I reside
in the Village of Bingham Farms, County of Oakland, State of Michigan; that I
am a qualified elector therein; that I accept nomination for the office of
                     to be voted upon at the election to be held on
                               the                  day of                ,
19       , and that I possess the legal qualifications therefor, and I hereby
request that my name be printed upon the official ballot for election to such
office.
                           Signed                                             
      Subscribed and sworn to before me, a notary public, on this
                day of                  , 19          .
                                                                                     
                                    , Notary Public
                           Oakland County, Michigan
                           My commission expires                      
SECTION 7. All such petitions shall be open to public inspection after being
filed in the Office of the Village Clerk, in accordance with such reasonable
rules and regulations as shall be prescribed by him.
Elections
SECTION 8. Regular municipal elections shall be held for the Village of Bingham
Farms on the second Monday in March of each year for the election of officers
of said Village in accordance with the provisions of this Charter.
SECTION 9. Special elections may, subject to the general laws of the State, be
held at such times as the Council may by resolution determine, the purpose and
object of which shall be set forth in the resolution calling such election.
SECTION 10. Notice of the time and place of holding any election and of the
officers to be elected and the questions to be voted upon, shall except as
herein otherwise provided, be given by the Clerk in the same manner and at the
same times as provided in the State election laws for the giving of notices by
village clerks in State elections. Such notice of the election shall be posted
in three (3) public places in the Village of Bingham Farms, and a copy shall be
published in a newspaper in the Village, if any is published therein, at least
two weeks prior and not more than four weeks before the election. The affidavit
of the Clerk as to such posting and publishing shall be conclusive proof
thereof.
SECTION 11. Election ballots shall be printed without any party mark, emblem,
vignette, or designation whatever, on plain, substantial paper, and the same
shall be printed, numbered, and the names of candidates transposed and
alternated, in accordance with the provisions of the general laws of the State
regulating the same at elections in this State. Beneath the names printed on
the ballots for each office, there shall be printed one or more blank lines
according to the number to be elected to such office, with squares to the left
thereof, so that the elector may write or paste thereon the names of any person
other than those printed thereon, and to vote for such person by placing a
cross in the square opposite his name.
SECTION 12. The ballot for officers shall be in substantially the following
form:
OFFICIAL BALLOT
      Candidates for election to the Village offices of (naming offices to be
filled) of the Village of Bingham Farms at the election held on the
                  day of             , 19          .
      (Place a cross in the square opposite the names of the persons for whom
you desire to vote.)
FOR PRESIDENT
Vote for One
(Here list the names of candidates with a square at the left of each name.)
FOR TRUSTEES
Vote for (designate the number of Commissioners to be elected)
(Here list the names of candidates with a square at the left of each name.)
SECTION 13. The Village Clerk shall prepare all ballots for printing and copies
of all ballots shall be on file in the office of the Clerk at least ten (10)
days before the election. The Clerk shall cause to be delivered at each polling
place prior to the time of the opening of the polls a number of ballots equal
to at least one and one-fourth (1-¼) times the registered electors in such
polling precinct, and also all supplies, stationery, books, blanks and
accessories necessary for the conduct of elections.
SECTION 14. Immediately upon the closing of the polls the Board of Election
Inspectors shall count the ballots and ascertain the number of votes cast for
each of the candidates and upon each of the questions and propositions voted
upon and shall make immediate returns thereof to the Village Clerk upon blanks
to be furnished by the Village Clerk.
SECTION 15. A recount of the votes cast at any Village election for any office
or upon any proposition may be had in accordance with the general election laws
of the State.
SECTION 16. The person receiving the highest number of votes for any office
shall be deemed to have been duly elected to that office. If more than one
person is to be elected to any office, then the persons, equal in number to the
number to be elected to that office receiving the highest number of votes for
that office, shall be deemed to have been duly elected to that office. (Section
16 as amended September 13, 2005)
SECTION 17. If any person shall make a false oath or affidavit in connection
with any matter required by this Chapter or shall violate any provision of this
Chapter or shall knowingly neglect or refuse to perform any duty herein
prescribed, such person shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction
shall be punished as in this Charter provided.
SECTION 18. The inhabitants of the Village, having the qualifications of
electors under the Constitution and general laws of the State and no others,
shall be electors therein. Every elector of the Village who is registered in
the Village registration book in accordance with the general laws of the State
shall be entitled to vote at any election held under the provisions of this
Charter.
SECTION 19. The polls for all municipal elections shall be open at 7:00 a.m. of
election day and remain open until 8:00 p.m. of said day.
SECTION 20. The Council shall provide all necessary voting booths, equipment,
ballot boxes and supplies for the conduct of all elections.
SECTION 21. The general election laws of the State when applicable shall apply
to all regular and special Village elections, in relation to polling places and
their equipment, inspectors and clerks of election and their appointment,
powers and duties, the powers and duties of all Village officers, the conduct
of elections and the manner of voting, assisted voters, absent voters, election
returns, canvass by precinct inspectors, recounts and correction of frauds and
errors in return, and in general to all election matters whether the same be
herein specifically enumerated or not; provided, however, that when there is a
conflict between such general laws and this Charter, then the provisions of the
general laws of the State shall control. (Section 21 as amended November 6,
2018)
SECTION 22. Inspectors and clerks of election shall be appointed by the Village
Council and shall receive such compensation as shall be fixed by the Council.
SECTION 23. The Village Council shall have power, and it shall be their duty to
remove any inspector or clerk of election if in their judgment such inspector
or clerk should be removed for the proper and efficient conduct of the
election; to fill any vacancy in the office of inspector or clerk of election;
and in general to perform such acts as election commissions in villages are
authorized to perform.
SECTION 24. If at any election of municipal officers there shall be no choice
between candidates by reason of two or more candidates having received an equal
number of votes, then the Commission shall appoint a date for the appearance of
such persons as have received tie votes, for the purpose of determining by lot
among such persons the right to such office, and shall cause notice thereof to
be given to all such persons interested, if such persons can be found. The
manner of determining by lot shall be the same as provided by the general laws
of the State for such determination in case of a tie vote for a County officer.
In no case, however, shall the election of any person be determined by lot
without first a recount of the votes cast at such election, if one of the
persons receiving such tie vote shall demand such a recount.
SECTION 25. No informalities in conducting a municipal election shall
invalidate the same if such election shall be conducted in substantial
conformity with the requirements of this Charter.
CHAPTER V
RECALL
SECTION 1. Any elective officer of the Village of Bingham Farms may be removed
by the qualified electors of the Village in accordance with the general laws of
the State providing for recall of village officials.
CHAPTER VI
ORDINANCES
SECTION 1. The enacting clause of all ordinances shall read “The Village of
Bingham Farms ordains,” but such caption may be omitted when said ordinances
are published in book form by authority of the Council. Each proposed ordinance
shall be introduced in written or printed form.
SECTION 2. Except as otherwise provided in this Charter, the council shall have
power by ordinance to amend or repeal any ordinance, in whole or in part. No
ordinance shall be amended by reference to its title only, but the section or
sections of the ordinance to be amended shall be re-enacted at length. Any
ordinance may be repealed by reference only to its number and title.
SECTION 3. All ordinances shall be recorded in an indexed book marked
“Ordinance Book” and the record of each ordinance shall be authenticated by the
signature of the President and Clerk. Such record and authentication shall be
done promptly after the final passage of the ordinance but failure to so record
and authenticate any ordinance shall not invalidate it or suspend its
operation. Within one (1) week after the passage of any ordinance, the same
shall be published in a newspaper printed in the Village, if any is published
therein, otherwise copies of the ordinance shall, within the same time, be
posted in three (3) of the most public places in the Village; and the Clerk
shall immediately after such publication or posting, enter in the record of
ordinances, in a blank space to be left for such purpose under the record of
ordinances, a certificate under his hand, stating the time and places of such
publication or posting. Such certificate shall be prima facie evidence of the
due publication posting of the ordinance.
SECTION 4. Every ordinance shall become effective upon its publication unless a
later effective date is provided therein.
SECTION 5. The Village Council shall have the authority to provide in any
Ordinance for the punishment of those who violate the same by a fine not
exceeding $500.00 or imprisonment not exceeding 90 days, or both. However,
unless otherwise provided by law, an Ordinance may provide that a violation of
the Ordinance is punishable by imprisonment for not more than 93 days or a fine
of not more than $500.00, or both, if the violation substantially corresponds
to a violation of state law that is a misdemeanor for which the maximum period
of imprisonment is 93 days. The Village Council shall also have the authority
to adopt Ordinances that designate a violation of the Ordinance as a civil
infraction and provide a civil fine for that violation. (Section 5 as amended
November 6, 2018)
SECTION 6. Prosecution for violation of any ordinance of the Village shall be
commenced within two (2) years after the commission of the offense; provided
that the limitation herein imposed shall not be construed as a limitation on
the Village’s right to forfeit any franchise, grant or license for violation of
the terms and conditions thereof after said two-year period.
SECTION 7. In all judicial proceedings, it shall be sufficient to plead any
ordinance by title and the number of applicable section or sections, and it
shall not be necessary to set forth the entire ordinance or section in any
pleadings.
SECTION 8. Judicial notice shall be taken of the enactment, existence,
provisions and continuing force of all ordinances of the Village.
SECTION 9. Whenever it shall be necessary to prove any ordinance in any
judicial proceedings, the same may be proved by a record thereof kept by the
Clerk, by a copy thereof duly certified as a true copy by the Clerk, under the
seal of the Village, or from any volume purporting to have been published,
printed and compiled by authority of the Council.
CHAPTER VII
INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM
SECTION 1. Any ordinance which may legally be adopted by the Council of the
Village of Bingham Farms may be proposed by petition, signed by at least
fifteen percent (15%) of the number of registered electors in the Village of
Bingham Farms as certified by the Village Clerk, or as otherwise authorized
under State law. Such petition shall be addressed to the Council and shall set
forth at length the ordinance proposed to be enacted. With each signature
attached thereto, there shall be given the street and house number of the
residence of the elector so signing and the date when such signature was
attached. The petition may be signed on separate identical forms, but all
signed counterparts of the petition shall be filed with the Village Clerk at
one and the same time. An affidavit made by a registered elector of the Village
shall be attached to each signed counterpart of the petition, which shall state
that each signature appearing upon such counterpart is the genuine signature of
the person of whom it purports to be, and that to the best of affiant’s
knowledge and belief, the signers whose names are attached thereto are
registered electors of the Village of Bingham Farms. (Section 1 as amended
November 8, 2022)
SECTION 2. Said petition, when signed by the requisite number of registered
electors, shall be filed with the Village Clerk. Such Clerk shall attach
thereto a certificate, setting forth the name and address of the person or
persons filing the said petition in his office and the date when said petition
was filed. A copy of said petition, exclusive of signature, and of said
certificate shall be entered in a record book to be kept for that purpose in
the office of the Village Clerk.
SECTION 3. Within fifteen (15) days from the date of the filing of said
petition with the Village Clerk, it shall be the duty of such Clerk to
ascertain by comparison of said petition with the registration records of the
Village of Bingham Farms, whether or not such petition is signed by the
requisite number of registered electors and following such examination, the
Clerk shall attach to such petition his certificate showing the result of such
examination.
SECTION 4. If the certificate of the Clerk so attached shows the petition to be
insufficient, he shall within ten (10) days cause notice in writing, setting
forth the fact that such petition is found to be insufficient to be served upon
at least one of the persons designated in the certificate attached by him to
said petition as the persons who filed said petition in his office. Depositing
the said notice in the United States mail, addressed to such person at the
address shown on the certificate provided in Section 2 of this Chapter, shall
be deemed sufficient service. Additional signatures to such petition, properly
verified as hereinbefore provided, may be filed with the Clerk at any time
within twenty (20) days from the date of the service of such notice. The
Village Clerk shall attach his certificate to such additional signed
counterparts of the petition showing the date when the same were filed, and
shall cause said certificate to be entered in the record book along with the
original record of the petition and certificate. The Clerk shall, within five
(5) days after the filing of such additional signed copies of the petition,
make like comparison of the additional signatures with the registration books
and attach thereto his certificate of the results. If the number of signatures
is still shown to be insufficient, or if no additional signatures are so filed,
such petition shall be deemed to be of no effect. A new petition for the same
purpose, however, may be later filed.
SECTION 5. When the petition shall be found by the Village Clerk to be
sufficient, he shall so certify to the Council at its next regular meeting.
SECTION 6. If such petition shall be signed by the required number of
registered electors of the Village, the Council shall, within twenty (20) days
after the meeting at which such petition is submitted to it, either:
   (a)   Pass said ordinance without alteration, subject to the referendum
provided by this Charter, or
   (b)   Reject said ordinance and submit the same without alteration to the
vote of the qualified electors of the Village at the next regular or special
election occurring not less than fifty (50) days from the date of such
rejection by the Council; provided, however, that the Council may, by a five-
sixths (5/6) vote of the Trustees, call a special election for the purpose of
submitting such ordinance, the same to be held not less than fifty (50) days
after the rejection of such ordinance by the Council.
SECTION 7. Within thirty (30) days after the publication of any ordinance duly
passed by the Council, a petition may be presented to the Council by filing the
same with the Clerk, protesting against such ordinance continuing in effect.
Said petition shall contain the text of such ordinance and shall be signed by
registered electors of the Village equal in number to at least ten percent
(10%) of the number of registered electors in the Village as certified by the
Village Clerk. Said ordinance shall thereupon and thereby be suspended from
operation unless the Council shall, by unanimous vote of those present at its
first meeting after the filing of said petition, declare that such ordinance is
necessary for the immediate preservation of the public health, peace or safety.
The Council shall immediately reconsider such ordinance and if the same be not
repealed, the Council shall submit the question of its approval or disapproval
to a vote of the electors of the Village at the next regular or special
election occurring in not less than fifty (50) days; provided, that the
Council, by a five-sixths (5/6) vote of its members-elect, may call a special
election for the purpose of submitting said question, such election to be held
in not less than fifty (50) days from the calling thereof. If a majority of the
electors voting thereon at such election vote in favor thereof, said ordinance
shall be deemed to have been approved and shall be in full force and effect,
otherwise it shall be null and void. The procedure in regard to such petition
of protest and referendum shall be the same as provided in this Chapter for the
initiative and referendum on proposed ordinance, with such modification as the
nature of the case may require.
SECTION 8. The Council may, of its own motion, submit to a referendum for
adoption or rejection at any regular or special election held in said Village
for any proposed ordinance, in the same manner and with the same force and
effect as provided in this Chapter for submission on petition. No such
ordinance shall be submitted, however, at any election to be held less than
fifty (50) days from the date of the meeting of the Council at which such
ordinance is ordered submitted.
SECTION 9. If the provisions of two or more proposed ordinances adopted or
approved at the same election are inconsistent, then the ordinance receiving
the highest affirmative vote shall prevail.
SECTION 10. Whenever any ordinance is submitted to the voters of the Village at
any election, the Council shall cause such ordinance to be published by
inserting the same in full at least once in newspapers of general circulation
in the Village or published by posting the same in ten (10) conspicuous places
in the Village, such publication to be made not less than ten (10) days before
such election.
SECTION 11. The ballot or ballot labels used when voting upon such ordinance
shall be provided in accordance with law, and shall state the nature of the
ordinance in terms sufficient to identify it. If a majority of the qualified
electors voting on the proposed ordinance shall vote in favor thereof, the same
shall thereupon become an ordinance of the Village.
SECTION 12. An ordinance adopted by the electors through initiatory proceedings
may not be amended or repealed by the Council for one (1) year after the date
of the election at which it was adopted. An ordinance repealed by the electors
may not be re-enacted by the Council for one (1) year after the date of the
election at which it was repealed.
SECTION 13. In computing the number of signers to any petition provided for in
this Chapter, no signature shall be counted which was affixed thereto more than
sixty (60) days prior to the filing of such petition with the Village Clerk.
CHAPTER VIII
CONTRACTS
SECTION 1. No contract shall be entered into by the Village for the making of
any public improvement, performing any construction work or for the purchase of
any materials, tools, apparatus or any other thing or things, the consideration
or cost of which shall exceed $20,000.00, without specifications being prepared
and published advertisement made for sealed proposals thereon. Upon the vote of
at least five (5) Council members determining that it is not necessary to
securing sealed competitive proposals, the requirement for published
advertisement may be waived. The Village shall have the right to reject any or
all such proposals. (Section 1 as amended March 8, 1982 and September 13, 2005)
SECTION 2. Subject to the provisions of the Charter, the Village may through
its departments, officers and employees perform public work of all kinds or it
may let any of such work by contract. (Section 2 as amended September 13, 2005)
SECTION 3. No public improvement, costing more than $20,000, shall be
contracted for or commenced until drawings, profiles and estimates for same
shall have been submitted to the Council and approved by it; and the same or a
copy thereof shall thereafter remain on file in the Office of the Village Clerk
subject to inspection of the public. (Section 3 as amended September 13, 2005)
SECTION 4. No member of the Council shall vote for the authorization of any
contract with or for the village, or for the expenditure of any money on the
part of the Village, if he shall be financially interested in the proceeds of
such contract or in the money so expended.
CHAPTER IX
GENERAL FINANCE - VILLAGE BUDGET AND FUNDS
SECTION 1. The fiscal year of the Village shall begin on the 1st day of July of
each year.
SECTION 2. The Village Treasurer shall be the general accountant of the Village
and shall keep a complete set of accounts showing the financial transactions of
the Village, which accounts shall conform to any uniform system required by
law. The Village Treasurer shall receive and disburse all moneys belonging to
the Village and shall keep an accurate detailed account of all money received
and disbursed by him and of the particular fund into which or from which said
is paid. He shall pay out no money except upon warrant issued as in this
Charter provided. He shall at least once every three months and oftener if
required, furnish the Council with a statement showing all cash on hand and in
the bank at the beginning of the preceding period, the receipts and
disbursements for the preceding period, the cash and bank balances at the end
of the preceding period and the condition of the several funds of the Village.
He shall make such other reports as the Council may require.
SECTION 3. No money shall be drawn from the treasury except upon the warrant of
the Clerk countersigned by the President. Every warrant shall specify the fund
from which it is payable and shall be paid from no other fund. No warrant shall
be drawn upon the treasury after the fund from which it should be paid has been
exhausted and if any such warrant shall be drawn it shall be void. No warrants
shall be issued until the same have first been authorized by the Council;
provided, however, that warrants may be issued for the payment of labor and
current expenses with the prior authorization of the Council, if authorized by
the President, but the total amount of such warrants issued between any
successive regular meetings of the Council shall not exceed such an amount as
the Council shall from time to time establish. All liquidated accounts and
demands against the Village shall be received and audited by the Treasurer who
shall enumerate them on a regular form prescribed by the Council. The Treasurer
shall certify to the Council as to the correctness or incorrectness of the
various amounts on such list. The Council shall authorize the issuance of
warrants on the treasury for the payment of such items as shall be approved by
it.
SECTION 4. All taxes accruing to the Village shall be collected by the Village
Treasurer. All moneys received by any officer or employee of the Village for or
in connection with the business of the Village, shall be paid promptly into the
Village treasury, and shall be deposited by the Treasurer with such responsible
banking institution as may be designated by the Council and furnish such
security as the Council may determine, and all interest on such deposits shall
accrue to the benefit of the Village. The Council shall provide for the prompt
and regular payment and deposit of all Village moneys as required by this
section.
SECTION 5. All fees received by any officer or employee in his official
capacity shall belong to the Village except as in this Charter otherwise
provided and except also where it is otherwise provided in the resolution or
ordinance fixing the salary of any officer or employee.
SECTION 6. The revenues raised by general taxation upon all property in the
Village or by loan to be repaid by such tax, shall be divided into such and so
many funds as the Council may by ordinance or resolution determine.
SECTION 7. The Village shall provide such financial reporting as is required by
State law. (Section 7 as amended November 6, 2018)
SECTION 8. On or before the 3rd Monday of April of each year, the Council shall
prepare and file a proposed annual budget for the ensuing fiscal year, based
upon detailed estimates furnished by the several Village officers, according to
classification as nearly uniform as possible. The Council shall also prepare
the following information:
   (a)   A comparative statement, in parallel columns, of the appropriation and
expenditures for the current and next preceding fiscal year and the increases
and decreases in the appropriation recommended;
   (b)   An itemized statement of the taxes required and of the estimated
revenue of the village from all other sources, for the ensuing fiscal year,
with comparative statement in parallel columns of the taxes and other revenues
for the current and next preceding fiscal year, and of the increases and
decreases estimated or proposed.
   Summaries of such budget shall be published one week in advance of a public
hearing which shall be held by the Council before adopting the same.
SECTION 9. Not later than the last day of the meeting of the Board of Review in
each year, the Council shall pass an annual appropriation resolution, which
shall be based on the budget as approved by the Council.
   The total amount of appropriation shall not exceed the revenues of the
Village as estimated by the Council. No liabilities shall be incurred by any
officer or employee of the Village, except in accordance with the provisions of
the annual appropriation resolution, or under continuing contracts and loans
authorized under the provisions of this Charter. At any meeting after the
passage of the appropriation resolution and after at lease one week's notice to
the members of the Council, the Council may amend such resolution so as to
authorize the transfer of unused balances appropriated for one purpose to
another purpose, or to appropriate available revenues of a class not included
in the annual budget.
SECTION 10. If for any cause there shall be at the end of any fiscal year a
surplus in any current expense fund, such surplus may be transferred to such
other fund as the Council may deem advisable.
SECTION 11. The Council, subject to the applicable provisions of law, may
authorize the borrowing of money in anticipation of the payment of special
assessments. Such special assessment bonds shall be both an obligation of the
special assessment district and a general obligation of the Village. All
collections on each special assessment roll, to the extent that the same are
pledged for the payment of the principal of, and interest on, bonds issued in
anticipation of the payment thereof, shall be set apart in a separate fund for
the payment of such principal and interest and shall be used for no other
purpose. (Section 11 as amended March 12, 1962)
CHAPTER X
GENERAL ASSESSMENTS AND TAXATION
SECTION 1. The Village Assessor shall on or before the 1st day of May of each
year, make an assessment roll of all persons and property liable to taxation in
the Village, and in so doing, unless otherwise provided in this Charter, he
shall conform to and be governed by the provisions of the general laws of the
State governing assessing officers performing like duties in the assessment of
persons and property for State, County and School taxes.
SECTION 2. The subjects of taxation for municipal purposes shall be the same as
for State, County and School purposes under the general laws of the State.
SECTION 3. The Board of Review shall meet for the purpose of reviewing and
correcting said assessment roll, at a designated place in the Village, on the
third Saturday in May of each year and shall continue in session between the
hours of 9:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. It shall elect a Chairman and Clerk. A
majority shall constitute a quorum. The members of said Board shall take the
constitutional oath of office which shall be filed with the Village Clerk. For
the purpose of reviewing and correcting such assessments, the Board of Review
shall have the same powers and perform like duties in all respects, as are by
the general tax law conferred upon and required of boards of review in
townships, in reviewing assessments in townships for State and County Taxes.
They shall hear the complaints of all persons considering themselves aggrieved
by such assessment, and if it shall appear that any person has been wrongfully
assessed, or omitted from the roll, the Board shall correct the roll in such
manner as they shall deem just.
SECTION 4. The Clerk of the Board of Review shall keep a record of all
proceedings of the Board and of all changes made in the roll, and shall sign
and file the same with the Village Clerk, together with statements made by
persons assessed.
SECTION 5. The Village Assessor shall on or before the 1st day of May of each
year mail to each taxpayer at his last known address, a notice of the meeting
of the said Board of Review stating the time and place of meeting. Such notice
shall also contain a statement showing the assessment on all property owned or
on which taxes are paid by such taxpayer. In addition to such notice, further
notice shall be given of such meeting by posting said notice in six (6) public
places in the Village, not less than seven (7) days before the day of review
and by publishing such notice once in a newspaper in circulation within the
Village, at least seven (7) days before the day of review. Failure to give any
of the notices herein specified shall not invalidate the assessment roll or any
assessment therein contained.
SECTION 6. Immediately after the review of the assessment roll as aforesaid,
the Chairman and Clerk of the Board of Review shall endorse the roll as
provided by the general tax laws. The omission of such endorsement shall not
affect the validity of such roll. Upon the completion of said roll and its
endorsement in the manner aforesaid, the same shall be conclusively presumed by
all courts and tribunals to be valid, and shall not be set aside except for
such causes as are provided in the general laws of the State for the setting
aside of assessment rolls for State, County and School purposes.
SECTION 7. Subject to the provisions of this Charter and the statutes of the
State, the Council shall levy such taxes each year as may be necessary to meet
the appropriations made (less the estimate of the amount of revenue from other
sources) and all sums required by law to be raised on account of the Village
debt.
SECTION 8. The Council shall have the authority within the limits herein
prescribed, to raise annually, by taxation such sums of money as may be
necessary to defray the expenses and pay the liabilities of the Village and to
carry into effect the powers in this Charter granted.
SECTION 9. The aggregate amount which the Council may raise by general tax upon
the taxable real and personal property in the village of Bingham Farms shall
not exceed in any one year $20.00 per $1,000.00 of the assessed value of all
the real and personal property in the Village as fixed by the assessment roll
of the year in which the tax was levied. (Section 9 as amended March 11, 1974).
SECTION 10. The Village Clerk shall certify to the Village Assessor the total
amount which the Council determines shall be raised by general tax.
SECTION 11. After the endorsement of the assessment roll by the Chairman and
Clerk of the Board of Review, and upon receiving the said certificate of the
several amounts to be raised, as provided in the preceding section, the
Assessor shall proceed to assess the amount of the general Village tax
according and in proportion to the several valuations set forth in said
assessment roll. Said roll shall be known as the “Village tax roll.”
SECTION 12. After extending the taxes as aforesaid, the Assessor shall certify
under his hand said tax roll, and the President of the Village shall annex his
warrant thereto, directing and requiring the Treasurer to collect from the
several persons named in said roll the several sums mentioned therein opposite
their respective names as a tax or assessment, and authorizing him, in case any
person named therein shall neglect or refuse to pay such sums, to levy the same
by distress and sale of his, her or their goods and chattels, together with the
costs and charges of such distress and sale. Said warrant shall further direct
that all taxes paid on or before the 31st day of August of the same year, shall
be collected without additional charge, and that there shall be added to all
taxes paid after each 31st day of August, one percent (1%) for each and every
month or fraction thereof that the same remains unpaid. The Assessor shall also
prepare a true copy of said Village tax roll and the President shall execute a
duplicate of said warrant and annex the same thereto, said roll to be known as
the “duplicate Village tax roll.” Said Village tax roll and annexed warrant and
said duplicate tax roll and annexed warrant shall be delivered by the Assessor
to the Treasurer on or before the first day of July of the year when made. In
event said tax roll shall be lost or destroyed a new roll and warrant may be
made. Before the original tax roll is deposited with the County Treasurer at
the time of returning delinquent taxes, the Village Treasurer shall endorse
upon the duplicate tax roll all payments made on taxes assessed therein and
such duplicate tax roll shall thereupon become the official record of the
Village.
SECTION 13. Village taxes shall be due on the first day of July of the year
when levied and shall be payable as stated in the warrant of the President
annexed to said roll. After the delivery of the tax roll to the Village
Treasurer, said Treasurer shall mail tax statements to the several persons
named therein. Failure to mail or receive any such statement shall not excuse
the non-payment of any tax.
SECTION 14. The Village taxes when assessed shall become at once a debt to the
Village from the person to whom they are assessed, and the amounts assessed on
any interest in real property shall on the first day of July of the year when
assessed, become a lien upon such real property, and the lien for such amounts
for all interest and charges shall continue until payment thereof. And all
personal taxes shall also be a first lien on all personal property of such
persons so assessed, from and after the first day of July of the year when
assessed, and shall so remain until paid, which said lien shall take precedence
over all other claims, encumbrances and liens upon said personal property
whatsoever, whether created by chattel mortgage, execution, levy, judgment or
otherwise, and whether arising before or after the assessment of said personal
taxes, and no transfer of personal property assessed for taxes thereon shall
operate to divest or destroy such lien, except where such personal property is
actually sold in the regular course of retail trade.
SECTION 15. If the Treasurer has been unable to collect any of the Village
taxes on said roll on real property before the first day of March following the
date when said roll was received by him, then it shall be his duty to return
all such unpaid taxes on real property to the County Treasurer in the same
manner and with like effect as returns by township treasurers of State and
County taxes. Such returns shall include all the additional charges
hereinbefore provided, which charges shall in such return be added to the
amount assessed in said roll against each description. The taxes thus returned
shall be collected in the same manner as other taxes returned to such County
Treasurer are collected under the provisions of the general tax laws of the
State, and the same rate of interest and all charges shall be collected
thereon, and all taxes upon land so returned as delinquent shall be and remain
a lien thereon until paid.
SECTION 16. It shall be the duty of the Village Treasurer, upon request made by
any party, to issue his certificate showing all unpaid taxes, and other charges
which are a lien upon any specified property, and which are payable at his
office, and he may upon being authorized by the Village Commission charge the
party requesting the same such sum as the Council shall establish for each
parcel. The issuance of such certificate shall not create any liability upon
the part of the Village or Village Treasurer, except that in the event of fraud
on the part of the Village Treasurer in the issuance thereof he shall be liable
therefor.
SECTION 17. The Village Clerk, after the council has determined the several
amounts which they require to be raised by general tax for the several funds of
the Village, and the aggregate thereof, shall certify the same to the Village
Treasurer. When such general taxes shall be received by the Treasurer, they
shall be apportioned to the several funds of the Village pro rata according to
the several amounts of said funds so certified.
SECTION 18. Money may be borrowed in anticipation of receipts from taxes for
the payment of current expenses or to fund deficiencies in current revenue, by
the issue of notes but the aggregate amount of such loans at any time
outstanding shall not exceed the total of such unpaid taxes outstanding. All
such loans shall be subject to the provisions of the laws of the State in
relation thereto. No temporary loans authorized by this section shall be made
without approval of four (4) of the members of the Council.
SECTION 19. The Village may not levy taxes for the purposes of purchasing
grounds for a cemetery or for maintaining a cemetery.
CHAPTER XI
STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
SECTION 1. The Council shall have supervision and control of all public
highways, streets, alleys, sidewalks, and public grounds within the Village,
and may regulate the use thereof, subject to the established rights of the
public therein.
SECTION 2. The Council shall have the power to construct, improve and maintain
highways, streets and alleys within the Village, and shall have the authority
to lay out, establish, open, widen, extend, straighten, alter, close, vacate,
or abolish any highway, street or alley within the Village whenever they shall
deem the same a public improvement.
SECTION 3. The cost of all construction, improvement and maintenance of
highways, streets and alleys within the Village shall be paid for in accordance
with the general laws of the State governing the construction, improvement and
maintenance of highways, streets and alleys, within a village. In addition, the
Council may determine that the whole, or any part, of the cost of the
construction or improvement of highways, streets and alleys within the Village
shall be defrayed by special assessment upon the property especially
benefitted. The Council shall by general ordinance prescribe a complete special
assessment procedure. (Section 3 as amended August 21, 1961)
SECTION 4. The Council shall have the authority to determine and establish the
grade of all highways, streets, alleys, sidewalks, and public grounds within
the Village, and may change any such established grades whenever in their
opinion the public convenience will be promoted thereby. Whenever any such
established grade is changed, however, and an adjoining property owner had
previously made improvements in conformity to the established grade, such
property owner shall be compensated for all damages reasonably resulting from
the change in grade and the damages shall be paid by the Village and shall not
be assessed against property owners benefitting from the change in grade.
SECTION 5. The Council shall not have the power to construct any new sidewalks
in residential areas.
CHAPTER XII
FRANCHISES
SECTION 1. The Village shall not own or operate any public utility, nor shall
it grant a franchise for the operation of any public utility within the Village
limits other than for electric service, telephone service, gas service or
public transportation, unless the same shall first have been approved by three-
fifths (3/5) of the electors voting thereon at a general or special election.
SECTION 2. No franchise which is not revocable at the will of the Village shall
be granted or become operative until approved by three-fifths (3/5) of the
electors voting thereon at a general or special election.
SECTION 3. No franchise shall be granted for a longer period than thirty (30)
years.
SECTION 4. No person, firm or corporation shall ever be granted an exclusive
franchise.
SECTION 5. No public utility shall have the right to the use of the highways,
streets, alleys or other public places for wires, poles, pipes, tracks,
conduits or the like without first obtaining a proper permit from the Council,
which permit shall be revocable at any time.
SECTION 6. All contracts granting, renewing, extending or amending a franchise
shall be made by ordinance and not otherwise, and shall not be effective until
a written acceptance is filed by the grantee with the Village Clerk.
SECTION 7. The grant of every franchise shall be subject to the right of the
Village to make and enforce all regulations which shall be necessary to secure
adequate and efficient service from all public utilities operating in the
Village, and to protect the health, safety and welfare of the public.
CHAPTER XIII
PLANNING AND PLATS
SECTION 1. Within thirty (30) days after adoption of this Charter, the Council
shall adopt an ordinance creating, under Michigan Public Acts 285 of 1931 as
amended, a Village Planning Commission which shall serve without compensation.
No lands or premises shall hereafter be laid out, divided or platted into lots,
streets and alleys, within the Village, until such plats are approved in
writing by the Council.
CHAPTER XIV
MAINTENANCE OF VILLAGE UTILITIES
(Chapter XIV as amended 3-12-1962)
SECTION 1. Public lighting and water systems or supplies shall not be
constructed, provided or maintained, unless the proposed lighting, water
systems or supplies shall first have been approved by three-fifths (3/5) of the
electors voting at any general election or at any special election called for
that purpose.
SECTION 2. The Council may determine that the whole, or any part of the cost of
the acquisition, construction, replacement or improvement of any sewers or
drains or facilities for the disposal of sewage or drain water shall be
defrayed by special assessment upon the property especially benefitted, and the
procedure therefor shall be prescribed by general ordinance.
CHAPTER XV
INTERIM LEGISLATION
   The valid provisions of all by-laws, ordinances, resolutions, rules and
regulations of the Township of Southfield which are not inconsistent with this
Charter and which are in force and effect and lawfully applicable to the
territory of the Village of Bingham Farms at the time of the effective date of
this Charter shall continue in full force and effect and be administered by and
for the Village until and unless repealed or amended under provisions hereof or
otherwise by law; provided, however, that if any such by-law, ordinance,
resolution, rule or regulation provides for the appointment by the Township
Board or Supervisor of any officer or member of a board or commission, future
appointments of such persons shall be made by the Council. Fees originally
payable to the Township under such provisions as to said territory hereafter
shall be paid to the Village of Bingham Farms.
   Any reference in any such by-law, ordinance, resolution, rule or regulation
to a township board or commission shall be construed to refer instead to the
Village Council.
   Within thirty (30) days after the effective date hereof, the Clerk under
direction of the Council shall procure, and enter and maintain in a record
called “Interim Legislation,” a copy of each existing township by-law,
ordinance, resolution, rule and regulation disclosed by the public records of
the Township; and the Council shall, within sixty (60) days after such entry,
determine by resolution the provisions thereof which apply to said territory
under authority of this section. The application of such provisions to this
Village shall terminate not later than November 3, 1956. In the interim, as a
substitute for such Township provisions, the Council shall enact whatever it
deems necessary as Village legislation, with notices and hearings thereon as
required by this Charter.
CHAPTER XVI
MISCELLANEOUS
SECTION 1. Whenever used in this Charter, the word “State” shall mean the
“State of Michigan;” the word “Village” shall mean the “Village of Bingham
Farms;” the word “Clerk” shall mean the “Village Clerk,” unless from the
context the contrary shall plainly appear; words referring to the several
officers where not preceded by the word “Village” shall be deemed to mean such
officers of the Village unless the context implies otherwise; the word
“resolution” shall be deemed to include official action in form of a motion as
well as in form of resolution; the terms “Commission” and “Village Commission”
shall be construed as meaning “Council” or “Common Council” for the purpose of
such general laws of the State as use one or the other of such latter terms in
referring to the legislative body of the Village; words imparting the singular
number only, may extend to and embrace the plural number and words imparting
the plural number may be applied and limited to the singular number, words
imparting the masculine gender only, may extend and be applied to those of the
feminine gender.
SECTION 2. Eastern Standard Time shall be the official time of the Village
until otherwise changed by the Council. Any references herein to time shall be
construed to be according to the official time of the Village.
SECTION 3. Words purporting to give joint authority to two or more public
officers or other persons either as a board or otherwise shall be construed as
giving such authority to a majority of such officers or other persons unless it
shall be otherwise expressly declared.
SECTION 4. The word “person” may extend and be applied to bodies corporate as
well as individuals. The words “written” and “in writing” may be construed to
include printing, engraving, typewritten and lithographing, except that this
rule shall not apply to provisions requiring written signatures, unless it be
otherwise expressly herein provided.
SECTION 5. Should any portion of this Charter be declared void, illegal or
unconstitutional, such finding shall not invalidate the remainder of the
Charter.
SECTION 6. All records of the Village shall be public and open to inspection at
all reasonable times.
SECTION 7. All books, papers, records, and accounts of any officer elected or
appointed, or of any office or Department of the Village, shall be the property
of the Village and shall at all times be subject to audit, examination or
inspection by any member of the Council for that purpose. And all such books,
papers, records, files and accounts shall be kept in such place as may be
designated by the Council.
SECTION 8. When, by provision of this Charter, or the laws of the State, notice
of any matter or proceedings is required to be published in a newspaper or
posted, an affidavit of the publication or posting of the same, made by the
printer of the newspaper in which the same was inserted, or by some person in
the newspaper in which the same was inserted, or by some person in his employ
knowing the facts, or by the person posting the same when required to be by
posting, shall be prima facie evidence of the facts therein contained. Such
affidavit of publication or posting shall be filed with the Village Clerk.
SECTION 9. The Village shall not be liable for unliquidated damages for
personal or other injuries, unless the person suffering the injury or
sustaining the damage, or someone in his behalf, shall serve a notice in
writing upon the Village within sixty (60) days after such injury shall have
occurred. Such notice shall specify the location and the nature of the defect
or other basis of the claim, the injury sustained and the names of the
witnesses to the accident which are known at that time by said claimant. The
failure to so notify the Village within the time and in the manner specified
herein shall exonerate, excuse and exempt the Village from any and all
liability on account of such injury. Service of all notices of claims for
unliquidated damages against the Village shall be made on the President or
Clerk.
SECTION 10. Until otherwise changed by the Council, the seal of the village of
Bingham Farms shall be circular form with the words, “Village of Bingham Farms,
Michigan, 1955,” around the outer edge and the words, “Corporate Seal,” across
the center.
SECTION 11. Every person convicted of a violation of this Charter or any
Ordinance adopted pursuant thereto, shall be punished by a fine not exceeding
$500.00 or imprisonment for a period not exceeding 90 days, or both in the
discretion of the Court, unless the conviction is for a violation of an
Ordinance in which the Village Council has designated a punishment of
imprisonment of not more than 93 days or a fine of not more than $500.00, or
both, or the conviction (finding of responsibility) for a violation of an
Ordinance that has been designated by the Village Council as a civil infraction
in which case the punishment shall be as provided in said Ordinances. (Section
11 as amended March 8, 1982 and November 6, 2018)
SECTION 12. Amendments to this Charter shall be initiated and submitted to the
electors of the Village in the manner provided by the laws of the State. For
the adoption of any amendment to this Charter or for the adoption of any
revision thereof it shall require the favorable vote of a majority of the
electors voting thereon at the election at which the same shall be submitted.
CHAPTER XVII
SUBMISSION AND ELECTION
SECTION 1. This Charter shall be submitted to the electors of the Village of
Bingham Farms for their approval or rejection at an election the date of which
shall be set by resolution of the Charter Commission; at which election the
several elective officers provided for in this charter shall also be elected.
SECTION 2. Prior to the submission of this Charter it shall be published once
in a newspaper published in the County of Oakland and circulated in the Village
of Bingham Farms, not less than two (2) weeks, nor more than four (4) weeks,
preceding said election, together with a notice of said election, which notice
shall state that at said election the question of adopting said proposed
Charter will be voted on, and the elective officers provided for therein will
be elected, and shall also state the location of the polling place for such
election and other matters required by law. Notice of said election shall also
be posted in at least ten (10) public places within the Village not less than
two (2) weeks prior to said election.
SECTION 3. Candidates for the several elective Village offices provided for in
this Charter shall be nominated by petition signed by not less than fifteen
(15) nor more than twenty (20) qualified electors of the Village and filed with
the Secretary of this Charter Commission. The time and date of filing of said
petitions shall be set by resolution of the Charter Commission. Such petitions
shall be in substantially the form provided in Chapter IV for nominating
petitions. At the said election, the names of candidates and those only, who
have filed nominating petitions as aforesaid, shall be printed on the ballot.
SECTION 4. The election district for said election shall be the entire Village
of Bingham Farms, and the polling place for said election shall be designated
by this Charter Commission and published as herein provided.
SECTION 5. The ballots for elective offices at said election shall be in the
form provided for in this Charter for the election of officers, and the form of
the ballot on the question of the adoption or rejection of this Charter shall
be substantially as follows:
OFFICIAL BALLOT
   Election held in Village of Bingham Farms, Michigan, on
                           ,                     .
   (Instructions: A cross (X) in the square after the word “yes” is in favor of
the Charter, and a cross (X) in the square after the word “no” is against the
Charter.)
   “Shall the proposed Charter for the Village of Bingham Farms, drafted by the
Charter Commission elected on the
                                                                be adopted?”
   YES ( )
   “Shall the proposed Charter for the Village of Bingham Farms, drafted by the
Charter Commission elected on the
                                                        be adopted?”
   No ( )
SECTION 6. The polls for said election shall be opened at 7:00 in the forenoon,
Eastern Standard Time, or as soon thereafter as may be, and shall be continued
open until 8:00 in the afternoon, Eastern Standard Time, of the same day.
   Said election shall be conducted by such inspectors and clerks as shall be
hereafter designated by resolution of this Charter Commission.
   The votes cast at said election shall be canvassed by a canvassing board of
three electors to be hereafter designated by resolution of this Charter
Commission.
SECTION 7. The registration of electors shall be conducted in the manner
provided by law for registration in new villages. The Secretary of this Charter
Commission shall cause the ballots for said election to be printed and
delivered to the polling place before the opening of the polls on said election
day. The returns of the election board as to the results of said election shall
be made to the canvassing board designated by this Charter Commission,
immediately after the counting of the ballots is completed. Except as is in
this Chapter and in the general laws of the State otherwise provided, and
except as may be otherwise provided by this Charter Commission within the scope
of its powers, said election shall be conducted as is provided in Chapter IV of
this Charter so far as the provision of said Chapter are applicable.
SECTION 8. The canvassing board appointed to canvass the votes cast at said
election shall as soon as practicable after said election, meet and canvass the
votes cast at said election and determine the result thereof.
SECTION 9. If this Charter be approved at said election, then two (2) printed
copies thereof, with the vote for and against the same, duly certified by the
Village Clerk, shall within thirty (30) days after the vote is taken be filed
with each the Secretary of State and County Clerk of Oakland County, and upon
the filing thereof this Charter shall become effective.
         WILLIAM KING, Chairman
         JAMES McGUIRE, Secretary
         FRANK A. LAMBERSON
         WILLIAM A. HYLAND
         CARSON C. BINGHAM
            Members of the Charter Commission
   Resolved, that the Charter Commission of the Village of Bingham Farms does
hereby adopt the foregoing Charter, and the Secretary is hereby instructed to
transmit the same to the Governor of the State of Michigan, in accordance with
the provisions of the statute, for approval.
   Yeas:   Commissioners King, McGuire, Lamberson, Hyland, Bingham.
   Nays:   None.    Absent: None.
   I, James McGuire, Secretary of the Charter Commission elected to frame a
Charter for the Village of Bingham Farms, do hereby certify that the above
Charter was adopted by said Charter Commission at a session thereof held on the
20th day of June, 1955, and that the foregoing is a true and correct copy of
the resolution and vote thereon, by which said Charter was adopted.
   I further certify that the above Charter gives effect to certain amendments
adopted by proper resolution of the Charter Commission at a session thereof
held on the 26th day of August, 1955, at which session a quorum of the Charter
Commissioners were present.
Dated September 9, 1955
                              James McGuire
                              Secretary, Charter Commission
                              Approved Date: September 12, 1955
                              G. Mennen Williams
                              Governor of the State of Michigan
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Chapter
   
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the Village of Bingham Farms
shall be designated as the Bingham Farms Village Code and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning, or unless the same word is defined in another title, in which case the
definition in that title shall apply to the word as it appears in that title.
      ASSESSOR. The Assessor of the Village of Bingham Farms as established by
the Charter.
      CHARTER or VILLAGE CHARTER. The Charter of the Village of Bingham Farms
as amended from time to time.
      CLERK or VILLAGE CLERK. The Clerk of the Village of Bingham Farms as
established by the Charter.
      CODE, THIS CODE, THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES, VILLAGE CODE or BINGHAM FARMS
VILLAGE CODE. This code as modified by amendment, revision, and adoption of new
titles, chapters, or sections.
      COUNCIL or VILLAGE COUNCIL. The Council of the Village of Bingham Farms
as established by the Charter.
      COUNTY. Oakland County, Michigan.
      FIRE DEPARTMENT. The fire department of the Village of Bingham Farms as
established or contracted for by the Village Council.
      FIRE OFFICIAL or FIRE CHIEF. The Fire Chief of the Fire Department.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this village unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes any individual, sole proprietorship,
firm, association, joint venture, corporation, partnership, limited liability
company, trustee, lessee, governmental agency, or other legal entity, or
receiver. Whenever used in any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the
terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the
partners or members thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or
agents thereof.
      POLICE DEPARTMENT. The Police Department of the Village of Bingham Farms
as established by the Charter.
      POLICE CHIEF. The Police Chief of the Village of Bingham Farms as
established by the Charter.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      PRESIDENT or VILLAGE PRESIDENT. The President of the Village of Bingham
Farms as established by the Charter.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Michigan.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have subchapters.
      TREASURER or VILLAGE TREASURER. The Treasurer of the Village of Bingham
Farms as established by the Charter.
      VILLAGE. The Village of Bingham Farms, Michigan.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
(Ord. 260, passed 4-26-21)
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this village shall be by the following
rules, unless such construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance:
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, such
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of such act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
(Ord. 260, passed 4-26-21)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, such
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this village exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
(Ord. 260, passed 4-26-21)
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express such intent, such spelling shall be corrected and such word
or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
such error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state or federal laws, shall
be the official time within this village for the transaction of all village
business.
(Ord. 260, passed 4-26-21)
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of such act or the giving of such notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the ordinance repealing or
modifying it takes effect.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, a new chapter or section, containing the desired
amendment, shall be substituted in its place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
title, chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of
this code, the proper number of such chapter or section. In addition to such
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-80; Am.
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (M.C.L.A. § 15.231) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-
85).
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information.
Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
   For provisions concerning the inspection of public records, see Public Act
442 of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.231 et seq.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
Chapter
   
30.   VILLAGE POLICIES
   
31.   EMERGENCY MEASURES
   
32.   MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTIONS
   
33.   COST RECOVERY
   
34.   VILLAGE MANAGER
CHAPTER 30: VILLAGE POLICIES
Section
General Policies
   
30.01   Authorization to require indemnification
   
30.02   Cost recovery for hazardous/toxic waste accidents
   
30.03   Appearance tickets, citations and violation notices
   
30.04   Attendance at board and commission meetings
   
30.05   Publication of rules and regulations
Special Assessments
   
30.15   Power to levy special assessments
   
30.16   Initiation of proceedings
   
30.17   Direction to prepare plans
   
30.18   Filing of report
   
30.19   Calling of public hearing on necessity
   
30.20   Notice of public hearing
   
30.21   Public hearing
   
30.22   Council determination of necessity
   
30.23   Preparation of assessment roll
   
30.24   Setting hearing on assessment roll
   
30.25   Council determination on assessment roll
   
30.26   Installment payments
   
30.27   Interest, fees and penalties
   
30.28   Reassessment and refunds
   
30.29   Lien of special assessment
Private Payment of Review Expenses
   
30.35   Application
   
30.36   Advancement or reimbursement of monies for review
   
30.37   Costs
   
30.38   Escrow account
   
30.39   Waiver or deferral
   
30.40   Appeals
GENERAL POLICIES
§ 30.01 AUTHORIZATION TO REQUIRE INDEMNIFICATION.
   In connection with the provision of any outside service to the village and
in connection with the establishment of any contract or other relationship
between a contractor or vendor and the village, the Village President shall be
authorized to require the indemnification of the village and its officers,
officials and employees. The specific terms of the indemnification agreement
shall be reasonable and shall be prepared consistent with the facts,
circumstances and risks of each service and exposure. The Village President
shall have authority to finalize such terms, with the advice and assistance of
the Village Attorney. The Village Council may direct that an indemnification
agreement be prepared in connection with any particular circumstance.
(Ord. 133, passed 9-23-91)
§ 30.02 COST RECOVERY FOR HAZARDOUS/TOXIC WASTE ACCIDENTS.
   (A)   Cost recovery for hazardous/toxic material incidents and hazardous
conditions of extended duration.  
      (1)   The Village of Bingham Farms shall be entitled to recover all costs
and damages incurred in conjunction with emergency incidents involving
hazardous/toxic materials or hazardous conditions of extended duration. Such
costs and damages shall include, but are not limited to, those associated with
incident abatement, cleanup or mitigation, including any related third party
costs, which were necessary to ensure the safety of the village and its
populace.
      (2)   Such costs and damages shall be the joint and several
responsibility of the owner(s) and/or operator(s) of the property, equipment,
vehicle or container causing or contributing to any emergency incident or
hazardous condition of extended duration. All such costs and damages shall be
paid within 30 days of demand by the Village or its Fire and/or Police
Department unless otherwise approved by the Village Council.
   (B)   Cost recovery for incendiary type fires. 
      (1)   The Village of Bingham Farms shall be entitled to recover all costs
and damages incurred in conjunction with any incendiary type fire. Such costs
shall include, but are not limited to, those associated with fire
extinguishment and investigation.
      (2)   Such costs and damages shall be the joint and several
responsibility of the person(s) found responsible for setting the fire by a
court of competent jurisdiction. All such costs and damages shall be paid
within 30 days of demand by the village unless otherwise approved by the
Village Council.
(Ord. 138, passed 1-25-93; Am. Ord. 261, passed 4-26-21)
Cross-reference:
   Cost recovery, see
Ch. 33
§ 30.03 APPEARANCE TICKETS, CITATIONS AND VIOLATION NOTICES.
   In addition to persons authorized in a specific ordinance and police
officers, the following persons, being public servants, are authorized to issue
and serve upon persons appearance tickets, citations and violation notices with
respect to alleged violations of ordinances and codes of the Village of Bingham
Farms in such cases as the designated public servants have sufficient grounds
to believe a violation has occurred, as required by law:
   (A)   The Village Clerk;
   (B)   The designated Fire Official of the village, with regard to violations
of codes and ordinances relating to fire matters;
   (C)   Members of the City of Southfield Building Department with regard to
alleged violations of construction codes, such Department serving as the agency
of the village for the administration of such codes. For purposes of this
provision, construction codes shall include the zoning ordinance.
(Ord. 156, passed 5-27-97; Am. Ord. 261, passed 4-26-21)
§ 30.04 ATTENDANCE AT BOARD AND COMMISSION MEETINGS. 
   Any person appointed to any board or commission in the village shall accept
the position with intent to participate fully. Each appointee shall be required
to attend a minimum of 75% of the regularly scheduled and special meetings
during each calendar year of the term of the appointment. Failure to maintain
the attendance rate may be the basis for removal of the appointee.
(Ord. 144, passed 1-24-94)
§ 30.05 PUBLICATION OF RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   All rules and regulations made by the administrative officers which are
subject to approval by the Council under the provisions of this code, after
such approval is given, and all rules and regulations adopted by the Council on
its own initiative, shall be published in the manner provided in the Village
Charter for the publication of village ordinances. Copies of all such rules and
regulations shall be kept in the office of the Clerk for public inspection and
distribution. Rules and regulations adopted by any department of the village
shall be filed with the Village Council at the time of their adoption, repeal
or amendment.
(O.C. § 1.12)
SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS
§ 30.15 POWER TO LEVY SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   The Council shall have the power to determine that the whole or any part of
the cost of the acquisition, construction or replacement of any improvements or
the cost of the provision of any public service within the village shall be
defrayed by a special assessment upon the property especially benefitted.
(O.C. § 1.31)
§ 30.16 INITIATION OF PROCEEDINGS.
   Special assessment proceedings may be initiated by the Council or by a
petition of the owners of land within the village for which the improvement
petitioned will benefit. Such a petition shall be only advisory to the Council
and shall be on a form approved by the Council. The petition shall be filed
with the Village Clerk.
(O.C. § 1.32)
§ 30.17 DIRECTION TO PREPARE PLANS.
   When the Council shall determine the advisability of considering the
acquisition, construction or replacement of any improvements or the provision
of any public service and paying therefor by a special assessment, the Council
shall by resolution direct the preparation of a report to it to include plans
and specifications of the proposed acquisition, construction or replacement of
any improvements or the provision of any public service, an estimate of the
cost thereof and such other information as the Council may direct.
(O.C. § 1.33)
§ 30.18 FILING OF REPORT.
   The report shall contain the information requested, as well as a description
of all properties estimated by the person directed to prepare the report to be
benefitted by the proposed acquisition, construction, replacement of any
improvements or provision of any public service and shall be filed with the
Village Clerk.
(O.C. § 1.34)
§ 30.19 CALLING OF PUBLIC HEARING ON NECESSITY.
   Either at the time of the resolution calling for the preparation of such
report or thereafter, the Council shall, by resolution, establish a date for a
public hearing and provide for the giving of at least ten days notice thereof
in the manner hereinafter provided.
(O.C. § 1.35)
§ 30.20 NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING.
   Notice of hearings held pursuant to this subchapter shall be in the form
approved by the Council, shall describe the acquisition, construction,
replacement of the improvement proposed to be undertaken or of the service to
be provided and shall describe the proposed special assessment district;
provided, however, that such description of the district shall not be required
in the notice of hearing on the special assessment roll as provided for in §
30.24. The notice of hearing shall be published at least once in a newspaper
published or circulated in the village and shall also be given to each owner of
or party in interest in property to be assessed whose name appears upon the
last local tax assessment records by mailing by first-class mail addressed to
such owner or party at the address shown on the tax records. The last local tax
assessment records means the last assessment roll for ad valorem tax purposes
which has been reviewed by the local Board of Review as supplemented by any
subsequent changes in the names or the addresses of the owners or parties
listed thereon.
(O.C. § 1.36)
§ 30.21 PUBLIC HEARING.
   At the time and place specified in such resolution for public hearing, the
Council shall meet and hear any objections to the proposed project or to the
special assessment district by any person to be affected by the proposed
acquisition, construction or replacement of any improvement or service to be
provided. The hearing may be adjourned from time to time by announcement and
without the necessity for further notice by publication or mail, and the
Council may make any changes in the proposed work or assessment district which
shall seem reasonable or proper and in the best interests of the village;
provided, however, that the acquisition, construction or replacement of any
improvement or the area to be provided of any service shall not be enlarged or
extended nor shall the proposed assessment district be enlarged without another
public hearing being held after the giving of notice thereof in the manner as
above provided.
(O.C. § 1.37)
§ 30.22 COUNCIL DETERMINATION OF NECESSITY.
   After the public hearing, the Council may by resolution determine to make
the acquisition, construction or replacement of any improvement or to provide
such public service and to defray the whole or any part of the cost thereof by
assessments upon property especially benefitted. The resolution shall include
the approval of the plans and specifications on file with the Clerk, either as
filed or as modified, shall establish the district which is to be especially
benefitted and upon which special assessments shall be levied, shall provide
for the manner in which the assessment is to be levied by the assessor and
shall direct the assessor to spread the roll. The Council may also provide in
such resolution that a portion of the cost of such construction, improvement or
provision of service be paid by the village at large. Such resolution shall
also provide for the number of installments in which each assessment may be
paid, provided that the total number of installments shall not exceed 30.
(O.C. § 1.38)
§ 30.23 PREPARATION OF ASSESSMENT ROLL.
   The Assessor shall thereupon prepare a special assessment roll, including
all parcels of land within the special assessment district designated by the
Council, and shall assess to each parcel of land such portion of the whole sum
to be levied against all the lands in the special assessment district as the
benefit to such lot or parcel of land bears to the total benefit to all lands
in the district. Upon completion of such roll, the Assessor shall attach
thereto his or her certificate to the effect that the assessments have been
made pursuant to the resolution of the Council and the provisions of this
subchapter. He or she shall thereupon file said roll with the Village Clerk.
(O.C. § 1.39)
§ 30.24 SETTING HEARING ON ASSESSMENT ROLL.
   Upon the filing of such special assessment roll, the Council shall by
resolution fix the time and place when it will meet and review such roll, which
meeting shall be held not less than ten days after notice thereof has been
given of such hearing as above provided in § 30.20.
(O.C. § 1.40)
§ 30.25 COUNCIL DETERMINATION ON ASSESSMENT ROLL.
   At the hearing provided for in § 30.24, the Council shall review the roll
and may confirm it with such corrections as may have been made, if any, or may
refer it back to the Assessor for revision or may vote to abandon any further
proceedings in connection therewith. If, at or prior to the hearing on the
confirmation of any special assessment roll written objections to such special
assessments are made by the owners of property which will bear 50% of the cost
of the proposed construction or improvement, the same shall not be made and the
special assessment roll shall not be confirmed unless approved by at least four
of the members elect of the Village Council. After the confirmation, the
special assessment roll and all assessments shall be final and conclusive
unless attacked in a court of competent jurisdiction within 30 days after the
date of confirmation.
(O.C. § 1.41)
§ 30.26 INSTALLMENT PAYMENTS.
   The first installment of any special assessment shall become due 30 days
after the adoption of the resolution confirming the roll, and one installment
shall be due every 12 months thereafter, provided that assessments totaling
less than $10 shall become due 30 days after the confirmation of the assessment
roll.
(O.C. § 1.42)
§ 30.27 INTEREST, FEES AND PENALTIES.
   The unpaid part of any special assessment shall bear interest at the rate of
7% per annum from the due date of the first installment until said assessment
shall have been paid in full. The same penalty and fee shall be collected on
delinquent special assessments and upon delinquent installments of such special
assessments as are provided for the collection of delinquent taxes.
(O.C. § 1.43)
§ 30.28 REASSESSMENT AND REFUNDS.
   If upon the completion of any such project it is determined that the amount
assessed will not be sufficient to pay that portion of the cost which the
Council has determined shall be assessed against private property, the Council
may make an additional assessment of such deficiency upon the property in the
assessment district in the same ratio as the original assessment. If the amount
assessed in the original assessment is 5% or more greater than the cost of the
project, the Council shall, by resolution, order such excess refunded
proportionately to the then owners of the properties in the assessment
district, provided, however, that there shall be no refund in any amount of $10
or less. If any assessment is declared void or invalid by the Council or by a
court of competent jurisdiction, a reassessment may be made.
(O.C. § 1.44)
§ 30.29 LIEN OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENT.
   Special assessments and all interest, penalties and charges thereon from the
date of confirmation of the roll be and remain a lien upon the property
assessed of the same character and effect as a lien created by general law for
state and county taxes or by the Village Charter for village taxes until paid.
The failure of the owner to receive any notice required to be sent under this
subchapter shall not invalidate any special assessment or any special
assessment roll if such notice was in fact published and mailed as herein
provided. Any failure to give notice as required in this subchapter shall not
invalidate an entire assessment roll. In no case shall any special assessment
be declared invalid as to any property if the owner or party in interest
thereof has actually received notice, has waived notice or has paid any part of
the assessment.
(O.C. § 1.45)
PRIVATE PAYMENT OF REVIEW EXPENSES
§ 30.35 APPLICATION.
   This chapter shall apply in circumstances in which the village is requested
for, other otherwise acts upon, an authorization, permission, permit,
recommendation, expert determination, opinion, or other approval or action for
the benefit of the person or property which is the subject of such action, and
where the purpose of direct benefit of such action is not for the village at
large. For purposes of this section, such action shall be referred to as
VILLAGE REVIEW.
(Ord. 176, passed 7-22-02)
§ 30.36 ADVANCEMENT OR REIMBURSEMENT OF MONIES FOR REVIEW.
   Where a village review reasonably requires one or more village consultants,
contractors, agents, including but not limited to the village planner,
engineer, and attorney, or other persons or entities not compensated on a
regular village salary basis, or if and to the extent a village review
reasonably requires action by a village employee who, as a consequence of such
action must be compensated on an overtime basis, the person making the request
and/or the owner of the property which is the subject of the village review
shall be obligated to advance the monies for the review. If the monies or any
reason have not been advanced prior to the review such monies shall be
reimbursed.
(Ord. 176, passed 7-22-02; Am. Ord. 264, passed 10-25-21)
§ 30.37 COSTS.
   The amount of money required to be paid shall be reasonably related to the
amount of costs and expenses to be incurred by the village to complete the
review.
(Ord. 176, passed 7-22-02)
§ 30.38 ESCROW ACCOUNT.
   (A)   The village may require the escrow of monies in the amount of the
estimated costs and expenses to be incurred in the village review. Payment from
such escrow shall be based upon a written billing or other written accounting
for the village review undertaken with written documentation of costs and
expenses to be maintained for inspection by the person providing the funds.
   (B)   If the amount or escrow is or will be inadequate to cover all of the
costs and expenses of the village review, the village may require supplemental
monies to be place in escrow for completion of the village review.
   (C)   to the extent an escrow exceeds the final actual costs and expenses of
the village review, the excess shall be returned to the person that posted the
escrow at their last known address. If the escrow cannot be returned in that
manner and has not been claimed by the person who posted it within six month of
the village's first written notice of the excess, the village may deposit the
excess escrow to the general fund of the village or hold it for distribution in
accordance with the laws of the State of Michigan.
(Ord. 176, passed 7-22-02)
§ 30.39 WAIVER OR DEFERRAL.
   If a person does not have adequate funds to pay for the village review, the
payment may be waived by the Village Council. To request such relief, the
person shall file and affidavit with the Village Clerk, confirming the claimed
lack of funds and disclosing any future funds availability and real or personal
property available to secure payment of all or part of the funds. In response
to such an affidavit, the Village Council may defer rather than waive payment.
(Ord. 176, passed 7-22-02)
§ 30.40 APPEALS.
   A person that is aggrieved by a decision requiring the escrow or payment of
monies under §§ 30.35 through 30.40 may appeal the requirement to the Village
Council, provided such appeal is filed in writing with the Village Clerk with
in 21 days of the decision.
(Ord. 176, passed 7-22-02)
CHAPTER 31: EMERGENCY MEASURES
Section
   
31.01   State of emergency
   
31.02   Village security force
   
31.03   Governor’s proclamation
§ 31.01 STATE OF EMERGENCY.
   Pursuant to the Charter for the village, the Village President shall have
the power during times of war, insurrection, civil disorder, riot, fire, storm
or other natural disaster in the village or in Oakland or Wayne County to
declare that a state of emergency exists. During such state of emergency, the
President shall have the authority to declare a curfew and/or authorize other
measures appropriate to the preservation of law and order and the safety and
well-being of the community. Such state of emergency shall exist until
termination by order of the President or vote of the Village Council.
(O.C. § 9.151) (Ord. 261, passed 4-26-21)
§ 31.02 VILLAGE SECURITY FORCE.
   To enforce any of the emergency measures authorized by §
31.01, the President shall have the power to name or designate or authorize the
Police Chief or Fire Official to name or designate a temporary village security
force to exist for the duration of the declared emergency and serve under the
direction of the Police Chief or Fire Official or properly designated
authority.
(O.C. § 9.152) (Ord. 261, passed 4-26-21)
§ 31.03 GOVERNOR’S PROCLAMATION.
   This chapter shall automatically take effect whenever the Governor of the
State of Michigan declares an emergency as provided in § 31.01.
(O.C. § 9.153)
CHAPTER 32: MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTIONS
Section
   
32.01   Presumption of civil infraction
   
32.02   Definitions
   
32.03   Penalties, sanctions and remedies for code violations
   
32.04   Commencement of municipal civil infraction action
   
32.05   Ordinance enforcement officer
§ 32.01 PRESUMPTION OF CIVIL INFRACTION.
   Unless a violation of this code is specifically designated in the text of
this code to be a misdemeanor, a violation shall be deemed to be a municipal
civil infraction.
(Ord. 158, passed 6-23-97)
§ 32.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION. A violation of a provision of this code for
which the remedy and/or penalty is prescribed to be a civil fine or other
sanction other than a criminal penalty. A MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION is not a
lesser included offense of a criminal offense or of an ordinance violation that
is not a civil infraction.
   MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION DETERMINATION. A determination that a defendant
is responsible for a municipal civil infraction by one of the following:
      (1)   An admission of responsibility for the municipal civil infraction;
      (2)   An admission of responsibility for the municipal civil infraction,
“with explanation;”
      (3)   A preponderance of the evidence at an informal hearing or formal
hearing;
      (4)   A default judgment for failing to appear at a scheduled appearance.
   REPEAT OFFENSE. A determination of responsibility for a second, or any
subsequent, municipal civil infraction with regard to the same code provision,
committed by the same person within any three-year period, unless some other
period is specifically provided with regard to a specific code provision.
   RESPONSIBLE or RESPONSIBILITY. A determination entered by a court or
magistrate that a person is in violation of a provision of this code prescribed
to be a municipal civil infraction.
   VIOLATION. Any act which is prohibited or made or declared to be unlawful or
an offense under this code, including affirmative acts as well as omissions
and/or failures to act where the act is required by this code.
(Ord. 158, passed 6-23-97)
§ 32.03 PENALTIES, SANCTIONS AND REMEDIES FOR CODE VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Penalties for misdemeanors. 
      (1)   Penalty. A person convicted of violating a code section punishable
as a misdemeanor shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be sentenced by the
Court for a period not to exceed 90 days in jail and/or ordered to pay a fine
not to exceed $500.
      (2)   Continuing offense. Each act of violation, and each day upon which
any such violation shall occur, shall constitute a separate offense. Any
condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of
this code shall be deemed a new and separate offense for each day that such
condition continues to exist.
      (3)   Penalties not exclusive. In addition to any penalties provided for
in this code, any equitable or other remedies available may be sought.
   (B)   Penalties for municipal civil infractions.
      (1)   Unless otherwise stated in the text of this code, the following
civil fines shall apply in the event of a determination of responsibility for a
municipal civil infraction:
         (a)   First offense. The civil fine for a first offense violation
shall be in an amount of $150, plus costs and other sanctions for each offense;
         (b)   Repeat offense. The civil fine for any offense which is a repeat
offense shall be in an amount of $300, plus costs and other sanctions for each
offense.
      (2)   In addition to ordering the defendant determined to be responsible
for a municipal civil infraction to pay a civil fine, costs, damages and
expenses, the judge or magistrate shall be authorized to issue any judgment,
writ or order necessary to enforce, or enjoin violation of, this code.
      (3)   Each act of violation, and on each day upon which any such
violations shall occur, shall constitute a separate offense. Any condition
caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this code
shall be deemed a new and separate offense for each day that such condition
continues to exist.
      (4)   In addition to any remedies provided for in this code, any
equitable or other remedies available may be sought.
      (5)   The judge or magistrate shall also be authorized to impose costs,
damages and expenses as provided by law.
   (C)   Exception. A municipal civil infraction shall not be a lesser included
offense of a criminal offense or of an ordinance violation which is not a civil
infraction.
   (D)   Any minor who violates any provision of this code or any ordinance of
the municipal village shall be dealt with by the juvenile division of the
probate court or as prescribed by the laws of the state.
   (E)   Unless otherwise provided by law, an ordinance may provide that a
violation of it is punishable by imprisonment for not more than 93 days or a
fine of not more than $500, or both if the violation substantially corresponds
to a violation of state law that is a misdemeanor for which the maximum period
of imprisonment is 93 days.
(Ord. 158, passed 6-23-97; Am. Ord. 261, passed 4-26-21)
§ 32.04 COMMENCEMENT OF MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION ACTION.
   (A)   A municipal civil infraction action may be commenced upon the issuance
of a municipal civil infraction citation by an authorized official directing
the person alleged to be responsible to appear in court.
   (B)   The form of citations used to charge municipal civil infraction
violations shall be in accordance with state law M.C.L.A. § 600.8709.
   (C)   The basis for issuance of a municipal civil infraction citation shall
be as set forth below:
      (1)   An authorized official who witnesses a person violate an ordinance,
the violation of which is a municipal civil infraction, shall prepare and
subscribe, as soon as possible and as completely as possible, an original and
three copies of a citation;
      (2)   An authorized official may issue a citation to a person if, based
upon investigation, the official has reasonable cause to believe that a person
is responsible for a municipal civil infraction;
      (3)   An authorized official may issue a citation to a person if, based
upon investigation of a complaint by someone who allegedly witnessed the person
violate an ordinance, a violation of which is a municipal civil infraction, the
official has reasonable cause to believe that the person is responsible for a
municipal civil infraction and if the attorney for the village for whom the
authorized local office is acting approves in writing the issuance of the
citation.
   (D)   Municipal civil infraction citations shall be served in the following
manner:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided below, the authorized official shall
personally serve a copy of the citation upon the alleged violator;
      (2)   In a municipal civil infraction action involving the use or
occupancy of land or a building or other structure, a copy of the citation need
not be personally served upon the alleged violator but may be served upon an
owner or occupancy of the land, building or structure by posting the copy on
the land or attaching the copy to the building or structure. In addition, a
copy of the citation shall be sent by first class mail to the owner of the
land, building or structure at the owner’s last known address;
      (3)   A citation served as provided in subsection (D)(2) above, for a
violation involving the use or occupancy of land or a building or other
structure, shall be processed in the same manner as a citation served
personally upon a defendant.
   (E)   For the purpose of this section, AUTHORIZED OFFICIAL shall mean an
ordinance enforcement official as set forth in §
32.05 below, the Police Chief, or the Fire Official or a person authorized by
them to act on their behalf.
(Ord. 158, passed 6-23-97; Am. Ord. 261, passed 4-26-21)
§ 32.05 ORDINANCE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (A)   The Village Council is authorized to appoint by motion or resolution
any person or persons as ordinance enforcement officers for such term or terms
as may be designated in the motion or resolution of purposes of carrying out
the duties and responsibilities specified in this code for officials charged
with the enforcement of this code. The Council may further, by motion or
resolution, remove any person from such office in the discretion of the
Council.
   (B)   An appointed ordinance enforcement officer is authorized to enforce
all provisions of this code, whether or not any particular provision specifies
or designates a different enforcing official. Where a particular officer is
designated in any code provision, that officer’s authority shall continue in
full force and effect and shall not be diminished or impaired by the terms of
this section, and the authority of the ordinance enforcement officer shall be
in addition and supplementary to the authority granted to such other specific
officer.
   (C)   The ordinance enforcement officer’s duties shall include the
following: investigation of code violations; issuance and service of municipal
civil infraction citations; appearance in court or other judicial or quasi-
judicial proceedings in the administration of this code.
(Ord. 158, passed 6-23-97)
CHAPTER 33: COST RECOVERY
Section
   
33.01   Purpose
   
33.02   Definitions
   
33.03   Responsibility for costs of emergency response
   
33.04   Responsibility for cost of citizen assist
   
33.05   Public utilities cost reimbursement
   
33.06   Collection of cost of the emergency response
Cross-reference:
   Cost recovery for hazardous/toxic waste accidents, see §
30.02
§ 33.01 PURPOSE.
   The Village Council determines the cost of providing emergency responses,
non-emergency "citizen assists" and public utility hazard protection services
that benefit specific persons or property or are necessitated by intentional,
negligent or unlawful acts or omissions, or result from a public utility
facility malfunction or hazard should be borne by the responsible persons or
public utility and not the public at large. Therefore, pursuant to M.C.L. §§
41.806a, 769.1f, and 324.20101 et seq., the cost of providing these services
should be recovered as prescribed in this chapter.
(Ord. 217, passed 2-22-10; Am. Ord 261, passed 4-26-21)
§ 33.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITIZEN ASSIST. A non-emergency service requested by and provided to a
citizen.
   COSTS OF THE CITIZEN ASSIST. The costs incurred by the village or Police or
Fire Departments, and by any other governmental or intergovernmental entity
providing services to the village, for or in connection with a citizen assist.
Costs include the cost of personnel (wages, overtime and benefits), contracted
services, apparatus and equipment usage, fuel, supplies and material incurred
in connection with the citizen assist.
   COSTS OF THE EMERGENCY RESPONSE. The costs incurred by the village or Police
or Fire Departments, and by any other governmental or intergovernmental entity
providing services to the village, for or in connection with an emergency
response. Costs include the cost of personnel (wages, overtime and benefits),
contracted services, apparatus and equipment usage, fuel, supplies, materials,
water, oversight, investigation, removal, maintenance, repair, abatement,
mitigation, monitoring, cleanup, inspection, testing, analysis, processing,
reporting, crowd and traffic control, security, site restoration, repair or
replacement of damaged public property, collection and preservation of
evidence, enforcement and prosecution incurred in connection with the emergency
response.
   EMERGENCY RESPONSE. Any police, fire, medical, rescue, transport or
hazardous material incident response, service or action by emergency service
providers including the Police and Fire Departments; dispatch; contractors,
entities or persons operating at the request of the Police or Fire Departments
or any other responder as set forth in the National Incident Management System
(Homeland Security Presidential Directive 5), to any emergency, accident or
call for assistance from any person, property owner, government agency, or
emergency service provider.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIAL INCIDENT. An event involving any chemical, substance,
compound, mixture, or other material defined, designated, listed, or having the
same characteristics as any substance, compound, mixture or material listed as
hazardous under federal or state law or regulation.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, corporation, limited liability company,
association, consortium, organization, government agency, or any other legal
entity.
(Ord. 217, passed 2-22-10)
§ 33.03 RESPONSIBILITY FOR COSTS OF EMERGENCY RESPONSE.
   (A)   The costs of an emergency response shall be payable by all persons
responsible for creating or causing the emergency or incident resulting in the
emergency response in the following circumstances, except as may be limited by
policy adopted by resolution of the Village Council:
      (1)   Where the emergency or incident results from a violation of a
federal, state or local law, regulation or ordinance or from a reckless,
careless or negligent act or omission;
      (2)   Where the person is arrested for, or is involved in a motor vehicle
accident in connection with, the person’s operation of a motor vehicle while
impaired by or under the influence of intoxicating liquor or a controlled
substance; or
      (3)   In any other instance where the village or Police or Fire
Departments have to expend funds out-of-pocket or are charged or invoiced for
water, services, equipment, supplies or other materials used in connection with
the emergency response.
   (B)   Cost recovery for any hazardous material incident may be pursued in a
civil action in accordance with the Natural Resource Environmental Protection
Act (M.C.L. §§ 324.20101, et seq.)
(Ord. 217, passed 2-22-10)
§ 33.04 RESPONSIBILITY FOR COST OF CITIZEN ASSIST.
   Any person who receives a citizen assist more than twice in any calendar
year shall be responsible for the costs of any additional citizen assist(s)
occurring in the same year.
(Ord. 217, passed 2-22-10)
§ 33.05 PUBLIC UTILITIES COST REIMBURSEMENT.
   All public utility companies operating in the village shall be responsible
for reimbursing the cost of services rendered by the village and Police and
Fire Departments to protect public safety as a result of a public utility
facility malfunction or hazardous condition created by the operation of public
utility facilities.
(Ord. 217, passed 2-22-10)
§ 33.06 COLLECTION OF COST OF THE EMERGENCY RESPONSE.
   (A)   The cost of the emergency response, citizen assist, or public utility
protection together with billing and collection costs, court costs, and
attorney fees, shall be assessed to the person(s) responsible for the cost
under §§
33.03 through
33.05 above. Upon determining responsibility for the cost, the Police Chief,
Fire Chief or village administration shall invoice the responsible person(s)
for payment. The responsible person(s) shall pay the invoice within 30 days.
   (B)   The Police and Fire Departments may develop administrative guidelines
consistent with this chapter concerning record keeping, billing and collection
practices and determination of costs.
   (C)   A person who is assessed the cost of an emergency response, citizen
assist or public utility protection may appeal to the Village Council which may
affirm, modify or waive the cost.
(Ord. 217, passed 2-22-10)
CHAPTER 34: VILLAGE MANAGER
Section
   
34.01   Village Manager
§ 34.01 VILLAGE MANAGER.
   (A)   The administrative powers and duties of the village shall be vested in
the Village Manager, except as otherwise provided in the Village Charter. The
Village Manager shall be appointed by a majority vote of the Village Council on
the basis of qualifications for the position of Village Manager and shall hold
office at the pleasure of the Village Council. The Village Manager need not be
a resident of the village. The Village Manager’s compensation shall be set by
the Village Council.
   (B)   The Village Manager shall carry out the policies formulated by the
Village Council; is responsible for the supervision and management of all the
services of the Village; and is responsible for the enforcement of the
ordinances of the village, the Village Charter, and applicable laws of the
state. The Village Manager shall provide reports to the Village Council. The
Village Manager shall have the right to take part in the discussion of matters
coming before the Village Council but shall have no vote. The Village Manager
shall be authorized to sign contracts on behalf of the village if the contracts
have been approved by the Village Council. In addition to the duties prescribed
by the Village Charter, the Village Manager shall perform such other duties as
may be required by ordinance or by resolution of the Village Council.
(Ord. 269, passed 11-28-22)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
Chapter
   
50.   GARBAGE AND RUBBISH
   
51.   WATER SERVICE
   
52.   SEWER SERVICE
      
APPENDIX A:    NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS
      
APPENDIX B:    PHENOLS LIMITATIONS
      
APPENDIX C:   INTERIM DISCHARGE LIMITATIONS
   
53.   ELECTRIC AND GAS SUPPLY FRANCHISES
   
54.   SMALL CELL REGULATION
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE AND RUBBISH
Section
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Restrictions on disposal of rubbish
   
50.03   Storage and disposal of rubbish
   
50.04   Mandating separation of recyclable materials into approved containers
   
50.05   Separation of compostables; yard waste
   
50.06   Exemption from mandatory separation of recyclable materials
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVED RECEPTACLE. A container of plastic or metal with carrying handles
and a tight fitting cover having a capacity of not less than 20 gallons or more
than five cubic yards. An APPROVED RECEPTACLE also includes containers supplied
by the village for the purpose of collecting all recyclables.
   COMPOSTABLES/YARD WASTE. The miscellaneous organic waste material resulting
from landscaping and/or maintenance of a residential yard and/or property,
including but not limited to grass, weeds, fallen leaves, shrub and plant
clippings, plant materials, twigs and other times as further outlined in the
rules and regulations promulgated by the Village of Bingham Farms.
   GARBAGE. Animal or vegetable wastes resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking or consumption of foods. The term specifically includes
animal carcasses or parts thereof.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Any material or substance which by reason of its
composition or characteristics is:
      (1)   Hazardous waste as defined in the Solid Waste Disposal Act, 42 USC
6907 et seq., as amended, replaced or superseded and the regulations
implementing the same;
      (2)   Material the disposal of which is regulated by the Toxic Substance
Control Act, 15 USC 2601 et seq., as amended, replaced or superseded and the
regulations implementing the same;
      (3)   Special nuclear of byproducts material within the meaning of the
Atomic Energy Act of 1954; or
      (4)   Hazardous waste as defined in Public Act 451 of 1994, being
M.L.C.A. §§ 324.11103 et seq., as amended from time to time and as identified
in the reasonable rules and regulations promulgated by the Village of Bingham
Farms and/or by regulations adopted by the Department of Natural Resources.
   NONRESIDENTIAL ESTABLISHMENT. Any premises devoted to any mercantile
business such as, but not limited to, a store, shop, restaurant, theater,
bowling alley, drive-in, office building, medical facility or gas station
selling goods or services, either retail or wholesale.
   PREMISES. The area of land surrounding or next to or used in conjunction
with residential and nonresidential establishments, including all public and
private walkways, parking lots and storage areas.
   RECYCLABLES. Presorted materials that are separated from solid waste prior
to collection. Materials may include but are not limited to newspaper, tin
cans, glass bottles and jars and plastic containers or any other materials
designated in the reasonable rules and regulations promulgated and published by
the Village of Bingham Farms.
   REFUSE. Miscellaneous waste material and includes garbage and rubbish.
   RESIDENTIAL ESTABLISHMENT. Any dwelling, house, building or other structure
designed or used either wholly or in part for private residential purposes,
whether inhabited or temporarily or continuously uninhabited or vacant, and
shall include any yard, grounds, walk, driveway, porch or steps belonging or
appurtenant to such dwelling, house, building or other structure.
   RUBBISH. Nonputrescible material from residential, nonresidential and vacant
property such as, but not limited to, paper, cartons, boxes, barrels, wood,
excelsior, tree branches, bedding, furniture, appliances, metal, cans, bottles,
glass, crockery, ashes and miscellaneous refuse, but not including gravel, sand
or earth.
   SITE OF GENERATION. Any residential premises in the Village of Bingham Farms
or on which solid waste or recyclable material is generated.
   SOLID WASTE. Garbage, rubbish, compostables/yard wastes and recyclables and/
or a mixture thereof.  SOLID WASTE does not include hazardous waste and/or
industrial special waste.
(O.C. § 2.1) (Am. Ord. 132, passed 10-28-92; Am. Ord. 142, passed - -)
§ 50.02 RESTRICTIONS ON DISPOSAL OF RUBBISH.
   (A)   No person shall throw or deposit any refuse upon or into any street,
alley or other property, public or private, except as specifically permitted in
this chapter. Any violation of this division only shall be a misdemeanor which
shall be punished as provided in § 32.03 of this code.
   (B)   Every occupant of a residential or nonresidential establishment and
the owner of unoccupied premises, whether vacant land or vacant buildings,
shall at all times maintain the premises in a clean and orderly condition,
permitting no deposit or accumulation of refuse upon such premises unless
stored or accumulated as permitted by this chapter.
   (C)   No person shall:
      (1)   Burn garbage in an open air incinerator;
      (2)   Burn leaves, grass or rubbish on any paved or bituminous surfaced
street;
      (3)   Burn any type of refuse where smoke, ashes or odor will create a
nuisance, public or private;
      (4)   Burn rubbish closer than 15 feet to a building;
      (5)   Leave a rubbish fire unattended;
      (6)   Bury garbage;
      (7)   Collect, accumulate, process or store junk, used machines, old
automobiles or materials for salvage;
      (8)   Dispose of any garbage within the village other than by means of an
approved garbage grinder, licensed refuse collector or the collection service
provided by the village.
(O.C. § 2.2) (Am. Ord. 158, passed 6-23-97)
§ 50.03 STORAGE AND DISPOSAL OF RUBBISH.
   (A)   Any rubbish accumulated or stored outside of a dwelling or other
building shall either be placed in containers conforming to the requirements of
this chapter or shall be stacked or piled in an orderly manner. All rubbish
shall be placed at the rear or side of buildings at a place which is reasonably
inconspicuous and away from streets and places occupied by other persons.
Rubbish must be stored in a suitable covered place, enclosed or screened from
public view, and the premises must be kept clean and free from rats.
   (B)   The occupant of any premises within the village in which any garbage
shall be accumulated and which is not disposed of by an approved garbage
grinder shall maintain on said premises the number of containers sufficient to
conveniently store the normal accumulation of garbage on said premises over a
period not to exceed seven days. Garbage must be securely wrapped prior to
placing it in a container.
   (C)   (1)   Except as allowed in division (D) of this section, every
nonresidential establishment shall provide for rubbish and/or garbage storage
areas inside the building, and all rubbish and/or garbage materials will be
stored in these storage areas only. They shall further provide for regular
collections and removal of all garbage and/or garbage materials. The
accumulation of all rubbish and/or garbage materials shall not exceed seven
days.
      (2)   Every nonresidential establishment operating a food service
facility shall provide for rubbish and/or garbage storage areas inside the
building, and all rubbish and/or garbage materials will be stored in these
inside storage areas. They shall further provide for the daily collection and
removal from their premises for each day of operation of all rubbish and/or
garbage material.
      (3)   All rubbish and/or garbage materials shall be stored in such a
manner as to prevent noxious odors and the attraction of vermin, insects or
rodents. The outside storage of rubbish and/or garbage materials in proper
containers may be permitted by the Village Council during the period of
building construction.
      (4)   The Village Council may upon application vary the frequency of
collections and the methods and location of storage areas upon determination
that such a change will not adversely affect the public health and welfare and
will fulfill the purpose and intent of this chapter. The Village Council may
also, upon application, authorize an outside storage location for rubbish and/
or garbage storage receptacles upon a demonstration by the owner of the
property that:
         (a)   It would not be feasible to locate such storage receptacle
inside the building; for purposes of this paragraph, locating the receptacle
inside the building shall not be deemed to be unfeasible merely on the basis
that the expense of construction and/or service would be relatively greater;
and
         (b)   The applicant has presented a plan which includes landscaping
and/or other screening and other design measures which would render such
outside storage and the receptacle for and collection of rubbish and/or garbage
outside reasonably compatible with surrounding properties and uses. The plan
presented for this purpose shall include: elevations of the proposed receptacle
and related improvements, including screening; zoning of the site and adjacent
sites; minimum scale of one inch equals 50 feet; existing topography with two-
foot minimum contour intervals; existing natural features; dimensions and
distances of buildings and structures on the site and dimensions in relation to
adjacent improvements; existing or proposed thoroughfares immediately adjacent
to site.
   (D)   Refuse in residential areas in approved receptacles may be set out on
the lawn extension not more than 12 hours prior to the established time for
refuse pickup as prescribed by published Village Council resolution, and all
containers shall be removed from such extension within 24 hours after pickup.
Paper and other lightweight rubbish may be placed for collection in plastic
bags.
(O.C. § 2.3) (Ord. 142, passed - -)
§ 50.04 MANDATING SEPARATION OF RECYCLABLE MATERIALS INTO APPROVED CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Commencing on February 6, 1992, all persons who are owners, lessees or
occupants of any residence shall separate all recyclable materials and place
them in an approved container at the curb on their designated collection day
and in the manner set forth by the rules and regulation promulgated by the
Village of Bingham Farms.
   (B)   If a container is lost, stolen or damaged, it shall be the
responsibility of the property owner to replace the receptacle with a container
approved by the village unless such loss, theft or damage is the fault of the
solid waste collection contractor. All containers shall remain the property of
the village. Any unauthorized possession of containers shall be a violation of
this chapter.
   (C)   Nonrecyclable materials shall not be placed in the recycling
containers.
   (D)   Failure to separate recyclables as required in this section excuses
the village and/or its contractors from any obligation to remove the solid
waste from the curb in addition to the other penalties imposed pursuant to this
chapter.
(Am. Ord. 132, passed 10-28-92)
§ 50.05 SEPARATION OF COMPOSTABLES; YARD WASTE.
   (A)   Commencing on April 15, 1992, all persons who are the owners or
occupants of any detached single-family residences located on acreage parcels
or in subdivisions or in condominium developments wholly comprised of detached
single-family residences shall either dispose of compostables/yard wastes on
their property in a manner which will not create a nuisance and/or be injurious
to the public health or shall participate in the compostable/yard waste program
and separate compostables/yard waste program, compostables/yard waste must be
placed at the curb in appropriate containers on pick up day and in the manner
set forth in the rules and regulations promulgated by the village.
   (B)   Failure to separate compostables/yard waste as required in this
section excuses the village and/or its contractors from any obligation to
remove the solid waste from the curb, in addition to other penalties imposed
pursuant to this chapter.
(Am. Ord. 132, passed 10-28-92)
§ 50.06 EXEMPTION FROM MANDATORY SEPARATION OF RECYCLABLE MATERIALS.
   The following individuals shall be exempt from the mandatory recycling
provisions and requirements of this chapter:
   (A)   Individuals who are living alone and have been determined by a
physician licensed in the State of Michigan to be blind to the extent that they
are unable to distinguish recyclable materials;
   (B)   Individuals who are living alone and who have been determined by a
physician licensed in the State of Michigan to be permanently physically
disabled to such an extent to prevent the individual from complying with the
mandatory recycling provisions and requirements of this chapter;
   (C)   Individuals who are living alone and who have been determined by a
physician licensed in the State of Michigan to be temporarily physically
disabled to such an extent to prevent the individual from complying with the
mandatory recycling provisions and requirements of this chapter shall for the
period of their temporary physical disability be exempt from the mandatory
recycling provisions and requirements of this chapter.
(Am. Ord. 132, passed 10-28-92)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of the provisions of this chapter, excluding § 50.02(A), shall
be a municipal civil infraction, punishable upon a finding of responsibility as
provided in § 32.03 of this code. In addition to the penalties prescribed in §
32.03, a violation of this chapter shall be deemed to be hazardous to the
health and welfare of the residents of the village and shall constitute a
nuisance per se, which may be enjoined through an action brought in the Circuit
Court for the County of Oakland, Michigan or under the provision of § 32.03.
(O.C. § 2.4) (Am. Ord. 158, passed 6-23-97)
CHAPTER 51: WATER SERVICE
Section
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Title
   
51.03   Connections require written permission
   
51.04   Supervision and control
   
51.05   Meter required
   
51.06   Construction of public water systems
   
51.07   Construction and hydrant permits
   
51.08   Cross connections
   
51.09   Connection permit and use rates
   
51.10   Emergency water reduction
   
51.11   Conditions warranting initiation of water use reduction
   
51.12   Prohibitions of water use reduction emergency
   
51.13   Enforcement
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COUNTY. The Oakland County Department of Public Works.
   CROSS CONNECTION. A connection or arrangement of piping or appurtenances
through which water of questionable quality, waste or other contaminants can
enter the public water supply system.
   PREMISES. Any dwelling, building, structure or place where human beings
reside, are employed or congregate and where such dwelling, building or
structure is in existence shall include the lot, parcel or property upon which
such building, dwelling or structure stands.
   PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM. The water system which is dedicated to and/or
controlled by the village or county, whether publicly or privately financed and
whether or not located in public property or right-of-way.
   WATER SYSTEMS. All potable water supply systems located in the village that
are owned and operated by the village or the county, including water mains,
hydrants and valves.
(O.C. § 2.21)
§ 51.02 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Village of Bingham
Farms Water Supply System Ordinance.”
(O.C. § 2.22(1))
§ 51.03 CONNECTIONS REQUIRE WRITTEN PERMISSION.
   Only authorized persons shall uncover and make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any part of the public water system,
operate any valve, hydrant or other appurtenance and then only after written
permission from the village or the county as its agent.
(O.C. § 2.22(2))
§ 51.04 SUPERVISION AND CONTROL.
   The operation, maintenance and management of the public water system shall
be under the immediate supervision and control of the village or the county
acting as agent for the village.
(O.C. § 2.22(3))
§ 51.05 METER REQUIRED.
   Each premises connected to the system shall have a metered water use as
measured by a meter installed and controlled by the village or the county as
its agent.
(O.C. § 2.22(4))
§ 51.06 CONSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC WATER SYSTEMS.
   (A)   All water systems proposed to be constructed in the village shall have
engineering plans prepared by a registered professional engineer and shall be
approved by the village and the county and a construction permit issued by the
Michigan Department of Public Health.
   (B)   All construction of water systems shall have competent full-time
inspection provided by or caused to be provided by the village.
   (C)   The cost of preparing engineering plans and the cost of providing
inspection for the construction of a proposed water system shall be borne by
the party causing said system to be constructed.
   (D)   All water systems located in the village shall be constructed in
accordance with the standards and specifications of the village and the county.
(O.C. § 2.23)
§ 51.07 CONSTRUCTION AND HYDRANT PERMITS.
   (A)   In addition to inspection fees paid the village as provided for in §
51.06, prior to the start of constructing a proposed public water system or an
extension to the existing system, the contractor of such construction shall
have in his or her possession a permit issued by the county. A fee of $100
shall be charged for the permit. An additional fee shall be charged for water
used during flushing and testing of the new water system. The amount shall be
as determined by the County and shall be five times the volume of the new
system times the current use rate with a minimum charge of $75.
   (B)   No person shall open or cause to be opened any fire hydrant without
first securing a non-transferable “hydrant permit” at the county. The cost of
said permit shall be a $50 security deposit plus an amount to be determined by
an estimate of water to be used. The water use estimate shall have a minimum
charge of $25. Such person must report to the county when such authorized use
is terminated, at which time a hydrant inspection shall be made. Any costs of
repairing the hydrants shall be deducted from the security deposit. The
difference (if any) shall be refunded to the depositor. If the deposit is
insufficient to cover said costs of repair the permit holder shall pay the
deficit.
(O.C. § 2.24)
§ 51.08 CROSS CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Title. The Village of Bingham Farms adopts by reference the Water
Supply Cross connection Control rules of the Michigan Department of
Environmental Quality, Public Act 399, 1976 R 325.11401 through R 325.11407 of
the Administration Code, as amended from time to time. This section shall be
known and may be cited as the “Village of Bingham Farms Cross Connection
Control Ordinance.”
   (B)   Purpose. The purpose of this provision is to promote and protect the
public health, safety, and welfare by the prevention and elimination of cross
connections which have been recognized as the cause of public health problems
due to the hazard cause to drinking water quality.
   (C)   Authority. The Oakland County Drain Commissioner Operations and
Maintenance Division shall be the designated authority and administrator of the
cross connection control program.
   (D)   Plan.
      (1)   Pursuant to Michigan Public Act 399, 1976 R 325.11404 of the
Administrative Code, a comprehensive cross connection control plan shall be
developed and submitted to the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality,
Division of Water Supply for review and approval.
      (2)   The plan shall outline the conduct of the Village of Bingham Farms
cross connection control program including the method for performing initial
inspections, determining inspection/reinspection frequencies, backflow
prevention assembly tracking and testing schedules, annual reporting,
generation of compliance, non-compliance, pertinent piping information
requests, and water service shut-of notices.
      (3)   Upon approval by the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality,
Division of Water Supply, the plan will become an instrument of this code for
providing program conduct and policies.
      (4)   Any changes to te approved plan will be submitted to the Michigan
Department of Environmental Quality, Division of Water Supply for review and
approval before final approval by the authority/agent.
      (5)   The cross connection control plan will be made available to the
public for review.
   (E)   Designated agent. The authority has the right to appoint a designated
agent to administer the cross connection control program and perform
inspections in accordance with the approved cross connection control program
plan.
   (F)   Water discontinuance.
      (1)   The authority/agent shall have the right to enter any facility for
the sole purpose of inspecting for cross connections. Failure on the
facilities' part to allow the authority/agent entry shall be deemed of having a
cross connection that is an immediate hazard to the public and as such, the
authority/agent will follow the steps as outlined in the approved cross
connection control plan.
      (2)   If a facility fails to comply in correcting any deficiencies
identified during the cross connection inspection and subsequent re-inspection,
follow-up inspection, and the steps as outlined in the approved cross
connection control plan, the water service to the facility will be discontinued
until such time that the deficiencies are corrected and approved by the
authority/agent.
   (G)   Penalties.
      (1)   Any person who shall violate any of the provision of this section,
shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine not to exceed $500 for each day
of violation, or by imprisonment not to exceed 90 days, or by both a fine and
imprisonment in the discretion of the court.
      (2)   In addition to the penalty above, at the request of the authority/
agent, the Village Council may bring an action for injunctive relief or other
appropriate action in the name of the people of the Village of Bingham Farms to
enforce this section, or an order issued pursuant to this section.
   (H)   Conflicting laws. Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to nullify
any provision of Ordinance 161, as amended, entitled “Minimum Standards of
Plumbing” or any other statute or legally adopted ordinance or code.
   (I)   Conflicts. Nothing herein shall be deemed to nullify any provision of
this section, as amended, entitled “Minimum Standards of Plumbing” or any other
statute or legally adopted ordinance or code.
(Ord. 161, passed 11-27-97; Am. Ord. 174, passed 5-28-02)
§ 51.09 CONNECTION PERMIT AND USE RATES.
   (A)   Charges for water supply services to each premises within the village
connected with the water supply systems shall be determined by the Council and
shall be fixed by ordinance or resolution adopted and amended from time to time
by the Council and subject to any obligations and limitations set forth in such
agreement pertaining to the water systems between the village and the county or
any amendments thereto.
   (B)   The county as agent for the village shall make all water service
connections to the water systems and provide water service to premises at their
property line or in the case of a water main in easement to the limit of the
easement.
   (C)   A water service installation permit shall be obtained at the county
for each premises proposed to be connected to the system. The minimum size for
water service shall be one inch diameter. The schedule of charges for such
permit shall be as set from time to time by resolution of the Council.
   (D)   Charges for services furnished by the system shall be billed and
collected quarterly, the first such charges for each premises to be due and
payable on the first day of the calendar quarter following by at least one
month the date such premises are connected to the system and successive charges
to be due and payable on the first day of each quarter annual period
thereafter. Said bills shall become due and payable within 30 days from date
thereof.
   (E)   If any charges for water supply services are not paid on or before the
due date then a penalty of 10% shall be added thereto. In the event that the
charges for any such services furnished to any premises shall not be paid
within 30 days after the due date thereof, then all services furnished by the
water supply system may be discontinued as provided in this section. Service so
disconnected shall not be restored until all sums then due and owning,
including penalties, shall be paid, plus a shutoff charge of $25 and a turn-on
charge of $25, respectively. If charges are not paid in full by the due date,
prior to discontinuing water service, a written shut-off notice shall be mailed
by the Village to the owner of the property at their address according to
Village records and to the property to the attention of “Occupant.” The notice
shall identify a date that is after the next regular Village Council meeting
and at least ten days after the date of the notice, when water service may be
discontinued if payment in full is not made, and shall include the date, time
and location of that meeting, a description of the right to request a hearing
at that meeting on the intended discontinuance of water service and
instructions on how to file the required written request with the Village. If a
hearing is timely requested, water service to a property shall not be
discontinued until the hearing has been completed and the Village Council has
made its decision.
(Am. Ord. 178, passed 8-26-02)
   (F)   Charges for water supply services furnished by the system to any
premises shall be a lien thereon as of the due date thereof, and on May 1 of
each year the Village Clerk shall certify any such charges which have been
delinquent 90 days or more, plus penalties accrued thereon, to the Village
Council who shall cause the same to be entered upon the next village tax roll
against the premises, to which such services shall have been rendered and said
unpaid charges, with penalties accrued thereon, shall be collected and said
lien shall be enforced in the same manner as provided in respect to taxes
assessed upon such roll; provided that when a tenant is responsible for the
payment of any such charge against any premises, and the Village is so notified
in writing, in the form of an affidavit from the lessor, with a true copy of
the lease of the affected premises (if there be one) attached, then no such
charge shall become a lien against such premises from and after the date of
such notice. However, upon the filing of a lessor's affidavit, no further
service shall be rendered by the system to such premises until a cash deposit
equal to the average annual charge for services, with a minimum use of 8 MCF
(1,000 cubic feet) as security for the payment of charges is paid to the
Village or operator of the system. This deposit will also include all
miscellaneous expenses and assessments such as IPP (Industrial Pretreatment
Program) and capital and other charges for the system. If quarterly payments
for services provided are not received, the amount due will be paid from the
funds on deposit. If the funds on deposit are exhausted, service will be shut
off. Service will not be re-established until any unpaid balance is paid in
full and another minimum deposit as described above has been paid. A lessor's
affidavit shall include the date of the execution of the lease, the expiration
of the lease, and a statement that the lessor shall not be liable for payment
for service. Lessor shall provide 20 days notice to the Village prior to any
change, cancellation or termination of the lease. If a lessor does not file an
affidavit, or fails to provide the Village with 20 days notice of any change,
cancellation or termination in accordance with this section, charges for
services to any premises shall be a lien thereon in the same manner as provided
herein.
(O.C. § 2.26) (Am. Ord. 190, passed 9-27-04)
§ 51.10 EMERGENCY WATER REDUCTION.
   (A)   Every person, firm or corporation whose premises are supplied with
water by Southeast Oakland County Water Authority (SOCWA) and within the
Village of Bingham Farms shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter and
to all rules and regulations of the Village Council pertaining to use of
village water.
   (B)   All officers authorized to enforce the ordinance code and issue
citations in the village are authorized to issue ordinance violation notices to
any person violating any provision of this chapter or any rule or regulation
duly adopted in pursuance of this chapter.
(Am. Ord. 148, passed 3-27-95)
§ 51.11 CONDITIONS WARRANTING INITIATION OF WATER USE REDUCTION.
   (A)   A prolonged drought or other system-wide heavy demand periods that
result in supply facilities, including system pump stations and reservoirs,
being operated at their optimum capacity with no apparent means immediately
available to adequately maintain flows and residual pressures throughout the
system.
   (B)   Any emergency condition that may arise which will negatively affect
operating flows and residual pressures in any substantial portion of the system
for any appreciable length of time.
   (C)   The above conditions may warrant a wide range of options all the way
from alternate day sprinkling in a limited area to no outside water use for any
community serviced by Detroit water. In this case, the City of Detroit and/or
the Michigan Department of Public Health would normally take the leadership in
advising of any area-wide water reduction needs. However, the Village of
Bingham Farms has the ultimate responsibility to initiate whatever measures are
needed locally to see that all local emergencies are properly handled.
   (D)   Upon declaration of a water use reduction emergency, the Village of
Bingham Farms will announce such declaration by use of public radio or
television and newspapers with normal operating range covering the community.
The Village Clerk or his or her designee will implement whatever reductions are
necessary to meet the water reduction requirements.
(Am. Ord. 148, passed 3-27-95)
§ 51.12 PROHIBITION OF WATER USE REDUCTION EMERGENCY.
   (A)   The prohibition shall remain in effect 24 hours per day, seven days
per week until the village has declared an end to the water use reduction
emergency or the village determines that a limited prohibition will be
sufficient to protect the health, safety and general welfare of the community.
   (B)   The Village Clerk or his or her designee may, upon written request,
provide exception to §
51.11(A) where necessary to prevent imminent financial loss to a water user.
   (C)   Property owners who maintain sprinkler service through an operational
well are exempt from this chapter, provided that the entire sprinkler system is
operated through said well.
(Am. Ord. 148, passed 3-27-95)
§ 51.13 ENFORCEMENT.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be enforceable through the bringing of
appropriate action for injunction, mandamus or otherwise in any court having
jurisdiction. Any violation of this chapter is deemed to be a nuisance per se.
(O.C. § 2.7(1))
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   Any person found responsible for obtaining or using water in a manner
contrary to the provisions of this chapter or in any other way violating the
provisions in this chapter shall be punished as prescribed in §
32.03(A) of this code.
(O.C. § 2.7(2)) (Am. Ord. 158, passed 6-23-97)
CHAPTER 52: SEWER SERVICE
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Title
   
52.03   Use of system; prohibited connections
   
52.04   General regulations adopted by reference
   
52.05   Connections require written permission
   
52.06   Supervision and control
   
52.07   Charges and costs for sanitary sewage disposal services
   
52.08   User charge system for sewer service
   
52.09   Charges as lien and water service termination
Regulations
   
52.20   Connection of premises
   
52.21   Construction and maintenance of building sewers
   
52.22   Permits and bonds
   
52.23   Public sewer construction
   
52.24   Industrial and commercial waste connections
   
52.25   Abandonment of existing sewage treatment facilities
Storm Water Disposal System
   
52.40   Definitions
   
52.41   Title and applicability
   
52.42   Purposes
   
52.43   Uses of system; prohibited connections
   
52.44   Connections require written permission
   
52.45   Supervision and control
   
52.46   Responsibility for administration
   
52.47   Ultimate responsibility
   
52.48   Storm water building sewers
   
52.49   Permit
   
52.50   Bond
   
52.51   Public sewer construction
   
52.52   Discharge prohibitions
   
52.53   Prohibition of illicit connections
   
52.54   Right of entry for inspection, etc.
   
52.55   Suspension of MS4 access
   
52.56   Industrial or construction activity discharges
   
52.57   Monitoring of discharges
   
52.58   Requirement to prevent, control, and reduce stormwater pollutants by
the use of best management practices
   
52.59   Watercourse protection
   
52.60   Notification of spills
   
52.61   Enforcement, notice of violation
   
52.62   Enforcement measures
   
52.63   Cost of abatement of the violation
   
52.64   Injunctive relief
   
52.65   Compensatory action
   
52.66   Violations deemed a public nuisance
   
52.67   Violations
   
52.68   Remedies not exclusive
Wastewater Discharge
   
52.80   Purpose
   
52.81   Authority
   
52.82   Definitions
   
52.83   Abbreviations
   
52.84   General wastewater disposal regulations
 
   
52.99   Penalty
      
Appendix A: National Categorical Pretreatment Standards
      
Appendix B: Phenols Limitations
      
Appendix C: Interim Discharge Limitations
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AVAILABLE PUBLIC SANITARY SEWER. A public sanitary sewer system located in a
right-of-way, easement, highway, street or public way which crosses, adjoins or
abuts upon the property and passing not more than 200 feet at the nearest point
from a structure in which sanitary sewage originates.
   BUILDING SEWER. The sanitary sewer which directly services a premises and
shall be limited to the sewer located between the building’s sanitary plumbing
and the public sewer.
   CHARGES FOR SEWAGE DISPOSAL SERVICES. The amount charged to each premises in
the area served by the sewage disposal system for sewage disposal services.
   INSPECTION, APPROVAL and TAP FEE. The amount charged to each applicant by
the village to cover the costs of inspecting and approving the physical
connection to the system and the issuance of a connection permit.
   PREMISES. Any dwelling, building, structure or place where human beings
reside, are employed or congregate and where such dwelling, building or
structure is in existence shall include the lot, parcel or property upon which
such dwelling, building or structure stands.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer which is dedicated to and/or controlled by a public
authority, whether publicly or privately financed and whether or not located in
public property or right-of-way.
   SANITARY SEWAGE DISPOSAL SERVICES. The collection, transportation, treatment
and disposal of sanitary sewage originating from premises now or hereafter in
the area served by the sanitary sewage disposal system.
   SANITARY SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM or SANITARY SYSTEM. The “Evergreen Sewage
Disposal System - Bingham Farms Extension No. 1” established under Public Act
185 of 1957, being M.C.L.A. §§ 123.731 through 123.786, as amended, constructed
by the county under a certain contract dated April 1, 1971, between the County
of Oakland and the Village of Bingham Farms, together with all additions and
extensions of such new construction and all existing sanitary sewers in the
Evergreen Interceptor District, within the limits of the Village of Bingham
Farms.
   STRUCTURE IN WHICH SANITARY SEWAGE ORIGINATES or STRUCTURE. A building in
which toilet, kitchen, laundry, bathing or other facilities which generate
water-carried sanitary sewage are used or are available for use for household,
commercial, industrial or other purposes.
   UNIT. That quantity of sanitary sewage ordinarily arising from the occupancy
of a residential building by a single-family. The number of units or fractional
parts thereof to be assigned to types of usage other than single-family
residential use shall be as defined by the Oakland County Board of Public Works
Unit Assignment Resolution dated August 27, 1973, or as amended from time to
time.
(O.C. § 2.41)
§ 52.02 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Village of Bingham
Farms Sanitary Sewage Disposal System Ordinance.”
(O.C. § 2.42(1))
§ 52.03 USE OF SYSTEM; PROHIBITED CONNECTIONS.
   The sanitary sewage disposal system shall be used for the collection and
transportation of sanitary sewage only. Yard drains, patio drains, catch
basins, downspouts, footing drains, weep tile or any conduit that carries storm
water or ground water, alone or in combination with sanitary sewage, shall not
be connected to the sanitary system directly or indirectly.
(O.C. § 2.42(2))
§ 52.04 GENERAL REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   All conditions of the “Oakland County Board of Public Works County of
Oakland Sewage Disposal Systems - General Regulations” dated August 28, 1972,
as amended from time to time, shall be included and adopted as part of this
chapter. Copies of the General Regulations shall be kept at the office of the
village.
(O.C. § 2.42(3))
§ 52.05 CONNECTIONS REQUIRE WRITTEN PERMISSION.
   Only authorized persons shall uncover and make any connections with or
openings into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
and then only after written permission from the village or its agent.
(O.C. § 2.42(4))
§ 52.06 SUPERVISION AND CONTROL.
   The operation, maintenance and management of the sanitary system shall be
under the immediate supervision and control of the village or the Oakland
County Department of Public Works acting as agent of the village.
(O.C. § 2.42(5))
§ 52.07 CHARGES AND COSTS FOR SANITARY SEWAGE DISPOSAL SERVICES.
   (A)   The rates to be charged for sewage disposal services furnished by the
system shall be set from time to time by resolution of the Council.
   (B)   All recurring charges of the system shall be rendered quarterly during
each operating year at the same time as the water bill is rendered and shall
represent charges for the quarterly period immediately preceding the date of
rendering the bill. The bills shall become due and payable within 30 days from
date thereof, and for all bills not paid when due a penalty of 10% of the
amount of such bill shall be added thereto.
   (C)   If any charges are not paid on or before the due date then a penalty
of 10% shall be added thereto. In the event that the charges for any such
services furnished to any premises shall not be paid within 30 days after the
due date thereof, then all services furnished by the water supply system may be
discontinued as provided in this section. Service so disconnected shall not be
restored until all sums then due and owning, including penalties, shall be
paid, plus a shutoff charge of $25 and a turn-on charge of $25, respectively.
If charges are not paid in full by the due date, prior to discontinuing water
supply service, a written shut-off notice shall be mailed by the Village to the
owner of the property at their address according to Village records and to the
property to the attention of “Occupant.” The notice shall identify a date that
is after the next regular Village Council meeting and at least ten days after
the date of the notice, when water service may be discontinued if payment in
full is not made, and shall include the date, time and location of that
meeting, a description of the right to request a hearing at that meeting on the
intended discontinuance of water service and instructions on how to file the
required written request with the Village. If a hearing is timely requested,
water service to a property shall not be discontinued until the hearing has
been completed and the Village Council has made its decision.
(Am. Ord. 178, passed 8-26-02)
   (D)   Charges for services furnished by the system to any premises shall be
a lien thereon as of the due date thereof, and on June 1 of each year the
Village Clerk shall certify any such charges which have been delinquent six
months or more, plus penalties and interest accrued thereon, to the Village
Assessor who shall enter the same on the next tax roll against the premises to
which such services shall have been rendered and against which said charges,
with penalties and interest accrued thereon, shall be collected and said lien
shall be enforced in the same manner as provided in respect to taxes assessed
upon such roll.
   (E)   The number of units to be assigned to any particular premises other
than single residences for sewage disposal services shall be determined by the
current Board of Public Works Oakland County Unit Assignment Resolution. No
less than one unit shall be assigned to each premises, but for purposes of
computing sewage disposal service charges, units in excess of one may be
computed and assigned to the nearest tenth. Once any premises has been
connected to the system and has been assigned one or more units, subsequent
changes in the character of the use of said premises shall not abate the
obligation to continue the payment of service charges in the amount hereinabove
provided for the number of units assigned at the time of connection or for such
lesser or greater number of units as the changed character of the use of the
premises justifies, but in no event for less than one unit. If said subsequent
changes in use increase the amount of sanitary sewage originating from the
premises, the village may increase the number of units assigned the said
premises.
   (F)   No free service shall be furnished by said system to any person, firm
or corporation, public or private, or to any public agency or instrumentality.
(O.C. § 2.49)
§ 52.08 USER CHARGE SYSTEM FOR SEWER SERVICE.
   (A)   Rates and charges for the use of the wastewater system of the village
are established and made against each lot, parcel of land or premises which may
have direct or indirect connections to the system or which may otherwise
discharge wastewater either directly or indirectly into the system.
   (B)   The rates and charges established shall be based upon a methodology
which complies with applicable federal and state statutes and regulations. The
amount of the rates and charges shall be sufficient to provide for debt service
and for the expenses of operation, maintenance and replacement of the system as
necessary to preserve the same in good repair and working order. The amount of
the rates and charges shall be reviewed annually and revised when necessary to
insure system expenses are met and that all users pay their proportionate share
of operation, maintenance and equipment replacement expenses.
   (C)   The amount of such rates and charges and the intervals at which users
of the wastewater system are billed shall be determined by resolution of the
Village Council.
   (D)   The rates and charges for operation, maintenance and replacement
established shall be uniform within the area serviced by the village. No free
service shall be allowed for any user of the wastewater system.
   (E)   All customers of the village wastewater system shall receive an annual
notification, either printed on the bill or enclosed in a separate letter,
which will show the breakdown of the wastewater disposal bill into its
components for:
      (1)   Operation, maintenance and replacement; and
      (2)   Debt service.
(Am. Ord. 135, passed 1-30-92)
§ 52.09 CHARGES AS LIEN AND WATER SERVICE TERMINATION.
   Charges for water supply services furnished by the system to any premises
shall be a lien thereon as of the due date thereof, and on May 1 of each year
the Village Clerk shall certify any such charges which have been delinquent 90
days or more, plus penalties accrued thereon, to the Village Council who shall
cause the same to be entered upon the next village tax roll against the
premises, to which such services shall have been rendered and said unpaid
charges, with penalties accrued thereon, shall be collected and said lien shall
be enforced in the same manner as provided in respect to taxes assessed upon
such roll; provided that when a tenant is responsible for the payment of any
such charge against any premises, and the Village is so notified in writing, in
the form of an affidavit from the lessor, with a true copy of the lease of the
affected premises (if there be one) attached, then no such charge shall become
a lien against such premises from and after the date of such notice. However,
upon the filing of a lessor's affidavit, no further service shall be rendered
by the system to such premises until a cash deposit equal to the average annual
charge for services, with a minimum use of 8 MCF (1,000 cubic feet) as security
for the payment of charges is paid to the Village or operator of the system.
This deposit will also include all miscellaneous expenses and assessments such
as IPP (Industrial Pretreatment Program) and capital and other charges for the
system. If quarterly payments for services provided are not received, the
amount due will be paid from the funds on deposit. If the funds on deposit are
exhausted, service will be shut off. Service will not be re-established until
any unpaid balance is paid in full and another minimum deposit as described
above has been paid. A lessor's affidavit shall include the date of the
execution of the lease, the expiration of the lease, and a statement that the
lessor shall not be liable for payment for service. Lessor shall provide 20
days notice to the Village prior to any change, cancellation or termination of
the lease. If a lessor does not file an affidavit, or fails to provide the
Village with 20 days notice of any change, cancellation or termination in
accordance with this section, charges for services to any premises shall be a
lien thereon in the same manner as provided herein.
(Ord. 190, passed 9-27-04)
REGULATIONS
§ 52.20 CONNECTION OF PREMISES.
   (A)   Public sanitary sewer systems are essential to the health, safety and
welfare of the people of the state and the septic tank disposal systems are
subject to failure due to soil conditions or other reasons. Failure or
potential failure of septic tank disposal systems poses a threat to the public
health, safety and welfare; presents a potential for ill health, transmission
of disease, mortality and potential economic blight and constitutes a threat to
the quality of surface and subsurface waters of the state and the village. The
connection to available public sanitary sewer systems at the earliest,
seasonable date is a matter for the protection of the public health, safety and
welfare and necessary in the public interest which is declared as a matter of
legislative determination.
   (B)   Structures in which sanitary sewage originates located in the village
in the area served by the sanitary sewer system for which there is an available
public sanitary sewer of the sanitary system shall not be used or occupied,
unless the structures are connected to the sanitary sewage disposal system;
provided, that structures within the district in which sanitary sewage is
originating on the effective date hereof or in which sanitary sewage originates
before availability of the system or any part thereof to serve said structures
shall be connected to said system within 18 months after publication of a
notice by the village in a newspaper of general circulation in the village of
the availability of the system.
   (C)   When the structure in which sanitary sewage originates has not been
connected to an available public sanitary sewer system before use and
occupancy, the village shall require the connection to be made forthwith after
notice, which may be by first class or certified mail or posting on the
property to the owner of the property on which the structure is located. The
notice shall give the approximate location of the public sanitary sewer of the
system which is available for connection of the structure involved and shall
advise the owner of the requirements and of the enforcement provisions of this
chapter.
   (D)   When any structure in which sanitary sewage originates is not
connected to an available public sanitary sewer system within 90 days after the
date of mailing or posting of the written notice, the provisions of this
chapter shall be enforceable through the bringing of appropriate action for
injunction, mandamus or otherwise in any court having jurisdiction.
   (E)   This section is subject to the provisions and conditions of the State
of Michigan Public Act 288 of 1972, being M.C.L.A. §§ 333.12751 through
333.12758, as amended.
(O.C. § 2.43)
§ 52.21 CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE OF BUILDING SEWERS.
   (A)   Any person desiring to do business as a sewer builder in connection
with the Bingham Farms sanitary sewage disposal system must be licensed by the
State of Michigan.
   (B)   All building sewers shall be privately operated and maintained.
   (C)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no public sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear
building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer.
   (D)   All building sewers shall be laid a minimum of ten feet from any
existing and parallel water service lines.
   (E)   The building sewer connection extending from the lateral sewer in the
street or easement to within five feet from the house or other building from
which sewage originates shall be:
      (1)   Six-inches full diameter extra strength vitrified sewer pipe
manufactured in accordance with current N.C.P.C. Designation ER 4-67 Standards
or equal with Oakland County Department of Public Works approved premium
joints;
      (2)   Six-inches diameter Class 2400 asbestos cement pipe with ring-tite,
fluid-tite or Oakland County Department of Public Works approved joint;
      (3)   Six-inches diameter, service strength, east iron soil pipe with hot
poured lead joint or Oakland County Department of Public Works approved equal;
      (4)   Other pipe and joints as may be approved by the Oakland County
Department of Public Works;
      (5)   Copies of the Oakland County Department of Public Works approved
joints shall be on file at the office of the Village of Bingham Farms;
      (6)   All house connection sewers shall be six-inch minimum diameter,
except that four-inch pipe of comparable strength and joint material may be
used when such meets all requirements of the Oakland County Department of
Public Works and of the Village of Bingham Farms. All joints shall be tight and
tested for infiltration or exfiltration and shall not exceed the requirements
of the Oakland County Department of Public Works.
   (F)   The iron pipe inside any building or structure shall be plugged and
leaded and remain plugged and watertight until such time as the plumbing is
carried on the first floor, the basement, if any, backfilled and the roof is on
said building thereby preventing water from entering the sanitary sewer from
the excavating basement or other excavated area beneath said building.
(O.C. § 2.44)
§ 52.22 PERMITS AND BONDS.
   (A)   Prior to start of constructing a building sewer, the owner and
contractor shall obtain a permit from the village or its agent and pay an
inspection and approval fee. The village and its agent shall be notified at
least 24 hours prior to start of construction. The fee for said permit shall be
$15.
   (B)   (1)   Prior to construction and during the life of permits obtained in
accordance with this section, all owners or contractors shall furnish to the
village or its agent a satisfactory surety bond in the amount of $5,000 as
security for the faithful performance of the work in accordance with the plans,
specifications and permits and the village standards and furnish to the village
or its agent a cash deposit in the amount of $500. Such bonds shall not be
canceled by the owner, the contractor or the surety without first having given
ten-days' written notice to the village or its agent. Cash deposits may be
returned to the owner or contractor within ten days of receipt of written
request therefor, except that no deposits will be returned, nor bonds canceled
until such time as all outstanding permits have received final inspection and
approval.
      (2)   Procedure for exercising the rights of the village or its agent,
under the terms and conditions of the cash deposit and surety bond shall be as
follows:
         (a)   1.   The cash deposit shall provide funds for emergency work
and/or other such work as may be deemed necessary by the village or its agent,
arising as a result of construction by the owner or contractor;
            2.   In the event that it becomes necessary for the village to
expend funds for work arising as a result of construction by the owner or the
contractor, then the cost of such work shall be deducted from the
aforementioned cash deposit. If the cost of such work exceeds the cash deposit,
then the owner or contractor shall within 30 days of the mailing of written
notice thereof pay the village or its agent the entire amount of such costs;
         (b)   For other than emergencies, the owner or contractor shall have
the right and opportunity to correct any deficiencies promptly before any
deposit funds will be expended by the village or its agent;
         (c)   If, after being notified by certified mail of other than
emergency deficiencies, the owner or contractor fails to correct such
deficiencies within 30 days of notification, then the village or its agent
shall cause the deficiencies to be corrected and bill the owner or contractor
for such work;
         (d)   If, after 30 days of being notified the owner or contractor has
not paid the village or its agent for costs arising from work done by the
village or its agent to correct deficiencies resulting from the owner’s or
contractor’s work, then the village or its agent shall exercise its rights
under the terms and conditions of the cash deposit and/or surety bond.
(O.C. § 2.45)
§ 52.23 PUBLIC SEWER CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   All public sanitary sewers proposed to be constructed in the village
shall have engineering plans prepared by a registered professional engineer and
shall be approved by the village and the Oakland County Department of Public
Works and a construction permit issued by the Michigan Department of Public
Health.
   (B)   All construction of public sanitary sewers shall have competent full-
time inspection provided by or caused to be provided by the village.
   (C)   The cost of preparing engineering plans and the cost of providing
inspection for the construction of a public sanitary sewer shall be borne by
the party causing said sewer to be constructed.
   (D)   All sanitary sewers, public or building, hereafter constructed in the
village shall be in accordance with the existing standards and specifications
of the Oakland County Department of Public Works and the village as may be from
time to time be amended.
(O.C. § 2.46)
§ 52.24 INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL WASTE CONNECTIONS.
   All industrial and commercial wastes may be discharged into the sanitary
system only in compliance with the “Oakland County Board of Public Works County
of Oakland Sewage Disposal Systems Industrial Waste Regulations” dated February
25, 1974, as amended.
(O.C. § 2.47)
§ 52.25 ABANDONMENT OF EXISTING SEWAGE TREATMENT FACILITIES.
   At such time as a premises connects to the sanitary system, all existing
septic tanks, cesspools or any similar sewage treatment facility serving said
premises shall be abandoned in the following manner:
   (A)   The sludge held in the facility, solid and liquid, shall be pumped out
and disposed of in a legal manner. The sludge shall not be disposed of into the
sanitary sewer system; and
   (B)   The facility shall be filled with sand and its top broken out.
(O.C. § 2.48)
STORM WATER DISPOSAL SYSTEM
§ 52.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED ENFORCEMENT AGENCY. The building inspector or designees of the
Village Clerk for the Village for Bingham Farms.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPS). Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, general good housekeeping practices, pollution prevention and
educational practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices
to prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants directly or indirectly to
stormwater, receiving waters, or stormwater conveyance systems. BMPS also
include treatment practices, operating procedures, and practices to control
site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or water disposal, or drainage from raw
materials storage.
   CLEAN WATER ACT. The federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 et
seq.), and any subsequent amendments thereto.
   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. Activities subject to NPDES construction permits or
the village’s grading ordinance. These include construction projects resulting
in land disturbance of five acres or more. Such activities include but are not
limited to clearing and grubbing, grading, excavating, and demolition.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any material, including any substance, waste, or
combination thereof, which because of its quality, concentration, or physical,
chemical, or infectious characteristics may cause, or significantly contribute
to, a substantial present or potential hazard to human health, safety,
property, or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported,
disposed of, or otherwise managed.
   ILLEGAL DISCHARGE. Any direct or indirect non-stormwater discharge to the
storm drain system, except as exempted in §
52.52 of this chapter.
   ILLICIT CONNECTIONS. An illicit connection is defined as either of the
following:
      (1)   Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface,
which allows an illegal discharge to enter the storm drain system including but
not limited to any conveyances which allow any non-stormwater discharge
including sewage, process wastewater, and wash water to enter the storm drain
system and any connections to the storm drain system from indoor drains, sinks,
regardless of whether said drain or connection had been previously allowed,
permitted, or approved by the authorized enforcement agency; or
      (2)   Any drain or conveyance connected from a commercial or industrial
land use to the storm drain system which has not been documented in plans,
maps, or equivalent records and approved by the authorized enforcement agency.
   INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY. Activities subject to NPDES industrial permits as
defined in 40 CFR § 122.26(b)(14).
   INSPECTION, APPROVAL AND TAP FEE. The amount charged to each applicant by
the village to cover the costs of inspecting and approving the physical
connection to the system and the issuance of a connection permit.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE (NPDES) STORMWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT. A permit
issued by the EPA (or by a state under authority delegated pursuant to 33 U.S.C
1342 (b)) that authorizes the discharge of pollutants to waters of the United
States, whether the permit is applicable on an individual group, or general
area-wide basis.
   NON-STORMWATER DISCHARGE. Any discharge to the storm drain system that is
not composed entirely of stormwater.
   PERSON. Any individual, association, organization, partnership, firm,
corporation or other entity recognized by law and acting as either the owner or
as the owner’s agent.
   POLLUTANT. Anything which causes or contributes to pollution. POLLUTANTS may
include, but are not limited to: paints, varnishes, and solvents; oil and other
automotive fluids; nonhazardous liquid and solid wastes and yard wastes;
refuse, garbage, litter, or other discarded or abandoned objects, ordinances,
and accumulations, so that some may cause or contribute to pollution;
floatables, pesticides, herbicides, and fertilizers; hazardous substances and
wastes; sewage, fecal coliform and pathogens; dissolved and particulate metals;
animal wastes; wastes and residues that result from constructing a building or
structure; and noxious or offensive matter of any kind.
   PREMISES. Any building, lot, parcel of land, or portion of land whether
improved or unimproved including adjacent sidewalks and parking areas.
   STORM DISTRICT. That district established by the terms of the “Bingham Farms
Sewage Disposal System” contract dated April 1, 1971.
   STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEM or MS4. Publicly-owned or privately-owned facilities
by which stormwater is collected and/or conveyed including, but not limited to,
any roads with drainage systems, municipal streets, gutters, curbs, inlets,
piped storm drains, pumping facilities, retention and detention basins, natural
and human-made or altered drainage channels, reservoirs, and other drainage
structures.
   STORM WATER. Any surface flow, runoff, and drainage consisting entirely of
water from any form of natural precipitation, and resulting from such
precipitation.
   STORM WATER BUILDING SEWER. The storm or ground water sewer which directly
services a premises and shall be limited to the sewer located between the
building’s storm plumbing and the public sewer.
   STORM WATER DISPOSAL SERVICES. The collection, transportation and disposal
of storm water emanating within the established district of the “Bingham Farms
Sewage Disposal System” and certain ground water being disposed of within the
district.
   STORM WATER DISPOSAL SYSTEM or STORM SYSTEM. The “Bingham Farms Sewage
Disposal System” established under Public Act 185 of 1957, being M.C.L.A. §§
123.731 through 123.786, as amended, constructed by the county under a certain
contract dated April 1, 1971, between the County of Oakland and the Village of
Bingham Farms, together with all additions and extensions of such new
construction.
   STORM WATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN. A document which describes the best
management practices and activities to be implemented by a person or business
to identify sources or pollution or contamination at a site and the actions to
eliminate or reduce pollutant discharges to stormwater, stormwater conveyance
systems, and/or receiving waters to the maximum extent practicable.
   WASTEWATER. Any water or other liquid, other than uncontaminated stormwater,
discharged from a facility.
(O.C. § 2.81) (Am. Ord. 252, passed 12-16-19; Am. Ord. 267, passed 9-19-22)
§ 52.41 TITLE AND APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Village of Bingham
Farms Storm Water Disposal System Ordinance.” This subchapter shall apply to
all water entering the storm drain system generated on any developed and
undeveloped lands unless explicitly exempted by the authorized enforcement
agency.
(O.C. § 2.82(1)) (Am. Ord. 252, passed 12-16-19; Am. Ord. 267, passed 9-19-22)
§ 52.42 PURPOSES.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide for the health, safety, and
general welfare of the citizens of Bingham Farms through the regulation of
stormwater and non-stormwater discharges to the storm drainage system to the
maximum extent practicable as required by federal and state law. This
subchapter establishes methods for controlling the introduction of pollutants
into the MS4 in order to comply with the requirements of the NPDES permit
process. The objectives of this subchapter are:
   (A)   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the MS4 by stormwater
discharges by any user;
   (B)   To prohibit illicit connections and discharges to the municipal
separate storm sewer system; and
   (C)   To establish legal authority to carry out all inspection,
surveillance, and monitoring procedures necessary to ensure compliance with
this article.
   (D)   Refer to Ch. 154 for design requirements.
(Ord. 252, passed 12-16-19; Am. Ord. 267, passed 9-19-22)
§ 52.43 USES OF SYSTEM; PROHIBITED CONNECTIONS.
   The storm water disposal system shall be used for the collection and
transportation of storm water and ground water from within the established
storm district only. Sanitary sewers, overflows from septic tanks, septic tank
tile fields, cesspools or any conduit that carries sanitary sewage, alone or in
combination with storm water, industrial or commercial sewage, shall not be
permitted to be connected to the storm water disposal system.
(O.C. § 2.82(2)) (Am. Ord. 267, passed 9-19-22)
§ 52.44 CONNECTIONS REQUIRE WRITTEN PERMISSION.
   Only authorized persons shall uncover and make any connections with or
openings into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
and then only after written permission from the village or its agent.
(O.C. § 2.82(3)) (Am. Ord. 267, passed 9-19-22)
§ 52.45 SUPERVISION AND CONTROL.
   The operation, maintenance and management of the storm system shall be under
the immediate supervision and control of the village or the Oakland County
Department of Public Works acting as agent of the village.
(O.C. § 2.82(4)) (Am. Ord. 267, passed 9-19-22)
§ 52.46 RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION.
   The Village Clerk or the Village Clerk’s designee(s), shall administer,
implement, and enforce the provisions of this subchapter. Any powers granted or
duties imposed upon the authorized enforcement agency may be delegated in
writing by the Village Clerk/Administrator to persons or entities acting in the
beneficial interest of or in the employ of the agency.
(Ord. 252, passed 12-16-19; Am. Ord. 267, passed 9-19-22)
§ 52.47 ULTIMATE RESPONSIBILITY.
   The standards set forth herein and promulgated pursuant to this subchapter
are minimum standards; therefore this subchapter does not intend nor imply that
compliance by any person will ensure that there will be no contamination,
pollution, nor unauthorized discharge of pollutants.
(Ord. 252, passed 12-16-19; Am. Ord. 267, passed 9-19-22)
§ 52.48 STORM WATER BUILDING SEWERS.
   (A)   All storm water building sewers shall be privately operated and
maintained.
   (B)   The storm water building sewer connection extending from the public
sewer in the street or easement to within five feet from the house or other
building from which storm water or ground water is being disposed of shall be:
      (1)   Six-inch full diameter extra strength vitrified sewer pipe
manufactured in accordance with current N.C.P.C. Designation ER 4-67 Standards
or equal with Oakland County Department of Public Works approved premium joint;
      (2)   Six-inch diameter Class 2400 asbestos cement pipe with ring-tite,
fluid-tite or Oakland County Department of Public works approved joint;
      (3)   Six-inch diameter, service strength, cast iron soil pipe with hot
poured lead joint or Oakland County Department of Public Works approved equal;
      (4)   Other pipe and joints as may be approved by the Oakland County
Department of Public Works;
      (5)   Copies of the Oakland County Department of Public Works approved
joints shall be on file at the office of the village;
      (6)   All house connection sewers shall be six-inch minimum diameter,
except that four-inch pipe of comparable strength and joint material may be
used when such meets all requirements of the Oakland County Department of
Public Works and of the Village of Bingham Farms.
(O.C. § 2.83) (Am. Ord. 267, passed 9-19-22)
§ 52.49 PERMIT.
   Prior to start of constructing a storm water building sewer, the owner shall
obtain a permit from the village or its agent and pay an inspection and
approval fee. The village and its agent shall be notified at least 24 hours
prior to start of construction. The fee for said permit shall be $50.
(O.C. § 2.84) (Am. Ord. 267, passed 9-19-22)
§ 52.50 BOND.
   Prior to construction and during the life of permits obtained in accordance
with §
52.49, all owners or contractors shall:
   (A)   Furnish to the village or its agent a satisfactory surety bond in the
amount of $5,000 as security for the faithful performance of the work in
accordance with the plans, specifications and permits and the village
standards; and
   (B)   (1)   Furnish to the village or its agent a cash deposit in the amount
of $500. Such bonds shall not be canceled by the owner, the contractor or the
surety without first having given ten-days' written notice to the village and
its agent. Cash deposits may be returned to the owner or contractor within ten
days of receipt of written request therefore, except that no deposits will be
returned, nor bonds canceled, until such time as all outstanding permits have
received final inspection and approval.
      (2)   Procedure for exercising the rights of the village or its agent,
under the terms and conditions of the cash deposit and surety bond, shall be as
follows:
         (a)   1.   The cash deposit shall provide funds for emergency work
and/or such other work as may be deemed necessary by the village or its agent
arising as a result of construction by the owner or contractor;
            2.   In the event that it becomes necessary for the village to
expend funds for work arising as a result of construction by the owner or the
contractor, then the cost of such work shall be deducted from the
aforementioned cash deposit. If the cost of such work exceeds the cash deposit,
then the owner or contractor shall within 30 days of the mailing of written
notice thereof pay the village or its agent the entire amount of such costs;
         (b)   For other than emergencies, the owner or contractor shall have
the right and opportunity to correct any deficiencies promptly before any
deposit funds will be expended by the village or its agent;
         (c)   If, after being notified by certified mail of other than
emergency deficiencies, the owner or contractor fails to correct such
deficiencies within 30 days of notification, then the village or its agent
shall cause the deficiencies to be corrected and bill the owner or contractor
for such work;
         (d)   If, after 30 days of being notified, the owner or contractor has
not paid the village or its agent for costs arising from work done by the
village or its agent to correct deficiencies resulting from the owner’s or
contractor’s work, then the village or its agent shall exercise its rights
under the terms and conditions of the cash deposit and/or surety bond.
(O.C. § 2.85) (Am. Ord. 267, passed 9-19-22)
§ 52.51 PUBLIC SEWER CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   All public storm sewers proposed to be constructed in the village
shall have engineering plans prepared by a registered professional engineer and
shall be approved by the village and the Oakland County Water Resources
Commission.
   (B)   All construction of public storm sewers shall have competent full-time
inspection provided by or caused to be provided by the village.
   (C)   The cost of preparing engineering plans and the cost of providing
inspection for the construction of a public storm sewer shall be borne by the
party causing said sewer to be constructed.
   (D)   All storm sewers, public or building, hereafter constructed in the
village shall be in accordance with the existing standards and specifications
of the Oakland County Water Resources Commission and the village as may be
amended from time to time.
(O.C. § 2.86) (Am. Ord. 252, passed 12-16-19; Am. Ord. 267, passed 9-19-22)
§ 52.52 DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged into the municipal storm
drain system or watercourses any materials, including but not limited to
pollutants or waters containing any pollutants that cause or contribute to a
violation of applicable water quality standards, other than stormwater. The
commencement, conduct or continuance of any illegal discharge to the storm
drain system is prohibited except as described as follows:
   (A)   The following discharges are exempt from discharge prohibitions
established by this subchapter if they are identified as not being a
significant source of pollutants and or a significant contributor to violations
of State Quality Standards: water line flushing and discharges from other
potable water sources, landscape irrigation or lawn watering runoff, diverted
stream flows, rising groundwater and springs, uncontaminated groundwater
infiltration and seepage, uncontaminated pumped groundwater (except for
groundwater cleanups specifically authorized by NPDES permits), foundation or
footing drains (not including active groundwater dewatering systems), crawl
space pumps, air conditioning condensation, springs, noncommercial washing of
vehicles, natural riparian habitat or wetland flows, swimming pools from
single, two or three family residences (if dechlorinated, typically less than
one PPM chlorine), fire-fighting activities, and any other water source not
containing pollutants.
   (B)   Discharges specified in writing by the authorized enforcement agency
as being necessary to protect public health and safety.
   (C)   Dye testing is an allowable discharge, but requires authorization from
the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality (Rule 97 certification of
approval) and a verbal notification to the authorized enforcement agency prior
to the time of the test.
   (D)   The prohibition shall not apply to any non-stormwater discharge
permitted under an NPDES permit, waiver, or waste discharge order issued to the
discharger and administered under the authority of the Federal Environmental
Protection Agency, provided that the discharger is in full compliance with all
requirements of the permit, waiver, or order and other applicable laws and
regulations, and provided that written approval has been granted for any
discharge to the storm drain system.
(Ord. 252, passed 12-16-19; Am. Ord. 267, passed 9-19-22)
§ 52.53 PROHIBITION OF ILLICIT CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   The construction, use, maintenance, or continued existence of illicit
connections to the storm drain system is prohibited.
   (B)   The prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit
connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was
permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of
connection.
   (C)   A person is considered to be in violation of this subchapter if the
person connects a line conveying sewage to the MS4, or allows such a connection
to continue.
(Ord. 252, passed 12-16-19; Am. Ord. 267, passed 9-19-22)
§ 52.54 RIGHT OF ENTRY FOR INSPECTION, ETC.
   The authorized enforcement agency bearing proper credentials and
identification shall be permitted to enter upon all properties for the purposes
of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, and testing of suspected
illicit discharges or connections in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 252, passed 12-16-19; Am. Ord. 267, passed 9-19-22)
§ 52.55 SUSPENSION OF MS4 ACCESS.
   (A)   Suspension due to illicit discharges in emergency situations. The
authorized enforcement agency may, without prior notice, suspend MS4 discharge
access to a person when such suspension is necessary to stop an actual or
threatened discharge which presents or may present imminent and substantial
danger to the environment, or to the health and welfare of persons, or the MS4
or waters of the United States. If the violator fails to comply with a
suspension order issued in an emergency, the authorized enforcement agency may
take such steps as deemed necessary to prevent or minimize damage to the MS4 or
waters of the United States, or to minimize danger to persons.
   (B)   Suspension due to the detection of illicit discharge. Any person
discharging to the MS4 in violation of this subchapter may have their MS4
access terminated if such termination would abate or reduce an illicit
discharge. The authorized enforcement agency will notify a violator of the
proposed termination of its MS4 access. The violator may petition the
authorized enforcement agency for a reconsideration and hearing. A person
commits an offense if the person reinstates MS4 access to premises terminated
pursuant to this section, without prior approval of the authorized enforcement
agency.
(Ord. 252, passed 12-16-19; Am. Ord. 267, passed 9-19-22)
§ 52.56 INDUSTRIAL OR CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY DISCHARGES.
   Any person subject to an industrial or construction activity NPDES
stormwater discharge permit shall comply with all provisions of such permit.
Proof of compliance with said permit may be required in a form acceptable to
the authorized enforcement agency prior to the allowing of discharges to the
MS4.
(Ord. 252, passed 12-16-19; Am. Ord. 267, passed 9-19-22)
§ 52.57 MONITORING OF DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Applicability. This section applies to all facilities that have
stormwater discharges associated with industrial activity, including
construction activity.
   (B)   Access to facilities.
      (1)   The authorized enforcement agency shall be permitted to enter and
inspect facilities subject to regulation under this subchapter as often as may
be necessary to determine compliance with this subchapter. If a discharger has
security measures in force which require proper identification and clearance
before entry into its premises, the discharger shall make the necessary
arrangements to allow access to representatives of the authorized enforcement
agency.
      (2)   Facility operators shall allow the authorized enforcement agency
ready access to all parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection,
sampling, examination and copying of records that must be kept under the
conditions of an NPDES permit to discharge stormwater, and the performance of
any additional duties as defined by state and federal law.
      (3)   The authorized enforcement agency shall have the right to set up on
any permitted facility such devices as are necessary in the opinion of the
authorized enforcement agency to conduct monitoring and/or sampling of the
facility’s stormwater discharge.
      (4)   The authorized enforcement agency has the right to require the
discharger to install monitoring equipment as necessary. The facility’s
sampling and monitoring equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe
and proper operating condition by the discharger at its own expense. All
devices used to measure stormwater flow and quality shall be calibrated to
ensure their accuracy.
      (5)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to
the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
operator at the written or oral request of the authorized enforcement agency
and shall not be replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by
the operator.
      (6)   Unreasonable delays in allowing the authorized enforcement agency
access to a permitted facility are in violation of a stormwater discharge
permit and of this subchapter. A person who is the operator of a facility with
a NPDES permit to discharge stormwater associated with industrial activity
commits an offense if the person denies the authorized enforcement agency
reasonable access to the permitted facility for the purpose of conducting any
activity authorized or required by this subchapter.
      (7)   If the authorized enforcement agency has been refused access to any
part of the premises from which stormwater is discharged, and he/she is able to
demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be a violator of this
subchapter, or that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a
routine inspection and sampling program designed to verify compliance with this
subchapter or any order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall public
health, safety, and welfare of the community, then the authorized enforcement
agency may seek issuance of a search warrant from any court of competent
jurisdiction.
(Ord. 252, passed 12-16-19; Am. Ord. 267, passed 9-19-22)
§ 52.58 REQUIREMENT TO PREVENT, CONTROL, AND REDUCE STORMWATER POLLUTANTS BY
THE USE OF BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES.
   An authorized enforcement agency may adopt requirements identifying best
management practices for any activity, operation, or facility which may cause
or contribute to pollution or contamination of stormwater, the storm drain
system, or waters of the U.S. The owner or operator of a commercial or
industrial establishment shall provide, at their own expense, reasonable
protection from accidental discharge of prohibited materials or other wastes
into the municipal storm drain system or watercourses through the use of these
structural and nonstructural BMPs. Further, any person responsible for a
property or premise, which is, or may be, the source of an illicit discharge,
may be required to implement, at said person’s expense, additional structural
and nonstructural BMPs to prevent the further discharge of pollutants to the
municipal separate storm sewer system. Compliance with all terms and conditions
of a valid NPDES permit authorizing the discharge of stormwater associated with
industrial activity, to the extent practicable, shall be deemed compliant with
the provisions of this section. These BMPs shall be part of a stormwater
pollution prevention plan (SWPP) as necessary for compliance with requirements
of the NPDES permit.
(Ord. 252, passed 12-16-19; Am. Ord. 267, passed 9-19-22)
§ 52.59 WATERCOURSE PROTECTION.
   Every person owning property through which a watercourse passes, or such
person’s lessee, shall keep and maintain that part of the watercourse within
the property free of trash, debris, excessive vegetation, and other obstacles
that would pollute, contaminate, or significantly retard the flow of water
through the watercourse. In addition, the owner or lessee shall maintain
existing privately owned structures within or adjacent to a watercourse, so
that such structures will not become a hazard to the use, function, or physical
integrity of the watercourse.
(Ord. 252, passed 12-16-19; Am. Ord. 267, passed 9-19-22)
§ 52.60 NOTIFICATION OF SPILLS.
   Notwithstanding other requirements of law, as soon as any person responsible
for a facility or operation, or responsible for emergency response for a
facility or operation has information of any known or suspected release of
materials which are resulting or may result in illegal discharges or pollutants
discharging into stormwater, the storm drain system, or water of the U.S. said
person shall take all necessary steps to ensure the discovery, containment, and
cleanup of such release. In the event of such a release of hazardous materials
said person shall immediately notify emergency response agencies of the
occurrence via emergency dispatch services. In the event of a release of
nonhazardous materials, said person shall notify the authorized enforcement
agency in person or by phone or fax no later than the next business day.
Notifications in person or by phone shall be confirmed by written notice
addressed and mailed to the authorized enforcement agency within three business
days of the phone notice. If the discharge of prohibited materials emanates
from a commercial or industrial establishment, the owner or operator of such
establishment shall also retain an on-site written record of the discharge and
the actions taken to prevent its recurrence. Such records shall be retained for
at least three years.
(Ord. 252, passed 12-16-19; Am. Ord. 267, passed 9-19-22)
§ 52.61 ENFORCEMENT, NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Whenever the authorized enforcement agency finds that a person has
violated a prohibition or failed to meet a requirement of this subchapter, the
authorized enforcement agency may order compliance by written notice of
violation to the responsible person. Such notice may require without
limitation:
      (1)   The performance of monitoring, analyses, and reporting;
      (2)   The elimination of illicit connections or discharges;
      (3)   That violating discharges, practices, or operations shall cease and
desist;
      (4)   The abatement or remediation of stormwater pollution or
contamination hazards and the restoration of any affected property;
      (5)   The payment of a fine to cover administrative and remediation
costs; and
      (6)   The implementation of source control or treatment BMP’s.
   (B)   If abatement of a violation and/or restoration of affected property is
required, the notice shall set forth a deadline within which such remediation
or restoration must be completed. Said notice shall further advise that, should
the violator fail to remediate or restore within the established deadline, the
work will be done by a designated governmental agency or a contractor and the
expense thereof shall be charged to the violator.
(Ord. 252, passed 12-16-19; Am. Ord. 267, passed 9-19-22)
§ 52.62 ENFORCEMENT MEASURES.
   If the violation has not been corrected pursuant to the requirements set
forth in the notice of violation, then representatives of the authorized
enforcement agency may enter upon the subject’s private property and are
authorized to take any and all measures to abate the violation and/or restore
the property upon the issuance of an order from a court of competent
jurisdiction. It shall be unlawful for any person, owner, agent or person in
possession of any premises to refuse to allow the governmental agency or
designated contractor to enter upon the premises for the purposes set forth
above.
(Ord. 252, passed 12-16-19; Am. Ord. 267, passed 9-19-22)
§ 52.63 COST OF ABATEMENT OF THE VIOLATION.
   (A)   Within 15 days after abatement of the violation, the owner of the
property will be notified of the cost of abatement, including administrative
costs. If the amount due is not paid within a timely manner as determined by
the decision of the municipal authority, the charges shall become a special
assessment against the property and shall constitute a lien on the property for
the amount of the assessment.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this subchapter shall
become liable to the village by reason of such violation. The liability shall
be paid in not more than 12 equal payments. Interest rate of 10% per annum
shall be assessed on the balance beginning on the first day following discovery
of the violation.
(Ord. 252, passed 12-16-19; Am. Ord. 267, passed 9-19-22)
§ 52.64 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision or fail to
comply with any of the requirements of this subchapter. If a person has
violated or continues to violate the provisions of this subchapter, the
authorized enforcement agency may petition for a preliminary or permanent
injunction restraining the person from activities which would create further
violations or compel the person to perform abatement or remediation of the
violation.
(Ord. 252, passed 12-16-19; Am. Ord. 267, passed 9-19-22)
§ 52.65 COMPENSATORY ACTION.
   In lieu of enforcement proceedings, penalties, and remedies authorized by
this subchapter, the authorized enforcement agency may allow a violator to
perform alternative actions, such as storm drain stenciling, attendance at
compliance workshops, creek cleanup, etc.
(Ord. 252, passed 12-16-19; Am. Ord. 267, passed 9-19-22)
§ 52.66 VIOLATIONS DEEMED A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   In addition to the enforcement processes and penalties provided, any
condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of
this subchapter is deemed a threat to public health, safety, and welfare, and
is declared a nuisance, public nuisance and nuisance per se and may be
summarily abated or restored at the violator’s expense, and/or a civil action
to abate, enjoin, or otherwise compel the cessation of such nuisance may be
taken.
(Ord. 252, passed 12-16-19; Am. Ord. 267, passed 9-19-22)
§ 52.67 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation determined to have been in violation
of the provisions of this subchapter shall be responsible for a municipal civil
infraction and subject to the provisions of this Code.
   (B)   The Village Council by way of the building inspector, in addition to
other remedies, may institute any appropriate action or proceeding to prevent,
abate or restrain the violation.
   (C)   Each day’s continuance of a violation shall be deemed a separate and
distinct offense. Expenses in connection with such action, including actual
attorney fees, shall be assessed as damages against the violation.
(Ord. 252, passed 12-16-19; Am. Ord. 267, passed 9-19-22)
§ 52.68 REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The remedies listed in this subchapter are not exclusive of any other
remedies available under any applicable federal, state or local law and it is
within the discretion of the authorized enforcement agency to seek cumulative
remedies.
(Ord. 252, passed 12-16-19; Am. Ord. 267, passed 9-19-22)
WASTEWATER DISCHARGE
§ 52.80 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this division is the protection of the environment, and
of public health and safety by abating and preventing pollution through the
regulation and control of the quantity and quality of wastes admitted to or
discharged into the wastewater collection and treatment system under the
jurisdiction of the village and enabling the village to comply with all
applicable state and federal laws required by the Federal Water Pollution
Control Act, being 33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq. and the General Pretreatment
Regulations, being 40 CFR 403.
   (B)   The objectives of this division are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the wastewater
system which will interfere with the operation of the system or contaminate the
resulting sludge, or will pose a hazard to the health or welfare of the people
or of employees of the City of Detroit Water and Sewerage department;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the wastewater
system which will pass inadequately treated through the system into receiving
waters, the atmosphere or the environment, or otherwise be incompatible with
the system;
      (3)   To improve the opportunity to recycle or reclaim wastewater or
sludge from the system in an economical and advantageous manner; and
      (4)   To provide for the recovery of the costs from users of the
wastewater collection and treatment system sufficient to administer regulatory
activities and meet the costs of the operation, maintenance, improvement or
replacement of the system.
   (C)   This division provides for the regulation of contributors to the
Detroit and village wastewater collection and treatment system through the
issuance of wastewater discharge permits to certain users and through the
enforcement of general requirements for all users, authorizes monitoring and
enforcement, and authorizes fees and penalties.
(Am. Ord. 172, passed 10-22-01)
§ 52.81 AUTHORITY.
   By virtue of the obligations and authority placed upon the village by the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the Clean Water Act, as
amended, being 33 USC 1251 et seq.; the 1963 Constitution of the State of
Michigan; Public Act 245 of 1929, as amended, being M.C.L. 323.1 et seq.;
M.S.A. 3.521 et seq.; the 1997 City Charter; the National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System (NPDES) permit for the City of Detroit Publicly Owned
Treatment Works (POTW); the Consent Judgment in U.S. EPA v. City of Detroit, et
al., Federal District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan Case No.77-
1100, as amended; and existing or future contracts between the Board of Water
Commissioners and suburban communities or other governmental or private
entities; or by virtue of common law usage of the system, this division shall
apply to every user contributing or causing to be contributed, or discharging,
pollutants or wastewater into the wastewater collection and treatment system of
the City of Detroit POTW.
(Am. Ord. 172, passed 10-22-01)
§ 52.82 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this division and unless the context specifically indicates
otherwise, the following terms and phrases, shall have the meanings ascribed to
them by this section:
   ACT  or the THE ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as
the Clean Water Act, as amended, being 33 USC 1251 et seq.
   AS-BUILT PLANS. Engineering drawings prepared after installations of
wastewater facilities which shall show a statement by a registered engineer or
surveyor certifying this to be AS-BUILT PLANS and shall include, but not be
limited to, length of sewer, invert elevation, locations with respect to
property lines, wye and riser locations and depths, sewer material and joints
used, and mechanical, electrical, and structural details for pump stations,
wastewater treatment facilities, and other appurtenances.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF INDUSTRIAL USER.
      (1)   Responsible corporate officer, where the industrial user submitting
the reports required by this division is a corporation, who is either:
         (a)   The president, vice-president, secretary, or treasurer of a
corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who
performs similar policy or decision making functions for the corporation; or
         (b)   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production, or
operation facilities employing more than 250 persons or having gross annual
sales or expenditures exceeding $25,000,000 in second-quarter 1980 dollars,
when authority to execute documents has been assigned or delegated to said
manager in accordance with corporate procedures; or
      (2)   A general partner or proprietor where the industrial user
submitting the reports required by this division is a partnership or sole
proprietorship respectively.
   AVAILABLE CYANIDE. The quantity of cyanide that consists of cyanide ion (CÑ)
hydrogen cyanide in water (HCNaq), and the cyano-complexes of zinc, copper,
cadmium, mercury, nickel and silver, determined by EPA method OIA-1677, or
other method designated as a Standard Method or approved under 40 CFR 136.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP). Programs, practices, procedures or other
directed efforts initiated and implemented by the user which can or do lead to
the reduction, conservation or minimization of pollutants being introduced into
the ecosystem, including but are not limited to the Detroit sewer system. BMPs
include, but are not limited to, equipment or technology modifications, process
or procedure modifications, reformulation or redesign of products, substitution
of raw materials, and improvements in housekeeping, maintenance, training, or
inventory control and may include technical and economic considerations.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quality of dissolved oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
five days at 20° C expressed in terms of mass and concentration (milligrams per
liter (mg/l)) as measured by Standard Methods.
   BOARD. The Board of Water Commissioners of the City of Detroit.
   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building's sewer (house
sewer). The latter begins five feet outside the inner face of the building
wall.
   BYPASS. The intentional diversion of a waste stream from any portion of an
industrial user's treatment facility.
(40 CFR 403.17)
   CENTRALIZED WASTE TREATMENT (CWT) FACILITY. Any facility that treats any
hazardous or nonhazardous industrial waste received from off-site by tanker
truck, trailer/roll-off bins, drums, barges, or any other forms of shipment
including:
      (1)   A facility that treats industrial waste received exclusively from
off-site; and
      (2)   A facility that treats industrial waste generated on-site as well
as industrial waste received from off-site.
   COMPATIBLE INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER. Wastewater that is produced by an
industrial user which has a pollutant strength or characteristics similar to
those found in domestic wastewater, and which can be efficiently and
effectively transported and treated with domestic wastewater.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Pollutants which can be effectively removed by the
POTW treatment system to within the acceptable levels for the POTW residuals
and the receiving stream.
   COMPOSITE SAMPLE. A collection of individual samples which are obtained at
regular intervals and collected on a time-proportional or flow-proportional
basis over a specified period and which provides a representative sample of the
average stream during the sampling period. A minimum of four aliquot per 24
hours shall be used where the sample is manually collected.
(40 CFR 403, Appendix E)
   CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION. The information which would divulge information,
processes or methods of production entitled to protection as trade secrets of
the industrial user.
   CONSENT JUDGMENT. The judgment issued by Federal District Court on September
14, 1977, U.S. EPA v City of Detroit, et al., C.A. No. 77-1100, as amended.
   CONTROL AUTHORITY. The Detroit Water and Sewerage Department which has been
officially designated as such by the State of Michigan under the provisions of
40 CFR 403.12.
(40 CFR 403.12(a))
   COOLING WATER. The non-contact water discharged from any use such as air
conditioning, cooling or refrigeration, and whose only function is the exchange
of heat.
   COUNTY. The County of Oakland, State of Michigan or the Oakland County Drain
Commissioner.
   COUNTY AGENCY. The Oakland County Drain Commissioner. References to the
OAKLAND COUNTY DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS shall also mean Oakland County Drain
Commissioner.
   DAYS. Consecutive calendar days for the purpose of computing a period of
time prescribed or allowed by this division.
   DEBT SERVICE CHANGE. Charges levied to customers of the wastewater system
which are used to pay principal, interest and administrative costs of retiring
the debt incurred for construction of the wastewater system. The debt service
charge is separate and distinct and may be in addition to the user charge
specified below.
   DEPARTMENT. The City of Detroit Water and Sewerage Department, and
authorized employees of the DEPARTMENT.
   DIRECT DISCHARGE. The discharge of treated or untreated wastewater directly
to the waters of the State of Michigan.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the Detroit Department of Water and Sewerage, or
the Director's designee.
   DISCHARGER. A person who, directly or indirectly, contributes, causes, or
permits wastewater to be discharged into the POTW.
   DOMESTIC SEWAGE. Waste and wastewater from humans or household operations
which is discharged to, or otherwise enters, a treatment works.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY or ADMINISTRATOR or EPA ADMINISTRATOR. The
United States Environmental Protection Agency or, where appropriate, the
authorized representatives or employees of the EPA.
   FACILITY. A location which contributes, causes or permits wastewater to be
discharged into the POTW including, but not limited to, a place of business,
endeavor, arts, trade or commerce, whether public or private, commercial or
charitable.
   FATS, OILS, or GREASE (FOG). Any hydrocarbons, fatty acids, soaps, fats,
waxes, oils, and any other nonvolatile material of animal, vegetable or mineral
origin that is extractable by solvent in accordance with Standard Methods.
   FLOW PROPORTIONAL SAMPLE. A composite sample taken with regard to the flow
rate of the waste stream.
   FOOTING DRAIN. A pipe or conduit which is placed around the perimeter of a
building foundation and which intentionally admits groundwater.
   GRAB SAMPLE. An individual sample collected over a period of time not
exceeding 15 minutes, which reasonably reflects the characteristics of the
stream at the time of sampling.
   GROUND WATER. Subsurface water occupying the saturation zone, from which
wells and springs are fed.
   HOLDING TANK WASTE. Any waste from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers, septic tanks, and vacuum-pump tank trucks.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGE or DISCHARGE. The discharge or the introduction of
pollutants into the POTW from any non-domestic source regulated under 33 USC
1317(b), (c) or (d).
   INDUSTRIAL USER. A person who contributes, causes or permits wastewater to
be discharged into the POTW, including, but not limited to a place of business,
endeavor, arts, trade or commerce, whether public or private commercial or
charitable but excludes single-family and multi-family residential dwellings
with discharges consistent with domestic waste characteristics.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Any liquid, solid or gaseous waste or form of energy, or
combination thereof, resulting from any processes of industry, manufacturing,
business, trade or research, including the development, recovery or processing
of natural resources.
   INFILTRATION. Any waters entering the system from the ground through such
means, as but not limited to, defective pipes, pipe joints, connections or
manhole walls. INFILTRATION does not include and is distinguished from inflow.
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW. The total quantity of water from both infiltration and
inflow.
   INFLOW. Any waters entering the system through such sources as, but not
limited to, building downspouts, footing or yard drains, cooling water
discharges, seepage lines from springs and swampy areas, and storm drain cross
connections.
   INTERFERENCE. A discharge which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, both:
      (1)   Inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment processes or
operations, or its sludge processes, use or disposal; and
      (2)   Therefore is a cause of a violation of any requirement of the
POTW's NPDES permit (including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a
violation) or of the prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance
with the following statutory provisions and regulations or permits issued
thereunder or more stringent State or local regulations: Section 405 of the
Clean Water Act, as amended, being 33 USC 1345, the Solid Waste Disposal Act
(SWDA), as amended, (including the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
(RCRA), and State regulations contained in any State sludge management plan
prepared pursuant to subtitle D of the SWDA), the Clean Air Act, the Toxic
Substances Control Act, and the Marine Protection, Research and Sanctuaries
Act.
   LOCAL. A prefix denoting jurisdiction by the Village of Bingham Farms.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MUNICIPALITY. The Village of Bingham Farms.
   NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD. Any regulation containing
pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in accordance with 33 USC
1317 (b) and (c) which applies to a specific class or category of industrial
users.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) PERMIT. A permit
issued pursuant to 33 USC 1342.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other
body of surface or groundwater.
   NEW SOURCE.
      (1)   Any building, structure, facility or installation from which there
is or may be a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced
after the publication of proposed pretreatment standards under 33 USC 1317(c)
which will be applicable to such source if such standards are thereafter
promulgated in accordance with that section, provided, that:
         (a)   The building, structure, facility or installation is constructed
at a site where no other source is located; or
         (b)   The building, structure, facility or installation totally
replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of
pollutants at an existing source; or
         (c)   The production or wastewater generating processes of the
building, structure, facility or installation generating processes of the
building, structure, facility or installation are substantially independent of
an existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source should
be considered; or
      (2)   Construction on a site where an existing source is located
resulting in a modification rather than a new source if the construction does
not create a new building, structure, facility or installation meeting the
criteria of divisions (1)(b) or (1)(c) of this definition but otherwise alters,
replaces, or adds to existing process or production equipment; or
      (3)   Construction of a new source has commenced where the owner or
operator has:
         (a)   Begun, or caused to begin as part of a continuous on site
construction program:
            1.   Any placement, assembly, or installation of facilities or
equipment; or
            2.   Significant site preparation work including clearing,
excavation, or removal of existing buildings, structures, or facilities that
are necessary for the placement, assembly, or installation of new source
facilities or equipment; or
         (b)   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase
of facilities or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation
within a reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be
terminated or modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility,
engineering, and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation
under this section.
   OPERATION-MAINTENANCE (O&M). All work, materials, equipment, utilities and
other effort required to operate and maintain the wastewater transportation and
treatment system consistent with insuring adequate treatment of wastewater to
produce an effluent in compliance with the NPDES permit and other applicable
state and federal regulations, and includes the cost of replacement.
   OWNER. The OWNERS OF RECORD of the freehold of the premises or lesser estate
therein, a mortgagor or vendee in possession, assignee of rents, receiver,
executor, trustee, lessee, or other person, firm or corporation in control of a
building.
   PASS THROUGH. Discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the United
States in quantities or concentrations, which alone or in conjunction with a
discharge or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any
requirement of the POTW's NPDES permit including an increase in the magnitude
or duration of a violation.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, unit of
government, school district, or any other legal entity, or their legal
representative, agent or assigns.
   pH. The intensity of the acid or base condition of a solution, calculated by
taking the negative base-ten logarithm of the hydrogen ion activity. Activity
is deemed to be equal to concentration in moles per liter:
   POLLUTANT. Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage
garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, chemical waste, biological materials,
radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discarded equipment, rock, sand, cellar
dirt, or industrial, municipal and agricultural waste which is discharged into
water.
   POLLUTION. The introduction of any pollutant that, alone or in combination
with any other substance, can or does result in the degradation or impairment
of the chemical, physical, biological or radiological integrity of water.
   POTW TREATMENT PLANT. That portion of the POTW designed to provide treatment
to wastewater, including recycling and reclamation of wastewater.
   PRETREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the removal of
pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater to a less harmful state prior to or in lieu of discharging or
otherwise introducing such pollutants into the POTW. The reduction, removal or
alteration may be attained by physical, chemical or biological processes, or
process changes by other means, except as prohibited by federal, state or local
law, rules and regulations.
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirements
related to pretreatment, other than a national pretreatment standard imposed on
an industrial user.
(40 CFR 403.3(r))
   PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. All National Categorical Pretreatment Standards, the
general prohibitions specified in 40 CFR 403.5(x), the specific prohibitions
delineated in 40 CFR 403.5(b), and the local or specific limits developed
pursuant to 40 CFR 403.5(c), including the discharge prohibitions specified in
Section §
52.59(B).
   PRIVATE. A prefix denoting jurisdiction by a non-governmental entity.
   PUBLIC. A prefix denoting jurisdiction by any governmental subdivision or
agency.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer of any type controlled by a governmental subdivision
or agency.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW). A treatment works as defined by 33
USC 1292(2)(A) which is owned by a state or municipality, as defined in 33 USC
1362, including:
      (1)   Any devices and systems used in the storage, treatment, recycling,
or reclamation of municipal sewage or industrial waste of a liquid nature;
      (2)   Sewers, pipes and other conveyances only if they convey wastewater
to a POTW treatment plant; or
      (3)   The municipality, as defined in 33 USC 1362, which has jurisdiction
over the indirect discharges to and the discharges from such a treatment works.
   REPLACEMENT. The replacement in whole or in part of any equipment,
appurtenances and accessories in the wastewater transportation or treatment
systems to insure continuous treatment of wastewater in accordance with the
NPDES permit and other applicable state and federal regulations.
   REPRESENTATIVE SAMPLE. Any sample of wastewater, which accurately and
precisely represents the actual quality, character, and condition of one or
more pollutants in the waste stream being sampled. Representative samples shall
be collected and analyzed in accordance with 40 CFR 136.
   QUANTIFICATION LEVEL. The measurement of the concentration of a contaminant
obtained by using a specified laboratory procedure calculated at a specified
concentration above the detection level. It is considered the lowest
concentration at which a particular contaminant can be quantitatively measured
using a specified laboratory procedure for monitoring of the contaminant.
   SANITARY WASTEWATER. The portion of wastewater that is not attributable to
industrial activities and is similar to discharges from domestic sources
including, but not limited to, discharges from sanitary facilities and
discharges incident to the preparation of food for on-site non-commercial
consumption.
   SERVICE AREA. Area whose wastewater is received by the village or the county
for the transmission for treatment by the City of Detroit DWSD.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water. See the
following definitions modifying sewer:
      (1)   BUILDING SEWER. In plumbing, the extension from the building drain
to the public sewer or other place of disposal. Also called a house connection.
      (2)   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intending to receive both wastewater and
stormwater, surface or drainage water.
      (3)   COMMON SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties
have equal rights.
      (4)   COUNTY SEWER. A public sewer controlled by the county agency.
      (5)   INTERCEPTING SEWER. A sewer that received dry-weather flow from a
number of transverse sewers of outlets in frequently additional predetermined
quantities of stormwater (if from a combined system) and conducts such waters
to a point for treatment of disposal.
      (6)   LATERAL SEWER. That portion of the sewer system located under the
street, within the street right-of-way, or easement and which collects sewage
from a particular property for transfer to the trunk line or interceptor. A
sewer which is designed to receive a building sewer.
      (7)   MUNICIPAL SEWER. A public sewer exclusive of a county sewer or City
of Detroit sewer.
      (8)   PUBLIC SEWER. A common sewer controlled by a governmental agency or
public utility.
      (9)   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that carries liquid and water-carried waste
from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions,
together with minor quantities of groundwater, stormwater, surface water and
drainage water and are not admitted intentionally.
      (10)   STORM SEWER. A sewer that carries stormwater and surface water,
street wash and other wash waters, or drainage, but excludes domestic
wastewater and industrial wastewater. Also called a STORMDRAIN.
      (11)   TRUNK SEWER or TRUNK SEWER LINE. A sewer which connects the
lateral sewer to the intercepting sewer and to which building sewers may be
connected.
   SEWER SERVICE CHARGE. The sum of the applicable user charge, surcharges and
debt service charges.
   SHALL. All acts referred to are mandatory.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USERS. Any user of the POTW who:
      (1)   Has an average discharge flow of 25,000 gallons per day or more of
process wastewater excluding sanitary, boiler blowdown, and noncontact cooling
water; or
      (2)   Has discharges subject to the national categorical pretreatment
standards; or
      (3)   Requires pretreatment to comply with the specific pollutant
limitations of this division; or
      (4)   Has in its discharge toxic pollutants as defined pursuant to 33 USC
1317, or other applicable federal and state laws or regulations that are in
concentrations and volumes which are subject to regulation under this division
as determined by the Department; or
      (5)   Is required to obtain a permit for the treatment, storage or
disposal of hazardous waste pursuant to regulations adopted by this state or
adopted under the Federal Solid Waste Disposal Act, as amended by the Federal
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act as amended, and may or does contribute
or allow waste or wastewater into the POTW including, but not limited to,
leachate or runoff; or
      (6)   Is found by the City of Detroit or village to have a reasonable
potential for adverse effect, either singly or in combination with other
contributing industries, on the POTW operation, the quality of sludge, the
POTW's effluent quality, or air emissions generated by the POTW.
   SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE. Any violation which meets one or more of the
following criteria:
      (1)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined as those
in which 66% or more of all of the measurements taken during a six-month period
exceed by any magnitude the daily maximum limit or the average limit for the
same parameter;
      (2)   TECHNICAL REVIEW CRITERIA (TRC) VIOLATIONS. Defined as those in
which 33% or more of all of the measurements for each pollutant parameter taken
during a six-month period equal or exceed the product of the daily maximum
limit or the average limit multiplied by the applicable TRC (TRC = 1.4 for BOD,
TSS, Fats, Oil and Grease, and 1.2 for all other pollutants except pH);
      (3)   Any other violation of a pretreatment effluent limit (daily maximum
or longer term average) that the Department determines has caused, alone or in
combination with other discharges, interference or pass-through including
endangering the health of POTW personnel or the general public;
      (4)   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent endangerment
to human health or welfare, or to the environment, or has resulted in the
POTW's exercise of its emergency authority;
      (5)   Failure to meet a compliance schedule milestone contained in a
local control mechanism, or enforcement order for starting construction,
completing construction, or attaining final compliance within 90 days after the
scheduled date;
      (6)   Failure to provide required reports such as baseline monitoring
reports, 90-day compliance reports, periodic self-monitoring reports, and
reports on compliance with compliance schedules within 30 days after the due
date;
      (7)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; or
      (8)   Any other violation or group of violations which the Department
determines will adversely affect the operation or implementation of the local
pretreatment program.
   SLUG. Slug means any discharge of a non-routine episodic nature including,
but not limited to, an accidental spill or a non-customary batch discharge.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC). A classification pursuant to the
Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the Executive Office of the
President, Office of Management and Budget, 1987, as amended.
   STANDARD METHODS. Methods set forth in 40 CFR 136, Guidelines for
Establishing Test Procedures for Analysis of Pollutants or the laboratory
procedures set forth in the latest edition, at the time of analysis, of
Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater prepared and
published jointly by the American Public Health Association, the American Water
Works Association, and the Water Pollution Control Federation, or methods set
forth in 40 CFR 136, Guidelines for Establishing Test Procedures for Analysis
of Pollutants. Where these two references are in disagreement regarding
procedures for the analysis of a specific pollutant, the methods given in 40
CFR 136 shall be followed.
   STATE. The State of Michigan.
   STORM WATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting therefrom.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The director of the Village department of public works or
his or her duly authorized representative.
   SURFACE WATER.
      (1)   All water on the surface as distinguished from groundwater or
subterranean water.
      (2)   Water appearing on the surface in a diffused state, with no
permanent source of supply or regular course for any considerable time, as
distinguished from water appearing in watercourses, lakes, or ponds.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TOTAL). Total suspended matter which floats on the surface
of, or is suspended in, water, wastewater or other liquids, and is removable by
laboratory filtration or as measured by Standard Methods.
   TOTAL EQUIVALENT MASTER METERED WATER CONSUMPTION. The equivalent to the
total amount of potable water used by a municipality as recorded by a master
water meter for sewered premises, and shall include, but not be limited to,
fire protection water, gardening and lawn water.
   TOTAL PCB. The sum of the individual analytical results for each of the PCB
aroclors 1016, 1221, 1232, 1242, 1248, 1254, and 1260 during any single
sampling event with any aroclor result less than the quantification level being
treated as zero.
   TOTAL PHENOLIC COMPOUNDS. The sum of the individual analytical results for
each of the phenolic compounds of 2-chlorophenol, 4-chlorophenol, 4-chloro-3-
methylphenol, 2, 4-dichlorophenol, 2, 4-dinitrophenol, 4-methylphenol, 4-
nitrophenol, and phenol during any single sampling event expressed in mg/l.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. Any pollutant or combination of pollutants designated as
toxic in regulations promulgated by the Administrator of the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency under the provisions of the Clean Water Act, being 33 USC
1317, or included in the Critical Materials Register promulgated by the
Michigan Department of Environmental Quality, or by other federal or state
laws, rules or regulations.
   TRADE SECRET. The whole, or any portion or phase, of any proprietary
manufacturing process or method, not patented, which is secret, is useful in
compounding an article of trade having a commercial value, and whose secrecy
the owner has taken reasonable measures to prevent from becoming available to
persons other than those selected by the owner to have access for limited
purposes but excludes any information regarding the quantum or character of
waste products or their constituents discharged or sought to be discharged into
the Detroit wastewater treatment plant, or into the wastewater system tributary
thereto.
   UPSET. An exceptional incident in which there is unintentional and temporary
noncompliance with limits imposed under this division or with national
categorical pretreatment standards due to factors beyond the reasonable control
of the industrial user but excludes noncompliance to the extent caused by
operational error, improperly designed treatment facilities, inadequate
treatment facilities, lack of preventative maintenance, or careless or improper
operation.
   USER. Any person who, directly or indirectly, contributes, causes or permits
the discharge of wastewater into the POTW as defined herein.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of a treatment works for the cost of
operation and maintenance of sewerage works pursuant to Section 204(b) of P.L.
92-500 and includes the cost of replacement.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Bingham Farms.
   WASTEWATER  or WASTESTREAM. The liquid and water-carried industrial or
domestic wastes of dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities, and
institutions, whether treated or untreated, which are contributed to or
permitted to enter the POTW including infiltration and inflow waters, storm
water, and cooling water.
   WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITS. Permits issued by the Department in accordance
with § 52.59(D) of this code.
   WATERS OF THE STATE. Groundwater, lakes, rivers, streams, all other
watercourses and waters within the confines of this state as well as bordering
this state in the form of the Great Lakes.
(Am. Ord. 172, passed 10-22-01; Am. Ord. 212, passed 12-22-08)
§ 52.83 ABBREVIATIONS.
   For purposes of this subchapter, the following acronyms shall have the
meanings designated by this section:
   BMR. Baseline monitoring report.
   BOD. Biochemical Oxygen Demand.
   CFR. Code of Federal Regulations.
   DWSD. Detroit Water and Sewerage Department.
   EPA. Environmental Protection Agency.
   FOG. Fats, Oil or Grease.
   l. liter.
   MDEQ. Michigan Department of Environmental Quality.
   mg. milligrams.
   mg/l. milligrams per liter,
   NPDES. National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System.
   P. Phosphorus.
   POTW. Publicly Owned Treatment Works.
   RCRA. Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, being 42 USC 6901 et seq.
   SIC. Standard Industrial Classification.
   SWDA. Solid Waste Disposal Act, being 42 USC 6901 et seq.
   TSS. Total Suspended Solids.
   USC. United States Code Section.
(Am. Ord. 172, passed 10-22-01)
§ 52.84 GENERAL WASTEWATER DISPOSAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Delegation of authority. The City of Detroit, through the Detroit
Water and Sewerage Department as the State approved Control Authority, is
authorized to administer and enforce the provisions of this section on behalf
of the village. The village has executed and hereby ratifies its delegation
agreement with the City of Detroit through the Detroit Water and Sewerage
Department, which sets forth the terms and conditions of such delegated
authority, consistent with this section, and shall allow the Detroit Water and
Sewerage Department to perform the specific responsibilities of Control
Authority pursuant to State and Federal law.
   (B)   Discharge prohibitions.
      (1)   General pollutant prohibitions. No user shall discharge or cause to
be discharged into the POTW, directly or indirectly, any pollutant or
wastewater which will cause interference or pass through. These general
discharge prohibitions shall apply to all users of the POTW whether or not the
user is subject to national categorical pretreatment standards or to any other
federal, state, or local pretreatment standards or requirements. In addition,
it shall be unlawful for a user to discharge into the POTW:
         (a)   Any liquid, solid or gas, which by reason of its nature or
quantity, is sufficient either alone or by interaction with other substances to
create a fire or explosion hazard or to be injurious in any other way to
persons, to the POTW, or to the operations of the POTW. Pollutants, which
create a fire or explosion hazard in a POTW, include, but are not limited to,
wastestreams with a closed cup flash point of less than 140°F or 60°C using the
test methods specified in 40 CFR 261.21; or
         (b)   Any solid or viscous substance in concentrations or quantities,
which are sufficient to cause obstruction to the flow in a sewer or other
encumbrances to the operation of the POTW, including, but not limited to,
grease, animal guts or tissues, bones, hair, hides or fleshing, entrails, whole
blood, feathers, ashes, cinders, sand, cement, spent lime, stone or marble
dust, metal, glass, straw, shavings, grass clippings, rags, strings, fibers,
spent grains, spent hops, wastepaper, wood, plastic, tar, asphalt residues,
residues from refining or processing of fuel or lubrication oil, mud or glass
grinding or polishing wastes, or tumbling and debarking stones; or
         (c)   Any wastewater having a pH of less than 5.0 units or greater
than 11.5 units; or
         (d)   Any wastewater containing petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable
cutting oil, products of mineral oil origin, or toxic pollutants in sufficient
concentration or quantity either singly or by interaction with other pollutants
to cause interference, or pass through, or constitute a hazard to humans or
animals; or
         (e)   Any liquid, gas, solid or form of energy, which either singly or
by interaction with other waste is sufficient to create toxic gas, vapor, or
fume within the POTW in quantities that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems, or may cause a public nuisance or hazard to life, or are
sufficient to prevent entry into the sewers for their maintenance and repair;
or
         (f)   Any substance which is sufficient to cause the POTW's effluent
or any other product of the POTW, such as residue, sludge, or scum to be
unsuitable for reclamation processing where the POTW is pursuing a reuse and
reclamation program. In no case shall a substance discharged to the POTW cause
the POTW to be in noncompliance with sludge use or disposal criteria guidelines
or regulations developed under 33 USC 1345, with any criteria, guidelines, or
developed and promulgated regulations affecting sludge use or disposal
developed pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act, the Federal Clean Air Act,
the Federal Toxic Substances Control Act, or with State criteria applicable to
the sludge management method being used; or
         (g)   Any substance which will cause the POTW to violate either the
Consent Judgment in U.S. EPA v. City of Detroit et al., Federal District Court
for the East District of Michigan Case No. 77-1100, or the City of Detroit's
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit; or
         (h)   Any discharge having a color uncharacteristic of the wastewater
being discharged; or
         (i)   Any wastewater having a temperature which will inhibit
biological activity in the POTW treatment plant resulting in interference, but
in no case wastewater with a temperature at the introduction into a public
sewer which exceeds 150°F or which will cause the influent at the wastewater
treatment plant to rise above 104°F (40°C); or
         (j)   Any pollutant discharge which constitutes a slug; or
         (k)   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes of
such half-life or concentration as may exceed limits established in compliance
with applicable federal or State regulations; or
         (l)   Any floating fats, oil or grease which are sufficient to cause
interference with or pass through the POTW; or
         (m)   Any solid materials having a specific gravity greater than 1.2
or a cross section dimension of ½-inch or greater which are sufficient to cause
interference with the POTW.
      (2)   Specific pollutant prohibitions. No user shall discharge wastewater
containing in excess of the following limitations:
         (a)   Compatible pollutants. See Appendix C.
         (b)   Non-compatible pollutants. No user shall discharge wastewater
containing in excess of the following:
Pollutant    mg/l
Pollutant                                     mg/l
Arsenic (As)                                  1.0 mg/l
Cadmium (Cd)                                  See Appendix C
Chromium (Cr)                                 25.0 mg/l
Copper (Cu)                                   2.5 mg/l
Cyanide (CN) (Available)                      1.0 mg/l
Iron (Fe)                                     1000.0 mg/l
Lead (Pb)                                     1.0 mg/l
Nickel (Ni)                                   5.0 mg/l
Silver (Ag)                                   1.0 mg/l
Zinc (Zn)                                     7.3 mg/l
Total Phenolic Compounds or see Appendix B    1.0 mg/l
All limitations are based on samples collected over an operating period
representative of an industrial user’s discharge, and in accordance with 40
CFR 136.
 
            1.   The limitation for Total PCB is non-detect. Total PCB shall
not be discharged at detectable levels, based upon U.S. EPA Method 608, and the
quantification level shall not exceed 0.2 ugm/l, unless a higher level is
appropriate because of demonstrated sample matrix interference. Where one or
more samples indicate detectable levels of Total PCB, the user shall be
required to demonstrate compliance. For purposes of this section, this
demonstration may be made using analytical data showing that the Total PCB
concentration is below the detection level, or submission of a BMP in
accordance with §
52.59(I)(8).
            2.   The limitation of Mercury (Hg) is non-detect. Mercury (Hg)
shall not be discharged at detectable levels, based upon U.S. EPA Method 245.1,
and the quantification level shall not exceed 0.2 ugm/l, unless a higher level
is appropriate because of demonstrated sample matrix interference. Where one or
more samples indicate detectable levels of mercury, the user shall be required
to demonstrate compliance. For the purposes of this section, this demonstration
may be made using analytical data showing that the mercury concentration is
below the detection level, or submission of a BMP in accordance with §
52.59(I)(8). All limitations are based on samples collected over an operating
period representative of an industrial user’s discharge, and in accordance 40
CFR Part 136.
         (c)   Compliance period. Within 30 days of the effective date of this
section, the Department shall notify all industrial user’s operating under an
effective wastewater discharge permit of the requirement to submit a compliance
report within 180 days after the effective date of this section. The compliance
report shall demonstrate the user’s compliance or non-compliance with these
limitations, and, in the event of non-compliance, include the submission of a
plan and schedule for achieving compliance with the stated limitation. In no
event shall a compliance schedule exceed 18 months from the effective date of
this section. An industrial user who does not demonstrate compliance may
petition the Department for a second extension as part of an administrative
consent order. The Department shall include appropriate monitoring, reporting,
and penalties into an administrative consent order that relates to a second
extension, and shall enter into such an agreement only upon a good-faith
showing by the industrial user of the actions taken to achieve compliance with
this provision.
      (3)   National categorical pretreatment standards. All users shall comply
with the applicable National Categorical Pretreatment Standards and
requirements promulgated pursuant to the act as set forth in 40 CFR Subchapter
N Effluent Guidelines and Standards, which are hereby incorporated by reference
and with all other applicable standards and requirements, provided, however,
that where a more stringent standard or requirement is applicable pursuant to
state law or regulation or to this division, then the more stringent standard
or requirement shall be controlling. Affected dischargers shall comply with
applicable reporting requirements under 40 CFR 403 and as established by the
Department. The National Categorical Pretreatment Standards which have been
promulgated as of the effective date of this section are delineated in the
Appendix attached hereto and made a part hereof as if appearing in total.
         (a)   Intake water adjustment. Industrial users seeking adjustment of
National Categorical Pretreatment Standards to reflect the presence of
pollutants in their intake water must comply with the requirements of 40 CFR
403.15. Upon notification of approval by the Department, the adjustment shall
be applied by modifying the permit accordingly. Intake water adjustments are
not effective until incorporated into an industrial user's permit.
         (b)   Modification of national categorical pretreatment standards. The
Department may apply to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or to the
Michigan Department of Environmental Quality, whichever is appropriate, for
authorization to grant removal credits in accordance with the requirements and
procedures in 40 CFR 403.7. Such authorization may be granted only when the
POTW treatment plant can achieve consistent removal for each pollutant for
which a removal credit is being sought, provided, that any limitation of such
pollutant(s) in the NPDES permit neither are being exceeded nor pose the
prospect of being exceeded as a result of the removal credit being granted.
Where such authorization is given to the Department, any industrial user
desiring to obtain such credit shall make an application to the Department,
consistent with the provisions of 40 CFR 403.7 and of this division. Any
credits which may be granted under this section may be subject to modification
or revocation as specified in 40 CFR 403.7, or as determined by the Department.
A requisite to the granting of any removal credit may be that the industrial
user pay a surcharge based upon the amounts of such pollutants removed by the
POTW, such surcharge being based upon fees or rates which the board may
establish and, when appropriate, revise from time to time. Permits shall
reflect, or be modified to reflect, any credit granted pursuant to this
section.
         (c)   New sources. Industrial users who meet the new sources criteria
shall install, maintain in operating condition, and start-up all pollution
control equipment required to meet applicable pretreatment standards before
beginning to discharge. Within the shortest feasible time and not to exceed 90
days, new sources must meet all applicable pretreatment standards.
         (d)   Concentration and mass limits. When limits in a categorical
pretreatment standard are expressed only in terms of mass of pollutant per unit
of production, the Department may convert the limits to equivalent limitations
expressed either as mass of pollutant discharged per day or effluent
concentration for purposes of calculating effluent limitations applicable to
individual industrial users. Equivalent limitations shall be calculated in
accordance with Sections 40 CFR 403.6(c)(3) and/or 40 CFR 403.6(c)(4) and shall
be deemed pretreatment standards for the purposes of 33 USC 1317(d) and of this
division. Industrial users will be required to comply with the equivalent
limitations in lieu of the promulgated categorical standards from which the
equivalent limitations were derived.
         (e)   Reporting requirements for industrial users upon effective date
of categorical pretreatment standards-baseline report. Within 180 days after
the effective date of a categorical pretreatment standard, or 180 days after
the final administrative decision made upon a category determination submission
under Section 40 CFR 403.6(x)(4), whichever is later, existing industrial users
subject to such categorical pretreatment standards and currently discharging
into or scheduled to discharge into the Detroit POTW shall submit to the
Department a report containing the information listed in 40 CFR 403.12(b)(1-7).
Where reports containing this information have already been submitted to the
Director or regional administrator in compliance with the requirement of 40 CFR
128.140(b), the industrial user will not be required to resubmit this
information. At least 90 days before commencement of any discharge, each new
source and any existing sources that become industrial users after the
promulgation of an applicable categorical pretreatment standard shall submit to
the Department a report which contains the information listed in 40 CFR 403.12
(b)(1-5). In such report, new sources shall include information concerning the
method of pretreatment the source intends to use to meet applicable
pretreatment standards. New sources shall provide estimates of the information
requested in 40 CFR 403.12(b,)(4) and (5).
      (4)   Dilution prohibited. Except where expressly authorized to do so by
an applicable pretreatment standard or requirement, no user shall increase the
use of process water, or in any way dilute or attempt to dilute a discharge as
a partial or complete substitute for adequate treatment to achieve compliance
with the limitations contained in the national categorical pretreatment
standards, or in any other pollutant specific limitation or requirement imposed
by the Village, the City of Detroit or by the State of Michigan.
      (5)   Hauled in wastewater. Any waste material or wastewater which is
hauled into or within the service region for discharge to the POTW is subject
to the requirements of this division including, but not limited to, permits,
inspection, monitoring and enforcement. Unloading liquid or solid waste from
hauling vehicles, directly or indirectly, into the POTW, with or without the
benefit of pretreatment, is prohibited unless the person proposing to unload
such waste has applied for and received a permit from the department for
unloading such waste in accordance with the Board's rules pertaining thereto.
The discharger shall be subject to applicable terms and conditions, surcharges,
fees or rates as established by the Board. Hauled in wastewater shall only be
discharged at points designated by the POTW after authorization or approval
issued pursuant to the general permit requirements specified in Section §
52.59(D) of this subchapter. The Department may establish specific limitations
for sludge from municipally owned or operated POTW treatment plants which are
different than the specific limitations in this division.
      (6)   Centralized waste treatment.
         (a)   It is unlawful for a centralized waste treatment (CWT) facility
to discharge any industrial waste or wastewater into the POTW without a
wastewater discharge permit from the Department. Any authorization granted, or
permit issued, by the Department to a centralized waste treatment (CWT)
facility shall specify the type of wastewater for which treatment is provided,
and discharge approval is sought, from the POTW
         (b)   Unless such industrial waste or wastewater is determined by the
Department to require further authorization, a centralized waste treatment
(CWT) facility that has submitted an application to, and received previous
approval from, the Department to discharge wastewater is not required to obtain
further authorization from the Department before discharging such wastewater.
         (c)   An industrial user, that provides centralized waste treatment
services and files an application for the treatment and discharge of such types
of wastewater to the POTW, shall provide the following minimum information in
support thereof:
            1.   The general nature, source and processes generating the type
of wastewater. Any wastewater, which is generated from those processes and is
subject to national categorical pretreatment standards as delineated in the
Appendix to this chapter, shall be so designated;
            2.   The identity of the toxic pollutants known or suspected to be
present in the wastewater;
            3.   At least one sample report showing the results of an analysis
for the EPA priority pollutants for each type of wastewater for which
application is made in§
52.59(6)(c)1.;
            4.   A statement, that is certified by a professional engineer,
which addresses the treatability and compatibility of the wastewater, received
or collected by the facility's treatment process(es);
            5.   The identity of the materials and/or pollutants whose
transport or treatment are regulated by the EPA , by the State, or by any other
governmental agency. Upon request, the centralized waste treatment (CWT)
facility shall provide a copy of its permit and/or license to the Department;
and
            6.   Other information requested by the Department including, but
not limited to, information required by § 52.59(D)(3)(a) through (r), or by
rules adopted by the Board. The discharge from a centralized waste treatment
(CWT) facility will be deemed approved for those specific types of wastewater
delineated in a permit and, upon issuance of such permit in accordance with the
procedures contained in §
52.59(D), will be deemed approved for discharge into the POTW. The centralized
waste treatment (CWT) facility shall comply with all applicable provisions
contained in §
52.59(D) regarding permits. In furtherance of its obligations as control
authority, the Department may include in the permit a requirement to report at
selected intervals the information mandated in §
52.59(B)(6)(c)1. through 6.
            7.   All users granted a permit under this section shall maintain
records which, at a minimum, identify the source, volume, character, and
constituents of the wastewater accepted for treatment and disposal. These
records may be reviewed at any time by the Department.
      (7)   Groundwater discharges. Unless authorization has been granted by
the Department, the discharge of any groundwater into the POTW is prohibited.
         (a)   The Department may authorize the discharge of groundwater
resulting from maintenance and related activities of gas, steam, or electrical
utilities through the use of general permits. Subject to appropriate reporting
requirements, the general permit shall authorize discharge in accordance with
the terms of the permit. Utilities shall comply with this provision within 180
days after its enactment.
         (b)   If a person, who proposes to discharge groundwater resulting
from purge, response activity, or UST projects, has applied for and received a
permit from the Department, the Department may authorize the discharge of such
wastewater. Permits shall be issued in accordance with the procedures contained
in§
52.59(D), or in accordance with any rules adopted by the Board.
      (8)   Village right of revision. The City of Detroit and the Village
reserve the right to establish rules or regulations adopted by the Board,
additional or more stringent limitations or requirements on discharges to the
POTW. Ninety days after adoption by the Board, industrial users shall comply
with such rules and regulations.
      (9)   Accidental discharges.
         (a)   Requirements if no approved plan.
            1.   Each industrial user, which does not currently have an
approved spill prevention plan or slug control plan, shall provide protection
from accidental discharge of prohibited materials or other substances regulated
by this division, and all significant industrial users shall submit to the
Department detailed plans which show facilities and operating procedures to be
implemented to provide protection against such accidental discharges.
Facilities and measures to prevent and abate accidental discharges shall be
implemented, provided, and maintained at the owner's or industrial user's cost
or expense. Unless the significant industrial user has an approved spill
prevention or slug control plan, all existing significant industrial users
shall complete and submit such a plan within 60 days of the effective date of
this division. New significant industrial users shall submit such a plan prior
to the time they commence discharging.
            2.   For purposes of this section, the information provided shall
include the approximate average and maximum quantities of such prohibited
materials or substances kept on the premises in the form of raw materials,
chemicals and/or waste therefrom and the containment capacity for each. Only
substances that are in a form which could readily be carried into the POTW and
constitute a concentration of 5% or greater in the raw material, chemical
solution or waste material, are required to be reported. Volumes of less than
55 gallons, or the equivalent thereof, need not be reported unless lesser
quantities could cause pass through or cause interference with the POTW.
            3.   The industrial user shall promptly notify the Department of
any significant changes or modifications to the plan including, but not limited
to, a change in the contact person, or substance inventory.
         (b)   Department evaluation. At least once every two years, the
Department shall evaluate whether a significant industrial user needs a plan to
control slug discharges, as defined by 40 CFR 403.8(f)(2)(v). Unless otherwise
provided, all significant users shall complete, implement, and submit such a
plan within 30 days of notification by the Department.
      (10)   Notification requirements. Unless a different notice is provided
by this division or applicable law, within one hour of becoming aware of a
discharge into the POTW which exceeds or does not conform with federal, state
or village laws, rules, regulations or permit requirements, or which could
cause problems to the POTW, or which has the potential to cause the industrial
user to implement its plan prepared in accordance with subdivision (C)(9)(a) of
this section, the industrial user shall telephone the Department at its control
center and notify the Department of the discharge. The notification shall
include the name of the caller, the location and time of discharge, the type of
wastewater, the estimated concentration of excessive or prohibited pollutants
and estimated volume, and the measures taken, or being taken, to abate the
discharge into the POTW. Within five calendar days after the discharge, the
industrial user shall submit a detailed written report describing the cause of
the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user to prevent similar
future occurrences and when required by the department, the industrial user's
wastewater discharge permit may be modified to include additional measures to
prevent such future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the
industrial user of any expense, cost of treatment, loss, damages or other
liability which may be incurred as a result of damage to the POTW, fish kills,
or any other environmental impairment or any other damage to person or
property.
      (11)   Notice to employees. A notice shall be permanently posted on the
industrial user's bulletin board, or other prominent place, advising employees
whom to contact in the Department in the event of an actual or excessive or
prohibited discharge.
      (12)   Recovery of costs. Any user discharging in violation of any of the
provisions of this division, which produces a deposit or obstruction, or causes
damage to or impairs the Department's POTW, or causes the Department to violate
its NPDES permit, shall be liable to the Department for any expense, loss,
damage, penalty or fine incurred by the Department because of said violation or
discharge. Prior to assessing such costs, the Department shall notify the user
of its determination that the user's discharge was the proximate cause of such
damage, obstruction impairment, or violation of the City's NPDES permit and the
Department's intent to assess such costs to the user. Any such notice shall
include written documentation which substantiates the determination of
proximate cause and a breakdown of cost estimates. Failure to pay the assessed
costs shall constitute a violation of this division. Such charge shall be in
addition to, and not in lieu of, any penalties or remedies provided under this
division, or this code, or other statutes and regulations, or at law or in
equity.
      (13)   Hazardous waste notification. All industrial users, who discharge
into the Village Collection System, shall notify the Department in writing of
any discharge of a substance which, if otherwise disposed of, would be a
hazardous waste as set forth in 40 CFR 261. Such notification must comply with
the requirements of 40 CFR 403.12(p).
      (14)   Authorized representative. The authorized representative, as
defined in §
52.57, may designate a duly authorized representative of the individual
designated in Section §
52.57 where:
         (a)   The authorization is made in writing by the individual defined
in §
52.57;
         (b)   The authorization specifies either an individual or a position
having responsibility for the overall operation of the facility where the
industrial discharge originates, such as the position of plant manager,
operator of a well or well field superintendent, or a position of equivalent
responsibility, or having overall responsibility for environmental matters for
the company; and
         (c)   The written authorization is submitted to the Department.
      (15)   Pollution prevention. The Department shall encourage and support
industrial users to develop and implement pollution prevention programs which
eliminate or reduce pollutant contributions beyond the levels required by this
division. The Department may require an industrial user to implement pollution
prevention initiatives or BMP as part of an enforcement response, or as
necessary to comply with its NPDES permit.
   (C)   Fees.
      (1)   The purpose of this section is to provide for the recovery of costs
from users of the POTW. The applicable charges or fees established by the Board
shall be sufficient to meet the costs of the operation, maintenance,
improvement or replacement of the system, or as provided by law or by Board
action.
      (2)   The Board shall adopt charges and fees which shall include, but not
be limited to:
         (a)   Fees for reimbursement of costs of establishing, operating,
maintaining, or improving the Department's industrial waste control and
pretreatment programs; and
         (b)   User fees based upon volume of waste and concentration or
quantity of specific pollutants in the discharge, and treatment costs including
sludge handling and disposal; and
         (c)   Reasonable fees for reimbursement of costs for hearings
including, but not limited to, expenses regarding hearings officers, court
reporters, and transcriptions; and
         (d)   Other fees, which the Board may deem necessary, to carry out the
requirements contained herein, or as may be required by law.
   (D)    Wastewater discharge permits.
      (1)   Required. It shall be unlawful for users to discharge into the POTW
any wastewater which will cause interference or pass through, or otherwise not
comply with the discharge prohibitions of §
52.59(D)(4) . It shall be unlawful for a significant industrial user to
discharge into the POTW without a wastewater discharge permit from the Detroit
Water and Sewerage Department. Unless otherwise expressly authorized by the
Department through permit, order, rule or regulation, any discharge must be in
accordance with the provisions of this division.
         (a)   All significant industrial users, which are in existence on the
effective date of this division, shall apply for a wastewater discharge permit
within 30 days of the effective date of this division. Significant industrial
users who are currently operating with a valid wastewater discharge permit are
not subject to this provision. These applications are to include all
information specified in §
52.59(D)(3) and, where applicable, any additional information which may be
needed to satisfy the federal baseline monitoring report requirements of 40 CFR
403.12(b).
         (b)   All new significant users shall apply for a wastewater discharge
permit at least 90 days prior to commencement of discharge. The application
must include all information specified in §
52.59(D)(3) and, where applicable, any additional information that may be
needed to satisfy the federal BMR requirements of 40 CFR 403.12(b). Until a
permit is issued and finalized by the Department, no discharge shall be made
into the POTW.
         (c)   Any user, who proposes to discharge any wastewater other than
sanitary or noncontact cooling water into the POTW, shall request approval from
the Department for the discharge(s) at least 30 days prior to the commencement
of the discharge.
      (2)   Permit application or reapplication. The Department may require any
user to complete a questionnaire and/or a permit application and to submit the
same to the Department for determining whether the industrial user is a
significant user, or to determine changes in the wastewater discharges from a
user's facility. Within 30 days of being so notified, a user shall comply with
the Department's request in the manner and form prescribed by the Department.
Failure of the Department to so notify a user shall not relieve the user of the
duty to obtain a permit as required by this division.
         (a)   A user, which becomes subject to a new or revised National
Categorical Pretreatment Standard, shall apply for a wastewater discharge
permit within 90 days after the promulgation of the applicable National
Categorical Pretreatment Standard, unless an earlier date is specified or
required by 40 CFR 403.12(b). The existing user shall provide a permit
application which includes all the information specified in §
52.59(D)(3) and (7).
         (b)   A separate permit application shall be required for each
separate facility.
         (c)   Existing permittees shall apply for permit reissuance a minimum
of ninety (90) days prior to the expiration of existing permits on a form
prescribed by the Department.
      (3)   Application or reapplication information. In support of an
application or reapplication for a wastewater discharge permit, the industrial
user shall submit, in units and terms appropriate for evaluation, the following
information:
         (a)   Corporate or individual name, any assumed name(s), federal
employer identification number, address, and location of the discharging
facility;
         (b)   Name and title of the authorized representative of the
industrial user who shall have the authority to bind the industrial user
financially and legally;
         (c)   All SIC numbers of all processes at this location according to
the Standard Industrial Classification manual, issued by the Executive Office
of the President, Office of Management and Budget, 1987, as amended;
         (d)   Actual or proposed wastewater constituents and characteristics
for each parameter listed in the permit application form. Such parameters shall
include those applicable pollutants having numeric limitations as enumerated in
§
52.59(B)(1) and (2), those pollutants limited by national categorical
pretreatment standards regulations for applicable industries and any toxic
pollutants known or suspected to be present in the discharge, regulated in the
previous permit, or specifically requested by the Detroit Water and Sewerage
Department. For each parameter, the expected or experienced maximum and average
concentrations during a one-year period shall be provided. For industries
subject to national categorical pretreatment standards or requirements, the
data requested herein shall be separately shown for each categorical process
wastestream. Combined wastestreams proposed to be regulated by the combined
wastestream formula shall also be identified. Sampling and analysis shall be
performed in accordance with procedures established by the EPA pursuant to 33
USC 1314(g) and contained in 40 CFR 136, as amended. Where 40 CFR 136 does not
include sampling or analytical techniques for the pollutants in question,
sampling and analysis shall be performed using validated analytical methods
approved by the administrator.
         (e)   A listing and description of activities, facilities and plant
processes on the premises. Those processes, which are subject to national
categorical pretreatment standards or requirements, shall be so designated. As
pertains to §
52.59(D)(3)(d), identify which pollutants are associated with each process;
         (f)   Restricted to only those pollutants referred to in §
52.59(D)(3)(d), a listing of raw materials and chemicals which are either used
in the manufacturing process or could yield the pollutants referred to in §
52.59(D)(3)(d). Any user claiming immunity from having to provide such
information for reasons of national security shall furnish acceptable proof of
such immunity;
         (g)   A description of typical daily and weekly operating cycles for
each process in terms of starting and ending times for each of the seven days
of the week;
         (h)   The following shall be denoted:
            1.   The average and maximum 24-hour wastewater flow rates
including, if any, daily, monthly and seasonal variations;
            2.   Each national categorical process wastestream flow rate and
the cooling water, sanitary water and storm water flow rates separately for
each connection to the POTW; and
            3.   Each combined wastestream;
         (i)   A drawing showing all sewer connections and sampling manholes by
the size, location, elevation and points or places of discharges into the POTW;
also a flow schematic showing which connections receive each national
categorical process wastestream and which connections receive storm water,
sanitary water or cooling water; also show which lines handle each combined
wastestream. This schematic shall be cross-referenced to the information
furnished in §
52.59(D)(3)(h);
         (j)   Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes and
rate of production as pertains to processes subject to production based limits
under the national categorical pretreatment standards or requirements only;
         (k)   A statement regarding whether or not the requirements of this
division and of the national categorical pretreatment standards and
requirements are being met on a consistent basis and, if not, what additional
operation and maintenance work and/or additional construction is required for
the industrial user to meet the applicable standards and requirements. This
statement shall be reviewed and signed by the authorized representative and, as
appropriate, certified by a qualified professional;
         (l)   Basic information on the program for the prevention of
accidental discharges in accordance with the requirements of §
52.59(B)(9);
         (m)   Proposed or actual hours of operation of each pretreatment
system for each production process;
         (n)   A schematic and description of each pretreatment facility which
identifies whether each pretreatment facility is of the batch type or
continuous process type;
         (o)   If other than Detroit Water and Sewerage Department potable
water, the industrial user's source of intake water together with the types of
usage and disposal method of each water source, and the estimated wastewater
volumes from each source;
         (p)   If additional construction and/or operation and maintenance
procedures will be required to meet the requirements of this division and the
national categorical pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the
user will provide such additional construction and/or implement the required
operation and maintenance procedures;
         (q)   Identify whether the user has conducted a waste minimization
assessment or audit of its operations in order to identify all feasible source
reduction and recycling practices that may be employed to reduce or eliminate
the generation of pollutants and other waste at the facility; and
         (r)   Any other information as may reasonably be required to prepare
and process a wastewater discharge permit.
      (4)   Permit issuance. Upon receipt of an application, the Department
shall review the application, determine, and so notify the industrial user in
writing regarding any of the following:
         (a)   User does not meet definition. The industrial user does not meet
the definition of a significant industrial user and is not required to have a
wastewater discharge permit;
         (b)   User does meet definition. The industrial user does meet the
definition of a significant industrial user but is found by the Department to
have no reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW operation or for
violating any pretreatment standard or requirement, and is not required to have
a wastewater discharge permit. The Department shall make such determination in
accordance with the requirements of 40 CFR 403.8(f)(6);
         (c)   Application incomplete. The application is incomplete or the
information only partially satisfies the information and data required by 40
CFR 403.12 or by the Department, and that additional information and data are
required which shall be promptly furnished. Where appropriate, the industrial
user is notified regarding specific information that is missing, or that the
application is unacceptable;
         (d)   Wastewater discharge permit required.
            1.   The industrial user is required to have a wastewater discharge
permit. The Department shall notify the industrial user of its determination
and the basis of the determination.
            2.   The Department may withhold issuance of a permit to a
significant user, which has not submitted an adequate or timely report, or
permit application, to the Department as the control authority in accordance
with the reporting requirements of 40 CFR 403.12, or whose discharge is in
violation of this division. If the Department determines that an industrial
user is required to have a wastewater discharge permit and has evaluated and
accepted the data furnished, the industrial user will be notified accordingly
by certified mail. The notification shall contain a copy of the draft permit,
so marked, for the industrial user's review. An industrial user has 30 days
from the date of mailing to file a response to the draft permit and, in
accordance with the procedures contained in §
52.59(J), 20 days from the date of mailing to file an appeal regarding a permit
issued as final. Upon disposition by the Department of any contested terms car
conditions, a permit shall be issued as final. Only one facility location shall
be included in each permit.
      (5)   Permit conditions. Wastewater discharge permits shall contain all
requirements of 40 CFR 403.8(f)(1)(iii) and shall be deemed to incorporate all
provisions of this division, other applicable laws, rules, regulations, and
user charges and fees established by the City of Detroit or the village without
repetition therein. In addition, permits may contain the following:
         (a)   Limits on the average and maximum wastewater constituents or
characteristics which are equivalent, more restrictive than, or supplemental to
the numeric limits enumerated in §
52.59(B), or the applicable national categorical pretreatment standards;
         (b)   Limits on average, and maximum rate and time of discharge or
requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
         (c)   Requirements for installation, operation, and maintenance of
discharge sampling manholes and monitoring facilities by the industrial user;
         (d)   Restrictions on which of the user's discharge wastestreams are
to be allowed to be discharged at each point of connection to the POTW;
         (e)   Specifications for industrial user monitoring programs which may
include sampling locations, frequency and type of sampling, number, types and
standards for tests and reporting schedules;
         (f)   Requirements for the prevention of accidental discharges and the
containment of spills or slug discharges;
         (g)   Restrictions based on the information furnished in the
application;
         (h)   Additional reporting requirements:
            1.   All permittees shall submit a report on the form prescribed by
the Department, or on an alternative form approved by the Department,
indicating the status of compliance with all conditions enumerated or referred
to in the wastewater discharge permit, or made applicable to the permit by this
division. Unless required more frequently, the reports shall be submitted at
six month intervals on a schedule to be established by the Department.
Analytical data generated by the Department may not be submitted in lieu of the
facility's own monitoring data as required by the wastewater discharge permit.
            2.   Permittee not subject to national categorical pretreatment
standards or requirements shall submit a report in accordance with the
requirements of §
52.59(D)(5)(h)(4) and (5). The report shall show the concentration of each
substance for which there is a specific limitation in the permit, or which may
be identified by the Department in accordance with §
52.59(D)(5)(i) and (k).
            3.   Permittee subject to national categorical pretreatment
standards or requirements shall submit compliance reports at the times and
intervals specified by federal regulations and by the Department. A compliance
report shall be submitted to the Department no later than 90 days following the
final compliance date for a standard, or in the case of a new source, no later
than 90 days, following commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the
POTW, and in accordance with 40 CFR 403.12(d). A report on continued compliance
shall be submitted at six-month intervals thereafter on the schedule
established by the Department and incorporated into the industrial users
discharge permit and in accordance with § 59.59(D)(5)(h)(4)and (5). The reports
shall be either on a form prescribed by the Department or on an alternate form
approved by the Department, and shall indicate the nature and concentration of
all pollutants in the discharge from each regulated process which are limited
by national categorical pretreatment standards, or which there is a specific
limitation in the permit, or which may be identified by the Department in
accordance with §
52.59(D)(5)(i) and (k). The report shall include a record of measured or
estimated average and maximum daily flows for the reporting period for the
discharges regulated by the permit. The combined waste stream formula may be
used for reporting purposes after the initial information has been furnished to
the Department, provided there have been no changes to the elements composing
the combined waste stream.
            4.   a.   Reports shall contain the results of representative
sampling performed during the period covered by the report and of the discharge
and analysis of pollutants contained therein, and, for significant industrial
users subject to production based standards, shall be cross-referenced to the
related flow or production and mass as required to determine compliance with
the applicable pretreatment standards. The frequency of monitoring shall be as
prescribed in the applicable general pretreatment regulations, being 40 CFR
403, or by the Department, but no less than is necessary to assess and assure
compliance by the industrial user with the most stringent applicable
pretreatment standards and requirements. All sampling and analysis shall be
performed in accordance with applicable regulations contained in 40 CFR 136 and
amendments thereto. Where 40 CFR 136 does not include sampling or analytical
techniques for the pollutants in question, sampling and analysis shall be
performed using validated analytical methods approved by the administrator.
               b.   If an industrial user monitors any pollutant more
frequently than required by the Department using the procedures as prescribed
in this section, the results of this monitoring shall be included in such
report. The report shall state whether the applicable pretreatment standards
are being met on a consistent basis and, if not, what additional operation and
maintenance practices and/or pretreatment system improvements or changes are
necessary to bring the industrial user into compliance with the applicable
pretreatment standards.
            5.   a.   This report, and those required under §§
52.59(B)(3)(e) and 52.29(D)(5)(h)2. and 3., shall include the following
certification statement:
       “I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments
were prepared under my direction, or supervision, in accordance with a system
designed to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the
information submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage
the system, or those persons directly responsible for gathering the
information, the information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and
belief, true, accurate and complete. I am aware that there are significant
penalties for submitting false information, including the possibility of a fine
and/or imprisonment for knowing violations.”
               b.   Said certification shall be signed by the facility's
authorized representative, as defined in §
52.57. If an authorization is no longer accurate because a different individual
or position has responsibility for the overall operation of the facility, or
overall responsibility for environmental matters for the company, a new
authorization satisfying the requirements of the authorized representative
definition must be submitted to the Department prior to, or together with, any
reports to be signed by an authorized representative.
            6.   If sampling performed by a permittee indicates a violation the
user shall notify the Department within 24 hours of the time said user becomes,
or should have become, aware of the violation. In addition, the user shall
repeat the sampling and analysis, and submit the results of the repeat analysis
to the Department within 30 days after said user becomes, or should have
become, aware of the violation.
         (i)   In the event the Director determines that an industrial user is
discharging substances in quality, quantity or at locations which may cause
problems to the POTW, or the receiving stream, the Department has the authority
to develop and enforce effluent limits applicable to the user. To the extent
the Department seeks to impose restrictions in a permit which are more
restrictive than established in this division, the Department shall provide
written documentation to explain the greater restriction for protection against
pass through, interference, or violation of the NPDES permit;
         (j)   Requirement for pollution prevention initiatives; and
         (k)   Other requirements reasonably necessary to ensure compliance
with this division.
      (6)   Permit duration. Permits shall be issued for a specified time
period. Except as deemed necessary by the Department, or as otherwise provided
for under this division, permits shall be issued for a specified period of not
more than five years nor less than one year. The existing permit for
significant industrial users who timely submit an application for permit
reassurance to the Department, shall be automatically extended until a permit
is issued as final.
      (7)   Permit modification.
         (a)   The terms and conditions of the permit may be subject to
modification by the Department during the term of the permit as limitations or
pretreatment standards and requirements identified in §
52.59(B) are amended, or other just cause exists. Just cause for a permit
modification includes but shall not be limited to, the following:
            1.   Material or substantial changes to an industrial user's
facility or operation, or changes in the characteristics of the industrial
user's effluent. It shall be the industrial user's duty to request an
application form and apply for a modification of the permit within 30 calendar
days of the change;
            2.   Change(s) in the Department's NPDES permit;
            3.   Embodiment of the provisions of a legal settlement or of a
court order;
            4.   Any changes necessary to fulfill the Department's role as
control authority;
            5.   An industrial user's noncompliance with portions of an
existing permit;
            6.   A change of conditions within the POTW;
            7.   A finding of interference or pass through attributable to the
industrial user;
            8.   Amendments to, or promulgation of, national categorical
pretreatment standards or requirements including 40 CFR 403 and those
delineated in the Appendix attached to this chapter. Permittee shall request an
application form and apply to the Department for a modified permit within 90
days after the promulgation of a new or revised national categorical
pretreatment standard to which the industrial user shall be subject.
Information submitted pursuant to this subsection shall be confined to that
information related to the newly promulgated or amended national categorical
pretreatment standard or requirement. However, information previously submitted
need not be duplicated, insofar as the previously submitted information
continues to be current and applicable. In addition, the Department may
initiate this action;
            9.   Changes in the monitoring location pursuant to § 52.29(E);
            10.   Typographical errors or omissions in permits;
            11.   The Department may modify the permit on its own initiative
based on its findings or reasonable belief of the above; or
            12.   The user may request a modification of the permit.
         (b)   When initiated by the Department, the industrial user shall be
informed of any proposed change in its permit. The Department will issue a
draft permit and an industrial user has 30 days to file a response to the draft
modified permit. Thereafter, the Department will issue a final permit and,
unless appealed in accordance with the procedures contained in § 52.29(J), the
permit will become effective 20 days after issuance.
      (8)   Permit custody and transfer. Wastewater discharge permits are
issued to a specific person as defined herein for a specific discharge. A
wastewater discharge permit shall not be reassigned or transferred or sold to a
different person, new owner, new industrial user, different premises, or a new
or changed operation without notice to and written approval of the Department,
and providing a copy of the existing permit to the new owner or operator. It
shall be the permit holder's duty to notify the Department of any such change
at least 30 days before the date of the change. Wastewater discharge permits,
which do not receive the written approval of the Department prior to the
change, shall be null and void regardless of reassignment, or transfer, or
sale. If it has occurred, the Department may revoke a permit. If a change takes
place, the Department may require the application for a new or modified permit.
Any succeeding person shall comply with the terms and conditions of any
existing permit which the Department allows to be retained.
      (9)   Permit notification requirements. All industrial users shall
promptly notify the Department in advance of any substantial change in the
volume or character of pollutants in their discharge, including the listed or
characteristic hazardous waste for which initial notification under 40 CFR
403.12(p) has been made, request a permit application form, and apply for a
modification of the permit at least 30 calendar days prior to the change.
Failure of the industrial user to so apply shall be considered a violation of
this division.
   (E)   Monitoring facilities.
      (1)   Significant industrial users shall provide, operate and maintain at
their own expense a sampling manhole or special structure to facilitate
monitoring, inspection, sampling, and flow measurement of their discharge by
the Department and the industrial user, and to enable the Department to conduct
such other monitoring and sampling as required for determining compliance with
discharge requirements, limits and standards as provided for in this division.
In the event the Department determines that the monitoring facility identified
in the permit application is inadequate, a new monitoring facility must be
identified, or provided, which shall allow for collection of a representative
sample of the wastewater discharged from the facility. Unless otherwise
determined at the discretion of the Department, said facility shall be provided
within 90 days of receipt of notification by the Department. The industrial
user shall provide the Department with:
         (a)   A drawing showing all sewer connections and sampling manholes by
the size, location, elevation, and points or places of discharges into the
POTW;
         (b)   A flow schematic showing:
            1.   Which connections receive each national categorical process
waste stream;
            2.   Which connections receive storm water, sanitary water or
cooling water; and
            3.   Which lines handle each combined waste stream. This report
shall be certified by a professional engineer. If a significant industrial user
fails to install the monitoring facilities within the prescribed time limits,
then the Department may install such structure or device and the significant
user shall reimburse the Department for any costs incurred therein.
      (2)   The sampling manhole should be situated on the industrial user's
premises in a location readily accessible to the Department. When such a
location would be impractical or cause undue hardship to the industrial user,
the Department may allow the facility to be constructed in the public street or
sidewalk area when there is room and the location will not be obstructed by
landscaping or parked vehicles. It shall be the responsibility of the
industrial user to obtain any necessary approvals which may be required from
other government agencies for the location and construction of monitoring
facilities. There shall be ample room in or near such sampling or monitoring
manhole or facility to allow accurate sampling and preparation of samples for
analysis. The facility and any permanently installed sampling and measuring
equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating
condition at the expense of the industrial user. Whether constructed upon
public or private property, the sampling and monitoring facilities shall be
provided in accordance with the Department's requirements and all applicable
local construction standards and specifications pursuant to §
52.59(D)(7).
   (F)   Inspection, sampling and record-keeping.
      (1)   For purposes of administering and enforcing this division, any
other applicable provisions of this code or applicable state or federal laws
and regulations, the Department may inspect the establishment, facility or
other premises of the industrial user. The Department's employees or authorized
representative shall have access to the industrial user's premises for purposes
of inspection, sampling, compliance monitoring and/or metering activities.
      (2)   Each such inspection or sampling activity shall be commenced and
completed at reasonable times, and in a reasonable manner. Upon arrival at the
industrial user's premises, the Department shall inform the industrial user, or
the industrial user's employees, that sampling and/or inspection is commencing,
and that the facility's authorized representative has the right to observe the
inspection and/or sampling. The Department shall neither refrain from, nor be
prevented or delayed from, carrying-out its inspection or sampling duties due
to the unavailability of the authorized representative of the facility to
observe or participate in the inspection or sampling activity.
      (3)   While performing work on private property, employees or authorized
representatives of the Department shall observe all reasonable safety, security
and other reasonable rules applicable to the premises as established by the
industrial user. Duly authorized employees or representatives of the Department
shall bear proper credentials and identification, and at the industrial user's
option may be accompanied by a duly authorized representative of the industrial
user. Duly authorized Department representatives shall not be restricted from
viewing any of the facility site. Department employees or representatives may
take photographs of facilities subject to this division. Which shall be
maintained by the Department as confidential in accordance with §
52.59(G).
      (4)   Where an industrial user has security measures in force, the
industrial user shall make prompt and necessary arrangements with the security
personnel so that, upon presentation of appropriate credentials, personnel from
the Department will be permitted to enter for the purposes of performing their
specific responsibilities.
      (5)   Significant industrial users shall sample and analyze their
discharge in accordance with the provisions of their permit. The Department may
require such samples to be split with the Department for the Department's
independent analysis.
      (6)   Industrial users shall maintain records of all information from
monitoring activities required by this division, or by 40 CFR 403.12(n).
Industrial users shall maintain the records for no less than three years. This
period of record retention shall be extended during the course of any
unresolved litigation regarding the discharge of pollutants by the industrial
user, or the operation of the City of Detroit's Industrial Waste Program, or
when requested by the Department, by the state, or by the EPA.
      (7)   Upon the request of the Department, industrial users shall furnish
information and records relating to discharges into the POTW. Industrial users
shall make such records readily accessible to the Department at all reasonable
times and allow the Department to copy such records.
      (8)   In the event the Department obtains samples, and analyses are made
of such samples, a copy of the results of such analyses shall be promptly
furnished upon written request by the industrial user's authorized
representative. When requested by the industrial user, the Department employee
or representative shall leave with the user, a portion of any sample of the
user's discharge taken from any sampling point on or adjacent to the premises
for the user's independent analysis. In cases of disputes arising over shared
samples, the portion taken and analyzed by the Department shall be controlling
unless proven invalid.
      (9)   In addition to any other violation caused by the discharge
described herein, in the event a single grab sample of the industrial user's
discharge is obtained by the Department, and then analyzed in accordance with
40 CFR 136, and found to contain concentrations of pollutants which are two or
more times greater than the numeric limitations as listed in §
52.59(B)(2), or as contained in the facility's wastewater discharge permit, the
industrial user shall implement its slug control plan, and shall provide a
written report to the Department within 14 days, which describes the cause of
greater concentration and provides a description of the means by which future
discharge concentrations will be held to values of less than two times the
limitation in the future.
   (G)   Confidential information.
      (1)   (a)   Information and data on an industrial user obtained from
written reports, questionnaires, permit applications, permits and monitoring
programs, and from inspections shall be available to the public or other
governmental agencies without restriction unless the industrial user
specifically requests and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the
Department that the release of such information would divulge information,
processes or methods of production entitled to protection as trade secrets of
the industrial user.
         (b)   When submitted to the Department, all information claimed to be
confidential must be clearly marked confidential. When requested by the person
furnishing the report, the portions of a report determined by the Department to
disclose trade secrets or trade secret processes, and which are clearly labeled
as confidential, shall not be made available for inspection by the public, but
shall be made available upon request to governmental agencies for uses related
to this division, to the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
(NPDES) permit, and to the State Disposal System permit and/or the pretreatment
programs, provided, however that information shall be treated as confidential
by the governmental agency, until such time as the information has been
determined to be non-confidential by the governmental agency. Confidential
information on industrial users, which the Department releases pursuant to a
request of another governmental agency, should be handled by the other
governmental agency pursuant to its own confidentiality procedures. The
Department cannot control how another governmental agency handles such
confidential information, and assumes no responsibility for the disposition of
the information released to the governmental agency. The Department will use
sufficient care to inform the other governmental agency of the existence of the
industrial user's confidentiality claim.
         (c)   The Department shall determine whether the information requested
to be treated as confidential, in fact, satisfies the requirements of
confidential information as defined herein. The decision of the Department
shall be made in writing.
         (d)   Wastewater constituents and characteristics will not be
recognized as confidential information.
      (2)   Except as otherwise determined by the Department or provided for by
applicable law, all information with respect to an industrial user on file with
the City shall be made available upon request by such user or the user's
authorized representative during normal business hours.
   (H)   Statutes, laws and regulations. The National Categorical Pretreatment
Standards defined in 40 CFR Chapter I, Subchapter N, Parts 405-471, shall be
and are incorporated by reference herein and made a part hereof. Unless
otherwise provided, any reference in this division to a code, standard, rule,
regulation, or law enacted, adopted, established, or promulgated by any private
organization, or by any element or organization of government other than the
Village shall be construed to apply to such code, standard, rule, regulation or
law in effect or as amended or promulgated, from the date of enactment of this
division.
   (I)   Enforcement.
      (1)   Violations. It shall be a violation of this division for any user
to:
         (a)   Fail to completely and/or accurately report the wastewater
constituents and/or characteristics of the industrial user's discharge;
         (b)   Fail to report significant changes in the industrial user's
operations or wastewater constituents and/or characteristics within the time
frames provided in §
52.59(D)(7)(a);
         (c)   Refuse reasonable access to the industrial user's premises,
waste discharge, or sample location for the purpose of inspection or
monitoring;
         (d)   Restrict, lockout or prevent, directly or indirectly, access to
any monitoring facilities constructed on public or private property. The
locking or securing of the monitoring facility shall not constitute a violation
pursuant to this subsection, provided, that upon request reasonable access to
the facility is promptly provided to the Department;
         (e)   Restrict, interfere, tamper with, or render inaccurate any of
the Department's monitoring devices including, but not limited to, samplers;
         (f)   Fail to comply with any condition or requirement of the
industrial user's wastewater discharge permit;
         (g)   Fail to comply with any limitation, prohibition, or requirement
of this division including any rule, regulation, or order issued hereunder.
Industrial users acting in full compliance with wastewater discharge permits
issued prior to the effective date of this division shall be deemed to be in
compliance with the requirements of this division, and such permits shall
remain in effect and be enforceable under this division until a superseding
permit is effective. industrial users shall comply with applicable national
categorical pretreatment standards and requirements on the date specified in
the federal Regulations, regardless of compliance schedules.
      (2)   Upsets. An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an
action brought for noncompliance with national categorical pretreatment
standards where the requirements of subdivision (a) of this section are met.
         (a)   An industrial user who wishes to establish the affirmative
defense shall demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating
logs, or other relevant evidence, that:
            1.   An upset occurred and the industrial user can identify the
cause(s) of the upset;
            2.   At the time, the facility was being operated in a prudent and
workmanlike manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures;
            3.   The industrial user has submitted the following information to
the Department, orally or in writing, within 24 hours of becoming aware of the
upset and where this information is provided orally, a written submission must
be provided within five days:
               a.   A description of the discharge and cause of noncompliance;
               b.   The period of noncompliance including exact dates and times
or, if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue; and
               c.   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate and
prevent recurrence of the noncompliance.
         (b)   In any enforcement proceeding, the industrial user seeking to
establish the occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof;
         (c)   The industrial user shall control production of all discharges
to the extent necessary to maintain compliance with this division upon
reduction, loss, or failure of its treatment facility until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
of the treatment facility is reduced, lost or fails.
      (3)   Bypass. Bypasses are prohibited unless the bypass does not cause a
violation of pretreatment standards or requirements, but only if it is for
essential maintenance to ensure efficient operation of the treatment system.
These bypasses are not subject to the provisions of §
52.59(I)(3)(a) and (b).
         (a)   Notice of anticipated bypass. Industrial users anticipating a
bypass shall submit notice to the Department at least ten days in advance.
         (b)   Notice of unanticipated bypass. An industrial user shall submit
oral notice of an unanticipated bypass that exceeds applicable pretreatment
standards within 24 hours from the time the industrial user becomes or should
have become aware of the bypass. A written submission shall be provided within
five days of the time the industrial user becomes or should have become aware
of the bypass. The written submission shall contain a description of the bypass
including exact dates and times, and if the bypass has not been corrected, the
anticipated time it is expected to continue, and steps taken or planned to
reduce, eliminate and prevent reoccurrence of the bypass.
         (c)   Prohibition of bypass and enforcement. Bypass is prohibited, and
the Department may take enforcement action against a user for a bypass, unless:
            1.   The bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal
injury, or severe property damage;
            2.   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the
use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated waste, or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate backup equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventative maintenance; and
            3.   The industrial user properly notified the Department as
described in §
52.59(I)(3)(b).
         (d)   Bypass approval. Where it meets all conditions in §
52.59 (I)(3)(c) of this section, the Department may approve an anticipated
bypass.
      (4)   Emergency suspensions and orders. The Department may order
suspension of the sewer or wastewater treatment service and/or a wastewater
discharge permit where, in the opinion of the Department, such suspension is
necessary to stop any actual or threatened discharge which presents or may
present an imminent or significant hazard to the health or welfare of persons
or to the environment, interferes or may interfere with the POTW, or causes or
may cause the City of Detroit to violate any condition of its NPDES permit. Any
person notified of a suspension of the sewer or wastewater treatment service
and/or the wastewater discharge permit shall immediately stop or eliminate the
contribution. In the event the Department provides informal notification under
this section, written confirmation and an order shall be provided within 24
hours. In the event of a failure of the person to comply voluntarily with any
suspension or revocation order, the Department shall take such steps as deemed
necessary, including immediate severance of the sewer connection or services,
to prevent or minimize damage to the POTW system or danger to any individual or
the environment. In the event such steps are taken, the Director shall notify
the industrial user within 24 hours in writing of such action and order, and
the specific recourse available. In any event, the Department shall provide the
industrial user with an opportunity for a hearing before the Director, or his
designated representative, within ten days of such action. The industrial user
shall submit a detailed written statement to the Department within 15 days of
the occurrence describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the
measures taken to prevent any future occurrence. Upon proof of elimination of
the noncomplying discharge, the Department shall reinstate the wastewater
discharge permit and/or the sewer or wastewater treatment service.
      (5)   Notice of violation. Except in the case of an actual or threatened
discharge as specified in §
52.59 (I)(4), whenever the Department has reason to believe that any industrial
user has violated or is violating this division, the Department shall serve a
written notice stating the nature of the violation upon such industrial user.
Where applicable, the Department shall pursue appropriate escalating
enforcement action as defined within its approved enforcement response plan.
The failure of the Department to issue a notice of violation shall not preclude
the Department from escalating its enforcement response.
      (6)   (a)   Administrative actions. Whenever the Department has
reasonable grounds to believe that a user is violating, or has violated, a
provision of its wastewater discharge permit, or a pretreatment standard or
requirement or any prohibition of this division, the Department, except in the
case of emergency or flagrant violation, may initiate appropriate
administrative enforcement action in order to compel the industrial user to
eliminate or to remedy such violation as soon as possible.
            1.   Conferences. The Department may order any person, who violates
this division, to attend a conference wherein the Department may endeavor to
cause the user to eliminate or remedy the violation by establishing an
enforceable compliance schedule. The notice of violation shall be served at
least ten days before the scheduled conference and shall set forth the date,
time, and place thereof. The conference shall be conducted by a representative
of the Department. The industrial user shall present a plan and schedule for
achieving compliance with this division. Nothing contained herein shall require
the Department to accept or agree to any proposed plan or schedule, or to
prevent the Department from proceeding with a show cause hearing as set forth
in §
52.59 (I)(6)(b). If the attendees agree upon a compliance schedule, the user
and the Department's duly authorized representative may enter, by consent, into
a compliance agreement or an administrative order setting forth the terms of
such agreement. An industrial user must exhibit good faith and expeditious
efforts to comply with this division and any procedures, requirements, and
agreements hereunder.
            2.   Compliance schedules. The user and the Department may agree
upon a schedule which sets forth the terms and conditions, and time periods or
schedules for completion of actions to remedy or to eliminate the causes of
violation. These schedules may be developed as part of a compliance agreement,
or an administrative consent order. Schedules developed under this subsection
shall adhere to the following conditions:
               a.   The schedule shall contain increments of progress in the
form of dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to
the construction and operation of upgraded or additional pretreatment
facilities, or to the implementation of additional operation and maintenance
procedures required for the industrial user to meet the applicable pretreatment
requirements and standards including, but not limited to, hiring an engineer,
completing preliminary plans, completing final plans, executing contracts for
major components, commencing construction, and completing, construction;
               b.   No single increment referred to in §
52.59(I)(6)(a)2.a. shall exceed nine months;
               c.   Not later than 14 days following each date in the schedule
and the final date for compliance, the industrial user shall submit a progress
report to the Department including, at a minimum, whether it complied with the
increment of progress to be met on such date and, if not, the date which it
expects to comply with this increment of progress, the reason(s) for delay, and
the steps being taken by the industrial user to return to the established
schedule; and
               d.   Any deviations from the compliance schedule may result in
the industrial user being found in violation of this division.
            3.   Administrative orders. The Department may order any industrial
user, who violates or continues to violate this division or a duly issued
permit, to install and to properly operate devices, treatment facilities, or
other related appurtenances. In addition, orders may contain such other
requirements as might reasonably be necessary and appropriate to address the
violation including the installation of pretreatment technology, additional
self-monitoring and management practices, implementation of a waste
minimization assessment to identify and implement feasible source reduction,
and recycling practices to reduce the generation or release of pollutants at
the facility. An order may be either an administrative consent order, which is
the result of an agreement, or a unilateral administrative order.
         (b)   Show cause hearing. The Department may order any industrial
user, who violates this division or allows such violation to occur, to show
cause before the Department why a proposed enforcement action should not be
taken. A notice shall be served upon the industrial user specifying the time
and place of a hearing before the Department regarding the violation, the
reason(s) why the action is to be taken, the proposed enforcement action, and
directing the industrial user to show cause before the Department why any
proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The notice of the hearing
shall be served personally, or by registered or certified mail with return
receipt requested, at least ten days before the hearing. Service may be made
upon any agent or officer of a corporation, or its authorized representative.
            1.   Hearing proceeding. The hearing shall be conducted in
accordance with the procedures adopted by the Board. A hearings officer shall
conduct the show cause hearing and take the evidence, and may:
               a.   In the name of the Board, issue notices of hearing
requesting the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of
evidence relevant to any matter involved in such hearing;
               b.   Transmit a report of the evidence and hearing, including
transcripts and other evidence, together with recommendations to the Director
for action thereon.
            2.   Transcript. At any show cause hearing held pursuant to this
division, testimony shall be recorded by a court reporter.
         (c)   Actions. After a show cause hearing has been conducted, the
hearings officer shall issue an order to the industrial user directing any of
the following actions:
            1.   Immediate compliance with the industrial user's wastewater
discharge permit or with any applicable limitation, condition, restriction or
requirement of this division, or applicable local, state or federal law or
regulation;
            2.   Pretreatment of waste by installation of adequate treatment
equipment or proper operation and maintenance of existing treatment equipment
be accomplished within a specified time period;
            3.   Submission of compliance reports on effluent quality and
quantity as determined by self- monitoring and analysis during a specified time
period;
            4.   Submission of periodic reports on effluent quality and
quantity determined by self-monitoring analysis throughout the final period set
by a compliance date;
            5.   Control of discharge quantities;
            6.   Payment of costs for reasonable and necessary inspection,
monitoring, and administration of the industrial user's activities by the
Department during compliance efforts; and/or
            7.   Any such other orders as are appropriate including, but not
limited to, immediate termination of sewer or wastewater treatment services, or
revocation of a wastewater discharge permit, or orders directing that following
a specified time period sewer or wastewater treatment service will be
discontinued unless adequate treatment facilities, devices, or operation and
maintenance practices have been employed.
            8.   A finding the user has demonstrated by a preponderance of the
evidence that a violation either of this division or of a duly issued permit
did not occur.
         (d)   Public notification of significant noncompliance. The Department
shall publish in the largest daily newspaper published in the City of Detroit
and the Village a list of all industrial users which were in significant
noncompliance with applicable pretreatment requirements at any time during the
previous 12 months. All industrial users identified in a proposed publication
shall be provided with a copy of the proposed notice at least 30 days before
publication and allowed an opportunity to comment as to its accuracy.
      (7)   Legal actions.
         (a)   Criminal action. Any user, who violates any provision of this
division including the failure to pay any fees, fines, charges or surcharges
imposed hereby, or any condition or limitation of a permit issued pursuant
thereto, or who knowingly makes any false statements, representations or
certification in any application, record, report, plan or other document filed
or required to be maintained pursuant to this division or wastewater discharge
permit, or who tampers with or knowingly renders inaccurate any monitoring
device required under this division, is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $500 for each violation
per day, or by imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or by both. The
Department, consistent with the terms and conditions of the Delegation
Agreement entered into with Village, is hereby authorized, through its counsel,
to seek prosecution of criminal charges against any person violating any
provision of this division.
         (b)   Civil action. Whenever the Department has reasonable grounds to
believe that a user is violating, or has violated, a provision of its
wastewater discharge permit, a pretreatment standard or requirement or any
requirement of this division, the Director may commence a civil action to
compel compliance in a court of competent jurisdiction to enjoin the user from
discharging, and/or to obtain appropriate relief to remedy the violations. The
Department or Board may also seek additional legal and/or equitable relief. The
commencement of suit does not constitute an exclusive election of remedies and
does not prohibit the Department, Director, Board, City of Detroit or the
Village from commencing action in Federal Court for discharges believed to be
in violation of this division, State and Federal requirements contained in the
Clean Water Act, the City of Detroit's NPDES permit, or other applicable laws
or requirements. In addition, the City of Detroit and/or the Village may
recover the reasonable attorney fees, court costs, court reporters' fees, and
other unusual expenses related to enforcement activities or litigation against
the person found to have violated this division, or the orders, rules,
regulations and permits issued hereunder.
         (c)   Fines, costs and penalties. All fines, costs, and penalties
which are imposed by any court of competent jurisdiction shall be payable to
the City of Detroit Water and Sewerage Department and the Village where
applicable.
      (8)   Prevention initiatives/BMP. Where one or more of the measurements
taken for any pollutant defined in §
52.59(B)(2) during a six-month period exceed by any magnitude the daily maximum
non-detect limit for the same parameter, the industrial user may develop and
implement pollution prevention initiatives, or a BMP, as part of its response.
The Department may, as part of an administrative order, also require
development of a BMP as a part of the Department’s enforcement response. Upon
approval of the Department, these pollution prevention initiative, or BMPs
shall be made an enforceable part of the wastewater discharge permit.
Industrial users shall provide, at six- month intervals, analytical results and
certifications in support of its implementation of an approved pollution
prevention initiative or BMPs. Upon demonstration of compliance, the industrial
user may request to be relieved of this implementation requirement.
   (J)   Reconsideration and appeal. Through the procedures of reconsideration
and appeal, a user may contest actions, determinations, or decisions of the
Department which result from its construction, application and enforcement of
this division. The procedures contained within this section govern
reconsideration and appeal with respect to construction, application, and
enforcement of this division.
      (1)   Selection of reconsideration or of appeal.
         (a)   Except for those actions, determinations, or decisions which are
expressly identified as subject only to appeal, reconsideration may be
requested by any permit applicant, permittee, authorized industrial wastewater
discharger or other discharger, who is adversely affected by any action,
determination, or decision that is made by, or on behalf of, the Department by
the Director, or an authorized representative, and that interprets, implements
or enforces the provisions of this division.
         (b)   An appeal may be requested by any permit applicant, permittee,
authorized industrial wastewater discharger or other discharger, who is
adversely affected
            1.   By a permit issued as final by the Department; or
            2.   By an administrative order entered after a show cause order
and hearing, or after a hearing for reconsideration.
         (c)   Unless otherwise expressly provided for by this division, a
request for reconsideration or appeal must be signed by an authorized
representative, and received at the Department's General Offices within 20 days
from the date of the occurrence of the action, determination, or decision in
dispute. A request for reconsideration shall contain the requester's name and
address, a brief statement of the reason(s), and the factual basis underlying
the request.
         (d)   A request for reconsideration shall be filed in triplicate
either by hand delivery or by certified mail to the General Offices of the
Department. Where a request for reconsideration or appeal either is not filed
within the time period provided for in this subsection or is improperly made,
the action, determination or decision of the Director, or the Department's
authorized representative, is final and any right to reconsideration or appeal
may be deemed waived.
      (2)   Reconsideration. Within 15 days after receipt of a timely and
proper request for reconsideration, the Department shall notify the applicant
of the time and place for a hearing.
         (a)   A hearing for reconsideration shall be conducted by a hearings
officer who is designated by the Director and may be an employee of the
Department. The decision of the hearings officer shall be in the form of a
recommendation to the Director and embodied in an administrative order. Except
for an administrative consent order that was negotiated and agreed to by both
parties, an administrative order is appealable in accordance with §
52.59(J)(3).
         (b)   Where improperly or untimely submitted, the Department may
reject a request for reconsideration. The Department shall notify the requester
in writing that the request has been rejected.
         (c)   Unless the date is mutually extended by both parties, the
hearing shall be conducted neither less than ten days nor more than 30 days
after mailing of the notice. For cause and at the discretion of the hearings
officer, the hearing may be continued for a reasonable time.
         (d)   The hearing for reconsideration shall be an informal
consultation and conference where the requester in person, or by counsel, shall
present their argument, evidence, data, and proof in connection with the issue
(s) being reconsidered. The parties shall not be bound by the Michigan Rules of
Evidence. The hearing shall be transcribed and the requester may obtain a copy
of the hearing transcript, as appropriate, from the Department or from the
court reporter.
         (e)   Within 30 days after the close of the hearing, the hearings
officer shall issue a final decision which shall contain a recommendation to
the Director. The hearings officer shall send such decision to the requester by
certified mail.
         (f)   Unless such action is necessary to prevent pass-through,
interference or other harm to the POTW, to the public or to the waters of this
State, the filing of a request for reconsideration in accordance with this
section shall stay the action by the Department that is the subject of the
hearing for reconsideration.
      (3)   Appeal. Within 30 days after receipt of a timely and proper request
for an appeal, the Department shall notify the applicant in writing regarding
the time and place for a hearing. The hearing shall be conducted in accordance
with procedures set by the Board until rules are promulgated pursuant to
Section 2-111 of the 1997 Detroit City Charter. In addition:
         (a)   Any request for an appeal must be made within 20 days of the
Department's action, determination or decision regarding the request for
reconsideration or any permit issued in accordance with this division.
         (b)   Where a request either is not filed within the time period
contained in this subsection or is improperly made, the action, determination
or decision of the Director, or the Department's authorized representative, is
final and any right to appeal may be deemed waived. Where untimely or
improperly submitted, the Department may reject the request for an appeal, and
shall notify the requester in writing that such request has been rejected.
         (c)   The Department shall appoint a hearings officer. The hearings
officer shall review the evidence, and within 15 days after the close of the
hearing shall issue a written recommendation to uphold, modify or reverse the
action, determination, or decision of the Department.
         (d)   The written recommendation of the hearings officer shall be
submitted to the Board which shall render a final decision within 30 days of
its next regularly scheduled meeting.
         (e)   In accordance with applicable law, the user or the Department
may appeal any final decision of the Board to a court of competent
jurisdiction.
         (f)   Unless such action is necessary to prevent pass through,
interference, or other harm to the POTW, to the public or to the waters of this
State, the filing of a request for appeal in accordance with this section shall
stay the action by the Department that is the subject of the appeal.
(Am. Ord. 172, passed 10-22-01; Am. Ord. 212, passed 12-22-08)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter, except §§
52.40 et seq. and §§
52.22 through
52.84, shall be enforceable through the bringing of appropriate action for
injunction, mandamus or otherwise in any court having jurisdiction. Any
violation of this chapter is deemed to be a nuisance per se.
   (B)   Any person convicted of disposing of sanitary sewage in a manner
contrary to the provisions of this chapter, of failing to connect with an
available public sewer as provided herein or in any other way violating the
provisions of this chapter, except §§
52.40 et seq. and §§
52.22 through
52.84, shall be punished as provided.
(O.C. § 2.50) (Am. Ord. 252, passed 12-16-19)
APPENDIX A: NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS
 
National Categorical Pretreatment Standards Code of Federal Regulations 
Centralized Waste Treatment                 40 CFR Part 437
Landfills                                   40 CFR Part 445
Metal Products and Machinery                40 CFR Part 438
Transportation Equipment Cleaning           40 CFR Part 442
Waste Combustors                            40 CFR Part 444
 
(Am. Ord. 172, passed 10-22-01; Am. Ord. 212, passed 12-22-08)
APPENDIX B: PHENOLS LIMITATIONS
   (A)   An industrial user may elect, in lieu of the Total Phenols Limitation
specified in §
52.59(B)(2)(b), to substitute specific limitations for each of the eight
individual phenolic compounds identified under the Total Phenols Limitation.
The following specific limitations, expressed in mg/l, shall be applied in lieu
of the Total Phenols Limitation, upon election:
2-Chlorophenol          2.0 mg/l
4-Chlorophenol          2.0 mg/l
4-Chloro-3-methylphenol 1.0 mg/l
2,4-Dichlorophenol      5.5 mg/l
2,4-Dinitrophenol       2.0 mg/l
4-Methylphenol          5.0 mg/l
4-Nitrophenol           15.0 mg/l
Phenol                  14.0 mg/l
 
   (B)   Following election, the wastewater discharge permit shall be modified
to incorporate these substituted parameters and an industrial user shall be
responsible for monitoring and reporting compliance with these parameters.
(Am. Ord. 212, passed 12-22-08)
APPENDIX C: INTERIM DISCHARGE LIMITATIONS
   No user shall discharge wastewater containing any of the following
pollutants in excess of the following interim pollutant discharge limitations:
   (A)   Compatible pollutants.
      (1)   Any fats, oil or grease (FOG) in concentrations greater than 1,500
mg/l based on an average of all samples collected within a 24-hour period.
      (2)   Any total suspended solids (TSS) in concentrations greater than
7,500 mg/l.
      (3)   Any biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) in concentrations greater than
7,500 mg/l.
      (4)   Any phosphorus (P) in concentrations greater than 250 mg/l.
Unless otherwise stated, all limitations are based upon samples collected over
an operating period representative of a user’s discharge, and in accordance
with 40 CFR Part 136.
   (B)   Non-compatible pollutants.
 
Cadmium (Cd) 1.0 mg/l
 
(Am. Ord. 212, passed 12-22-08)
CHAPTER 53: ELECTRIC AND GAS SUPPLY FRANCHISES
Section
General Provisions
   
53.01   Short title
   
53.02   Purpose and findings
   
53.03   Definitions
   
53.04   Franchise requirement
   
53.05   Right-of-way limitations
Franchise Application Requirements and Process
   
53.20   Application information
   
53.21   Application processing
   
53.22   Franchise approvals
   
53.23   Franchise terms and conditions
General Franchise Terms and Conditions
   
53.35   Franchise rights
   
53.36   Term, revocation and termination
   
53.37   Nonexclusive
   
53.38   Assignment
   
53.39   Compliance with laws and ordinances
   
53.40   No right-of-way disruption
   
53.41   Village rights paramount
   
53.42   Vacation
   
53.43   Public emergencies
   
53.44   Interpretation
   
53.45   Assumption of risk
   
53.46   No village liability
   
53.47   Indemnity
   
53.48   Insurance
   
53.49   Disclosures
   
53.50   Supply requirements
   
53.51   Franchise fees
   
53.52   Village costs
   
53.53   Reservation of village rights
   
53.54   Extension of service
   
53.55   Franchise term; renewals and extensions
Administration and Enforcement
   
53.65   No waiver
   
53.66   Notices
   
53.67   Transaction of business without franchise
   
53.68   Right-of-way restoration
   
53.69   Separate offenses
   
53.70   Injunctive relief
   
53.71   Election of remedies
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Village of Bingham
Farms Electric and Gas Supply Franchise Ordinance.”
(Ord. 164, passed 4-17-00)
§ 53.02 PURPOSE AND FINDINGS.
   (A)   Pursuant to the Michigan Constitution of 1963, Art. 7, § 29, use of
the highways, streets, alleys and other public places for operation of a public
utility requires the consent of the village and the transaction of local
business in the village by a public utility requires that a franchise first be
obtained. This chapter is adopted for the purpose of confirming and providing
the process, terms and conditions for suppliers of electricity and natural gas
to obtain the required consents and franchises and to fully exercise the
village’s constitutional authority which includes the reasonable control of its
highways, streets, alleys and public places.
   (B)   As a result of regulatory changes that have or may occur and
interpretations of existing laws at the state and federal levels, specifically
including the Michigan Public Service Commission (Deregulation), the persons
that may be authorized to supply electricity and natural gas to customers in
the village are no longer limited to the public utility that owns and operates
the facilities used to deliver electricity and natural gas to customers. This
chapter is adopted in recognition of the deregulation which has and may
continue to occur with the intent and purpose of confirming that all persons
supplying electricity or natural gas to customers in the village are required
to have a franchise as provided in this chapter, regardless of whether it is
required as a condition of state or federal regulatory permits, approvals or
certificates.
   (C)   The village will incur costs and expenses in reviewing and acting on
franchise requests and, upon granting a franchise, monitoring and enforcing its
terms and conditions. Such costs and expenses should be paid by franchise
applicants and holders as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 164, passed 4-17-00)
§ 53.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CUSTOMER. A residential, commercial or industrial end user of electricity or
natural gas in the village.
   DISRUPTION. A physical change, modification, alteration, disturbance, injury
and/or damage to or in a right-of-way, including but not limited to
construction, installation, location, maintenance, modification, alteration,
replacement or repair of facilities and the removal or alteration of a right-
of-way surface grade or material, tree, sign, marker, hydrant or other material
or object.
   FACILITY or FACILITIES. Any overhead or underground cable, wire line, main,
pipe, pole, building, structure, equipment and all other man-made or placed
materials or objects or combinations thereof for the transmission or
distribution of electricity or natural gas to customers.
   FRANCHISE. A nonexclusive limited authorization to transact a local business
and the right to incidental use of right-of-way under this chapter.
   GRANTEE. The holder of a valid and effective franchise granted by the
village.
   MPSC. The Michigan Public Service Commission.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any and all public rights-of-way, streets, highways, roads,
sidewalks, alleys, thoroughfares, public easements and public places located
within the village.
   SUPPLIER. A person that supplies electricity (electric generation) or
natural gas to customers in the village through facilities in the village in
which it has no ownership, operation, leasehold, repair or maintenance rights
or responsibilities.
   UTILITY. A person that owns, operates and maintains facilities used to
provide electricity or natural gas to customers in the village.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Bingham Farms.
(Ord. 164, passed 4-17-00)
§ 53.04 FRANCHISE REQUIREMENT.
   Being a supplier of electricity or natural gas to customers in the village
is the transaction of local business of a public utility, which shall not be
done without a franchise.
(Ord. 164, passed 4-17-00)
§ 53.05 RIGHT-OF-WAY LIMITATIONS.
   A franchise granted under this chapter constitutes the village’s consent to
the grantee’s limited and incidental use of right-of-way to the extent that
facilities are located within it.
(Ord. 164, passed 4-17-00)
FRANCHISE APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS AND PROCESS
§ 53.20 APPLICATION INFORMATION.
   Applications for franchises shall be made to the Clerk by providing the
following written information and documents.
   (A)   A nonrefundable franchise application fee of $3,500;
   (B)   The name, age, if an individual, and address of the applicant, and if
the applicant is not a natural person, the date, state and form of business
organization;
   (C)   A description of the local business the applicant proposes to
transact;
   (D)   Copies or certificates, articles, permits, approvals, licenses, last
annual report and other written documentation of applicant’s lawful
incorporation, organization, existence, authorization and good standing to
conduct its proposed business in the State of Michigan. If any of the listed
items have not been received, documentation they have been applied for must be
provided;
   (E)   If applicable, applicant’s minimum quantity requirements of existing
and potential customers;
   (F)   The length of the franchise term being requested, which shall have a
duration of not longer than ten years;
   (G)   An acknowledgment and agreement to accept and comply with a franchise
in the form of an ordinance that contains and incorporates by reference all of
the terms and conditions contained in §§ 53.35 et seq.;
   (H)   On a separate sheet entitled Appendix A, the names and addresses of
customers in the village that applicant is supplying or intends to supply with
electricity or natural gas and the quantities thereof.
(Ord. 164, passed 4-17-00)
§ 53.21 APPLICATION PROCESSING.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a franchise application, the Clerk shall schedule the
application and a proposed ordinance (with the Appendix A customer list
attached) that would grant the franchise requested for introduction at the
first available Village Council meeting.
   (B)   The applicant or its representative shall receive notice and may
appear at the meeting when its franchise request is introduced. If the
application meets the requirements of this chapter, the proposed ordinance will
be accepted for introduction and scheduled for possible adoption at the first
meeting thereafter that allows time to satisfy any publication and legal
requirements for adoption of a valid franchise ordinance.
   (C)   After all publication and other legal requirements for adoption of a
valid franchise ordinance have been satisfied at a regular or special meeting,
the Village Council may adopt, reject or table adoption of a proposed franchise
ordinance.
(Ord. 164, passed 4-17-00)
§ 53.22 FRANCHISE APPROVALS.
   After a franchise ordinance is adopted and all publication and other legal
requirements for it to become effective are satisfied, a certified copy of the
ordinance shall be delivered or mailed to the approved grantee together with a
written acceptance for the approved grantee to sign under oath, confirming its
acknowledgment, agreement and acceptance of the franchise and all of its terms
and conditions. If the required signed and notarized acceptance is not
delivered to the Clerk within 30 days of the delivery or mailing of the
franchise ordinance and agreement to the grantee, the effectiveness of the
ordinance will be automatically terminated. Upon the approved grantee’s timely
acceptance of the franchise ordinance, it shall constitute a contract between
the village and the grantee.
(Ord. 164, passed 4-17-00)
§ 53.23 FRANCHISE TERMS AND CONDITIONS.
   Unless amended by the individual franchise ordinance, all of the
definitions, terms and conditions in and penalties and relief in this chapter
shall apply and be incorporated by reference as part of every supplier’s
individual franchise ordinance. Any amendments to this ordinance shall be
automatically included in every franchise.
(Ord. 164, passed 4-17-00)
GENERAL FRANCHISE TERMS AND CONDITIONS
§ 53.35 FRANCHISE RIGHTS.
   Subject to all terms and conditions in this subchapter and the individual
franchise ordinance, a franchise grants the grantee the right to transact a
local business of supplying electricity or gas, as designated in the individual
franchise ordinance, to customers in the village using facilities of an
identified utility to the extent that it is lawful under applicable
legislation, administrative rules, including those of the MPSC, and express or
implied contract or agreement with the utility. A franchise does not grant the
right to own, construct, operate, maintain or repair facilities in the village.
(Ord. 164, passed 4-17-00)
§ 53.36 TERM, REVOCATION AND TERMINATION.
   The term of a franchise, which shall be stated in the individual franchise
ordinance, is subject to revocation at the will of the village and may be
surrendered and terminated by the grantee on 30 days written notice to the
village. Any unsatisfied obligations of the grantee to the village shall
survive revocation or termination and be enforceable by the village as provided
in the franchise, as amended.
(Ord. 164, passed 4-17-00)
§ 53.37 NONEXCLUSIVE.
   A franchise is nonexclusive and does not restrict the village from approving
additional franchises or establish any priority between the grantees to
transact local business and the incidental use of the right-of-way.
(Ord. 164, passed 4-17-00)
§ 53.38 ASSIGNMENT.
   A franchise may not be sold, leased, assigned, transferred or used by any
person other than the grantee without the written approval of the village by
ordinance amendment.
(Ord. 164, passed 4-17-00)
§ 53.39 COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS AND ORDINANCES.
   A franchise requires grantee compliance with all applicable current and
future village, state and federal ordinances, laws, rules and regulations and
any permit, approval, certificate or license requirements and conditions under
such laws and shall not be construed as a waiver by the grantee of any of its
rights under state or federal law.
(Ord. 164, passed 4-17-00)
§ 53.40 NO RIGHT-OF-WAY DISRUPTION.
   Disruption or obstruction of and physical entry in or upon a right-of-way by
a grantee, its personnel or equipment is prohibited.
(Ord. 164, passed 4-17-00)
§ 53.41 VILLAGE RIGHTS PARAMOUNT.
   A franchise and the rights granted by it shall at all times be subject to
the paramount rights of the village in its right-of-way and shall be subject to
immediate suspension or termination by the village in the interest of the
public health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. 164, passed 4-17-00)
§ 53.42 VACATION.
   If a right-of-way is vacated, discontinued, abandoned, terminated or
released, a grantee’s incidental right to use the right-of-way shall
immediately terminate.
(Ord. 164, passed 4-17-00)
§ 53.43 PUBLIC EMERGENCIES.
   Without prior notice, the village has the right to remove, damage, destroy
or otherwise disrupt and/or order a cessation of use of facilities used by the
grantee or its customers when necessary due to a public emergency. Public
emergency means any situation which, in the opinion of the village official
authorized to declare an emergency, presents an immediate threat to persons or
property in the village. The village shall have no liability or responsibility
for repairing or restoring facilities damaged by actions taken under this
section.
(Ord. 164, passed 4-17-00)
§ 53.44 INTERPRETATION.
   A franchise shall not be construed in any manner as a waiver or limitation
of the village’s discretion and authority or rights to regulate and control the
use of the right-of-way.
(Ord. 164, passed 4-17-00)
§ 53.45 ASSUMPTION OF RISK.
   A grantee assumes all risks of damages or injuries to its officers,
employees, agents and contractors from dangerous right-of-way conditions, if
any.
(Ord. 164, passed 4-17-00)
§ 53.46 NO VILLAGE LIABILITY.
   The village and its officials, employees, agents and contractors shall have
no liability for damages or injuries to any person or property, including the
grantee, that arise from the granting, enforcement or exercise of rights under
a franchise.
(Ord. 164, passed 4-17-00)
§ 53.47 INDEMNITY.
   A grantee shall, at its sole cost and expense, defend, indemnify and hold
harmless the village and its officials, employees, agents, contractors, right-
of-way and property from all claims and liability for damages or injury to
persons or property caused by or resulting from the actions or omissions of the
grantee and/or its officers, employees, agents and contractors. This obligation
extends to all costs and expenses, including attorney fees that may be incurred
by the beneficiaries of the grantee’s obligation. The village shall notify the
grantee of any claim or liability that is covered by the grantee’s obligation
and shall not be prevented from participating in the defense of any claim by
its own attorney, the cost of which shall be the grantee’s responsibility.
(Ord. 164, passed 4-17-00)
§ 53.48 INSURANCE.
   The village reserves the right to require the grantee to have, maintain and
provide specified liability insurance coverages.
(Ord. 164, passed 4-17-00)
§ 53.49 DISCLOSURES.
   The grantee shall provide and update written disclosure to the village of
its contact person(s), address, telephone numbers, fax numbers, Email
addresses, if applicable, and procedures for service requests and complaints,
together with a written disclosure of pricing, billing, warranty and contract
rates, terms, policies and procedures.
(Ord. 164, passed 4-17-00)
§ 53.50 SUPPLY REQUIREMENTS.
   The grantee shall supply electricity or natural gas in accordance with all
applicable laws.
(Ord. 164, passed 4-17-00)
§ 53.51 FRANCHISE FEES.
   Every three years commencing after December 31, 2001, the village has the
right, after providing prior notice and an opportunity to comment to the
grantee, to require the payment by the grantee on a periodic basis of a
franchise fee, provided that any such fee is applied equally to all grantees
under this chapter that are supplying the same commodity (electricity or
natural gas) as the grantee. Such a franchise fee would be an additional
franchise term and condition, to be adopted and presented to the grantee for
acknowledgment, agreement and acceptance as an ordinance amendment as provided
in § 53.22. In any such fee review, the grantee shall disclose and the village
may consider if the grantee pays a franchise fee, charge or other periodic
payment for a franchise to any other Michigan municipalities and the manner in
which such fees are computed. It is a condition of a franchise that the grantee
notify the village of any such fees that are paid, and the village shall have
the right to inspect the grantee’s books and records to monitor, enforce and
determine the grantee’s compliance and the accuracy of amounts paid or to be
paid by the grantee under this section.
(Ord. 164, passed 4-17-00)
§ 53.52 VILLAGE COSTS.
   The grantee shall reimburse the village for any costs it incurs, including
reasonable attorney fees, in enforcing franchise terms and conditions.
(Ord. 164, passed 4-17-00)
§ 53.53 RESERVATION OF VILLAGE RIGHTS.
   A franchise shall at all times be subject to the rights of the village,
which are hereby reserved to make all regulations, take all actions and do all
things provided for in its Charter.
(Ord. 164, passed 4-17-00)
§ 53.54 EXTENSION OF SERVICE.
   The grantee may supply customers that are not identified in Appendix A of
its individual franchise ordinance, provided that it first files a dated and
signed amended Appendix A with the Clerk.
(Ord. 164, passed 4-17-00)
§ 53.55 FRANCHISE TERM; RENEWALS AND EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   No franchise granted under this chapter shall be for longer than ten
years. The term of each franchise shall be stated in the individual franchise
ordinance.
   (B)   There is no right to a franchise renewal or extension. Franchise
renewal or extension may be applied for and approved as provided in §§ 53.20 et
seq.
(Ord. 164, passed 4-17-00)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 53.65 NO WAIVER.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as a waiver of any of the rights,
remedies and/or authority of the village pursuant to any laws, ordinances,
codes or regulations of the village, and the village reserves the right to
exercise all authority and take any and all action granted to it by any
constitution, law, village ordinance, code and/or regulation. Nothing is this
section shall be construed to limit and/or preclude the village from exercising
its right of eminent domain.
(Ord. 164, passed 4-17-00)
§ 53.66 NOTICES.
   Any notices required to be sent to the grantee by this chapter may be
delivered or may be sent by first-class mail to the grantee at the address
listed in the franchise application or such other address as the grantee has
provided to the Clerk in writing.
(Ord. 164, passed 4-17-00)
§ 53.67 TRANSACTION OF BUSINESS WITHOUT FRANCHISE.
   Any person transacting business without a franchise required by this chapter
shall be responsible for a municipal civil infraction and shall pay a fine in
the following amount:
   (A)   First offense:   $3,500;
   (B)   Second or subsequent offense:   $5,000.
(Ord. 164, passed 4-17-00)
§ 53.68 RIGHT-OF-WAY RESTORATION.
   Any person in violation of the franchise requirement of this chapter or a
franchise issued under it who damages a right-of-way shall be responsible for
restoration of the right-of-way to the condition that existed prior to the
violation. If such person fails or refuses to restore the right-of-way after
30-days' notice from the village, and if the village determines that the civil
infraction remedy is inadequate under the circumstances, the village may
initiate proceedings in the appropriate court to recover the cost estimated to
accomplish the restoration or recover such costs as have been actually expended
by the village in achieving the restoration, as the case may be. Such costs
shall include finance and reasonable administrative costs estimated or
incurred.
(Ord. 164, passed 4-17-00)
§ 53.69 SEPARATE OFFENSES.
   Each occurrence of a violation, and each day a violation exists, shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 164, passed 4-17-00)
§ 53.70 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   Violations of this chapter or a franchise issued under it are considered to
be a nuisance per se with such violations and correction of any conditions
resulting from violations subject to abatement by injunctive or other
appropriate order by a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 164, passed 4-17-00)
§ 53.71 ELECTION OF REMEDIES.
   Violations of this chapter and franchises issued under it subject the
violator to franchise revocation, if applicable, and village enforcement
through one or more of the remedies provided in this subchapter, and the
election by the village to pursue one form of remedy does not waive or restrict
the village’s option to pursue other remedies at the same or later time.
(Ord. 164, passed 4-17-00)
CHAPTER 54: SMALL CELL REGULATION
Section
   
54.01   Definitions
   
54.02   General requirements
   
54.03   Required licenses and permits
   
54.04   General design and location requirements
   
54.05   Design and location requirements for deployments on existing poles
   
54.06   Design and location requirements for deployments requiring new utility
poles or wireless support structures
   
54.07   Insurance and bonding requirements for deployments in the public right-
of-way
   
54.08   Revocation of permit; removal
§ 54.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires another meaning.
   ACT. The Small Wireless Communication Facilities Deployment Act, M.C.L. §§
460.1301, et seq., Act 365 of 2018.
   AUTHORIZATION. Permission from the village to do work in the public rights-
of-way, maintain facilities in the public rights-of-way, or deploy a small cell
wireless facility in the village. Includes but is not limited to a license, a
permit, a letter, or construction drawing approval. Multiple authorizations may
be required for certain activities.
   COLLOCATE. To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or replace wireless
facilities on or adjacent to an existing wireless support structure or utility
pole. Collocate does not include make-ready work or the installation of a new
utility pole or new wireless support structure.
   CONTRACTOR. Includes any of the following licensed entities performing work
on an owner's behalf: contractor; subcontractor; or any employee or agent of a
contractor, subcontractor, or owner.
   DEPARTMENT. Any village administration.
   EMERGENCY. A condition that poses a clear and immediate danger to life or
health, or a significant loss of property, or requires immediate repair to
restore service to a group of users of a utility service.
   EMERGENCY WORK. The replacement or repair of damage to active facilities,
including main lines and services, where all Miss Dig (811 dig) requirements
are met.
   EXCAVATE. Without limitation, any cutting, digging, grading, tunneling,
boring, or other alteration of the surface or subsurface material or earth in
the public way.
   FACILITIES. Poles, pipes, culverts, conduits, ducts, cables, wires, fiber,
amplifiers, pedestals, antennas, transmission or receiving equipment, other
electronic equipment, electrical conductors, manholes, appliances, signs,
pavement structures, irrigation systems, landscaping, monument signs, monument
mailboxes and any other similar equipment, for public or private use.
   LICENSE. A village approved right-of-way use for a wireless facility granted
pursuant to a fully executed right-of-way wireless franchise agreement adopted
by resolution of the Village Board, also referred to as a franchise license.
   MAKE-READY WORK. Work necessary to enable an authority pole or utility pole
to support collocation, which may include modification or replacement of
utility poles or modification of lines.
   MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY. A small cell wireless facility that is not more
than 24 inches in length, 15 inches in width, and 12 inches in height and that
does not have an exterior antenna more than 11 inches in length.
   OWNER. Any property owner, company owner, or any entity by which work within
the public rights-of-way has been ordered, or any entity on behalf of which any
work within the public right-of-way is caused to be performed, or any agent
thereof.
   PERSON. An individual, association, firm, partnership, limited liability
company, joint venture, corporation, government, utility, or other organized
entity able to contract for the activities described in this chapter, whether
for profit or not for profit. The term does not include the village.
   PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY OR ROW. The area on, below, or above a public roadway,
highway, street, alley, bridge, sidewalk, or utility easement dedicated for
compatible uses. Public right- of-way does not include any of the following:
      (1)   A private right-of-way.
      (2)   A limited access highway.
      (3)   Land owned or controlled by a railroad as defined in Section 109 of
the Railroad Code of 1993, 1993 PA 354, M.C.L. § 462.109.
      (4)   Railroad infrastructure.
   SMALL CELL WIRELESS FACILITY. A wireless facility that meets both of the
following requirements:
      (1)   Each antenna is located inside an enclosure of not more than six
cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has exposed elements,
the antenna and all of its exposed elements would fit within an imaginary
enclosure of not more than six cubic feet.
      (2)   All other wireless equipment associated with the facility is
cumulatively not more than 25 cubic feet in volume. The following types of
associated ancillary equipment are not included in the calculation of equipment
volume: electric meters, concealment elements, telecommunications demarcation
boxes, grounding equipment, power transfer switches, cut-off switches, and
vertical cable runs for the connection of power and other services.
   UTILITY POLE. A pole or similar structure that is or may be used in whole or
in part for cable or wireline communications service, electric distribution,
lighting, traffic control, signage, or a similar function, or a pole or similar
structure that meets the height requirements in section 13(5) of the act and is
designed to support small cell wireless facilities. Utility pole does not
include a sign pole less than 15 feet in height above ground.
      (1)   A utility pole in the ROW installed or modified on or after the
effective date of this act shall not exceed 40 feet above ground level unless
taller height is agreed to by the village.
      (2)   A small cell wireless facility in the ROW installed or modified
after the effective date of this act shall not extend more than five feet above
a utility pole or wireless support structure on which the small cell wireless
facility is collocated.
   WIRELESS FACILITY. Equipment at a fixed location that enables the provision
of wireless services between user equipment and a communications network
including, but not limited to, radio transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-
optic cable, regular and backup power supplies, and comparable equipment,
regardless of technological configuration. Wireless facility includes a small
cell wireless facility. Wireless facility does not include:
      (1)   The structure or improvements on, under, or within which the
equipment is collocated,
      (2)   A wireline backhaul facility, or
      (3)   Coaxial or fiber-optic cable between utility poles or wireless
support structures or that otherwise is not immediately adjacent to or directly
associated with a particular antenna.
   WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER. Any person, including a person authorized
to provide telecommunications services in this state but not including a
wireless services provider, that builds or installs wireless communication
transmission equipment, wireless facilities, or small cell wireless support
structures and who, when filing an application with the village under the Small
Wireless Facilities Deployment Act, M.C.L. §§ 460.1301, et seq., Act 365 of
2018, provides written authorization to perform the work on behalf of a
wireless services provider.
   WIRELESS PROVIDER. A wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless services
provider. Wireless provider does not include an investor-owned utility whose
rates are regulated by the Michigan Public Service Commission ("MPSC").
   WIRELESS SERVICES. Any services, provided using licensed or unlicensed
spectrum, including the use of Wi-Fi, whether at a fixed location or mobile
location.
   WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER. A person that provides wireless services.
   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A freestanding structure designed to support, or
capable of supporting, small cell wireless facilities. Wireless support
structure does not include a utility pole.
(Ord. 271, passed 9-19-23)
§ 54.02 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No wireless providers shall occupy, wholly or in part, the streets,
alleys, or public rights-of-way within the village without first receiving a
permit for that purpose. No wireless provider shall install, collocate, or
construct a facility outside the streets, alleys or public right-of-way within
the village without receiving permit for that purpose.
   (B)   No wireless providers shall attach, alter, or modify a village-owned
pole or wireless support structure without entering into a license agreement
with the village.
   (C)   The village may establish appropriate requirements for new permits,
licenses, and ordinance requirements consistent with state and federal law, and
may modify the requirements of this chapter from time to time to reflect
changes in the industry. The village further retains the right to make any
modifications based on court rules, injunctions, or statutory amendments
addressing the federal and state law mandates requiring the village to provide
this process under its current regulations. The village further reserves any
constitutional or statutory challenges it may have under federal and state law
to the process mandated by the act and federal law, despite its efforts to
comply with the law. If any changes to state or federal law allow the village
to take a more restrictive approach, the village reserves the right to alter
current franchises, consent, permits and licenses.
   (D)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter to the contrary,
a wireless provider shall at all times comply with all laws and regulations of
the state and federal government or any administrative agencies thereof.
Provided, however, if any such state or federal law or regulation shall require
a wireless provider to perform any service, or shall permit a provider to
perform any service, or shall prohibit a wireless provider from performing any
service, in conflict with the terms of this chapter or of any law or regulation
of the village, then as soon as possible following knowledge thereof, a
wireless provider shall notify the village of the point of conflict believed to
exist between such regulation or law and the laws or regulations of the
village. If such conflict is discovered upon review by the village or upon
notice by the provider of such conflict, then the Village Board of Trustees may
waive the requirements of this chapter for any permit or license during review
and approval of an application for a permit.
   (E)   Subject to this chapter, wireless providers may occupy and use the
public rights-of-way to collocate small cell wireless facilities to provide
wireless services upon, along, over and under the public rights-of-way in the
village such that such collocations do not inhibit other utility installations
within the public rights-of-way. The village retains its right to impose fees
and compensation consistent with federal and state law.
   (F)   Wireless providers shall pay taxes for telecommunications services
that are subject to taxation.
   (G)   Use of the public rights-of-way is allowed only to the extent the
village itself possesses such rights.
   (H)   Wireless providers shall obtain approvals legally necessary to use the
public rights-of- way from owners, other than the village, of property
interests in the public rights-of-way or adjacent to the roadway system located
within the village. To the extent any wireless provider obtains approval
through a statutory authorization, as opposed to review and approval by the
village, the wireless provider's placement or location of any small cell
wireless facility, wireless facility, and utility pole within the village's
public rights-of-way shall comply with the general and specific design and
location requirements of this chapter, or any relevant zoning requirements.
   (I)   No wireless provider shall have the exclusive right or privilege to
occupy or use the public rights-of-way for delivery of wireless services or any
other purpose.
   (J)   The village reserves all rights to use the public rights-of-way for
any purpose not prohibited by law, including the provision of wireless
services, and all rights to grant authorizations to any other person(s),
including any wireless provider, to use the public rights-of-way.
   (K)   Wireless providers shall have no right, title, or interest in the
public rights-of-way, and any permit or license provided by the village
provides no right, title, or interest to occupy any space outside of the public
rights-of-way or any private property not owned by the village.
   (L)   Wireless providers use of the public rights-of-way shall not divest
the village of any interest in the public rights-of-way.
   (M)   The village does not warrant its legal interest in the public rights-
of-way.
   (N)   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed or construed to stop or limit
the village from exercising any regulatory, police, governmental, or
legislative function pursuant to applicable law, which powers include, but are
not limited to, the authority to enact regulations, ordinances, rules, and
orders not prohibited by state or federal law that affect the public rights-of-
way or a wireless provider's use of the public rights-of-way.
   (O)   The terms of this chapter do not permit the wireless provider to
operate a cable system or to provide cable service, as those terms are defined
by Section 602 of the Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984, as amended (47
U.S.C. Section 522), or install any wires or facilities that are required to be
permitted under the METRO Act, Public Act 48 of 2002, M.C.L. § 484.310, without
satisfying any additional legal requirements.
   (P)   This chapter only permits the wireless provider, upon obtaining
required approvals and permits, to place its small cell wireless facilities in
those portions of the public right-of-way, or in other locations outside the
public right-of-way, approved by the village.
   (Q)   Under no circumstances shall any wireless provider be permitted to
place small cell wireless facilities on any building that is on the National
Register of Historic Places, pursuant to 47 C.F.R. § 1.1307(a)(4).
   (R)   Collocation of small cell wireless facilities shall commence within
six months of permit issuance and shall be activated for use no later than one
year from the permit issuance date. Failure to commence collocation within six
months of permit issuance shall void said permit. A small cell wireless
facility located in the public right-of-way that is not activated within one
year of permit issuance shall be considered abandoned and shall be removed from
the public right-of-way at the wireless provider's sole expense.
   (S)   A wireless provider shall notify the village in writing of the
location and date that any wireless facility located in the village whose use
will be discontinued. If the use of the facility is discontinued for 180 days
without notice from the owner/operator or the owner of the property or other
information indicates that the facility is not in use, the village may declare
the facility abandoned. The village will provide notice and provide the
wireless provider an opportunity to show cause before the Village Manager as to
why the wireless facility should not be removed. Following determination of the
Village Manager, the village may take the necessary steps to remove the
facilities from the village's public right-of-way.
   (T)   Assignment; transfer. No permit may be transferred or assigned by a
wireless provider without the village's express written permission until the
construction and installation of all permitted small cell wireless facilities
is completed. After completion of such construction, a wireless provider must
provide notice to the village no later than 30 days after any assignment or
transfer.
(Ord. 271, passed 9-19-23)
§ 54.03 REQUIRED LICENSES AND PERMITS.
   (A)   Franchise license required. Based on the village's constitutional and
proprietary rights and interests in its public rights-of-way and the reasonable
control thereof under Article VII, Section 29 of the Michigan Constitution of
1963, the Village Charter, and other applicable laws, wireless facilities shall
not be installed, used, operated, or maintained in a public right-of-way
without a franchise license in a form and with such terms and conditions
established by resolution of the Village Board. Such franchise license shall be
applied for and obtained by each person or entity that will own, and each
wireless provider that will be a user of the wireless facilities. Nothing
herein shall be interpreted to require the village to issue a franchise license
and the village reserves to itself discretion to grant, deny or modify a
request for a license as it determines to be in the best interest of the
village and its citizens taking into account such proprietary, safety and
fiduciary interests as it deems warranted. This license shall be executed
before any permit is applied for or issued.
   (B)   Permit requirement. Except as otherwise provided in the act, a
wireless provider seeking to use public rights-of-way in the village for its
small cell wireless facilities (including collocation, or installing or replace
a utility pole), to collocate small cell wireless facilities outside the public
rights-of-way, or to install new wireless support structures or modify existing
wireless support structures shall apply for and obtain a permit pursuant to
this section.
   (C)   Limitations on facilities in application. No more than 20 small cell
wireless facilities may be included in a single permit application.
   (D)   Application. A wireless provider shall apply for a permit on an
application form made available by the Clerk’s Department. A wireless provider
shall file four copies of the application with the Clerk’s Department, who
shall distribute one copy to the supervisor, one copy to the Engineering &
Environmental Services Department, one copy to the Planning, Building and
Ordinance Department, and one copy to the Village Attorney. Applications shall
be complete and include all required information. An application is not
considered complete until all required materials have been submitted and
accepted by the village. At a minimum, the applications shall require
submission of the following:
      (1)   Applicant contact information, including an address, phone contact,
24-hour emergency contact information, e-mail address (which shall be used to
receive application updates from the village), and any applicable license
numbers;
      (2)   Applicant's contractor and subcontractor information, including the
names, addresses, phone contact, e-mail addresses, emergency contact numbers,
and name of the supervisor(s) assigned to any facility project of all
contractors or subcontractors that will work within the village's public
rights-of-way under a permit;
      (3)   Number of wireless facilities that will be deployed;
      (4)   The scope of the deployment, including whether the deployment is a
modification of a current facility or utility pole, collocation on an existing
utility pole or wireless support structure, or installation of a new or
replacement wireless support structure or utility pole;
      (5)   GIS maps and coordinates detailing locations for each proposed
small cell wireless facility and related facilities associated with each
facility;
      (6)   Site plan at a scale not smaller than one-inch equals 20 feet with
dimensions showing the following:
         (a)   Proposed location, including nearest cross street intersection;
         (b)   Height of the proposed facility;
         (c)   The distance of the proposed facilities and the nearest property
line, roadways, rights-of-way, and utilities within the rights-of-way; and
         (d)   Any other proposed improvements that are part of the deployment.
      (7)   An application fee as established by the Village Board;
      (8)   Executed permit and consent agreement for access to and use of the
public rights-of-way located in the village, if applicable;
      (9)   Specification sheets for all attachments and equipment that will be
located within the village, including the dimensional size of the small cell
wireless facility and all other wireless equipment;
      (10)   Attachment drawings and demonstrations of each type of
installation, including photograph simulations showing collocations, new or
replacement utility poles, wireless support structures and concealment and
design characteristics satisfying this chapter;
      (11)   Pole loading analysis if being collocated on a utility pole
located in a right- of-way in the village or wireless support structure;
      (12)   Attestation that the small cell wireless facilities will be
operational for use by a wireless services provider within one year after the
permit issuance date;
      (13)   Work plan describing the location of the proposed work, the work
to be performed, the limits of disturbance to the public right-of-way and the
method and materials to be used;
      (14)   Landscape plans for ground-mounted facilities, if applicable;
      (15)   Site/structure remediation plans for restoring any public property
after removal of the wireless facilities, if applicable;
      (16)   Certificate of compliance with FCC radio frequency emission
regulations;
      (17)   For all new utility poles, replacement utility poles, and wireless
support structures, demonstration of compliance with ANSI/TIA 222-G-
2 standards;
      (18)   For all new utility poles, replacement utility poles, and wireless
support structures owned by applicant, the applicant shall cooperate with a
collector request for structural data to determine if attachment is feasible;
      (19)   When the village receives an application to place a new utility
pole, the village may propose an alternate location within the right-of-way or
on property or structures owned or controlled by the village within 75 feet of
the proposed location to either place the new utility pole or collocate on an
existing structure. The applicant shall use the alternate location if, as
determined by the applicant, the applicant has the right to do so on reasonable
terms and conditions and the alternate location does not impose unreasonable
technical limits or significant additional costs;
      (20)   To the extent available, identify other known permits related to
the deployment, including any applicable METRO Act application and permit,
related to the small cell wireless facility; and permits required by RCOC or
MDOT or other right-of-way, private property, or wireless support structure
owner;
      (21)   For deployments in residential or non-residential districts,
documentation of compliance with design and location requirements;
      (22)   For deployments in the public right-of-way, documentation showing
adequate insurance, including the village listed as an additional insured;
      (23)   A performance bond meeting the requirements of this chapter; and
      (24)   Any additional information requested by the village.
   (E)   Confidential information. If a wireless provider claims that any
portion of the information submitted by it as part of its application contains
trade secret, proprietary, or confidential information, which is exempt from
the Freedom of Information Act (M.C.L. §§ 15.231, et seq.), the wireless
provider shall prominently so indicate on the application and on the
confidential documents.
   (F)   Application fee. Except as otherwise provided by the act, the
application shall be accompanied by a one-time nonrefundable application fee in
the amount as established by the Village Board of Trustees.
   (G)   Permit approval process. Permit applications shall comply with the
following process.
      (1)   Pre-meeting. Prior to submission of an application, the village
strongly prefers a wireless provider meet with the village to discuss the
application process, a wireless provider's intended deployment, and the
requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   Submission. After the pre-meeting is conducted, the wireless
provider may file the application, including all required documents, fees, and
information.
      (3)   Initial review for completeness. Submitted applications will first
be reviewed for completeness to ensure that all required information is
included. If an application is deemed incomplete, the village will provide
written notice to the wireless provider which clearly delineates all missing
documents or information. Any applicable statutory review times will be tolled
from the time the wireless provider receives notice from the village that the
application is incomplete until the village receives a supplemental submission.
      (4)   Review by village staff. Once an application is deemed complete, it
will be reviewed by the Engineering & Environmental Services Department,
Planning Building & Ordinance Department, the Village Attorney, and any other
designees of the supervisor.
      (5)   Post-application meeting. If review by the village raises any
issues or concerns, meetings with the wireless provider and relevant members of
the village staff may be requested. The wireless provider is requested to
attend this meeting.
      (6)   Final approval. Upon the conclusion of the village's review, the
supervisor or his/her designee will review the application and any
recommendations from village staff. If the supervisor or his/her designee is
satisfied that all the requirements of this chapter are satisfied, the
supervisor will approve the application.
      (7)   Issuance of permit. Once an application is approved by the
supervisor or his/her designee, the Clerk’s Office shall issue a permit
granting the wireless provider authority to deploy the small cell wireless
facility, utility pole, or relocated wireless support structures within the
village, including use of the public rights-of-way, if applicable.
      (8)   Notice of completion. Wireless provider will notify the village
within 48 hours after completing the work allowed by the permit.
      (9)   Final inspection. Within 30 days after receiving notice that the
wireless provider has completed the work under the permit, the village will
inspect the wireless provider's facilities and make a written report as to the
satisfaction of the permit, the village code, any applicable agreements and
state and federal law.
   (H)   Timeline for review. Applications will be processed consistent with
the following timelines:
      (1)   Collocation requests. Applications requesting to collocate small
cell wireless facilities on utility poles or wireless support structures
located within the public right-of-way will be approved or denied within 60
days after the date the application is submitted, subject to the following:
         (a)   The village will determine whether the application is complete
within 25 days after the application is submitted. The village will provide
written notice to the wireless provider if the application is deemed incomplete
and a supplemental response is required.
         (b)   If a supplemental response is required, the village's deadline
for approving or denying the application will be tolled by however many days it
takes for the wireless provider to submit a supplemental response to the
village after receiving notice that the wireless provider's application was
incomplete. The village will notify the wireless provider whether the
application remains incomplete within ten days of receiving a supplemental
response. If more than one supplemental response is required, the deadline for
approving or denying the application will continue to be tolled by the number
of days from when the wireless provider receives notice of incompleteness from
the village to when the village receives a supplemental submission from the
wireless provider.
         (c)   The village may add 15 days to the deadline for approving or
denying the application if another wireless provider also submitted an
application within seven days of the date of the submission of the application
in question.
         (d)   The village may extend the deadline for approving or denying the
application by an additional 15 days if the village notifies the wireless
provider in writing that an extension is needed and the reasons for the
extension.
         (e)   If the village denies a completed application, it will provide
written notice explaining the reason for denial. The wireless provider may cure
the identified deficiencies and resubmit its application within 30 days after
the denial without paying an additional fee. The village will approve or deny
the revised application within 30 days after receiving the revised application.
         (f)   The deadline for approving or denying the application may be
extended by mutual agreement between the village and the wireless provider.
      (2)   Requests to install a new or replacement utility pole. Applications
requesting to install a new or replacement utility pole and associated small
cell wireless facility within the public right-of-way will be approved or
denied within 90 days after the date the application is submitted. The village
will determine whether the application is complete, deny the application, and
review and consider a revised application as provided for collocation requests.
      (3)   Requests to install facilities outside the ROW or to modify
wireless support structures. Applications to install or modify small cell
wireless facilities outside of the public right-of- way and applications to
modify wireless support structures to be used for small cell wireless
facilities outside of the right-of-way will be approved or denied within 90
days after the date the application is submitted, subject to the following:
         (a)   The village will determine whether the application is complete
within 30 days after the application is submitted. The village will provide
written notice to the wireless provider if the application is deemed incomplete
and a supplemental response is required.
         (b)   If a supplemental response is required, the village's deadline
for approving or denying the application will be tolled by however many days it
takes for the wireless provider to submit a supplemental response to the
village after receiving notice that the wireless provider's application was
incomplete. The village will notify the wireless provider whether the
application remains incomplete within ten days of receiving a supplemental
response. If more than one supplemental response is required, the deadline for
approving or denying the application will continue to be tolled by the number
of days from when the wireless provider receives notice of incompleteness from
the village to when the village receives a supplemental submission from the
wireless provider.
         (c)   The deadline for approving or denying the application may be
extended by mutual agreement between the village and the wireless provider.
      (4)   Requests to install new wireless support structures. Applications
to install or construct new wireless support structures to be used for small
cell wireless facilities which require zoning review pursuant to this chapter
and M.C.L. § 460.1317 will be approved or denied within 150 days after the date
the application is submitted, subject to the following:
         (a)   The village will determine whether the application is complete
within 30 days after the application is submitted. The village will provide
written notice to the wireless provider if the application is deemed incomplete
and a supplemental response is required.
         (b)   If a supplemental response is required, the village's deadline
for approving or denying the application will be tolled by however many days it
takes for the wireless provider to submit a supplemental response to the
village after receiving notice that the wireless provider's application was
incomplete. The village will notify the wireless provider whether the
application remains incomplete within ten days of receiving a supplemental
response. If more than one supplemental response is required, the deadline for
approving or denying the application will continue to be tolled by the number
of days from when the wireless provider receives notice of incompleteness from
the village to when the village receives a supplemental submission from the
wireless provider.
         (c)   The deadline for approving or denying the application may be
extended by mutual agreement between the village and the wireless provider.
      (5)   The village shall not require a permit or any other approval or
required fees or rates for any of the following:
         (a)   The replacement of a small cell wireless facility with a small
cell wireless facility that is not larger or heavier, in compliance with
applicable codes.
         (b)   Routine maintenance of a small cell wireless facility, utility
pole, or wireless support structure.
         (c)   The installation, placement, maintenance, operation, or
replacement of a micro wireless facility that is suspended on cables strung
between utility poles or wireless support structures in compliance with
applicable codes.
   (I)   Standards for review for deployments within the public rights-of-way.
The village may grant or deny the location and installation of any small cell
wireless facility, utility pole, or wireless support structure to be installed
within the public rights-of-way, if installation would:
      (1)   Materially interfere with the safe operation of traffic control
equipment.
      (2)   Materially interfere with sight lines or clear zones for
transportation or pedestrians.
      (3)   Materially interfere with compliance with the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990, Public Law 101-336, or similar federal, state, or
local standards regarding pedestrian access or movement.
      (4)   Materially interfere with or endanger the use of village safety
path, sidewalks, bike paths, walkways, parks, or recreational areas used by
village residents.
      (5)   Materially interfere with maintenance or full unobstructed use of
the village's public utility infrastructure.
      (6)   Materially interfere with maintenance or full unobstructed use of
the village's drainage infrastructure as it was originally designed, or not be
located a reasonable distance from the drainage infrastructure to ensure
maintenance.
      (7)   Fail to comply with spacing requirements as set forth in this
chapter.
      (8)   Fail to comply with applicable codes.
      (9)   Fail to comply with design and concealment requirements as set
forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 271, passed 9-19-23)
§ 54.04 GENERAL DESIGN AND LOCATION REQUIREMENTS.
   Small cell wireless facilities, related equipment and accessories, utility
poles and wireless support structures shall comply with the following design
and concealment standards:
   (A)   Compatible design. All small cell wireless facilities and related
equipment must use materials, colors, textures, and screening so as to be
aesthetically and architecturally compatible with the surrounding environment
(i.e., existing street lights, traffic control devices, and utility poles).
   (B)   Lighting. Facilities, utility poles or wireless support structures
shall not be artificially lighted. If lighting is required, the lighting
fixtures and installation must cause the least disturbance to surrounding
properties.
   (C)   Collocation. Any wireless provider must openly allow another provider
to collocate upon its wireless facility, unless physically or technically
infeasible, under rates.
   (D)   Ancillary facility equipment. All other wireless equipment with the
facility shall be designed and painted to satisfy this section. The equipment
will be required by the village to be located underground in any locations
where the equipment will be visible from adjacent roadways and lots and public
electrical utility lines are already placed underground. Where underground
placement of equipment is not required or would impair service, above ground
placement is permitted upon the village's approval. Ground-mounted equipment
shall comply with the following:
      (1)   All equipment shall be completely concealed from view within an
enclosed cabinet. Cabinets must be compatible in color and design to match
existing infrastructure and architecture.
      (2)   So as not to impede or impair public safety or the legal use of the
public right-of- way by the traveling public, in no case shall ground-mounted
equipment be located closer than two feet from the public right-of-way, edge
line, face of curb, sidewalk, safety path, bike lane or shared-use path.
      (3)   Ground-mounted equipment shall be reviewed by RCOC so as to not
impede sight lines, interfere with any ADA requirements, or raise additional
public health safety and/or welfare concerns.
      (4)   Ground-mounted equipment must be secured to a concrete foundation
or slab with a breakaway design in the event of collisions.
      (5)   Ground-mounted equipment must either be screened with plant
material that is consistent with the characteristics of the surrounding area,
be integrated into the base of an existing utility pole, wireless support
structure or other infrastructure, or be otherwise camouflaged so as to be
aesthetically and architecturally compatible with surrounding environment,
without detracting from the streetscape.
   (E)   Separation distances. New utility poles, wireless support structures
and ground-mounted equipment shall be installed at least 300 feet from any
existing or proposed utility pole, wireless support structures or ground-
mounted equipment. Any wireless provider desiring to install utility poles less
than 300 feet apart shall demonstrate to the village's satisfaction that the
wireless provider could not serve a location without the desired placement.
   (F)   Marking and signage. No small cell wireless facility, utility pole,
wireless support structure or any portion thereof shall have any signage except
as expressly permitted by this chapter or as required by state or federal law.
Aerial portions of small cell wireless facilities shall be marked with a marker
which shall state wireless provider's name and provide a toll-free number to
call for assistance. Underground portions of small cell wireless facilities
shall have a stake or other appropriate above ground markers with wireless
provider's name and a toll-free number indicating that there is buried
equipment below. Any marking required by this section shall not be used for
advertising purposes and shall not exceed one square foot in area unless
approved by the village.
(Ord. 271, passed 9-19-23)
§ 54.05 DESIGN AND LOCATION REQUIREMENTS FOR DEPLOYMENTS ON EXISTING POLES.
   Small cell wireless facilities installed on existing utility, streetlight,
traffic signal poles, or wireless support structures located in residential or
non-residential districts shall comply with the following design and
concealment standards:
   (A)   The maximum pole height shall be 40 feet.
   (B)   They shall be similar in design to existing infrastructure and
architecture, consistent with the local character of the area and shall not
detract from the streetscape.
   (C)   To the extent practicable, all accessory cables shall be installed
inside of the pole.
   (D)   If any antenna, equipment, or cable cannot be installed within the
utility pole and made not visible, then it shall extend vertically from the
utility pole or be flush-mounted to the side of the utility pole and shall be
designed to be an architecturally compatible extension of the utility pole. The
antenna shall not extend more than five feet above the top of the utility pole.
(Ord. 271, passed 9-19-23)
§ 54.06 DESIGN AND LOCATION REQUIREMENTS FOR DEPLOYMENTS REQUIRING NEW UTILITY
POLES OR WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURES.
   Small cell wireless facilities requiring the installation of a new utility
pole or wireless support structure in residential or non-residential districts
shall comply with the following design and concealment standards:
   (A)   If possible, utility poles and wireless support structures shall be
designed to accommodate small cell wireless facilities for multiple wireless
services providers.
   (B)   Utility poles shall be located a minimum of 15 feet from any tree,
measured to the tree- trunk center. Additionally, 80% of the root protection
zone shall remain undisturbed. The root protection zone shall either be a six-
foot radius around the tree or a one-foot radius for every inch of tree
diameter at breast height, whichever is greater. This minimum separation shall
not apply for a new utility pole that replaces an existing utility pole, where
the new utility pole is installed in the same place as, or immediate vicinity
of, the existing utility pole.
   (C)   Utility poles or wireless support structures in residential districts
shall not exceed 40 feet in height from ground level.
   (D)   In non-residential districts, the height shall not exceed 10% of an
adjacent building or exceed 40 feet in height from ground level, whichever is
less except in instances where compliance with this requirement results in
technical feasibility issues for the provider. In such instances, the village
and the provider shall work cooperatively to resolve the technical feasibility
issues while remaining in substantial compliance with pole height requirements.
   (E)   Utility poles shall be designed and installed with materials and
appearance consistent with existing utility poles in the adjacent public way,
unless materials and appearance are prescribed by other ordinance, law, or
village requirements. Utility poles shall be consistent with the local
character of the area and shall not detract from the streetscape.
   (F)   If any antenna, equipment, or cable cannot be installed within the
utility pole and made not visible, then it shall extend vertically from the
utility pole or be flush-mounted to the side of the utility pole and shall be
designed to be an architecturally compatible extension of the utility pole. The
antenna shall not extend more than five feet above the top of the utility pole.
(Ord. 271, passed 9-19-23)
§ 54.07 INSURANCE AND BONDING REQUIREMENTS FOR DEPLOYMENTS IN THE PUBLIC RIGHT-
OF-WAY.
   (A)   Insurance. For deployments in the public rights-of-way, the wireless
provider shall furnish proof of insurance in an amount and form satisfactory to
the village, listing the village as an additional insured. Such insurance shall
cover a period of not less than the term of this permit and shall provide that
it cannot be cancelled without 30 days advance written notice to the village.
   (B)   Bonding. Before any work in the public right-of-way under a permit
issued pursuant to this chapter may commence, a wireless provider shall furnish
to the village a performance bond in the form of an irrevocable bank letter of
credit form or surety bond form approved by village, in the amount of $1,000
per small cell wireless facility included in the application for a permit, to
provide for the reasonable costs of removal of abandoned or improperly
maintained small cell wireless facilities, to repair the ROW or to recoup
unpaid rates or fees.
(Ord. 271, passed 9-19-23)
§ 54.08 REVOCATION OF PERMIT; REMOVAL.
   (A)   Revocation of permit. A permit to install small cell wireless
facilities issued pursuant to this chapter shall be revoked upon the occurrence
of any of the following events:
      (1)   The permitted small cell wireless facilities are not operational
within one year after the date of issuance;
      (2)   The wireless provider or the permitted small cell wireless
facilities violate the terms or conditions of this chapter, any applicable
agreement with the village, any permit issued by the village, applicable codes
or any relevant provision of state or federal law, and such violations are not
corrected within 30 days after receiving written notice from the village;
      (3)   After the permitted small cell wireless facilities become
operational, the wireless provider discontinues the use of the small cell
wireless facilities for a period of 180 consecutive days;
      (4)   The wireless provider fails to renew the permit, or the permit
otherwise expires by its own terms; or
      (5)   The wireless provider voluntarily requests that a permit be
terminated.
   (B)   Removal of facilities; restoration.
      (1)   A wireless provider shall remove all small cell wireless
facilities, utility poles and wireless support structures, and shall restore
the site to its pre-installation condition within 45 days after receiving
written notice from the village that a permit issued pursuant to this chapter
has been revoked.
      (2)   If the wireless provider does not complete removal and restoration
within 45 days after receiving such notice, the village shall have the right,
but not the obligation, to complete the removal and restoration and assess the
costs and expenses against the wireless provider, including, without
limitation, any administrative costs.
      (3)   If the village exercises its right to effectuate removal and
restoration, the wireless provider shall pay to the village the costs and
expenses incurred by the village in performing any removal work and any storage
of the wireless provider's property after removal (including any portion of the
small cell wireless facilities) within 15 business days of the date of a
written demand for this payment from the village. The village may, in its
discretion, obtain reimbursement for the above by making a claim under the
wireless provider's performance bond. After the village receives the
reimbursement payment from the wireless provider for the removal work performed
by the village, the wireless provider may obtain the property belonging to the
wireless provider and removed by the village pursuant to this section at no
liability to the village within ten business days at the Village Hall. If the
village does not receive the reimbursement payment from the wireless provider
within such 15 business days, or if village does not elect to remove such items
at the village's cost after the wireless provider's failure to so remove prior
to 45 days subsequent to the issuance of notice pursuant to this section, any
items of the wireless provider's property, including without limitation the
small cell wireless facilities, remaining on or about the public right-of-way
or stored by the village after the village's removal thereof may, at the
village's option, be deemed abandoned and the village may dispose of such
property in any manner allowed by law, and in accordance with any legal rights
of persons other than the village who own utility poles located in the public
right-of-way and used by the wireless provider. Alternatively, the village may
elect to take title to such abandoned property, regardless of whether the
village is provided an instrument satisfactory to the village transferring to
the village the ownership of such property.
      (4)   The deadline for removal and restoration may be extended only with
express written permission from the village.
(Ord. 271, passed 9-19-23)
 
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
Chapter
   
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   State motor vehicle code adopted
§ 70.01 STATE MOTOR VEHICLE CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   Michigan Vehicle Code adopted. The Michigan Vehicle Code, being Act
300 of the Public Acts of 1949, MCL 257.1 to 257.923, as amended now and in the
future, is hereby adopted by reference as part of the code of ordinances of the
Village of Bingham Farms.
   (B)   References in Michigan Vehicle Code. Where necessary to the
enforcement of the Michigan Vehicle Code or the collection and distribution of
fines, costs and penalties for violations as part of the village code of
ordinances, references in the Michigan Vehicle Code to local authorities, local
authority, or authority having jurisdiction shall mean the Village of Bingham
Farms Council; references to municipality shall mean the Village of Bingham
Farms; references to municipal charter shall mean the Charter of the Village of
Bingham Farms; references to local ordinances shall mean the code of the
Village of Bingham Farms; and references to village shall mean the Village of
Bingham Farms.
   (C)   Copies of Michigan Vehicle Code. Printed copies of the Michigan
Vehicle Code shall be kept on file in the office of the Village Clerk and made
available to the public at all times that office is open.
   (D)   Enforcement limitation. Violations of the Michigan Vehicle Code for
which the maximum period of imprisonment is greater than 93 days shall not be
enforced by the Village as a violation.
   (E)   Prohibiting through traffic. The Village Council may establish and
designate certain streets or highways in the Village as being closed to through
traffic. Upon such designation, the streets or highways shall be posted with
traffic control devices or signs as provided in the Michigan Vehicle Code. A
person who violates a posted “no through traffic” designation is responsible
for a civil infraction.
(Ord. 175, passed 6-24-02)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Chapter
   
90.   AIRCRAFT REGULATIONS
   
91.   ALARM SYSTEMS
   
92.   FIRE PREVENTION
   
93.   TREE AND WOODLANDS PROTECTION AND MAINTENANCE
   
94.   ANIMALS
   
95.   NUISANCES
   
96.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
   
97.   RESIDENTIAL DRIVEWAYS
   
98.   SIGNS
CHAPTER 90: AIRCRAFT REGULATIONS
Section
   
90.01   Definition
   
90.02   Landing or takeoff of aircraft
   
90.03   Emergency conditions
§ 90.01 DEFINITION.
   The word AIRCRAFT, as used in this chapter, shall be construed to mean any
contrivance, now known or hereafter invented, used or designed for navigation
of or flight in the air.
(O.C. § 9.221)
§ 90.02 LANDING OR TAKEOFF OF AIRCRAFT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to takeoff from or land any type of
aircraft, including a helicopter, in the village limits within 2,000 feet of
any residentially zoned property.
(O.C. § 9.222)
§ 90.03 EMERGENCY CONDITIONS.
   No provision of this section shall be construed to make illegal any course
of conduct by a pilot or other person, either on the ground or in the air,
which is calculated to meet emergency conditions and best cope with an imminent
danger that threatens life or property, either on the ground or in the air.
(O.C. § 9.223)
CHAPTER 91: ALARM SYSTEMS
Section
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Automatic telephone alarms prohibited
   
91.03   Audible or visual alarms
   
91.04   False alarm fees; exceptions
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM SYSTEM. An assembly of equipment and devices, or a single device,
arranged to signal the presence of a hazard requiring urgent attention and to
which police and/or fire personnel are expected to respond.
   CHIEF OF POLICE. The Chief of Police of the Police Department serving the
Village of Bingham Farms.
   FALSE ALARM. Any alarm condition which is registered at the Police
Department or elsewhere not resulting from criminal activity for which the
alarm was intended or, in the case of a fire alarm, any alarm condition which
is registered at the Fire Department or elsewhere not resulting from a fire or
potential fire condition.
   FIRE DEPARTMENT. The Fire Department serving the Village of Bingham Farms.
   POLICE DEPARTMENT. The Police Department serving the Village of Bingham
Farms.
(O.C. § 9.181) (Am. Ord. 241, passed 12-29-16)
§ 91.02 AUTOMATIC TELEPHONE ALARMS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall sell, install, operate, adjust, arrange or contract to
provide a device or combination of devices that will upon activation, either
mechanically, electronically or by other means, initiate the automatic
intrastate calling, dialing or connection to any telephone number assigned to
the Police Department or its dispatching agency.
(O.C. § 9.182)
§ 91.03 AUDIBLE OR VISUAL ALARMS.
   (A)   No person shall maintain an alarm system which, when activated, causes
an audible and/or visible signal, which signal can be heard or seen outside the
premises protected by said alarm system and which signal is disturbing to the
peace and quiet of the surrounding area, unless that person has first provided
the Chief of Police with his or her name, telephone number and address of the
premises where the alarm system is located and also the name and telephone
number of at least one other person who can be reached at anytime, day or night
and who, within a 30-minute response time, can open the premises in which the
alarm system is installed and deactivate the audible signal.
   (B)   An audible alarm shall not be activated and heard for a period longer
than ten minutes. If the system is activated and heard longer than this time
limit, it will constitute a nuisance and will be subject to § 91.99.
(O.C. § 9.183)
§ 91.04 FALSE ALARM FEES; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   False alarm fees.
      (1)   The owner or lessee of an alarm system shall pay to the village a
false alarm fee to defray the cost of responding to false alarms for each
occasion that the alarm system is activated and responded to by the Police
Department and/or Fire Department under any of the following circumstances:
         (a)   No evidence of illegal entry or an attempt thereof;
         (b)   No evidence of fire;
         (c)   A malfunction in the system;
         (d)   Activation by mistake;
         (e)   Alarm activation by persons working on the alarm system, where
the Police and/or Fire Department were not previously notified.
      (2)   In the event the Police Department is required to respond to a
false alarm, a fee schedule as set by resolution of the Village Council will
apply:
      (3)   In the event the Fire Department is required to respond to a false
alarm, a fee schedule as set by resolution of the Village Council will apply.
      (4)   In cases where a false alarm is responded to by both Police and
Fire Departments, the greater of the two applicable false alarm fees will
apply.
      (5)   These false alarm fees are in addition to the fine to be assessed
in §
91.99.
(O.C. § 9.184)
   (B)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, no owner or lessee
shall be required to pay a police false alarm fee set forth in division (A) of
this section on the first four occasions of a police false alarm during any one
calendar year, but shall be advised in writing after each such alarm as to how
many “free” false alarms remain and of the provisions of this chapter. Relative
to fire false alarms, no owner or lessee shall be required to pay a fire false
alarm fee set forth in division (A) of this section on the first occasion of a
fire false alarm during any one calendar year, but shall be advised in writing
after such fire false alarm.
      (2)   A false alarm fee shall not be required in the case of any false
alarm activated by severe weather or other violent conditions beyond the
control of the owner or lessee of an alarm system.
      (3)   For the purpose of police false alarms only, a false alarm fee
shall not be required in the case of the first five false alarms during the
two-week period following installation of a new alarm or upgrade of an existing
alarm and upon proper notice to the Police Department of installation or
change. No such exception is available for fire false alarms.
(O.C. § 9.185) (Am. Ord. 183, passed 1-27-03; Am. Ord. 241, passed 12-29-16;
Am. Ord. 243, passed 6-26-17; Am. Ord. 262, passed 4-26-21)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall willfully violate any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be responsible for a municipal civil infraction pursuant to § 32.03, and
the fine for the first and each subsequent violation shall be $300 per
violation.
(O.C. § 9.186) (Am. Ord. 157, passed 6-23-97)
CHAPTER 92: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
   
92.01   Adoption of BOCA National Fire Prevention Code by reference
   
92.02   Code on file
   
92.03   Reference in Code
   
92.04   Agency designated
   
92.05   Conflicting ordinances repealed
   
92.06   Changes in Code
§ 92.01 ADOPTION OF BOCA NATIONAL FIRE PREVENTION CODE BY REFERENCE.
   Pursuant to the provisions of Section 23 (i) of the P.A. 278 of 1909, State
of Michigan, being M.C.L.A. §§ 73.23 et seq. as amended, the BOCA National Fire
Prevention Code, Ninth Edition 1996, as promulgated and published by the
Building Officials and Code Administrators International, Inc., is hereby
adopted by reference by the Village of Bingham Farms for the purpose of
establishing the minimum regulations governing the safeguarding of life and
property from the hazards of fire and explosion arising from the storage,
handling and use of hazardous substances, material and devices, and from
conditions hazardous to life or party in the use or occupancy of buildings or
premises in the Village of Bingham Farms
(O.C. § 9.201) (Am. Ord. 140, passed 9-27-93; Am. Ord. 177, passed 8-26-02)
§ 92.02 CODE ON FILE.
   Complete printed copies of the 1993 BOCA National Fire Prevention Code
herein adopted are available for public use and inspection at the Office of the
Village Clerk.
(O.C. § 9.202)
§ 92.03 REFERENCE IN CODE.
   Reference in the BOCA Fire Prevention Code to “Municipality” shall mean the
Village of Bingham Farms; references to “Corporation Counsel” shall mean the
Bingham Farms Village Attorney; references to “Chief of the Fire Department”
shall mean the Chief Operations Officer of the Franklin Volunteer Fire
Department, Inc.; and references to “local ordinances” shall mean the Ordinance
Code of the Village of Bingham Farms.
(O.C. § 9.203)
§ 92.04 AGENCY DESIGNATED.
   The Franklin-Bingham Fire Department is designated as the enforcing agency
to discharge the responsibilities of the Village of Bingham Farms in enforcing
this chapter.
(O.C. § 9.204)
§ 92.05 CONFLICTING ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   All ordinances inconsistent with the BOCA National Fire Prevention Code as
herein adopted are, to the extent of such inconsistency, repealed.
(O.C. § 9.205)
§ 92.06 CHANGES IN CODE.
   The following article, sections and subsections of the Fire Prevention Code
are amended or deleted as set forth and additional sections and subsections are
added as indicated. Subsequent section numbers used in this chapter shall refer
to the like-numbered sections of the Fire Prevention Code.
ARTICLE I
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
   F-100.7. Title. 
These regulations as set forth herein shall be known as the Fire Prevention
Code of the Village of Bingham Farms, Michigan, and is hereinafter referred to
as such or as “this Code.”
(O.C. § 9.206)
CHAPTER 93: TREE AND WOODLANDS PROTECTION AND MAINTENANCE
Section
   
93.01   Findings
   
93.02   Intent and purpose
   
93.03   Definitions
   
93.04   Removal prohibitions and permit requirements
   
93.05   Tree removal permit exemptions
   
93.06   Permit applications
   
93.07   Permit application review, decision and appeal procedure
   
93.08   Permit review standards and conditions
   
93.09   Tree replacement option and standards
   
93.10   Historic and specimen tree designations and protections
   
93.11   Dead, diseased, infested, decayed, defective or damaged trees
   
93.12   Enforcement and penalties
§ 93.01 FINDINGS. 
   The Village of Bingham Farms finds that protection of natural resources is a
matter of paramount public concern as provided by Article IV, Section 52 of the
Constitution of the State of Michigan and the Natural Resources and
Environmental Protection Act (Act 451, Public Acts of 1994 as amended).
Continued growth, new development, and redevelopment in Bingham Farms, and
increased demand on natural resources have the effect of encroaching upon,
despoiling, or eliminating many of the trees and other forms of vegetation,
natural resources, and processes associated with wooded areas. If preserved and
maintained in an undisturbed and natural condition, these resources constitute
important physical, aesthetic, recreational, and economic assets to existing
and future residents of the village. Specifically, the village finds that:
   (A)   Woodland growth protects public health through the absorption of air
pollutants and contamination, through the reduction of excessive noise and
mental and physical damage related to noise pollution, and through its cooling
effect in the summer months;
   (B)   Woodlands provide for public safety through the prevention of erosion,
siltation, and flooding;
   (C)   Trees and woodland growth are an essential component of the general
welfare of the village by virtue of maintaining play areas for children and
natural beauty, recreation opportunities and irreplaceable heritage for
existing and future residents; and
   (D)   The protection of such natural resources is a matter of paramount
public concern in the interest of health, safety and general welfare of the
residents of the village.
(Ord. 189, passed 8-23-04)
§ 93.02 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   The intent and purpose of this chapter is to promote feasible and prudent
alternatives to the destruction and removal of trees and woodlands consistent
with promotion of the public health, safety and welfare in light of the
paramount public concern for the protection of natural resources from
impairment or destruction; to provide for the protection and preservation of
trees and woodlands in order to minimize destruction and disturbance to them,
the wildlife habitat that they provide, and other consequential effects on
other natural resources; and to protect and preserve trees and woodlands for
their economic support of local property values, natural beauty, wilderness
character, and ecological significance. The intent of this chapter is not to be
excessively restrictive nor prohibitive, but to provide for the submission and
evaluation of feasible and prudent alternatives to the destruction and removal
of trees and woodlands in accordance with the standards and procedures set
forth herein prior to such action being taken.
(Ord. 189, passed 8-23-04)
§ 93.03  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONIFEROUS TREES. Trees that are typically evergreen and bear cones.
   DECIDUOUS TREES. Trees, including ornamental and canopy, that shed their
leaves.
   DIAMETER BREAST HEIGHT (d.b.h.). The diameter of a tree, in inches, measured
at 4 ½ feet above the ground.
   HISTORIC TREE. A tree which has been designated by the Planning Commission
to be of notable historic interest to the village because of its age, type,
size, or historic association.
   NUISANCE TREE. A tree that is diseased or infected by parasites and where an
outbreak of infestation has caused the State of Michigan to issue a quarantine
or ban the transportation of such species.
   REGULATED TREES. Include all deciduous trees having a six inch d.b.h. or
greater and coniferous trees 20 feet in height or greater.
   REMOVE, REMOVED, REMOVAL. To fully or partially cut down, damage, destroy,
or move (transplant) a tree.
   SITE. A parcel of land such as a subdivision lot, condominium unit and every
other separately described area of land in the village.
   SPECIMEN TREE. A tree which has been designated by the Planning Commission
because of its high value as a representative tree of a particular type or
species, due to its size, age, or other prominent botanical characteristics.
   TREE. A woody plant which attains the height of at least ten feet at
maturity and has a single main stem or trunk.
   VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR. The Village Clerk or other person designated to
administer this chapter by resolution of the Village Council.
(Ord. 189, passed 8-23-04)
§ 93.04  REMOVAL PROHIBITIONS AND PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No more than three regulated trees may be removed from a site within a
two year time period without first obtaining a tree removal permit from the
Village Manager and no regulated tree shall be removed from a site without
first providing notice to the Village Manager that identifies the tree and
removal date. Every person that removes or authorizes removal of a regulated
tree from a site is responsible for complying with this section.
   (B)   No tree removal permit may be approved or issued for activity that
will or may cause or result in the removal of more than 10% of the regulated
trees on a site, with the regulated trees located in the house building
footprint and the regulated trees located in the area that extends six feet
from the edge of the house building footprint not being included in the
calculation of the 10%, unless a tree replacement plan conforming to the
requirements in §
93.09 is submitted and approved by the village.
(Ord. 189, passed 8-23-04; Am. Ord. 276, passed 5-20-24)
§ 93.05 TREE REMOVAL PERMIT EXEMPTIONS.
   The following activities are exempt from the tree removal permit
requirements of this chapter:
   (A)   The removal of dead or damaged trees where the death or damage
resulted from an accident or non-human cause;
   (B)   The trimming, maintenance, or care of trees in accordance with
standard forestry and horticultural practices and techniques as established by
the American Association of Nurserymen or an equivalent organization
promulgating standards for care and improvement of trees;
   (C)   The removal or destruction of trees damaged by tornado, windstorm,
flood, freeze, fire, dangerous insect infestation, or man-made or natural
disaster, in order to prevent injury or damage to persons or property;
   (D)   The removal, transplanting or destruction of trees in order to perform
maintenance or repair of lawfully located roads, public utilities, structures
and facilities used in the service of the public, provided that such roads,
public utilities, structures and facilities are not materially changed or
enlarged;
   (E)   The removal, trimming, maintenance, transplanting or destruction of
trees in the area encompassed by the right-of-way of a public street or an
easement for public utilities.
(Ord. 189, passed 8-23-04)
§ 93.06 PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   A tree removal permit application shall include the following:
   (A)   A tree removal permit application form containing the following
information:
      (1)   Address, legal description and parcel identification for the site.
      (2)   Property owner names and mailing addresses.
      (3)   Where tree removal will be by other than property owners,
contractor name, address, licensing and insurance information.
      (4)   Scaled map or drawing of the site showing the size, description and
location of the trees proposed for removal.
      (5)   Information or statements that confirm that the standards and
conditions for approval of a tree removal permit in § 93.08 will be satisfied.
   (B)   If a tree/woodlands management plan is required it shall include:
      (1)   The shape and dimensions of the site, together with the existing
and proposed location of structures and improvements, including existing and
proposed utilities, existing grades and proposed changes to existing grades.
      (2)   Location and dimensions of all setbacks and existing or proposed
easements.
      (3)   An identifying number designating all existing trees proposed to
remain, to be relocated or to be removed.
      (4)   If replacement of trees is required, the location and method by
which trees will be replaced, including the size and type of replacement trees.
      (5)   If existing trees are to be relocated, the proposed location for
such trees, together with a statement setting forth how such trees are to be
removed, protected and/or stored during land clearance, development and
construction and how they are to be maintained after construction.
      (6)   A statement setting forth how existing trees which are not to be
relocated are to be protected during land clearance, development, construction
and on a permanent basis, including proposed use of tree wells, protective
barriers, tunneling or retaining walls.
      (7)   The number of regulated trees to be removed.
      (8)   Other information and detail regarding the proposed activity and
its impacts on trees and other vegetation on the site as may be requested by
the Village Administrator.
      (9)   All information and details shall be provided by a registered land
surveyor, registered engineer, registered landscape architect, certified
arborist or forester who must verify the contents by seal or signature,
whichever applies.
   (C)   Review fees as established by resolution of the Village Council.
(Ord. 189, passed 8-23-04)
§ 93.07 PERMIT APPLICATION REVIEW, DECISION AND APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Tree removal permits require that formal application be made to the
village. All tree removal permit applications will be reviewed and approved or
denied by the Village Administrator or designee. The Village Administrator may
enlist the assistance of an outside woodlands expert to perform reviews of tree
removal permit applications.
   (B)   Appeals from decisions made on a tree removal permit, tree/woodlands
management plan or tree replacement requirements shall be to the Village
Council upon written request filed with the Village Clerk within 21 days of the
decision.
(Ord. 189, passed 8-23-04)
§ 93.08 PERMIT REVIEW STANDARDS AND CONDITIONS.
   The following standards and conditions shall govern the granting or denial
of a tree removal permit and to the extent applicable and unless otherwise
excluded, shall be considered part of every such permit:
   (A)   The preservation and conservation of trees, woodlands, associated
vegetation, related wildlife and other natural resources shall have priority
over development when there are feasible and prudent location alternatives on
the site for proposed buildings, structures or other improvements.
   (B)   The integrity of woodland areas shall be maintained irrespective of
whether such woodlands cross property lines.
   (C)   Diversity of tree species shall be maintained when essential to
preserving a woodland area.
   (D)   Where the proposed activity consists of land clearing, it shall be
limited to designated road rights-of-way, drainage and utility areas, and areas
necessary for the construction of buildings, structures or other improvements.
   (E)   Where the proposed activity involves residential development, the
residential structures shall, to the extent feasible, be designed and located
to incorporate the existing natural features of a site.
   (F)   The proposed activity shall comply with all applicable statutes and
ordinances.
   (G)   The proposed activity shall include necessary provisions for tree
relocation or replacement as may be required by this section.
(Ord. 189, passed 8-23-04)
§ 93.09 TREE REPLACEMENT OPTION AND STANDARDS.
   (A)   If the Village Administrator determines that a tree removal permit
meets all of the standards of §§ 93.06 and 93.08 and that a justification for
removal of regulated trees in excess of the standards of § 93.04(B) above has
been established, then tree replacement will be required as a condition of the
tree removal permit.
   (B)   Replacement of trees shall occur on the site or on property
permanently reserved as open space. Removal of trees must be in accordance with
a tree/woodlands management plan.
   (C)   All replacement trees shall have a 2 ½ inch d.b.h. or greater. Tree
replacement shall be at the following ratio:
 
Removed Tree Size          Ratio Replacement/
                           Removed Trees
Conifers         Deciduous
(height)         (d.b.h.)
20 ft. to 25 ft. 6 < 8     1
26 ft. or larger > 8 < 15  2
                 > 15      3
 
   (D)   All replacement trees shall satisfy American Association of Nurseryman
standards.   
   (E)   The location of replacement trees shall be subject to the approval of
the Village Administrator and shall provide the optimum enhancement,
preservation and protection of woodland areas.
(Ord. 189, passed 8-23-04)
§ 93.10 HISTORIC AND SPECIMEN TREE DESIGNATIONS AND PROTECTIONS.
   (A)   Any resident or property owner in the Village of Bingham Farms may
nominate a tree for Historic Tree or Specimen Tree designation by the Planning
Commission, based upon its age, type, size, and historical or cultural
association. As a guideline the Planning Commission may consider a significant
size to be a minimum d.b.h. of 18 inches or a size significant to the tree's
species.
   (B)   Historic or Specimen Trees must be in good health/condition as
determined by the village.
   (C)   The nomination shall be made on a form provided by the Planning
Commission. If the nomination is made by a person who is not the owner of the
property on which the tree is located, the owner shall be notified in writing,
by regular U.S. Mail, at least 15 days in advance of the date, time, and place
that the Planning Commission will consider the designation. The notice shall
advise the owner that designation will make it unlawful to damage, destroy, or
remove the tree. If the owner does not object, the Planning Commission may
designate the tree if it meets one or more of the criteria outlined above. If
the owner objects, the Planning Commission shall not designate the proposed
Historic or Specimen Tree.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, damage or destroy a
Historic or Specimen Tree.
(Ord. 189, passed 8-23-04)
§ 93.11 DEAD, DISEASED, INFESTED, DECAYED, DEFECTIVE OR DAMAGED TREES.
   (A)   Public nuisance. The village determines that all dead, diseased,
infested, decayed, defective, or damaged trees located in the village that
threaten or endanger the public or persons, structure or property on adjoining
land are public nuisances.
   (B)   Property owner’s responsibilities.
      (1)   Land owners shall maintain or treat their trees so that the trees
do not become a threat or danger to the public or to persons, structures or
property on adjoining land.
      (2)   It shall be the land owner’s responsibility to properly and safely
prune, treat, remove and/or dispose of any trees, branches and limbs which, due
to death, disease, infestation, decay, defect or damage, threaten or endanger
the public or persons, structures or property on adjoining land.
      (3)   Diseased or infested trees, including but not limited to those
infected by the fungus Ceratostomella ulmi (Dutch elm disease), shall be
removed and destroyed in a manner approved by the Village Administrator or his
or her designee.
   (C)   Dangerous tree determination. In determining whether the condition of
a tree, branch or limb threatens or endangers the public or persons, structures
or property on adjoining land, the village shall be guided by the International
Society of Arboriculture Guide to Evaluation of Hazard Trees Urban Areas.
   (D)   Notice that action must be taken.
      (1)   On private property.
         (a)   The village may notify an owner of land on which a dead,
diseased, infested, decayed, defective, or damaged tree, branch, or limb is
found that is a danger to adjoining property, to abate the nuisance by pruning,
treating and/or removing the tree, branch or limb. The notice shall be in
writing, shall be served personally or by certified mail on the land owner
according to the current property tax rolls, shall specify the nature of the
pruning, treatment and/or removal work needed, and shall prescribe the time
period within which it must be performed, which shall be not more than 30 days
unless the Village Administrator or his or her designee determine exigent or
special circumstances necessitate a different time period.
         (b)   Should the nuisance not be abated within the 30-day period, the
owner or occupant, or both, shall be deemed in violation of this division and
subject to the penalties set forth in §
93.12.
      (2)   On public property. Whenever a tree on public property is
determined to be dead, diseased, infested, decayed, defective, or damaged, the
village or other public agency that has jurisdiction over the property shall
forthwith cause the public nuisance to be abated by pruning, treating and/or
removing the tree, branch or limb in an approved manner.
(Ord. 227, passed 6-24-13)
§ 93.12 ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter may be enforced by the Building
Official, Clerk, Officers of the Franklin-Bingham Police Department and other
duly authorized personnel of the village, with violations of this chapter
punishable as municipal civil infractions as provided in Chapter 32 of this
code.
   (B)   Each occurrence of a violation, and each day a violation exists, shall
constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   Violations are considered to be a nuisance per se, with such
violations and correction of any conditions resulting from violations, subject
to abatement by and injunctive or other appropriate order of a court of
competent jurisdiction.
   (D)   Violations of this chapter subject the violator to village enforcement
through one or more of the remedies provided above, and the election by the
village to pursue one form or remedy does not waive or restrict the village's
option to pursue other remedies at the same or later time.
(Ord. 189, passed 8-23-04; Am. Ord. 227, passed 6-24-13)
CHAPTER 94: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Adoption
   
94.02   Zoning regulations regarding horses
   
94.03   Short title
   
94.04   Definitions
   
94.05   Duty to keep dog under reasonable control
   
94.06   Barking dogs
   
94.07   Vicious and rabid dogs
   
94.08   Horses and large animals
   
94.09   Location and housing
   
94.10   Removal of animal waste
   
94.11   Treatment of animals
   
94.12   Cruelty
   
94.13   Disposal of dead animals
   
94.14   Responsibility for damages
   
94.15   Enforcement; duty of Animal Control Officer; employment standards
License Requirements
   
94.25   License required
   
94.26   Licensing procedure
   
94.27   Violation tickets
   
94.28   Fees
   
94.29   Term of license
Impoundment and Confinement
   
94.40   Impounding dogs; facilities
   
94.41   Release of dogs; fees
   
94.42   Unclaimed dogs
   
94.43   Confinement for rabies
   
94.44   Duty to notify authorities
   
94.45   Quarantine
   
94.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 ADOPTION.
   The Township of Southfield Animal Regulations, the text of which is
contained herein below, are hereby adopted as an ordinance of the Village of
Bingham Farms, serve as the Village of Bingham Farms Animal Regulations.
(O.C. 9.101) (Am. Ord. 179, passed 8-26-02)
§ 94.02 ZONING REGULATIONS REGARDING HORSES.
   In the event of inconsistency or conflict between the provisions of the
Township of Southfield Animal Regulations regarding Horses and Large Animals
and more restrictive provisions of the Village of Bingham Farms Zoning
Ordinance regarding horses, the Zoning Ordinance Provisions shall control.
(O.C. 9.102) (Am. Ord. 179, passed 8-26-02)
Cross-reference:
   Zoning code, see
Ch. 157
§ 94.03 SHORT TITLE.
    This chapter shall be known and be cited as "Township of Southfield Animal
Regulations".
(Am. Ord. 179, passed 8-26-02)
§ 94.04 DEFINITIONS.
    The following terms when used in this chapter shall have the meanings set
forth in this section.
   ADEQUATE CARE. The provision of sufficient food, water, shelter, sanitary
conditions, exercise and veterinary medical attention in order to maintain an
animal in a state of good health.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. The person or persons employed by the township for
the purpose of enforcement and administration of the provisions of these
regulations.
   DOG. Any dog, whether male, female or unsexed.
   OWNER. Every person having a right or property in a dog, and every person
who keeps or harbors a dog or has it in his care, and every person who permits
a dog to remain in or about his premises occupied or owned by that person, for
a period of five days or more.
   REASONABLE CONTROL. A dog shall be deemed to be under reasonable control
when the dog is held securely by a leash of suitable strength and length, by
the owner, possessor or harborer thereof, or any other responsible person of
suitable age and strength, in an enclosed vehicle or container or on the
owner's occupied property.
   SANITARY CONDITIONS. Space free from health hazards including excessive
animal waste, overcrowding of animals, or other conditions that endanger the
animal's health.
   SHELTER. Adequate protection from the elements and weather conditions
suitable for the age and physical condition of the animal so as to maintain the
animal in a state of good health. Shelter for a dog shall include one or more
of the following:
      (1)   The residence of the dog's owner or other individual;
      (2)   A doghouse that is an enclosed structure with a roof and of
appropriate dimensions for the breed and size of the dog. The doghouse shall
have dry bedding when the outdoor temperature is or is predicted to drop below
freezing;
      (3)   A structure, including, but not limited to, a garage, barn, or shed
that is sufficiently insulated and ventilated to protect the dog from exposure
to extreme temperatures or, if not sufficiently insulated and ventilated,
contains a doghouse as provided under subsection (2) of this definition that is
accessible to the dog.
   STATE OF GOOD HEALTH. Freedom from disease and illness, and in a condition
of proper body weight and temperature for the age and species of the animal,
unless the animal is undergoing appropriate treatment.
   TETHERING. The restraint and confinement of a dog by use of a chain, rope,
or similar device.
   TOWNSHIP OF SOUTHFIELD. The unincorporated areas of Southfield Township and
the incorporated areas of the Villages of Beverly Hills, Franklin and Bingham
Farms.
(Am. Ord. 179, passed 8-26-02)
Statutory reference:
   Similar definitions, see M.C.L.A. § 750.50(1)
§ 94.05 DUTY TO KEEP DOG UNDER REASONABLE CONTROL. 
   No person owning a dog shall permit or allow the same to leave the person's
premises except when the dog is under reasonable control as defined in this
chapter. No dog shall be permitted or allowed to run at large.
(Am. Ord. 179, passed 8-26-02)
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.06 BARKING DOGS. 
   No persons shall own any dog which by loud or frequent or habitual barking,
yelping, or howling becomes a nuisance to occupiers of neighboring property.
(Am. Ord. 179, passed 8-26-02)
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.07 VICIOUS AND RABID DOGS.
   No person shall own a fierce or vicious dog, or a dog that has been bitten
by any animal known to have been afflicted with rabies. A dog may be deemed
fierce or vicious if the village has received more than one bite report
involving the same dog. Any dog found to be vicious or afflicted with rabies
shall be destroyed unless otherwise disposed as provided herein.
(Am. Ord. 179, passed 8-26-02)
Penalty, see § 94.99
Statutory reference:
   Dangerous animals, state provisions, see M.C.L.A. §§ 287.321 et seq.
§ 94.08 HORSES AND LARGE ANIMALS.
   All horses and large animals shall be confined unless being led or ridden on
public lands, as follows:
   (A)   No horse or other large animal shall be kept or maintained upon any
property within the Village of Bingham Farms unless there shall be a minimum of
one acre of pasture or unobstructed land for such animal. Such pasture shall be
exclusive of any buildings or structures, including driveways, sheds, utility
facilities or other types of structures with the sole exception of stables. Not
more than two such animals, including offspring kept for more than ninety days,
shall be kept per dwelling unit irrespective of acreage. All large animals
living on property in the Village of Bingham Farms as of the time of the
enactment of this section, regardless of number per dwelling unit, shall be
permitted until the animal no longer lives on the property.
   (B)   The acreage which is provided for the keeping of a horse or other
large animal shall be enclosed by a fence which shall be a minimum of four feet
in height and shall not exceed six feet in height, which shall be made of wood
and shall be consistent with the ordinances of the village. The fences
constructed after enactment of this section shall be set back a minimum of ten
feet from the property line.
   (C)   No person owning, keeping, or maintaining any horse or similar animal
shall permit such loud and unreasonable noises or noxious and constant odors to
emanate from the property where such animal is kept in such a manner so as to
cause an unreasonable interference with the rights, enjoyment and quietude of
surrounding properties.
   (D)   No person keeping such horse or large animal shall cause the
conditions of keeping such animal to lead to the deterioration of the health
and well-being of any such animal, nor abandon such animal or keep it without
adequate care or permit an aged, diseased, maimed, sick or disabled animal to
suffer unnecessary torture or pain; nor shall such animal be kept or maintained
without providing sufficient food, water, shelter, and medical attention in
order to maintain such animal in a state of good health.
   (E)   No person keeping or maintaining a horse or a similar animal within
the village shall permit such animal to enter upon the property of another
without the consent of such property owner, nor knowingly or willingly permit
such animal to deposit or leave excrement upon the private property of another.
(Am. Ord. 179, passed 8-26-02)
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.09 LOCATION AND HOUSING.
   All doghouses shall be in a strategically located place so as to provide
adequate shade in the summer months and shall be maintained in a clean and
sanitary condition, devoid of rodents, vermin, debris, excrement, and free from
objectionable odors. Yards and/or exercise dog runs shall be kept free of dog
droppings and uneaten food, and shall be maintained in a sanitary manner so as
not to be a nuisance because of odor or attraction for flies and vermin.
(Am. Ord. 179, passed 8-26-02)
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.10 REMOVAL OF ANIMAL WASTE. 
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit a dog owned, harbored, or
possessed by him or her to deposit fecal matter in any place other than the
premises where the dog is harbored or kept, unless the fecal matter is
immediately collected and removed to the premises where the dog is harbored or
kept.
(Am. Ord. 179, passed 8-26-02)
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.11 TREATMENT OF ANIMALS.
   An owner, possessor, or person having charge or custody of an animal shall
not do any of the following:
   (A)   Fail to provide the animal with adequate care;
   (B)   Cruelly drive, work, or beat an animal, or cause an animal to be
cruelly driven, worked, or beaten;
   (C)   Carry or cause to be carried in or upon a vehicle or otherwise any
live animal having the feet or legs tied together, other than an animal being
transported for medical care, or a horse whose feet are hobbled to protect the
horse during transport, or in any other cruel and inhumane manner;
   (D)   Carry or cause to be carried a live animal in or upon a vehicle or
otherwise without providing a secure space, rack, car, crate, or cage in which
livestock may stand and in which all other animals may stand, turn around, and
lie down during transportation;
   (E)   Abandon an animal or cause an animal to be abandoned in any place,
without making provisions for the animal's adequate care, unless premises are
temporarily vacated for the protection of human life during a disaster. An
animal that is lost by an owner or custodian while traveling or walking shall
not be regarded as abandoned under this section when the owner or custodian has
made a reasonable effort to locate the animal;
   (F)   Willfully or negligently allow any animal, including one who is aged,
diseased, maimed, hopelessly sick, disabled, or non-ambulatory to suffer
unnecessary neglect, torture, or pain;
   (G)   Tether a dog unless the tether is at least three times the length of
the dog as measured from the tip of its nose to the base of its tail and is
attached to a harness or non-choke collar designed for tethering;
   (H)   Every person lawfully keeping any animal shall maintain the premises
in which it is kept in a sanitary condition and free of insects, vermin or
obnoxious odors and to that end shall in any structure housing a horse do the
following:
      (1)   Construct a ten-inch clay floor;
      (2)   Keep manure in a container or trailer not less than 175 feet from
any dwelling, except that of the owner, and dispose thereof at least once each
week;
      (3)   Treat both the floor and manure accumulation daily with hydrated
lime or such other chemical as will prevent odor.
(Am. Ord. 179, passed 8-26-02)
Penalty, see § 94.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see M.C.L.A. § 750.50(2)
§ 94.12 CRUELTY.
   No person shall by use of any pit, pitfall, deadfall, snare, trap, net,
baited hook, or any similar device, or of any drug, poison, chemical or
explosive, injure or kill any bird, or any game, or fur bearing animal; nor
shall any person or persons at any time or in any manner whatever molest,
harass, or annoy any bird or any game or fur bearing animal with in the limits
of the village. This section shall not apply to legitimate animal control
activities of nuisance animals, such as wild and undomesticated rats, mice, and
other rodents.
(Am. Ord. 179, passed 8-26-02)
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.13 DISPOSAL OF DEAD ANIMALS.
   The owner of any dead dog or other animal shall promptly dispose of the
remains in a manner as not to cause a nuisance.
(Am. Ord. 179, passed 8-26-02)
Penalty, see § 94.99
Statutory reference:
   Disposal, state licensing regulations, see M.C.L.A. §§ 287.651 et seq.
   Feeding flesh to animals or fowl prohibited, see M.C.L.A. § 750.467
   Prohibitions regarding disposal, see M.C.L.A. § 750.57
   Transportation of dead animals, see M.C.L.A. § 750.471
§ 94.14 RESPONSIBILITY FOR DAMAGES. 
   Every owner, possessor or harborer of an animal shall be liable for damages,
any and all injuries to persons or property caused by the animal, to be
determined and collected in appropriate civil proceedings, and nothing in this
chapter shall be construed to impose any liability upon the village, its
officers, agents or employees, for any damages to persons or property caused by
the animal.
(Am. Ord. 179, passed 8-26-02)
§ 94.15 ENFORCEMENT; DUTY OF ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER; EMPLOYMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   The village may employ Animal Control Officers to enforce and
administer the provisions of this chapter. The Animal Control officer shall be
invested with the powers of a special police officer by the Village Clerk as
are necessary for the limited purpose of enforcing the provisions of this
chapter and its amendments. The provisions of this chapter may be enforced by
members of Police Department of the Village of Bingham Farms.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Animal Control Officer to make diligent
inquiry as to the dogs owned, harbored or kept within the village and whether
those dogs are licensed, and whether the owner, possessor or harborer is in
violation of any other provision of this chapter. Any dog found unlicensed may
be seized and impounded by the Animal Control Officer. If the owner, possessor
or harborer of the dog be known, the Animal Control Officer may issue a notice
of violation to appear at the Village Clerk's office, or his agent, within 72
hours, not including Saturdays, Sundays or holidays, to procure a license for
the dog. Failure of owner, possessor or harborer to appear and procure a
license may result in the issuance of an ordinance violation by the Animal
Control Officer for violation of § 94.25, the licensing section of this
chapter.
   (C)   (1)   The Animal Control Officer shall adhere to minimum employment
standard equivalent to those set by the Board of County Commissioners for
County Animal Control Officers, concerning recruitment, selection, and
appointment. The minimum standards shall include:
         (a)   Requirements for physical, educational, mental, and moral
fitness; and
         (b)   A minimum course of study of not less than 100 instructional
hours as prescribed by the Department of Agriculture.
      (2)   Subdivision (b) shall not apply if the Animal Control Officer is a
Police Officer or has served at least three years as an Animal Control Officer.
(Am. Ord. 179, passed 8-26-02)
LICENSE REQUIREMENTS 
§ 94.25 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, possess, or harbor any dog four
months of age or older in the village unless the dog is licensed as hereinafter
provided, or to own, possess, or harbor any dog four months of age or over that
does not at all times wear a collar or harness with current village metal
license tag attached, as hereinafter provided. The license tag shall be
nontransferable to any other dog.
(Am. Ord. 179, passed 8-26-02)
Penalty, see § 94.99
 § 94.26 LICENSING PROCEDURE. 
   (A)   Licenses to own dogs shall be issued by the Village Clerk or his
authorized agent upon application made therefore, together with payment of the
license fee provided in this chapter.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of any person owning a dog, on January 1 of any
subsequent year thereafter, or on or after any dog becoming four months of age,
or forthwith upon becoming a resident of the village, or becoming an owner of
the dog, to make application to the Village Clerk, giving the full name and
residence of the applicant and presentation of a current certificate of
vaccination for rabies, with a vaccine licensed by the United States Department
of Agriculture, signed by an accredited veterinarian. The certificate shall
state the month and year of expiration for the rabies vaccination, in the
veterinarian's opinion. A license shall not be issued if the dog's current
rabies vaccination will expire more than 30 days before the date on which the
requested license would expire. The application shall also state the breed,
sex, age, color, and markings of the dog, the owner's name and address, and the
name and address of the last previous owner. Upon payment of the license fee,
and if all other requirements have been satisfied, the Village Clerk or
authorized agent shall issue to each applicant a license to own or harbor a dog
for the term commencing at the date of the license and terminating December 31
following. For each license the Village Clerk shall at the time and before
issuing the same and for each renewal thereof collect from each applicant a
license fee set by the Village Board by resolution, from time to time, for each
dog four months of age or over.
(Am. Ord. 179, passed 8-26-02)
§ 94.27 VIOLATION TICKETS.
   (A)   When a violation ticket is issued for “failure to obtain a dog
license," the owner, possessor, or harborer must purchase a current license
from the village office and show proof of same to the court office before
violation payment will be accepted.
   (B)   All violation tickets to be handled by the appropriate court.
(Am. Ord. 179, passed 8-26-02)
§ 94.28 FEES.
   (A)   License fees shall be set by resolution of the Council. There shall be
a fee for each dog, in case of a dog which has been duly licensed in another
county, township, city or village in the state, if application is made by the
owner of the dog within 30 days after taking up residence in the village, and
at least 60 days prior to the expiration of his foreign license, the Village
Clerk shall collect a fee for each dog. The Clerk shall retain and file the
foreign license but shall return it to the owner on demand if at any time the
owner returns to his or her former jurisdiction or for any other cause desires
the return of his or her license and deposits with the Clerk his or her Village
of Bingham Farms license in exchange therefor. Any person becoming the owner of
any dog after the first day of April of any year which dog has not already been
licensed, or any person owning a dog which becomes four months old after April
1 of any year, shall forthwith apply for and secure a license for the dog,
which license shall be issued without penalty, in the event the application be
made within 30 days after applicant has acquired the dog or after the dog has
reached the age of four months. Any owner of a dog failing to obtain a license
as provided herein prior to March 31 shall pay a double fee for the license. In
situations where a dog is acquired or becomes four months of age, or a dog
owner begins residing in the village, after July 1, the owner shall only be
required to pay one-half of the annual fee.
   (B)   Duplicates of license shall be issued upon payment of the required
fee. All monies received by the Clerk shall be turned over to the Village
Treasurer. No person shall keep more than two dogs of the age of four months or
over on any property in the village.
(Am. Ord. 179, passed 8-26-02)
§ 94.29 TERM OF LICENSE.
   All licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be valid and
operative for a term beginning the date of the license in the calendar year for
which the license is issued and terminating on the last day of December of the
year.
(Am. Ord. 179, passed 8-26-02)
IMPOUNDMENT AND CONFINEMENT
§ 94.40 IMPOUNDING DOGS; FACILITIES.
   (A)   Dog pound. The village will not establish a dog pound but will use the
facilities of area veterinarians when and where approved and available.
   (B)   Impounding of dogs. It shall be the duty of the Animal Control Officer
to take up, seize and place in the dog pound all dogs that may be found running
at large or being kept or harbored in any place within the village contrary to
the provisions of this chapter.
(Am. Ord. 179, passed 8-26-02)
§ 94.41 RELEASE OF DOGS; FEES.
   (A)   No dog shall be released from the pound unless the owner, possessor,
or harborer or his authorized agent shall pay a fee as set forth in the
following schedule.
      (1)   For release of a licensed dog, properly immunized against rabies,
the sum of $15.
      (2)   Payment of the cost of boarding the dog, at the rate of $3 for each
day including the first day.
   (B)   The owner, possessor or harborer of any unlicensed dog must present
proof of immunization within 72 hours of release of the dog, or be subject to
the issuance of an ordinance violation for owning, possessing or harboring an
unlicensed dog. The cost of immunization and licensing shall be paid by the
owner, possessor or harborer, in addition to the fees herein provided.
   (C)   The Animal Control Officer shall keep a careful record of all dogs
received by him with a description thereof and the disposition of the same,
which record will be filed with the Clerk monthly or more often should the
Clerk require. He shall also, not later than the next working day after
receipt, pay to the Village Clerk all monies received by him, whereupon the
Clerk shall turn the monies over to the Village Treasurer.
(Am. Ord. 179, passed 8-26-02)
§ 94.42 UNCLAIMED DOGS.
   All dogs not claimed and released to the owner within four days, not
including the first day of impoundment, shall be destroyed, or if the animal is
deemed valuable by the Animal Warden, the same may be sold for the total amount
of fees for boarding, providing that the dog be properly immunized and licensed
at the expense of the purchaser.
(Am. Ord. 179, passed 8-26-02)
§ 94.43 CONFINEMENT FOR RABIES.
   Any person who shall own a dog which has contracted rabies, or which has
been subjected to same, or which is suspected of having rabies, or which has
bitten any person, shall upon demand of the Animal Control Officer produce and
surrender up the dog to the Animal Control Officer to be held at a licensed
veterinarian or at the owner's home for treatment and observation for whatever
period is necessary to ascertain the extent of rabies. The confinement shall be
at the sole expense of the owner of the dog, and without expense or risk on the
part of the village. In lieu of delivering up of the dog as aforesaid, the
person shall have the option of delivering the dog to an approved veterinarian
for treatment and observation for rabies, and shall furnish to the Animal
Control Officer written evidence that the dog has been so delivered, the
confinement being at the sole expense of the owner of the dog.
(Am. Ord. 179, passed 8-26-02)
§ 94.44 DUTY TO NOTIFY AUTHORITIES.
   It shall be the duty of any person owning a dog which has been attacked or
bitten by another dog or another animal showing symptoms of rabies to
immediately notify the Animal Control Officer that the person has the dog in
his possession and the person shall comply with all lawful orders and
requirements of the Animal Control Officer regarding treatment of the dog for
rabies.
(Am. Ord. 179, passed 8-26-02)
§ 94.45 QUARANTINE.
   The Animal Control Officer is hereby authorized to require that any dog be
quarantined or that a quarantine be established by the village for a defined
period, whenever in his opinion these measures are necessary in order to
protect the health, safety, and welfare of the people of the village.
(Am. Ord. 179, passed 8-26-02)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violations. The Animal Control Officer is hereby authorized, upon
witnessing of violation of this chapter, in addition to seizing and impounding
the dog, to issue to the owner, possessor, or harborer of the dog, an ordinance
violation which shall include the date, time, and location of the offense, and
shall include the applicable section number of the ordinance of which the
owner, possessor, or harborer of the dog is in violation, wherein the Animal
Control Officer has determined that the owner, possessor, or harborer of the
dog has been in violation of the same offense one or more times within the
previous one-year period. All further proceedings shall be held in accordance
with the rules and practices of the District Court of Michigan.
   (B)   Penalties. Any person or persons violating any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof be
subject to the provisions of this code of ordinances.
(Am. Ord. 179, passed 8-26-02)
CHAPTER 95: NUISANCES
Section
General Nuisances
   
95.01   Placing handbills on vehicles
   
95.02   Destruction chemicals
   
95.03   Pollution of bodies of water
   
95.04   Buildings damaged by fire
   
95.05   Unguarded excavations
   
95.06   Improperly loaded trucks
   
95.07   Property owner responsible
   
95.08   Abatement of general nuisances
   
95.09   Abandoned refrigerators
   
95.10   Vehicle sale regulations
Noise
   
95.20   Excessive noise declared nuisance
   
95.21   Specific offenses
   
95.22   Exceptions
Noxious Weeds
   
95.35   Noxious weeds defined and prohibited as nuisance
   
95.36   Noxious weeds notices and action by village
   
95.37   Fines, orders and recovery of expenses by village
 
   
95.99   Penalty
GENERAL NUISANCES
§ 95.01 PLACING HANDBILLS ON VEHICLES.
   No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial handbill in
or upon any vehicle, provided, however, that it shall not be unlawful in any
public place for a person to hand out or distribute without charge to the
receiver thereof a noncommercial handbill to any occupant of a vehicle who is
willing to accept same.
(O.C. § 6.1)
§ 95.02 DESTRUCTION CHEMICALS.
   No person shall drop, scatter, strew or place or cause or permit to escape
from any receptacle or vehicle any solid or liquid compound or chemical
compound of any description which shall be destructive to the pavements, curbs,
vegetation or other improvements or to any plant or structure within the limits
of any public highway or public place within the village or which shall
endanger any person or animal or cause damage to any vehicle passing over the
public highways or public places of the village.
(O.C. § 6.2)
§ 95.03 POLLUTION OF BODIES OF WATER.
   No person shall pollute any stream, lake or body of water by depositing into
such body of water or any lot or grounds adjacent to such body of water or upon
any highway, street, lane, public street, public or private sewer or drain any
refuse, foul or nauseous liquid or water or industrial waste; force or
discharge into any public or private sewer or drain any refuse, foul or
nauseous liquid or water or
industrial waste; or force or discharge into any public or private sewer or
drain any steam, vapor or gas.
(O.C. § 6.3)
§ 95.04 BUILDINGS DAMAGED BY FIRE.
   All buildings, walls and other structures which have been damaged by fire,
decay or otherwise and all excavations unfilled or uncovered for a period of 90
days or longer and which are so situated so as to endanger the safety of the
public are declared to be nuisances.
(O.C. § 6.4)
§ 95.05 UNGUARDED EXCAVATIONS.
   All dangerous, unguarded excavations or machinery in any public place or so
situated, left or operated on private property so as to attract the public are
declared to be nuisances.
(O.C. § 6.5)
§ 95.06 IMPROPERLY LOADED TRUCKS.
   No person shall own, drive or move upon the public streets trucks or other
motor vehicles which are constructed or loaded so as to permit any part of its
load or contents to blow, fall or be deposited upon any street or other public
or private place or which deposits from its wheels, tires or other parts onto
the street or other public or private place dirt, grease, tar, sticky
substances or foreign matter of any kind. Provided, however, that under
circumstances determined by the Village Council to be in the public interest,
permits may be granted providing temporary exemptions from the provisions of
this subsection conditioned upon cleaning and correcting the violating
condition at least once daily and execution of an agreement by such person to
reimburse the village in connection with such violation.
(O.C. § 6.6)
§ 95.07 PROPERTY OWNER RESPONSIBLE.
   (A)   Any person owning private property from which a truck or other motor
vehicle exits upon a public street or other public place or right-of-way and
deposits thereon from its wheels, tires or any other portion of such vehicle
mud, dirt, grease or any other material shall be responsible for such unlawful
deposit.
   (B)   Upon determining that asphalt, tar, concrete, cement or other
impervious material have been deposited on any public street or other public
place or right-of-way, the village shall notify the owner of such property at
the owner’s address as set forth in the village records or by posting of the
premises from which such asphalt, tar, concrete, cement or other impervious
material originated to remove same at the owner’s sole expense.
   (C)   If the notice provided for in division (B) of this section is given by
certified mail or by posting on such parcel from which the material originated,
and such material is not removed within a reasonable period after the mailing
or posting of such notice, the village may repair, resurface or take any other
remedy to remove such materials from the public street or right-of-way and
charge the cost thereof against the premises from which the vehicles entered
upon any public street or other public place or right-of-way in accordance with
the provisions of the Village Charter, Chapter X, Sections 10, 11 and 12.
(O.C. § 6.7)
§ 95.08 ABATEMENT OF GENERAL NUISANCES.
   (A)   The Village Charter may, after notice to the owner and after holding a
public hearing thereon, declare any condition existing on the owner’s property
to be a public nuisance by giving notice to the owner of the land upon which
such condition is located and requiring the owner to abate the nuisance within
such reasonable time as may be necessary to do or have done the work required
by said notice. The notice may also provide a reasonable time within which such
work shall be commenced.
   (B)   If, at the expiration of any time limit in said notice, the owner has
not complied with the requirements thereof, the Village Clerk shall cause the
requirements of said notice to be carried out. The cost of such abatement shall
be charged against the premises and the owner thereof in accordance with the
provisions of the Village Charter, Chapter X, Sections 13, 14 and 15.
(O.C. § 6.8)
§ 95.09 ABANDONED REFRIGERATORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave in a place accessible to
children, any abandoned, unattended or discarded icebox, refrigerator or any
other container of any kind or size sufficient to permit the entrapment or
suffocation of child therein, without first removing the snap-lock or other
locking device from the lid or cover thereof.
(M.C.L.A. § 750.493d) (O.C. § 6.12)
§ 95.10 VEHICLE SALE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Findings, intent and purpose. The village has determined that the
number and manner in which vehicles are offered or made available for sale
requires regulation to protect the public health, safety and welfare and the
character and safety of the village and its neighborhoods and streets. The
intent and purpose of this section is to preserve those values by regulating
vehicle sale displays and signs and establishing responsibility for ordinance
compliance and violations.
   (B)   Definitions. For purposes of this section the following terms shall
have the meanings indicated. Terms not defined shall have their common meaning
or as defined elsewhere in this code.
      LOT. A separate parcel of occupied or vacant land that is identified by a
separate address or tax parcel identification number.
      SIGN. Words, numbers, figures, devices, designs or objects, on or in any
form, which is visible from a street or any public or private property except
the lot upon which the sign is located.
      VEHICLE. A car, truck, bus, motorcycle or other motor vehicle,
recreational vehicle including but not limited to a travel trailer, fifth
wheel, motor home, camper, watercraft, snowmobile and off-road or all-terrain
vehicle, and utility or other trailers designed for transporting or storing
another vehicle.
   (C)   Prohibited displays, signage and locations. Unless specifically
authorized, licensed and/or permitted under the village zoning and other
applicable ordinances, it shall be unlawful:
      (1)   To park, store, place or allow the parking, storage or placement of
a vehicle on property in the village with a sign that attracts attention to,
advertises or provides any information regarding a vehicle that is or may be
offered for sale, lease or transfer, attached or affixed to the interior or
exterior of the vehicle.
      (2)   To erect, maintain or allow the erection or maintenance of a sign
on property in the village that attracts attention to, advertises or provides
any information regarding a vehicle that is or may be offered or available for
sale, lease or transfer.
      (3)   On any lot, to park, store, place or allow the parking, storage or
placement of more than one vehicle that is advertised, offered or available for
sale, lease or transfer.
      (4)   To park, store, place or allow the parking, storage or placement of
a vehicle that is advertised, offered or available for sale, lease or transfer
in any location on a lot other than the driveway or within a street right-of-
way.
   (D)   Violations, persons responsible, citations and enforcement.
      (1)   Violations of this section shall be municipal civil infractions and
be punishable and processed as provided in Chapter 32 of this code.
      (2)   The owners and occupants of a lot that is used, and registered
owners or leaseholders of a vehicle that is parked, stored or placed in
violation of this section shall each be individually responsible for the
municipal civil infraction.
      (3)   In any prosecution for a violation of any provision of this
section, proof that the particular vehicle described in the complaint was
parked, stored or placed in violation of any provision of this section,
together with proof that the defendant named in the complaint was, at the time
of the violation, the registered owner or leaseholder of such vehicle or owner
or occupant of the lot at which the violation occurred, shall constitute prima
facie evidence that the defendant is a person responsible for the violation.
      (4)   Whenever any vehicle is found to have been parked, stored or placed
in violation of any provision of this section, and the registered owner/
leaseholder responsible for the violation is not immediately available for
personal service, the officer finding such vehicle may serve a citation by
conspicuously affixing it to the vehicle and sending a copy to the registered
owner or leaseholder at their address of record with the Secretary of State.
      (5)   The provisions of this chapter may be enforced by officers of the
Franklin-Bingham Police Department, any Ordinance Enforcement Officer for the
village authorized pursuant to Chapter 32 of this code or other village officer
or official authorized by the Village Charter.
(Ord. 195, passed 9-26-05)
NOISE
§ 95.20 EXCESSIVE NOISE DECLARED NUISANCE.
   All loud or unusual noises or sounds and annoying vibrations which offend
the peace and quiet of persons of ordinary sensibilities are declared to be
public nuisances.
(O.C. § 6.9)
§ 95.21 SPECIFIC OFFENSES.
   Each of the following acts is declared to be unlawful and prohibited, but
this enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive, namely:
   (A)   Construction noises. The erection (including excavating therefore),
demolition, alteration or repair of any building and the excavation of streets
and highways on Sundays or on any other days between sunset and 7:00 a.m.
   (B)   Exhaust engines. The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any
steam engine, stationary internal combustion engine or motor vehicle except
through a muffler or other device which effectively prevents loud or explosive
noises therefrom.
   (C)   Blowers. The discharge into the open air of air from any noise
creating blower or power fan unless the noise from such blower or fan is
muffled.
   (D)   Horns and signal devices.  The sounding of any horns or signal devices
on an automobile, motorcycle, bus or other vehicle while not in motion, except
as a danger signal if another vehicle is approaching, apparently out of control
or to give warning of intent to get under motion, or if in motion, only as a
danger signal after or as brakes are being applied and deceleration of the
vehicle is intended; the creation by means of any signal device of any
unreasonable loud or harsh sound; and the sounding of such device for an
unnecessary and unreasonable period of time.
   (E)   Shouting or whistling. Yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling or
singing or the making of any other loud noise on the public streets between the
hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. or the making of any such noise at any time
so as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of persons in any
school, place of worship or office or in any dwelling, other type of residence
or of any persons in the vicinity.
(O.C. § 6.10) (Am. Ord. 239, passed 9-26-16)
§ 95.22 EXCEPTIONS.
   None of the terms or prohibitions of § 95.21 shall apply to or be enforced
against the following.
   (A)   Emergency vehicles. Any police or fire vehicle or any ambulance, while
engaged upon emergency business.
   (B)   Highway maintenance and construction. Excavations or repairs of
bridges, streets or highways by or on behalf of the village or the State of
Michigan during the night when the public safety, welfare and convenience
renders it impossible to perform such work during the day.
(O.C. § 6.11)
NOXIOUS WEEDS
§ 95.35 NOXIOUS WEEDS DEFINED AND PROHIBITED AS NUISANCE.
   (A)   For purposes of this chapter, Commissioner means the Village Clerk,
who is appointed and shall serve as the village's Commissioner of Noxious
Weeds, as provided in this chapter and Public Act No. 359 of 1941, as amended.
   (B)   NOXIOUS WEEDS, which are declared to be a public nuisance for purposes
of §95.08 and that shall be abated as provided in this chapter, mean weeds,
grasses and vegetation other than live flowers, trees, shrubs and fruit or
vegetable plants, that exceed a height of eight inches above ground level, and
which the Village Council has determined to constitute a common nuisance.
   (C)   Unless exempt under division (D), owners, occupants and agents of
owners of land shall maintain the land free from noxious weeds, as defined in
division (B), by necessary removal, cutting or mowing.
   (D)   Land located within a conservation area or easement, open space or
natural area that has been approved by the village to be left in its natural
state without the removal, cutting or mowing otherwise required by division
(C), shall be exempt from those requirements. For purposes of this exemption,
village approval may be by a permit or plan approval under Chapter
157.
   (E)   No person shall deposit, store or allow the deposit or storage of
noxious weeds, grass or weed clippings, tree branches, leaves or cut dead
plants of any nature on any property without the written permission of the
owner of the property, in a manner that violates other village ordinances or
creates or constitutes a nuisance, or for a longer period than necessary for
the lawful disposal of the materials.
(Am. Ord. 160, passed 8-25-97; Am. Ord. 205, passed 6-25-07)
§ 95.36 NOXIOUS WEEDS NOTICES AND ACTIONS BY VILLAGE.
   (A)   (1)   On an annual basis in March, the Commissioner may cause a notice
to be published, in a newspaper of general circulation in the village, that
noxious weeds existing on a property as of May 1 of that year may be cut, mowed
or removed by the village, with the property owner charged with the village's
actual and administrative costs and expenses in doing so, as many times that
calendar year as necessary to keep the property free from noxious weeds.
      (2)   Such a notice shall also contain the information described in
division (B).
   (B)   (1)   The Commissioner shall provide written notice to owners of
property upon which noxious weeds exist, and to occupants and agents of owners
of the property known to the Commissioner:
         (a)   To cut, mow or remove the noxious weeds within ten days of the
date of the notice;
         (b)   To thereafter maintain the property free from noxious weeds;
         (c)   That upon a failure or refusal to do so, that the Commissioner,
by village employees or contractors, will enter upon the property and perform
the required cutting, mowing or removal;
         (d)   That payment of the village's actual and administrative expenses
incurred in cutting, mowing or removal is the responsibility of the property
owners, and is secured by a lien on the property;
         (e)   That the existence of noxious weeds is a public nuisance; and
         (f)   Of any public nuisance hearing that may be scheduled before the
Village Council under §
95.08.
      (2)   The notice under this division shall be given by certified mail
with return receipt requested, unless the notice under division (A) has been
published, in which case the notice may be by first class mail.
   (C)   If at any time during the remainder of the calendar year, commencing
ten days after the mailing of the notice under division (B), noxious weeds
exist on a property, the Commissioner shall cause the noxious weeds to be cut,
mowed or removed by village employees or contractors as many times that
calendar year as necessary to keep the property free from noxious weeds, and
after each such cutting, mowing or removal, shall bill the property owners for
the village's expenses incurred, consisting of actual costs and expenses and
administrative expenses as determined and established by Village Council
resolution.
   (D)   The Commissioner's bill for village expenses shall be paid within 30
days, after which a penalty of 1% per month shall be added and due on any
unpaid balance.
      (1)   Payment of all expenses and penalties shall be secured by a lien on
the property as of the date the village first performed work.
      (2)   The Commissioner's bill shall notify the property owner of the
right, within the 30 days allowed for payment, to dispute all or part of the
bill by filing a written appeal to the Village Council.
      (3)   If the Commissioner receives such an appeal, it shall be scheduled
for hearing at the next available Village Council meeting.
      (4)   The Commissioner may also schedule a public nuisance hearing before
the Village Council for any noxious weeds conditions that were corrected by the
Commissioner on the property for which the bill is being disputed.
(Am. Ord. 160, passed 8-25-97; Am. Ord. 205, passed 6-25-07)
§ 95.37 FINES, ORDERS AND RECOVERY OF EXPENSES BY VILLAGE.
   (A)   (1)   A person that fails to remove, cut or mow noxious weeds as
required in this chapter is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, the
fine for which shall be $100 for each failure that results in the Commissioner
having the required work performed.
      (2)   In addition, the court judgment, writ or order against a person
determined to be responsible for a violation of this chapter may include an
order for payment of damages to the village for all unpaid expenses and
penalties for noxious weed cutting, mowing or removal, interest and attorney
fees incurred in enforcement.
   (B)   (1)   By February 1 of each year, the Commissioner shall report and
schedule a public hearing before the Village Council for its February meeting,
on the amount of all unpaid expenses, penalties and other charges for noxious
weed removal, cutting and mowing for the prior calendar year, and the
properties for which those charges were incurred.
      (2)   The hearing shall be held, as provided in §
95.08, for the purpose of allowing property owners the opportunity to object to
the abatement measures undertaken by the Commissioner prior to the unpaid
amounts being certified for collection on the tax roll as provided in division
(C).
   (C)   (1)   For any properties included in the Commissioner's report under
division (B), for which expenses are still unpaid as of May 1, the Village
Treasurer shall certify any delinquent billing, or any part thereof, together
with all accrued interest and penalty, to the Village Council; and it shall be
transferred and reassessed, with an additional 15% penalty, on the next annual
village tax roll.
      (2)   Such charges so assessed shall be collected in the same manner as
general village taxes.
(Am. Ord. 160, passed 8-25-97; Am. Ord. 205, passed 6-25-07)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
    Unless otherwise indicated, violations of this chapter are municipal civil
infractions, punishable and subject to the process provided in
Chapter 32 of this code.
(Am. Ord. 160, passed 8-25-97; Am. Ord. 205, passed 6-25-07)
CHAPTER 96: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Roadside Drainage Ditch
   
96.001   Permit required
   
96.002   Culvert location
   
96.003   Specifications
   
96.004   Fill
   
96.005   Access to property
   
96.006   Ditch maintenance
   
96.007   Equipment storage
   
96.008   Installation by village
   
96.009   Nonconforming culverts
   
96.010   Permit application
   
96.011   Culvert and stormwater ditch maintenance
   
96.012   Violations
Right-of-Way Management
   
96.025   Short title
   
96.026   Purpose; legislative findings
   
96.027   Definitions
   
96.028   Application
   
96.029   Disruption of village rights-of-way
   
96.030   Use and occupancy of village’s rights-of-way
   
96.031   Permit application requirements and process
   
96.032   Permit terms and conditions
   
96.033   Stop work or use orders, revocations and penalties
   
96.034   No waiver
   
96.035   Notices
Snow Removal
   
96.045   Findings, intent and purpose
   
96.046   Prohibition
   
96.047   Responsible persons
   
96.048   Violations
   
96.049   Enforcement
Street Maintenance
   
96.060   Intent
   
96.061   Prohibition
   
96.062   Violations
Regulations Governing Work in Road Rights-of-Way
   
96.075   Definitions
   
96.076   General prohibitions
   
96.077   Permits
   
96.078   Installations beneath paved surfaces
   
96.079   Determination of necessity for utility connections within right-of-way
   
96.080   Curb cut regulations
   
96.081   General right-of-way usage regulations
   
96.082   Emergency operations
   
96.083   Village right-of-way improvements
   
96.084   Paving disruption deferral
ROADSIDE DRAINAGE DITCH
§ 96.001 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to proceed with the excavation for or the construction
of any new building within the village or to move any machinery, equipment or
materials onto any vacant property preparatory for such excavation or
construction until a culvert shall have been installed and covered as
hereinafter described pursuant to permit as hereinafter provided for.
(O.C. § 4.1)
§ 96.002 CULVERT LOCATION.
   Culverts shall be so located as to center on the center line of private
drives as shown on plot plans for all construction.
(O.C. § 4.2)
§ 96.003 SPECIFICATIONS.
   Culverts shall be a minimum of 12 inches in diameter, 16-gauge corrugated
copper bearing steel, hot dipped galvanized and not less than 18 feet long.
Longer sections, if necessary, shall be connected with bolted #16-gauge
galvanized standard connecting bands not less than 7½ inches wide. Culvert pipe
must be installed in such a manner that bottom flow line must be a minimum of
18 inches below edge of traveled portion of adjoining road or street, but in no
case higher than flow line of ditch in which culvert is installed.
(O.C. § 4.3)
§ 96.004 FILL.
   Fill for such culverts may be an approved grade of road gravel or slag or
crushed stone.
(O.C. § 4.4)
§ 96.005 ACCESS TO PROPERTY.
   All machinery, equipment and materials must gain access to or be delivered
through means of or via the completed culvert and approach, and in no instance
shall machinery, trucks or other equipment be moved through unprotected ditches
to gain access to any construction site. Exception to the above rules and
regulations will be made during periods when ground frost makes it impractical
or impossible to install permanent culverts properly. Under such conditions,
timber bridges may be installed but only in such manner as not to impair or
interfere with the proper drainage or run-off of water in such ditches.
(O.C. § 4.5)
§ 96.006 DITCH MAINTENANCE.
   In all cases ditches must be left in good condition and free of obstruction.
No refuse from construction or the materials used in construction, containers
or other debris must be allowed to accumulate in said ditches.
(O.C. § 4.6)
§ 96.007 EQUIPMENT STORAGE.
   No machinery, equipment or materials may be stored, stacked or piled on
roadway shoulders, ditches or other public property. It is understood that
public property is defined as the area commonly identified as the platted
right-of-way as indicated on the registered plat.
(O.C. § 4.7)
§ 96.008 INSTALLATION BY VILLAGE.
   The village shall have the right to install culverts where required. If a
person shall refuse to do so, the village can install the same and the costs of
same shall be a charge against the property owner and become a lien against the
property.
(O.C. § 4.8)
§ 96.009 NONCONFORMING CULVERTS.
   Where culverts have not presently been provided for access to improved
property or where culverts have been improperly installed adjacent to improved
property, such corrections to comply with this chapter can be requested by the
Street Administrator if it is necessary to proper road maintenance and/or
control of drainage. On notice of correction requirements, the property owner
and/or owner’s agent shall be given 90 days to comply with the correction
notice. After 90-days' lapse, the owner will be subject to penalty for
violation of this code.
(O.C. § 4.10)
§ 96.010 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   Application for permit shall be made to the Village Clerk on a form to be
provided by the village, which form shall contain an acknowledgment of the
receipt of a copy of this chapter, and it shall be unlawful to construct such
culvert without the permit provided for herein.
(O.C. § 4.11)
§ 96.011 CULVERT AND STORMWATER DITCH MAINTENANCE.
   Property owners are responsible for the care and maintenance of the culvert
under their private drives so as not to impede drainage. Property owners shall
also be responsible for the care and maintenance of all stormwater ditches on
their property and for those stormwater ditches in the area between their
property line and the edge of the road abutting their property and shall keep
such stormwater ditches in a condition free of waste, dirt, plant growth and
other obstructions which block or obstruct the designed flow of stormwater in
the ditches. The Street Administrator may, from time to time, require the
property owner to make necessary corrections, and the cost thereof shall be
borne entirely by the property owner. If such remedial action is not taken by
the property owner within 90 days from notification, the village shall have the
right to make such corrections, and the cost shall be a charge against the
property owner and become a lien against the property.
(O.C. § 4.12) (Am. Ord. 277, passed 8-26-24)
§ 96.012 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any person found responsible for a violation of §§
96.001 or
96.010 of this chapter shall be responsible for a municipal civil infraction
pursuant to §
32.03 of this code. The fine for a first violation of §§
96.001 or
96.010 shall be $500, and the fine for each repeat offense shall be $1,000.
   (B)   Unless otherwise specified in division (A) of this section, any person
found responsible for a violation of any of the provisions of this subchapter
shall be punished as provided by §
32.03.
(O.C. § 4.9) (Am. Ord. 157, passed 6-23-97)
RIGHT-OF-WAY MANAGEMENT
§ 96.025 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the Village of Bingham
Farms “Right-of-Way Management Ordinance.”
(Ord. 169, passed 11-27-00)
§ 96.026 PURPOSE; LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS.
   (A)   Pursuant to the Michigan Constitution, Art. 7, § 29, other applicable
state and federal legislation, including but not limited to M.C.L.A. § 247.183,
and the Village Charter, the Village of Bingham Farms has the authority to
exercise reasonable control over its highways, streets, alleys and public
places. The Village of Bingham Farms finds that, in the furtherance of control
and to ensure and protect the public health, safety and welfare, it is
appropriate for the village to monitor, review and regulate activities and
persons that disrupt and/or use a village right-of-way.
   (B)   This subchapter is further intended to minimize disruption,
disturbance and damage to the village’s rights-of-way, to exercise reasonable
control over and monitor the use of the same and to maintain aesthetic, quality
and property values by requiring those persons who seek to disrupt and/or use a
village right-of-way by constructing, installing, locating, operating, using
and/or maintaining improvements, including utilities and telecommunications,
gas and/or electric transmission systems therein to obtain a disruption permit
and/or a use permit and pay fair and reasonable permit fees.
   (C)   The village further finds that requiring the payment of the
application and permit fees will assist in protecting the village’s interests
in its rights-of-way by allowing the village to cover the fixed and variable
costs of maintaining, monitoring and ensuring quality control with regard to
its rights-of-way and related records.
(Ord. 169, passed 11-27-00)
§ 96.027 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLIANCE. Any sanitary sewer, storm sewer, main, pipe, catch basin, manhole
or any other structure or instrumentality used for the accumulation or
transportation of water, stormwater runoff, sanitary sewage, liquid or gas.
   CLERK. The Village Clerk and/or such other person or persons as may be
designated and appointed by resolution of the Village Council to administer
and/or enforce or assist in the administration and/or enforcement of this
subchapter. With respect to any reviews, approvals, decisions or actions other
than ministerial functions, the Clerk shall consult with and act in accordance
with recommendations of the village engineering consultant and such other
village consultants as are appropriate.
   CONDUIT. Any overhead or underground cable, wire and/or a combination
thereof for the transmission or distribution of electrical energy, telephone
service, telecommunications services or other utility or communication services
or signals, including service connections and any other material protecting
said cable or wire used in connection therewith.
   DISRUPTION. A physical change, modification, alteration, disturbance, injury
and/or damage to or in a village right-of-way, including but not limited to
construction, installation, location, maintenance, modification, alteration,
replacement or repair of improvements and the removal or alteration of a right-
of-way surface grade or material, tree, sign, marker, hydrant or other material
or object.
   DISRUPTION PERMIT. A nonexclusive limited permit issued by the village to a
person pursuant to this subchapter allowing an activity which will result in
disruption to the village’s right-of-way.
   ELECTRIC TRANSMISSION. The transmission and/or distribution of electricity
to persons intending to further transmit and/or distribute or who are end
users.
   FRANCHISE. A nonexclusive limited authorization to transact, conduct and/or
operate a use in the village, including but not limited to the operation or use
of improvements in the village’s right-of-way, which authorization has been
awarded by the village to the grantee by an ordinance.
   GRANTEE. The holder of a valid and effective franchise granted by the
village.
   IMPROVEMENT. Any appliance, conduit, facility, pipe, pole, structure, wire,
cable, fiber, building or any other man-made or placed material or object.
   ORDINANCES. All laws, codes and regulations duly enacted and adopted by the
village.
   PERMITTEE. A person who has been issued a disruption or use permit pursuant
to the terms and provisions of this subchapter and all employees, agents,
contractors and other persons that direct or perform any activity covered by
the permit.
   PERSON. A natural person, company, corporation, partnership, joint venture,
voluntary association, organization or other form of legal entity.
   STREET. The paved area or area designated for vehicular travel within the
right-of-way, and the word STREET shall be synonymous with the words HIGHWAY
and ROAD.
   TELECOMMUNICATION SYSTEM. Conduit, improvements and other materials which
are designed and/or used to provide telecommunications services.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER. A person who provides telecommunications
services.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES. Regulated and unregulated services offered to
customers for the transmission of two-way interactive communication and other
associated and similar usages. TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES shall not include
one-way transmission to subscribers of video programming or other programming
services.
   USE. The ownership, lease or rental, possession, operation, occupancy or use
of all or part of an improvement.
   USE PERMIT. A nonexclusive limited permit issued by the village to a person
pursuant to this subchapter allowing the use the village’s right-of-way for an
improvement therein.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Bingham Farms, Michigan and when used in this
subchapter in connection with any filing, submittal, delivery or payment to, or
review, approval or other action, refers to the Village Clerk as defined
herein.
   VILLAGE or VILLAGE’S RIGHT-OF-WAY or RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any and all public
rights-of-way, streets, highways, roads, sidewalks, alleys, thoroughfares,
public easements and public places located within and under the control and
jurisdiction of the village, including within any curbs, shoulders, landscaped
areas and/or other areas incidental and/or appurtenant thereto.
(Ord. 169, passed 11-27-00)
§ 96.028 APPLICATION.
   This subchapter applies to all disruption or use of village right-of-way,
regardless of whether persons are excepted or exempted from the disruption and/
or use permit requirements.
(Ord. 169, passed 11-27-00)
§ 96.029 DISRUPTION OF VILLAGE RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Disruption permit required.
      (1)   Generally. Except as otherwise provided in this section, no person,
including persons who
have a use permit or may be exempt from the use permit requirements in §
96.031, shall direct or perform any activity which causes or results in any
disruption to any village right-of-way unless the consent of the village is
first obtained, as evidenced by a disruption permit issued by the Village Clerk
pursuant to this subchapter. Activity shall be performed in accordance with the
disruption permit and in the manner provided for in this subchapter.
      (2)   Exceptions. A disruption permit is not required for activities by
or under contract with the Michigan Department of Transportation or Road
Commission of Oakland County, temporary obstructions which are incidental to
the expeditious movement of articles and things to and from abutting premises,
the lawful operation and parking of vehicles within the part of the village’s
right-of-way or the lawful and customary use of property by adjoining property
owners for such things as landscaping and lawful repairs, maintenance and other
activities of, for or on a sidewalk, driveway or other similar improvement in
the village’s right-of-way. In the event of a disruption emergency, including,
but not limited to a natural disaster, civil disturbance, flood and/or other
severe weather condition, a person and/or a permittee may disrupt the village’s
right-of-way without first receiving a disruption permit from the village,
provided that the Village Clerk and/or his or her designee has approved the
emergency disruption before it takes place. Copies of the utility company work
orders or repairs shall be submitted to the Department of Building and Clerking
as soon as possible after repairs are made.
      (3)   Violations. Failure to obtain a disruption permit under this
section shall constitute a violation of this section and shall subject the
violating person to the penalties provided for in this subchapter. A person who
violates this section shall pay the required application fee and disruption
permit fee, as well as any additional charge that may be established by
resolution of the Village Council for that period of time that the person did
not have a valid disruption permit.
   (B)   Disruption permit application procedures and fees.
      (1)   A person that wants to direct or perform any activity which will or
may result in any disruption to the village’s rights-of-way shall apply to the
village for a disruption permit pursuant to this section and § 96.031. Every
applicant must complete and file six copies of an application with the Village
Clerk’s office in a form designated or provided by the Village Clerk.
      (2)   At the time of filing an application, the applicant must pay to the
Village Clerk a nonrefundable application fee, with the amount of the
application fee to be established by resolution of the Village Council. In
addition, after the application has been reviewed by the village, the applicant
shall pay an application review and processing fee in an amount necessary to
reimburse the village for the costs in reviewing, processing, investigating,
granting or denying and issuing the disruption permit, as estimated by the
Village Clerk based on rates and factors established by resolution of the
Village Council. If review and processing costs exceed the Village Clerk’s
estimate, they shall be paid by the applicant prior to permit issuance.
   (C)   Disruption permit fee. In addition to the nonrefundable application
fee, application review and processing fees and any other applicable fees for
permits or approvals required by other village ordinances and applicable laws,
the permittee shall pay a disruption permit fee in an amount which will cover
all of the village’s administrative, inspection, consulting, plan review,
monitoring and other costs in conjunction with the permittee’s disruption of
the village right-of-way. At or prior to the time the village issues the
disruption permit, the permittee shall pay to the village a disruption permit
fee in an amount that the Village Clerk has estimated that the village’s costs
in conjunction with the disruption are likely to be. Additional disruption
permit fees may be required by the Village Clerk during construction to cover
unanticipated inspection costs and shall be paid by the permittee within three
calendar days of the Village Clerk’s notice. If they are not, the permittee
shall immediately restore the work site to a safe condition and suspend
activities authorized under the permit until the additional inspection fees are
paid. Upon completion of the disruption activities, the permittee shall pay to
the village any costs incurred in conjunction with the disruption activities
that are over and above the amount paid to the village by the permittee as the
estimated disruption permit fee.
   (D)   Disruption permit term and extension.
      (1)   The disruption permit granted to the permittee by the village shall
be for a specified time
period established by the Village Clerk after taking into consideration the
information in the permittee’s disruption permit application.
      (2)   Prior to the expiration of the term of the disruption permit, a
permittee may apply in writing to the Village Clerk for an extension of the
permit, which shall be granted by the Village Clerk if the permittee
demonstrates a valid reason and explanation for why the disruption activities
could not be completed during the term initially established. For purposes of
seeking an extension of its disruption permit, the applicant shall pay an
extension application fee to the Village Clerk in an amount established by
resolution of the Village Council. The Village Clerk shall have the right to
impose additional conditions on disruption permit extensions.
   (E)   Disruption permit terms and conditions. In addition to any individual
conditions imposed by the Village Clerk on a permit as provided in § 96.031,
all disruption permits shall include and require compliance with all terms and
conditions set forth in § 96.032.
   (F)   Revocation of permit and stop work orders. All disruption permits
shall be subject to stop work orders and/or revocation under the standards and
procedures contained in § 96.033.
(Ord. 169, passed 11-27-00)
§ 96.030 USE AND OCCUPANCY OF VILLAGE’S RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Use permit required.
      (1)   Generally. Except as otherwise provided in this section, no person
shall use a village right-of-way for any improvements therein unless the
consent of the village is first obtained, as evidenced by a use permit issued
by the village pursuant to this subchapter. For purposes of this section, a
person providing local exchange service or other local telecommunications
services shall be considered to be using the village’s right-of-way if such
person is the owner of the improvement or obtains the use of the improvement
from another party under a lease, contract, interconnection or other similar
arrangement.
      (2)   Exemptions. An exemption described in this section shall not apply
until it has been documented and proven in written form by the person claiming
it to the village’s satisfaction. A use permit is not required for any person
that currently has a valid, effective and unexpired franchise from the village
to use the village’s rights-of-way for improvements, and those persons who have
continuously used and occupied village rights-of-way under a claim of
entitlement based on an alleged grant of authority by the state predating the
Michigan Constitution of 1909 and have provided universal services for many
years and/or provided telecommunications services within the village pursuant
to M.C.L.A. § 484.4 prior to the enactment of the Michigan Constitution of
1909, provided, however, that this exemption shall not be applicable if and
immediately when a court of competent jurisdiction in any action in Michigan
determines that the village is not required to exempt a person purportedly
granted rights in this section.
      (3)   Violations. Failure to obtain a use permit under this section shall
constitute a violation of
this section and shall subject the violating person to the penalties provided
for in this subchapter. A person who violates this section shall pay the
required application and use permit fee, as well as any additional charge
established by resolution of the Village Council for that period of time that
the person did not have a valid permit pursuant to this subchapter.
   (B)   Permit application procedures and fees.
      (1)   A person that wants to use a village right-of-way shall apply to
the village for a use permit pursuant to this section and § 96.031. Every
applicant must complete and file six copies of an application with the Village
Clerk’s office in a form designated or provided by the Village Clerk.
      (2)   At the time of filing an application, the applicant must pay to the
Village Clerk a nonrefundable application fee in an amount established by
resolution of the Village Council. In addition, after the application has been
reviewed by the village, the applicant shall pay an application review and
processing fee in an amount necessary to reimburse the village for the costs in
reviewing, processing, investigating, granting or denying and issuing the
permit, as estimated by the Village Clerk based on rates and factors
established by resolution of the Village Council. If review and processing
costs exceed the Village Clerk’s estimate, they shall be paid by the applicant
prior to permit issuance.
   (C)   Use permit fee. In addition to the nonrefundable application fee,
application review and processing fees and any other applicable fees for
permits or approvals required by other village ordinances and applicable laws
for each year the use permit is in effect, the permittee shall pay an annual
use permit fee to the village in an amount established by the Village Council.
The annual use permit fee shall be paid prior to use permit issuance, and for
each year thereafter, on or before the last village business day prior to
January 1, the fee being payable in advance of the year it is for. The amount
of the use permit fee shall be fair and reasonable, competitively neutral and
nondiscriminatory and shall not exceed the fixed and variable costs to the
village in connection with the permit and in maintaining the village’s rights-
of-way used by the permittee. Upon the written request of the Village Clerk or
applicant, the fees established by the Village Council resolutions shall be
reviewed on a case-by-case basis for the purpose of determining whether the
improvements of a permittee create any more or less impact upon the fixed and
variable costs to the village. In making such determination, the Village
Council shall take into consideration the following factors:
      (1)   The annual fixed and variable cost to the village in maintaining
the right-of-way in, under or over which the permittee’s use occurs;
      (2)   The total amount of area that the permittee will be using and
occupying in the village right-of-way, including but not limited to the length
of right-of-way and the number and size of the improvements to be used;
      (3)   The frequency and unit cost of monitoring the rights-of-way on a
regular basis to ensure that the use by permittee conforms with applicable law,
ordinance and permit conditions and that such use has not created the need for
public attention;
      (4)   The proportionate cost of maintaining and administering records,
including computer records of right-of-way use, including administration to
assist in the avoidance of conflicts in the use of the rights-of-way by other
users and auditing of the extent of permittee’s use;
      (5)   Any unique aspects of permittee’s use or improvements that are
likely to affect the cost to the village of permittee’s use of the rights-of-
way.
   (D)   Use permit term and renewal. A use permit shall be issued for a term
of ten years, with the first year ending on December 31 of the year the use
permit is issued. The permittee may apply to the village for ten-year renewals
of its use permit, which renewal periods would run from January 1 to December
31 of each ten year term. Unless earlier terminated by the permittee or the
village, a permittee must file an application for renewal of its use permit
with the Village Clerk not less than 120 days before the expiration of the
current term and pay a renewal application fee to the Village Clerk in an
amount established by resolution of the Village Council. The Village Clerk
shall review all renewal applications and, not later than December 1 of each
year, shall approve or deny all renewal applications. The village shall have
the right to impose additional reasonable conditions on those use permit
renewals. Although permits are to be granted for a ten-year term, the Village
Clerk may also conduct an interim review at the end of the third and sixth
years of a permit. The review shall first determine whether the fee schedule
then in effect should be revised. If the Clerk determines that it should be
revised, a resolution shall be presented to the Village Council for a new fee
which, upon Village Council approval, shall be established and shall be
effective for the balance of the permit term. The second purpose of the review
shall be to require the permittee to demonstrate all of the following:
      (1)   The permittee has complied with all use permit terms and
conditions;
      (2)   The permittee has timely paid to the village the annual use permit
fees, all personal and real property taxes and any other obligations due and
payable to the village;
      (3)   If at such review the permittee fails to make the demonstrations
specified above, the Village Clerk may impose further conditions upon the
continuation of the use permit or, if the failure represents a material breach
of the terms and intent of this section, may initiate revocation proceedings
under § 96.033 for the Village Council to terminate a use permit.
   (E)   Use permit terms and conditions. In addition to any individual
conditions imposed by the Village Clerk on a permit as provided in § 96.031,
all disruption permits shall include and require compliance with all terms and
conditions set forth in § 96.032.
   (F)   Revocation of permit and stop use orders. All use permits shall be
subject to stop use orders and/or revocation under the standards and procedures
contained in § 96.033.
(Ord. 169, passed 11-27-00)
§ 96.031 PERMIT APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS AND PROCESS.
   (A)   Complete applications required. Permit applications shall not be
considered as complete for any purposes, including the time periods in division
(C) of this section, until the application fee has been paid and all of the
application information specified in division (B) of this section has been
provided.
   (B)   Application information. At a minimum, applications for disruption and
use permits shall include all of the following information on an application
form or by attachment to the form of applicable documents and plans, marked and
in the order set forth below. With the Village Clerk’s approval, an applicant
may rely on information submitted in connection with a specifically identified,
previously issued permit, upon a written certification to the Village Clerk
that the information has not changed and remains accurate.
      (1)   Applicant information.
         (a)   The name, age, if an individual, and address of the applicant,
and if the applicant is not a natural person, the date, state and form of
business organization.
         (b)   The character of the business the applicant engages in and the
lengths of time and locations where that business has been conducted.
         (c)   Copies of certificates, articles, last annual report and other
written documentation of
applicant’s lawful incorporation, organization, existence, authorization and
good standing to conduct its business in the State of Michigan.
         (d)   Copy of a current financial statement for the applicant.
         (e)   The names, phone numbers, fax numbers, addresses, E-mail
addresses, if applicable, and position, relationship or affiliation with
applicant for the following persons:
            1.   Applicant’s contact person(s);
            2.   The person(s) that is authorized to and will sign and agree to
permits that are issued on behalf of applicant;
            3.   Applicant’s resident agent for service of process;
            4.   The person(s) responsible for preparation and revisions of
applicant’s maps and plans;
            5.   All contractors that will be performing any work in village
right-of-way for the applicant under the permit(s) requested;
            6.   The construction and Clerking personnel that will be
responsible for supervision of disruption, maintenance and repair work in
village right-of-way and for communication with the village regarding such
work.
         (f)   Identification of all other permits the applicant has been
issued by the village and proof of full compliance with them.
      (2)   Plan, work and schedule information.
         (a)   An 8½-inch x 11-inch paper, a scaled drawing or map of the
village that shows or contains:
            1.   The general route and location of improvements to be installed
and/or used;
            2.   The relationship of the improvements to existing and proposed
improvements in adjoining municipalities;
            3.   The length or other applicable measurement of village right-
of-way that will be used by the applicant, expressed in lineal feet of aerial
and under ground portions of proposed and existing improvements;
         (b)   Detailed plans and a separate list or index of same at a scale
of no less than one inch equals 100 feet for the improvements applicant
proposes to construct and/or use, with each plan to clearly show or contain all
of the following information:
            1.   The name and address of the person that prepared the plan, the
dates of preparation and revisions, a job/work title and/or number and a
drawing/sheet number;
            2.   Whether the improvements are existing or proposed;
            3.   All village right-of-way lines and property lines if within
the village right-of-way and the location of the improvements in relation
thereto;
            4.   The lineal feet or other area of village right-of-way occupied
or proposed to be occupied by the improvements shown on the plan, expressed
separately for aerial and underground portions;
            5.   Match lines by which each plan can be related to the
applicant’s other plans;
            6.   A description of the improvements shown on the plan that
includes the size, components, capacity, ownership and existing, proposed and
potential uses;
            7.   For aerial improvements, all existing and new poles or
structures to which the improvements are or will be attached shall be shown and
designated as such together with the owner of each such pole or structure;
            8.   For aerial improvements, elevations shall be depicted on a
drawing that shows applicant’s improvements in relation to all other existing
improvements and the poles or structures to which they are or will be attached;
            9.   For underground improvements, in addition to the applicant’s,
the plans shall show all other existing underground appliances, conduits and
improvements, it being the applicant’s responsibility to determine the
existence and location of such other improvements. The plans shall show the
applicant and other existing improvements by reference to the horizontal and
vertical location and separation between improvements that exist or are
proposed;
            10.   The locations of rivers, streams, drains, bodies of water and
state or village regulated wetlands crossed by applicant’s improvements;
            11.   The location of all village rights-of-way that will or may be
disrupted by the installation, use, maintenance or repair of applicant’s
improvements;
            12.   The location of any above ground structures or landscaping,
including but not limited to trees, shrubs, signs, hydrants, mail boxes and
driveways within or adjoining the village right-of way that will or may be
disrupted or damaged by the installation, use, maintenance or repair of the
applicant’s improvements.
         (c)   A description of the manner in which the improvements will be
installed, maintained and repaired by reference to the number and types of
vehicles, equipment and personnel involved and the area of village right-of-way
within which disruption activities will be occurring at any given time.
         (d)   A description of the time and manner in which applicant will
restore village rights-of-way that may be disrupted or damaged by applicant’s
activities.
         (e)   If the applicant is proposing to construct new aerial poles or
new underground conduit or pipe improvements, a description of why it is not
physically and financially feasible for applicant to utilize existing poles,
pipes, conduits and improvements.
         (f)   Such other information as may be required for the village to
issue and establish individual terms and conditions for a permit.
         (g)   The length of time it will take applicant to complete the
installation and required restoration under a proposed disruption permit,
expressed in terms of the number of weeks from the date the permit is issued
and noting any changes to the schedule that may be needed based on the time of
year the permit is issued or any other variable that is not within applicant’s
control.
      (3)   Miscellaneous information and documentation.
         (a)   Copies of Michigan Department of Transportation, Oakland County
and other governmental permits that are required for applicant’s improvements
or documentation that such permits have been applied for.
         (b)   If applicant proposes to locate its improvements on, within or
as part of poles, conduits or improvements of other persons, copies of
applicant’s written agreements with those persons, confirming applicant’s
rights and the capacity of those poles, conduits or improvements to safely
accommodate applicant’s improvements in addition to existing and other approved
improvements, shall be filed with the Village Clerk. If the written agreement
does not contain the safety confirmation, a separate written safety
certification by the utility company owning the poles, conduits or improvements
to be used by applicant must be provided.
         (c)   A detailed description of the services to be provided by the
applicant’s improvements, which shall include a description of the system those
improvements will be a part of and the categories or classifications and
locations of existing, intended and potential customers or persons that are or
may be served by the improvements. A description of how disputes between
persons owning, operating, using or benefitting from the improvements will be
resolved so as to avoid an interruption in the product or service provided by
the improvements.
   (C)   Application reviews and permit decisions. Except as otherwise provided
in this section, the Village Clerk shall approve or deny a permit for issuance
within 90 days from the date the applicant files a complete application.
Approval of a permit for issuance does not authorize any disruption or use of
village right-of-way.
      (1)   Within 60 days after the date that the applicant files an
application, the Village Clerk shall
review the application and notify the applicant of any deficiencies. The
applicant shall be entitled to present any information, evidence or comments in
response to the notice of deficiencies and otherwise in support of its
application.
      (2)   The Village Clerk may not approve a permit for issuance to an
applicant that is in violation
of or has unsatisfied obligations to the village under a prior permit.
      (3)   The Village Clerk shall not unreasonably deny an application for a
permit. The Village Clerk review and decision on an application shall be based
on this subchapter, which establishes the terms and conditions under which the
village consents to disruption in and use of the village rights-of-way. The
Village Clerk’s review of an application may include and incorporate reviews by
other village staff or consultants.
      (4)   The 90-day time requirement for the Village Clerk to make a
decision and the 60-day time
period for Village Clerk initial review may be waived or extended by Village
Clerk and applicant in writing.
   (D)   Permit conditions and bonds. The Village Clerk may impose conditions
on any permit necessary to ensure and protect the public health, safety and
welfare from the applicant’s disruption and/or use of the village’s right-of-
way. The Village Clerk may require as a condition of any permit that a bond be
posted by the applicant, which shall not exceed the reasonable costs to ensure
the village’s rights-of-way are restored to their original condition after the
permitted disruption or use. The Village Clerk may require, as a condition to
the issuing of any permit, that wires, cables or fiberoptic wires be laid in
underground conduits.
   (E)   Permit issuance. Upon approving a permit for issuance, the Village
Clerk shall provide the applicant with two copies of a completed permit form
and documents that contain or incorporate all terms and conditions under §
96.032 and any individual conditions imposed by the Village Clerk. To obtain
permit issuance, the applicant shall accept and agree to the permit by signing
both copies of the permit and applicable permit documents in the form and
manner specified and delivering them to the Village Clerk, together with any
required fees, bonds, insurance certificates and any other documents that were
specified by the Village Clerk as conditions for permit issuance. When all
requirements for permit issuance have been satisfied, the Village Clerk shall
issue the permit by dating and signing each of the permit forms, keeping one
for Village Clerk records and mailing or delivering the second to the
permittee. Copies shall be retained by the Village Clerk and filed with the
Mayor and Village Attorney.
   (F)   Appeal. Any person, firm or corporation denied a permit as provided in
this section may appeal the denial to the Village Council by filing a written
application with the Village Clerk not more than ten days after permit denial.
The application for appeal shall fully and particularly set forth the nature
and grounds upon which the appeal is based. The Village Council shall, within
30 days after the filing of such notice of appeal, hold a hearing on the
appeal. No filing fee shall be required for such appeal. Upon hearing the
appeal, Village Council shall either grant or deny the permit, with or without
conditions.
   (G)   Permit display. A disruption permit or copy thereof, together with the
approved plans, shall be in the possession of the permittee’s employee or
representative at each work location at all times.
   (H)   Permit amendments. Disruption permit amendments are in the discretion
of the Village Clerk, who for more than minor changes or alterations may
require that a new permit be applied for and obtained. Use permits may be
amended by the Village Clerk upon a written application of the permittee as
provided in this section to include additional rights-of-way, with the rights
to use the additional right-of-way being only for the remainder of the original
use permit term. All application, application review and processing and annual
use permit fees shall be paid in connection with such an amendment.
(Ord. 169, passed 11-27-00)
§ 96.032 PERMIT TERMS AND CONDITIONS.
   (A)   General terms and conditions. The following terms and conditions shall
apply to all persons directing or performing disruption or use of the village
right-of-way as applicable and be considered a part of every disruption and use
permit issued under this subchapter. The duties, prohibitions and requirements
of and village authority regarding permittees in subsections (2), (3), (8), (9)
and (11) through (22) apply to all persons.
      (1)   Nonexclusive. A permit shall be nonexclusive and does not restrict
the village from at any time issuing additional permits to other persons to
disrupt and/or use the same village right-of-way. The issuance of a permit does
not establish any priority for the disruption and/or use of a village right-of-
way and permittees shall coordinate their work to avoid conflicts with the
village and all other persons lawfully working in the right-of-way.
      (2)   Compliance with permit/ordinances. A permittee shall strictly
comply with all of the terms and conditions of a permit and shall comply with
all applicable laws, codes, restrictions and ordinances, including the public
utility notification provisions of Public Act 53 of 1974, being M.C.L.A. §
460.701 et seq. as amended, and the soil erosion and sedimentation control
requirements of Public Act 451 of 1994, being M.C.L.A. §§ 324.9101 et seq., as
amended.
      (3)   Other permits and approvals. A permittee shall not disrupt and/or
use any village right-of-way without first obtaining all other required village
or other governmental permits and approvals and paying all other applicable
fees.
      (4)   Transfer/assignment. A disruption permit is not assignable or
transferable. A use permittee shall not transfer, convey and/or assign any of
the rights/privileges granted to it by the village in its permit in whole or in
part, voluntarily, involuntarily or by operation of law, merger, consolidation,
substantial change in the ownership or control or other means, without prior
written consent of the Village Clerk, which shall not be withheld for reasons
unrelated to the ability and/or willingness of the proposed transferee/assignee
to comply with the permit and all of its terms and conditions. If a permit is
assigned in whole or in part with the approval of the village, the terms and
conditions of the permit shall be binding upon the successors or assigns of the
permittee.
      (5) As-built plans. A permittee shall deliver to the village as-built
plans in a form and at a scale acceptable to the Village Clerk for the
permitted improvements which are in the village right-of-way within 60 days
after completion of installation or commencement of use, whichever first
occurs.
      (6)   G.I.S. Within 60 days of a request by the village, a permittee
shall provide the village with a Geographical Information System layer in a
media form acceptable to the Village Clerk and/or G.I.S. consultant, which
accurately portrays the permittee’s as-built improvements and shall be updated
to accurately reflect any changes to the same which are approved by the
village.
      (7)   Additional and/or future use. The issuance of a permit does not
confer rights to any additional disruption and/or use of the village’s right-
of-way, except as specifically granted and described in the permit.
      (8)   Village future use. The issuance of a permit does not prohibit the
village from requiring
modifications to permittee’s construction activities or from using the
village’s right-of-way in a manner which may interfere with, disrupt or prevent
the permittee’s disruption and/or use of the same. Permittees acknowledge and
accept this risk and shall not be entitled to receive any compensation from the
village in the event that the village uses the village right-of-way in that
manner. The expense of making any necessary modifications of its improvements
in order to accommodate a conflict shall be borne by the permittee.
      (9)   No interference in village rights-of-way. A permittee shall not
disrupt a right-of-way or construct, install, locate, maintain, use or operate
its improvements in the village’s rights-of-way in a manner that interferes
with village or other lawful use, existing water mains, gas lines, sanitary
sewer lines, drains or drain pipes or other improvements that are existing in
the village’s right-of-way. Any portion of the permittee’s improvements that so
interfere or that will interfere with a proposed public utility or street
improvement project shall, at the request of the village, be removed or
modified by the permittee at its cost, with permittee not entitled to receive
any compensation from the village. Such removal or modification shall be made
within a reasonable time of request, as stated in a written notice from the
village. If the removal or modification is not made within such time, the
village may remove or modify the interfering improvement(s) to the extent
required and bill the permittee for the expenses incurred in doing so. If such
a bill is not paid in full within 30 days of the date of billing, the village
may recover its expenses from permittee’s bond. With regard to interferences
with the use of the right-of-way for pedestrian, vehicular or other related
purposes, all activities of a permittee shall be undertaken in a manner to
minimize interference, and all due precautions shall be taken to maximize
public safety.
      (10)   Plan and permit compliance costs. The installation of improvements
in and the permittee’s disruption and/or use of the village’s rights-of-way
shall be in compliance with the plans submitted to and approved and all permits
issued by the village. All costs of the permittee’s improvements in use of the
right-of-way shall be the sole responsibility of the permittee. All
construction and installation of improvements in the village’s rights-of-way
shall be performed by the permittee in compliance with the schedule submitted
to and approved by the Village Clerk, shall be done in a good and workmanlike
fashion in accordance with recognized construction industry and other
applicable standards and shall be subject to inspection and final approval of
the village.
      (11)   Restoration of property. The permittee shall restore any portion
of the village’s right-of-way that is disrupted by the construction,
installation, location, maintenance, use or operation of its improvements. The
disrupted right-of-way shall be restored and returned to a condition that is as
good or better than that which existed at the time the disruption occurred. The
time period and the manner in which the restoration is to take place shall be
established and supervised at permittee’s expense by the village, with
permittee to pay the village’s supervision costs within 30 days of the
village’s bill for same. If the bill is not timely paid, the village may
recover the costs from any bond posted by permittee. In the event the permittee
does not complete the restoration in that time and/or does not undertake the
restoration in the manner approved by the village, the village may, upon
written notice to the permittee, complete the repair and restoration and
recover its costs from any bond posted by the permittee. If the bond does not
cover all of the costs incurred by the village, the permittee shall immediately
pay the outstanding balance of the costs to the village and reinstate the
required bond.
      (12)   Maintenance and repair. During the term of a permit, the permittee
shall maintain and repair its improvements in a good and workmanlike condition.
If permittee fails to do so, the village may send a written notice to the
permittee to correct the defective condition within a specified time. If the
defective condition is not corrected within the time allowed, the village shall
be entitled, at its sole discretion, to perform said maintenance and repair,
correct the defect and/or remove the improvement and bill the cost of the same
to the permittee. If such a bill is not paid in full within 30 days of the date
of billing, the village may recover its costs from any bond posted by
permittee. In the event the bond does not cover all of the costs incurred by
the village, the permittee shall immediately pay the outstanding balance of the
costs to the village and reinstate the required bond.
      (13)   Removal and/or relocation for or by village. A permittee shall
remove, relocate and/or disconnect any portion of its improvements located in
the village’s rights-of-way when the permittee is advised in writing by the
village that the same is necessary for the village to do any construction,
excavation, maintenance, repair or other work in furtherance of the public
health, safety and welfare. The village may remove, relocate, damage, disrupt
and/or disconnect permittee’s improvements in the event of an emergency,
including but not limited to a civil disturbance, disaster, accident, fire,
flood or other severe weather occurrence, if the same is determined to be
necessary to protect the public health, safety and welfare, with the village
not being liable to the permittee or any persons receiving the permittee’s
services for any damages or injuries caused by the village’s actions.
      (14)   Vacation/abandonment. If a right-of-way is vacated, discontinued,
abandoned, terminated and/or released, the permittee’s right to use that area
of land shall immediately terminate and the permittee shall remove its
improvements therefrom.
      (15)   Removal upon expiration or termination of use permit. Upon the
expiration or termination of a permit or if the permittee abandons or ceases
operating or using its improvements in the village’s rights-of-way within three
months or a longer time period established by the Village Council, the
permittee shall remove all of its improvements from the village’s right-of-way
and restore the area to a condition that is as good or better than that which
existed prior to the installation and use of its improvements in the village
right-of-way. If the permittee and village agree that it would not be in the
best interest of the public health, safety and welfare for permittee to remove
its improvements and the village agrees to accept ownership of same, at no cost
to the village, permittee shall convey the improvements to the village, who may
thereafter use the improvements. The decisions as to whether a permittee shall
remove its improvements from the village's right-of-way and whether the village
will accept ownership, and if so, any conditions, is in the sole discretion of
the village.
      (16)   Notice of commencement and completion of permitted activities. At
least 48 hours prior to commencing or performing activities allowed by a
permit, the permittee shall notify the Village Clerk by providing a description
of the location, anticipated time and personnel, vehicles and equipment that
will be involved. Within five days of completing all permitted activities,
permittee shall notify the Village Clerk so that final inspection may be made.
      (17)   Personnel and equipment identification. Personnel, including
contractors, of permittee conducting permitted activities shall at all times
wear or have clearly visible identification as a representative of permittee,
and all vehicles and equipment used in the activities shall be clearly
identified with permittee’s name.
      (18)   Poles and transmission lines. All improvements erected under a
permit shall be firmly installed so as not to create any obstruction to
sidewalks, service walks, side drives, approaches and other vehicle or
pedestrian areas. Any improvements erected in public or private parking areas
must be in conformity with the code of ordinances and at locations approved by
the Village Clerk.
      (19)   Underground improvements. All operating or conducting improvements
used for the purpose of transmitting electrical energy or video, voice or data
communications which are laid below the surface of the ground shall be
insulated and protected in parallel with adjacent property lines and be
installed at such locations and depth as approved by the Village Clerk. All
service connections used shall be connected only with the nearest main source
of supply laid in the right-of-way nearest to the building being connected to
the service. Service drops to commercial buildings less than 30 feet in length
that would require additional poles shall be placed underground.
      (20)   Village inspection. The Village Clerk and/or the Department of
Public Service shall inspect construction of all improvements and connections
made. The Village Clerk shall determine the street or streets in which it shall
be lawful to install aboveground and underground improvements, and no person
shall install any improvements contrary to such determinations.
      (21)   Traffic control. The permittee shall furnish, install and maintain
all necessary traffic controls and protection during disruption activities in
accordance with the current edition of the Michigan Manual of Uniform Traffic-
Control Devices and any special conditions of the permit.
      (22)   Private property. A permit does not authorize entry upon private
property or the use of private water supplies.
   (B)   Excavations. This division applies to all persons and right-of-way
excavation work, even if a disruption permit is not required.
      (1)   At least 48 hours before opening or excavating in any right-of-way,
except in cases of emergency and for service connection installations, the
person intending to commence such excavation shall first notify the Village
Clerk in writing. In any openings and refillings of all excavations made, the
relaying of the pavement and other work necessary to the complete restoration
of the right-of-way and adjoining areas to an equally good condition as when
disturbed shall be under the supervision of the Village Clerk. No excavation
shall be allowed to remain open or encumbered for a longer period than
authorized by the village. The Village Clerk may extend the period allowed for
the completion of such work upon proper written request by the person doing the
excavation.
      (2)   Any earth removed in making such excavation shall be removed and/or
restored as conditions warrant. Where pavement has been broken, no debris,
broken concrete or incompatible substances shall be used in refilling and
pavement shall be relaid and maintained in as good as the surrounding pavement.
   (C)   Indemnification.
      (1)   The village and its officials, officers, employees, agents,
representatives and contractors shall not be liable or responsible for any
damages or injuries that occur to or are suffered by any person or property
which are caused by or result from the permittee's or its contractor's
construction, installation, location or maintenance of improvements in or from
the permittee's use of the right-of-way. As a condition of every permit, the
permittee shall execute and deliver to the village an indemnification agreement
in a form approved by the Village Attorney, in which the permittee agrees to
indemnify and hold harmless the village and its officials, officers, employees,
agents, volunteers, representatives and contractors from such liability and any
resulting costs and expenses, including attorney fees.
      (2)   A permittee shall also agree to indemnify and hold the village and
its officials, officers,
employees, agents, volunteers, representatives and contractors harmless from
any claims or encumbrances which may be imposed as a result of any indebtedness
by the permittee to any contractors, subcontractors or any other persons
providing services, labor or materials to the permittee. If the village
discovers that such a claim or encumbrance has been placed on or against a
village right-of-way, the village shall notify the permittee in writing to
remove the same within 30 days from said notice, with failure to remove such a
claim grounds for revocation of permit. If the permittee fails to remove the
claim or encumbrance from the village’s right-of-way within 30 days from the
village’s written notice, the village may apply any bond posted by the
permittee towards the village’s cost of completely removing the claim or
encumbrance. The permittee shall have the affirmative obligation to inform the
village of any claims or encumbrances that the permittee is aware have been
placed on or against the village’s right-of-way.
   (D)   Insurance. The permittee shall, at its own cost, maintain in full
force and effect during the term of each permit the following kinds of
insurance with the limits set forth, with the company providing same to be
licensed and admitted to do business in the State of Michigan and acceptable to
the village:
      (1)   Comprehensive commercial general liability insurance on an
occurrence basis, with liability
limits in an amount established by resolution of the Village Council, which
liability insurance coverage shall include coverage for operations, products
and completed operations, contractual liability, independent contractors and
for explosion, collapse and underground liabilities, commonly referred to as
“XCU” coverage;
      (2)   Motor vehicle insurance covering all owned and non-owned vehicles
used in the permitted activities, including Michigan no-fault coverage, with
liability limits in amounts established by resolution of the Village Council;
      (3)   Owner’s and contractor’s protective liability insurance with
liability limits established by
resolution of the Village Council;
      (4)   Worker’s compensation insurance, including employer's liability
coverage, in accordance
with applicable Michigan statutes;
      (5)   The village and its officials, officers, employees, agents,
contractors and representatives
shall be named as additional insureds on the comprehensive commercial general
liability insurance, owner's and contractor's protective liability insurance
and the motor vehicle liability insurance to be obtained by permittee;
      (6)   The permittee shall furnish to the village certificates of
insurance and, upon request, certified copies of each insurance policy that the
permittee is required by this section to obtain. No insurance policy and
coverage that the permittee is required to obtain and keep in full force and
effect by this section shall be canceled, changed or subject to cancellation or
reduction without at least 30-days' prior written notice to the village. If any
coverage will expire during the term of a permit, the permittee shall deliver
renewal certificates to the Village Clerk at least ten days prior to the
expiration date.
   (E)   Stop work/use orders and permit revocations. All permits shall be
subject to the issuance of stop work or stop use orders by the Village Clerk
and revocation as provided in § 96.033.
(Ord. 169, passed 11-27-00)
§ 96.033 STOP WORK OR USE ORDERS, REVOCATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Stop work or use orders. In addition to any other rights or remedies
the village may have pursuant to this subchapter or other applicable law, the
Village Clerk, upon finding the existence of an imminent threat to the public
health, safety or welfare, may order a stoppage of work and/or use pending:
      (1)   Removal or elimination of the threat; and/or
      (2)   A hearing on the order before the Village Council under division
(C) of this section.
   (B)   Revocation of permits. The Village Council may revoke a permit for any
of the following reasons, subject to undertaking the procedure in division (C)
of this section:
      (1)   Permittee’s violation of and/or noncompliance with this subchapter
or a stop work or stop
use order of the Village Clerk;
      (2)   Permittee’s failure to comply with any of the terms, conditions
and/or requirements of its
permit;
      (3)   Permittee’s failure to obtain permits and other approvals and to
timely pay any fees required by this subchapter and/or any other applicable
ordinances, codes, statutes or laws;
      (4)   Violation of any ordinance, code, state or federal law or any other
applicable law or legal
requirement;
      (5)   A change to or cancellation of an insurance policy or coverage
required by this subchapter without the prior written approval of the village;
      (6)   The cessation of operation, termination, dissolution or disbanding
of the permittee;
      (7)   Causing, allowing and/or maintaining a nuisance as determined by
the village in the village’s right-of-way;
      (8)   Failure to timely pay to the village any real property taxes,
personal property taxes, assessments and/or other obligations;
      (9)   Failure to remove any liens or encumbrances from the village’s
right-of-way;
      (10)   A material change of circumstance relating to the right-of-way
which results in a material adverse condition in which to permit a continuation
of permittee's use.
   (C)   Hearing procedure. In the event a stop work or use order is issued, or
the village determines that a permit is subject to revocation under this
subchapter, the village shall do the following:
      (1)   Mail via certified mail return receipt requested, or deliver a
written notice of hearing to the permittee at the last address furnished to the
Village Clerk by permittee, at least ten days prior to the hearing and
containing the following information:
         (a)   Notice of the village's proposed action and stop work or use
order, if applicable;
         (b)   Reasons for the village's proposed action and stop work or use
order, if applicable;
         (c)   Date, time and location of hearing;
         (d)   A statement that at the hearing the permittee may present
witnesses, evidence, information and arguments on its behalf and that the
permittee has the right to be represented by counsel.
      (2)   Hold a hearing as scheduled. The permittee shall be given an
opportunity to be represented
by counsel and to present witnesses, evidence, information and arguments. Other
interested persons shall also be permitted to attend the hearing and may
present evidence, information and comments on the matters addressed at the
hearing.
      (3)   Following the hearing, the Village Council shall make a decision to
continue, modify or dissolve a stop work or use order and/or revoke a permit,
as applicable. In the event the Village Council decides to revoke a permit or
to continue or modify a stop work or use order, it shall state the reasons for
the decision on the record and shall mail or deliver written notice of its
decision and reasons to the permittee.
   (D)   Violations/penalties.
      (1)   Any person determined to be in violation of this subchapter or a
permit issued under it shall be responsible for a municipal civil infraction
and shall pay a fine in the following amount:
         (a)   First offense:            $1,000;
         (b)   Second or subsequent offense:    $5,000.
      (2)   Any person in violation of this subchapter or a permit issued under
it shall be responsible for restoration of the right-of-way to the condition
that existed prior to the violation. If such person fails or refuses to restore
the right-of-way after 30-days' notice from the village, and if the village
determines that the civil infraction remedy is inadequate under the
circumstances, the village may initiate proceedings in the appropriate court to
recover the cost estimated to accomplish the restoration or recover such costs
as have been actually expended by the village in achieving the restoration, as
the case may be. Such costs shall include finance and reasonable administrative
costs estimated or incurred.
      (3)   Each occurrence of a violation, and each day a violation exists,
shall constitute a separate violation of this section.
      (4)   Violations of this section are considered to be a nuisance per se
with such violations and correction of any conditions resulting from violations
subject to abatement by injunctive or other appropriate order by a court of
competent jurisdiction.
   (E)   Election of remedies. Violations of this subchapter and permits or
orders issued under it subject the violator to village enforcement through one
or more of the remedies provided in this section, and the election by the
village to pursue one form of remedy does not waive or restrict the village’s
option to pursue other remedies at the same or later time.
(Ord. 169, passed 11-27-00)
§ 96.034 NO WAIVER.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed as a waiver of any of the
rights, remedies and/or authority of the village pursuant to any laws,
ordinances, codes or regulations of the village, and the village reserves the
right to exercise all authority and take any and all action granted to it by
any constitution, law, village ordinance, code and/or regulation. Nothing in
this section shall be construed to limit and/or preclude the village from
exercising its right of eminent domain.
(Ord. 169, passed 11-27-00)
§ 96.035 NOTICES.
   Any notices required to be sent to the permittee by this subchapter may be
delivered or may be sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the
permittee at the address listed in the permittee’s disruption and/or use permit
application.
(Ord. 169, passed 11-27-00)
SNOW REMOVAL
§ 96.045 FINDINGS; INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   As part of its maintenance of the public streets, the village contracts for
snowplowing and related winter maintenance activities to respond to natural
occurrences and accumulations of snow and ice. The village has found that
private property owners also contract to have snow removed from their private
properties and driveways and that some contractors providing those services do
so in a manner that deposits snow, ice or slush from private properties on the
public streets, resulting in obstruction of the streets with unnatural
accumulations of snow, ice or slush and a resulting threat to the public
health, safety and welfare and possible additional expense to the village for
maintaining the public streets. The intent and purpose of this subchapter is to
keep the public streets, sidewalks, and other property, public or private, free
from deposits of snow, ice, slush or other obstructions from private driveways
or properties by prohibiting such deposits and establishing responsibility for
ordinance compliance and violations.
(Ord. 163, passed 2-28-00; Am. Ord. 230, passed 3-24-14)
§ 96.046 PROHIBITION.
   It shall be unlawful to directly or indirectly deposit or cause, secure,
allow, aid or abet in the deposit of snow, ice, slush or other material from
private property onto a public street, sidewalk or other property, public or
private.
(Ord. 163, passed 2-28-00; Am. Ord. 230, passed 3-24-14)
§ 96.047 RESPONSIBLE PERSONS.
   This subchapter and the prohibition in § 96.046 applies to all of the
following persons:
   (A)   All persons directly involved in the action that places the unlawful
deposit;
   (B)   The operator of any vehicle or motor vehicle that is used to place the
unlawful deposit;
   (C)   The registered owner or lessee of any vehicle or motor vehicle that is
used to place the unlawful deposit;
   (D)   The owners of the private property from which the unlawful deposit was
made;
   (E)   The employer of any person that places the unlawful deposit during the
course of that employment.
(Ord. 163, passed 2-28-00; Am. Ord. 230, passed 3-24-14)
§ 96.048 VIOLATIONS.
   Violations of this subchapter shall be municipal civil infractions related
to the use or occupancy of land, with violations punishable by a civil fine of
up to $500, plus costs, all of which shall be established and enforceable as
provided in Public Act 12 of 1994, being M.C.L.A. §§ 600.8701 et seq., as
amended.
(Ord. 163, passed 2-28-00)
§ 96.049 ENFORCEMENT.
   This subchapter may be enforced by officers of the Franklin-Bingham Police
Department and the Village Clerk.
(Ord. 163, passed 2-28-00)
STREET MAINTENANCE
§ 96.060 INTENT.
   It is the intent of the Village Council of the Village of Bingham Farms to
allot substantial resources to cause a new surface to be placed on the streets
of the village immediately following the adoption of this subchapter. The
objective of such project is to achieve a roadway system which enhances the
character and appearance of the village and promotes stability in private
property values within the village. Toward these ends, the intent of the
Village Council to enact the following provisions designed to require persons,
including contractors working within the village, to act in a manner which will
not materially alter the condition or appearance of the village streets to be
newly surfaced. It is the further intent of the Village Council to require any
person violating these provisions jointly and severally with the owner of the
property in connection with which the activity has occurred to be responsible
for restoring streets whose condition or appearance has been changed.
(Ord. 159, passed 8-4-97)
§ 96.061 PROHIBITION.
   (A)   No person, including property owners, contractors, travelers and
others shall operate any vehicle or device, or take any other action in a
manner which causes or contributes to a material change in the condition or
appearance of a village street.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, a material change in the condition
or appearance of a street shall include but shall not be limited to the
following:
      (1)   The causing of a crack, hole or break in the surface of a street;
      (2)   The spilling, leaking, dumping, release or other discharge of
petroleum based or other materials that causes or results in visible
discoloration of a street surface.
(Am. Ord. 159A, passed 9-25-00)
   (C)   A material change shall not mean the normal wear and tear of a street
by customary usage over a long period of time.
(Ord. 159, passed 8-4-97)
§ 96.062 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any person determined to be in violation of this subchapter shall be
responsible for a municipal civil infraction and shall pay a fine in the
following amount:
      (1)   First offense:               $500;
      (2)   Second offense:            $1,000.
   (B)   Any person in violation of this chapter shall be responsible for
restoration of the street to the condition that existed prior to the violation.
If the person fails or refuses to restore the street after 30 days notice from
the village, and if the village determines that the civil infraction remedy is
inadequate under the circumstances, the village may initiate proceedings in the
appropriate court to recover the cost estimated to accomplish the restoration
or recover such costs as have been actually expended by the village in
achieving the restoration, as the case may be. The costs shall include finance
and reasonable administrative costs estimated or incurred.
   (C)   Each occurrence of a violation and each day a violation exists shall
constitute a separate violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 159, passed 8-4-97)
REGULATIONS GOVERNING WORK IN ROAD RIGHTS-OF-WAY
§ 96.075 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEPARTMENT. The offices of the Village Clerk.
   FACILITY. Any man-made objects.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY (R.O.W.). The land owned or controlled by the village or other
governmental
agency or entity that has been designated for public use, which shall include,
but shall not be limited to streets, curbs, shoulders, areas for utilities,
landscape areas and other areas supporting or directly or indirectly relating
to streets and/or the provision of public service.
   STREET. A designated area for vehicular travel within the right of way.
   VILLAGE ENGINEER. The engineering firm under contract to perform engineering
services on behalf of the village.
(Ord. 151, passed - -)
§ 96.076 GENERAL PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Damage prohibited. A person shall not make any excavation or fill-in
or cause any damage to any R.O.W. in the village, except under the conditions
and in the manner permitted in this subchapter.
   (B)   Obstruction prohibited. A person shall not place any article, thing or
obstruction in the R.O.W., except under the conditions used in the manner
permitted in this chapter, but this provision shall not prohibit temporary
obstructions as incidental to the expeditious movement of articles and things
to and from abutting premises, nor to the lawful parking of vehicles within the
part of the street reserved for vehicular traffic.
   (C)   R.O.W. operations. A person, public utility company, franchisee or
licensee shall not conduct any construction, repair or maintenance operations
in the R.O.W. without first obtaining a written permit from the Village Clerk.
A permit shall not be granted until the applicant has filed a liability
insurance policy as required by this subchapter and posted a cash deposit to
defray the cost of repairing all damage done to the street surface and
installation on, over or within the street, as estimated by the Village
Engineer. A permit shall expire after 30 days or the date specified on the
permit unless work has commenced on the project covered by the permit.
   (D)   Curb cuts. A new access by way of driveway, street or otherwise to
existing R.O.W. within the village and/or an opening in or through any street
curb shall not be made without first obtaining a written permit from the
Village Council.
   (E)   Obstructions. A person shall not occupy any R.O.W. with any materials
or machinery incidental to the construction, maintenance, demolition or repair
of any facilities adjacent to the R.O.W. or for any other purpose without first
obtaining a permit from the Village Engineer and posting a cash deposit and
filing an insurance policy as required by this subchapter.
   (F)   Road oiling and dust control. A person shall not apply any liquid dust
control material or other liquid surface treatment to any street without first
obtaining a permit for such work as required by this subchapter. The permit fee
shall be established by resolution of the Village Council.
   (G)   Unloading construction equipment. No person shall unload from any
vehicle or trailer any power shovel, ditch digger, trencher, bulldozer, tractor
or any similar construction or excavating equipment having a weight of one ton
or more or which moves about by any means other than rubber tires, onto or upon
any hard-surfaced street without first obtaining a permit therefor from the
Street Superintendent and posting a cash deposit. Such deposit shall be
available for the repair and reconstruction of any street or its appurtenances
damaged as a result of the permitted operation.
(Ord. 151, passed - -)
§ 96.077 PERMITS.
   Where permits are authorized or required in this subchapter, they shall be
obtained upon application to the Village Clerk upon such forms as prescribed by
the Village Council. Permit fees shall be established by resolution of the
Village Council.
   (A)   Permits shall be valid only for the period of time endorsed thereon.
   (B)   Application for a permit shall constitute an agreement by the
applicant to promptly complete the work permitted; observe all pertinent laws
and regulations of the village; repair all damage done to the street surface
and installations on, over or within such street, including trees; and protect
and save harmless the village from all damages or actions at law that may arise
or may be brought on account of injury to person or property resulting from the
work done under the permit or in connection therewith.
   (C)   Where liability insurance policies are required to be filed in making
application for a permit, they shall be for the amounts established by the
Village Council following recommendation from village consultants. A properly
executed certificate of insurance containing evidence that the pertinent policy
of insurance or endorsement applies to the provisions under which the permit is
issued and approved as to form by the Village Attorney shall be filed with the
Village Clerk.
   (D)   Where cash deposits are required with the application for any permit,
each deposit shall be in the amount as determined by the Village Engineer, and
the deposit shall be used to defray all expenses to the village arising out of
the granting of the permit and work done under or in connection with the
permit. Six months after acceptance of the work done under the permit by the
Village Engineer, any balance of each cash deposit unexpended shall be
refunded. In any case, where the deposit does not cover all costs and expenses
of the village, the deficit shall be paid by the applicant.
   (E)   Annual permits may be issued for emergency repairs, maintenance, small
alterations and small service connections at the discretion of the Village
Clerk with permit fees and cash deposits of the Village Clerk, with permit fees
and cash deposits established by resolution of the Village Council and with
liability insurance policies in amounts established by the Village Council.
   (F)   Permits for excavation of less than six inches are not required if
located outside of the street and are for the purpose of restoration and/or
repair to landscaping or irrigation systems.
   (G)   Routine operations conducted by a public utility company, franchisee
or licensee will not require a permit if no excavation is made in the right-of-
way, provided advanced approval in writing is given by the Village Engineer or
Village Clerk.
   (H)   A permit shall be revocable by the Village Engineer for failure to
comply with this subchapter, rules and regulations adopted pursuant hereto and
the lawful orders of the Village Clerk or Village Engineer or the duly
authorized representative made in the administration of this subchapter.
(Ord. 151, passed - -)
§ 96.078 INSTALLATIONS BENEATH PAVED SURFACES.
   (A)   All installations which are to be made beneath paved surfaces shall,
if feasible, be installed in advance of paving or resurfacing.
   (B)   The cost of resurfacings shall be charged against the premises
adjacent or to be served and against the owner of such premises. Where such
paving or resurfacing is financed in whole or in part by special assessment,
the cost of such sewer and water connections may be chargeable against the
premises served or adjacent as a part of the special assessment for such paving
or resurfacing. The cost of such paving or resurfacing shall be a lien on the
premises adjacent or to be served and shall be collected as provided for
assessments on single lots pursuant to the provisions of the Village Charter.
(Ord. 151, passed - -)
§ 96.079 DETERMINATION OF NECESSITY FOR UTILITY CONNECTIONS WITHIN RIGHT-OF-
WAY.
   The necessity for utility connections within the R.O.W. shall be determined
by the Village Engineer based upon the size, shape and area of each abutting
lot or parcel of land, the lawful use of such land under the zoning regulations
of the village, the character of the locality and the probable future
development of each abutting lot or parcel of land. When the village (as
opposed to a private installer) is undertaking any installation project, the
Village Engineer shall give written notice of the intention to install such
connections and to charge the cost to the premises, to each owner of land
abutting the street, to be furnished with such connections, as shown by the
records of the Village Assessor in accordance with this code. Any owner
objecting to the installation of any connection shall file his or her
objections in writing within seven days after service of the notice with the
Director who shall, after considering the objection made in writing, make a
final determination of the connections to be installed.
(Ord. 151, passed - -)
§ 96.080 CURB CUT REGULATIONS.
   Driveway or street approaches, including curb cuts and sidewalk driveway
crossings to provide access to an existing street shall be first subject to
approval of the Village Council and shall comply with the following, except
planned commercial and industrial buildings which require separate site plan
approval under this code.
   (A)   No single curb cut or driveway approach shall exceed 80 feet in width,
nor be less than 12 feet in width, except, where joint driveway openings are
permitted on either side of a common property line, the maximum curb cut shall
be 40 feet per lot.
   (B)   The minimum distance between any curb cut or driveway approach and a
public crosswalk shall be five feet.
   (C)   Where sidewalks are required, no single sidewalk driveway approach
crossing shall exceed 30 feet in width.
   (D)   The maximum number of linear feet of sidewalk driveway approach
crossing permitted for any lot, parcel of land, business or enterprise shall be
for 5% of the total abutting street frontage up to and including 200 lineal
feet of street frontage, plus 20% of the lineal feet of street frontage in
excess to 200 feet.
   (E)   The necessary adjustments to utility poles, light standards, fire
hydrants, catch basins, underground structures, street or railway signs,
signals or other public improvements or installations shall be accomplished
without cost to the village.
   (F)   All new driveway approaches along paved streets shall be paved between
the curb cut and the property line with concrete or asphalt in accordance with
regulations established by the Village Engineer.
   (G)   All construction shall be in accordance with plans and specifications
approved by the Village Engineer.
(Ord. 151, passed - -)
§ 96.081 GENERAL RIGHT-OF-WAY USAGE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Underground structures. All underground structures located within the
public R.O.W. shall conform to the village engineering design standards and
specifications or to the standards and specifications prescribed by the Village
Engineer.
   (B)   Backfilling. All trenches in a public R.O.W., except by special
permission, shall be backfilled in accordance with regulations adopted pursuant
to this subchapter. Any settlement shall be corrected within eight hours after
notification to do so.
   (C)   Utility, poles and structures. When utility poles, overhead equipment
and structures are permitted to be placed in the public R.O.W., placement shall
be as prescribed by the Village Engineer. Such poles, overhead equipment and
structures shall be removed, relocated or placed underground as the Village
Engineer shall direct when such facilities need to be relocated as a result of
new road construction/road widening or other similar project as required by the
rules of the Michigan Public Service Commission and Village Code.
   (D)   Mailbox supports. Mailbox supports may be placed in the R.O.W. in
locations approved by the U.S. Postal Service and shall not be considered
obstructions unless any portion of the mailbox or mailbox support extends over
any portion of the traveled street or curb. If any portion of a mailbox or
mailbox support extends over the traveled street or curb, the mailbox or
mailbox support shall be considered an obstruction and prohibited under this
subchapter.
   (E)   Utility placement zone. A designated zone for the placement of
utilities, as described in § 96.079 such as gas, electric, communication and
other franchised or licensed facilities shall be determined by the Village
Engineer.
      (1)   This area shall be a 9-foot horizontally measured space at the
outside edge of the right-of-way. This zone shall not be located on the side of
the street where a water main is situated.
      (2)   If water mains are on both sides of the street, the south or east
side of the street is to be
used. If due to technical reasons the south or east side cannot be used nor is
the placement zone practical, the placement shall be at the discretion of the
Village Engineer.
      (3)   In all cases the utilities are to be placed within the designated
zone unless authorized by the Village Engineer.
      (4)   Utilities constructed of non-metallic material are required to have
a traceable metallic wrap or accompanying wire for the purpose of tracing and
locating with conventional locating equipment.
      (5)   When placed in the R.O.W., utilities or other franchised or
licensed facilities constructed of material susceptible to breakage (such as
fiber optic, wire, plastic line) must be encased in protective conduit, as
determined by the Village Engineer.
      (6)   Except for emergency repairs indicated in § 96.082, no opening or
excavation may take place in the utility placement zone for a period of 18
months following construction of new pavement or new utility in the zone. The
Village Council may waive this time period if in his or her opinion it is in
the best interests of the village.
   (F)   Safeguards. All temporary openings, excavations and obstructions
located in a street within 12 feet of a street shall be provided with traffic-
control devices in conformance with the Michigan Manual of Traffic-Control
Devices. All temporary openings, excavations and obstructions located in a
sidewalk or driveway approach shall be surrounded with lighted barricades. All
temporary openings and excavations, located anywhere in a public R.O.W.,
greater than five feet in depth shall be completely surrounded by a 6-foot high
chain link fence, securely mounted in place.
   (G)   Shoring excavations. All openings and excavations shall, where
necessary, be properly and substantially sheeted and braced as a safeguard to
workmen and to prevent cave-ins or washouts which may injure the thoroughfare
or sub-surface structure of the street.
   (H)   Removal of encroachment. Encroachments and obstructions in the R.O.W.
may be removed and excavations refilled by the village. The expense of such
removal or refilling shall be charged to the abutting land owner when made or
permitted by them or suffered to remain by them, otherwise in accordance with
the terms and conditions of this subchapter. The procedure for collection of
such expenses shall be as prescribed in the Village Charter.
   (I)   Temporary R.O.W. closings. The Village Engineer shall have authority
to temporarily close any portion of the R.O.W., when any portion is deemed to
be unsafe or temporarily unsuitable for use for any reason. The Village
Engineer shall cause suitable barriers and signs to be erected in the R.O.W.
indicating that any portion shall have been closed to public travel, no person
shall drive any vehicle upon or over the R.O.W. or portion, except as the same
may be necessary incidentally to any street repair or construction work being
done in the area closed to public travel. No person shall move or interfere
with any sign or barrier erected pursuant to this section without authority
from the Director.
(Ord. 151, passed - -)
§ 96.082 EMERGENCY OPERATIONS.
   Permits are not required for emergency work, provided that a permit shall be
obtained on the following business day and the provisions of this subchapter
shall be complied with. Immediate (advanced, if feasible) notice of the intent
to perform emergency work shall be provided to the Village Clerk. However, the
Village Engineer will review each emergency operation to assure such operations
are not casual. Upon such review, the Engineer may require a public utility,
franchisee or licensee to get verbal or written permission before doing any
work in a right-of-way if it is found that use of this section is not for bona
fide emergency.
(Ord. 151, passed - -)
§ 96.083 VILLAGE RIGHT-OF-WAY IMPROVEMENTS.
   Except in cases of emergency, whenever the village decides to make village
improvements to the R.O.W. involving the relocation of facilities belonging to
public utilities, licensees and other franchisees, the Village Engineer shall,
not less than 120 days prior to commencement of construction, serve notice upon
all public utilities, requiring them to install or relocate all necessary
underground work in advance of the R.O.W. improvement.
(Ord. 151, passed - -)
§ 96.084 PAVING DISRUPTION DEFERRAL.
   No permit to make any opening or excavation in or under a paved street shall
be granted to any person within a period of two years after the completion of
the paving or resurfacing, unless it is found by the Village Council that the
opening and excavation could not have been made prior to the paving and that
disruption prior to the expiration of two years is necessary.
(Ord. 151, passed - -)
CHAPTER 97: RESIDENTIAL DRIVEWAYS
Section
   
97.01   Purpose
   
97.02   Definitions
   
97.03   Specifications
   
97.04   Exemption from bond requirement
   
97.05   Violations
§ 97.01 PURPOSE.
This chapter is adopted for the purpose of establishing standards for the
design of residential driveways in the village, in order to ensure public
safety and to protect and enhance the character, appearance, and property
values of the village. Pursuant to the provisions of its Charter, the Village
of Bingham Farms has the authority to enact regulations for and exercise
reasonable control over the design of its residential driveways.
(Ord. 187, passed 11-24-03)
§ 97.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUXILIARY PARKING AREA. An improved area outside of a building and adjacent
to a driveway for the parking of vehicles on a lot or parcel of residentially
zoned land.
     DRIVEWAY. Any designated area used to provide vehicular access to a single
lot or parcel of residentially zoned land. Standards shall apply equally to
driveways providing access to garages or other accessory buildings, as well as
semi-circular and similar driveways designed to provide access to a front door
drop-off or similar area.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. A structure or portion of a structure constructed of
impenetrable material that repels water so as to prevent precipitation from
infiltrating the ground occupied by the structure, or that causes water to run
off the structure in greater quantities or at a greater rate than existed prior
to development.
   SEMI-CIRCULAR DRIVEWAY. A driveway that intersects a street at more than one
location.
(Ord. 187, passed 11-24-03; Am. Ord. 202, passed 1-22-07)
§ 97.03 SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Width. The minimum width of a driveway shall be 10 feet and the
maximum width shall be 12 feet, unless the garage is within 75 feet of the
front or exterior side lot line where the intersection of the street and
driveway occurs, in which case the driveway shall not exceed 18 feet in width.
The foregoing limitations on driveway width are not intended to prevent the
installation of a maneuvering area that is within 30 feet of the garage door
(s), to facilitate entrance to and exit from the garage door(s).
   (B)   Radius of curb return. The curb return radii of driveways connecting
to any village street or private road shall not exceed ten feet.
   (C)   Overhead clearance. Driveways shall provide at least 14 feet in
overhead clearance. This includes clearance between trees and limbs along the
driveway, as well as between gates, pillars, and statues that may be present at
the driveway entrance.
   (D)   Semi-circular driveways. Semi-circular driveways shall be prohibited
if the garage is within 75 feet of the front or exterior side lot line where
the intersection of the street and driveway occurs.
   (E)   Auxiliary parking areas. Auxiliary parking areas are subject to, and
shall comply with, the following requirements and standards:
      (1)   Only one auxiliary parking area is allowed on a single lot or
parcel. Auxiliary parking areas are limited to three parking spaces and may not
exceed 600 square feet in size.
      (2)   Auxiliary parking areas shall not be located closer to a rear or
side property line than the minimum distances for accessory structures, or
closer to a front lot line than the minimum distance for dwellings under the
village zoning ordinance.
      (3)   Designs for auxiliary parking areas that decrease the amount of
impervious surfaces, such as permeable paving, shall be encouraged.
      (4)   Auxiliary parking areas shall be screened by perimeter landscaping
consisting of ground cover and a hedge (densely planted shrubs) such that
parked vehicles are not visible from the street or adjoining properties.
      (5)   No recreational vehicles, commercial vehicles, boats, trailers,
mobile homes, or unlicensed motor vehicles shall remain in an auxiliary parking
area for longer than allowed by the village zoning ordinance.
      (6)   Auxiliary parking areas are not allowed if the garage is within 75
feet of the front or exterior side lot line where the intersection of the
street and driveway occurs.
      (7)   An auxiliary parking area and semi-circular driveway on the same
lot or parcel shall be prohibited.
(Ord. 187, passed 11-24-03; Am. Ord. 202, passed 1-22-07)
§ 97.04 EXEMPTION FROM BOND REQUIREMENT.
   Driveways paved with concrete abutting roads paved with concrete are hereby
exempt from the bond requirement contained in §
96.031(C) of this code.
(Ord. 192, passed 11-22-04)
§ 97.05 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person found responsible for a violation of §
97.03 of this chapter shall be responsible for a municipal civil infraction
pursuant to §
32.03 of this code. The fine for a first violation of §
97.03 shall be $500, and the fine for each repeat offense shall be $1,000.
(Ord. 187, passed 11-24-03; Am. Ord. 192, passed 11-22-04)
CHAPTER 98: SIGNS
Section
   
98.01   Purpose
   
98.02   Signs in residential zoning districts
   
98.03   Signs in Professional Services Zoning District (PS)
   
98.04   Signs in Commercial Zoning District (C-1)
   
98.05   Nonconforming signs
   
98.06   Administration
   
98.07   Appeals and variances
   
98.08   Violations and enforcement
§ 98.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate outdoor advertising and outdoor
signs of all types in all zoning districts. The regulation of outdoor
advertising and all signs is intended to enhance the physical appearance of the
village, preserve scenic and natural beauty, make the village a more enjoyable
and pleasing community and create a more attractive climate.
(O.C. § 5.81) (Am. Ord. 233, passed 1-26-15; Am. Ord. 246, passed 1-22-18)
§ 98.02 SIGNS IN RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICTS.
   Signs in residential districts shall be subject to the following:
   (A)   No sign shall project beyond a lot line. There shall be no
illumination on any sign located in the same line of vision as a traffic-
control system nor interference with vision clearance along any highway, street
or road or at any intersection of two or more streets. No sign shall be
illuminated by other than continuous indirect white light nor shall contain any
visible moving parts. All illuminated signs shall be so placed as to prevent
the rays and illumination therefrom from being cast upon residences. Subject to
the foregoing, the following signs are permitted for single-family residences:
      (1)   One sign, not exceeding one square foot in area, displaying the
street, number and name of the occupant of a dwelling unit;
      (2)   Real estate signs of not more than three square feet in area
advertising the sale, rental or lease of only the premises on which they are
maintained;
      (3)   All signs shall be at least 12 feet distant from all street lines;
      (4)   One trespassing, safety or caution sign not over two square feet in
area shall be permitted on a lot when in a development, a common area.
   (B)   Permanent signage for any subdivision or cluster development may be
permitted subject to approval by the Planning Commission.
   (C)   One "For Sale" or "For Rent" sign for subdivisions or cluster
developments may be displayed on the subdivision or cluster development site.
Such sign shall not exceed the overall dimensions of three feet vertical and
four feet horizontal, plus up to two inches of framing material enclosing each
edge. Such sign may be either a single- or double-faced flat surface or two
opposing faces on a triangular base having no more than three feet of
separation at the open end. Signs shall be constructed of rigid materials and
shall display only gold lettering produced by applying pigment to a solid dark
background. Information displayed thereon shall be limited to a description of
the property, the purpose for which it is being offered and the name, address
and telephone number of the owner or agent making the offer. Such sign shall be
installed on a rigid base which is at least 15 feet from all adjacent street
lines and shall have an overall height no greater than five feet above
prevailing grade. All exposed surfaces shall be maintained in good order. No
such sign may be installed until a permit therefor has been issued by the
Village of Bingham Farms. Permits, when issued, will be valid for a period of
one year. The Village Council may extend a permit for an additional period upon
application of the representatives of the subdivision or cluster development.
   (D)   No private signs, displays, exhibits or similar material shall be used
or maintained on or over streets, rights-of-way, easements or public utility
poles and the like except for signs in private developments.
   (E)   Political signs shall be solely for the purpose of providing
information relating to the election of a person to public office, or to a
political party, or the expression of a political opinion, or to any matter to
be voted upon, and shall be permitted subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   Maximum area. Political signs shall not exceed three square feet in
area. Permission to locate subject signs shall be obtained from the owner or
occupant of property on which the sign is located. Failure to comply with this
condition shall be cause for immediate removal of that sign.
      (2)   Political signs shall not be attached to any utility pole, other
sign, other sign parts or landscaping, including trees. Political signs shall
be ground signs.
      (3)   Political signs shall not be erected in such a manner that they
will or reasonably may be expected to interfere with, obstruct, confuse or
mislead traffic. No sign shall be erected in the right-of-way.
      (4)   Political signs shall be removed within five calendar days after
the election or event to which they relate.
   (F)   No other type of advertising signs or material, including but not
restricted to advertising flags, electric lights, panels, fluorescent material,
pennants or similar paraphernalia, signs containing an audible message or
sound, or signs containing any obscene, indecent or illegal matter, shall be
used.
(O.C. § 5.82) (Am. Ord. 182, passed 1-27-03; Am. Ord. 233, passed 1-26-15; Am.
Ord. 246, passed 1- 22-18; Am. Ord. 273 passed 4-22-24)
§ 98.03 SIGNS IN PROFESSIONAL SERVICES ZONING DISTRICT (PS).
   (A)   Signs are permitted in the PS District subject to the following:
      (1)   Building identification wall signs shall be displayed flat against
the building and shall
not project above the roof line of the building;
         (a)   If an illuminated building identification sign is permitted, it
shall be subject to the following:
            1.   It may be internally illuminated if fully shielded to prevent
glare;
            2.   It shall have a dark opaque background with white illuminated
message;
            3.   Individually illuminated channel letter signs shall have
recessed electrical raceways;
            4.   No illumination of wall signs is permitted where the building
faces a residential
district.
         (b)   Allowable area for wall signs:
            1.   Total sign area shall not exceed 5% of the front wall area as
defined by the width and height of the subject building's front elevation.
            2.   In no instance shall a single wall sign exceed 100 square
feet.
            3.   A single signature tenant wall sign up to 100 square feet
shall be permitted per 100 lineal feet of front building elevation frontage.
There shall not be more than one signature sign per building plane.
            4.   Maximum vertical dimension of any wall sign shall not exceed
12% of the building
height.
            5.   Maximum vertical dimension of any wall sign shall not exceed
15% of the building width.
            6.   In order to qualify for the maximum allowable area for a wall
sign the approving body must make a finding that the following criteria have
been met:
               A.   Placement and alignment of the sign shall not obstruct
prominent design features of a building;
               B.   The scale and dimensions of the sign shall complement the
design of the building and shall be constructed of high quality, durable,
weather resistant materials; and
               C.   Illumination of wall signs shall be designed to enhance the
legibility of the sign. Backlit or halo lit individual letter signs or
internally illuminated channel letter signs are encouraged.
         (c)   Placement of wall signs.
            1.   There shall not be more than one signature tenant sign per
building side.
            2.   Signs shall be allowed on Telegraph "front" and any side with
a public entrance.
            3.   Signs facing a residential district shall not be illuminated.
            4.   Wall signs shall not be placed at random locations on the
facade or obscure building details such as cornices, molding, windows or other
prominent design features. Building facades should be designed with specific
areas dedicated for wall signs. Where specific sign panels were not dedicated
in the building design:
               A.   The location, placement and size of wall signs should
create a consistent pattern of signs on the facade.
               B.   In general, wall signs should be placed above the building
entrances and below the roofline.
      (2)   Necessary directional or regulatory traffic signs, each not more
than two square feet in area. The signs shall be mounted having an overall
height no higher than six feet above driveway grade.
   (B)   One freestanding or monument business identification sign shall be
permitted for each PS District development fronting on Telegraph subject to the
following:
      (1)   Monument signs shall display the name of the complex and building
address. Such signs may display the names of not more than six tenants, leasing
information or a combination of these;
      (2)   Total sign area for freestanding signs shall not exceed one-third
of a square foot per lineal foot of parcel frontage up to a maximum of 60
square feet;
      (3)   Freestanding monument signs shall not exceed ten feet above the
grade of the nearest public sidewalk and shall be situated on a masonry, metal
or similar base not less than 30 inches above grade. Post and/or pylon style
signs are not permitted;
      (4)   Freestanding signs shall be set back at least five feet from a
sidewalk and shall not occupy the clear vision area at the intersection of any
entrance drive and the sidewalk. For purposes of this provision, the CLEAR
VISION AREA is defined as a triangle 25 feet along both the sidewalk and the
driveway curb, beginning at their point of intersection;
      (5)   Monument signs shall have a dark opaque background with a white
message; all letters shall be in the same typeface; no logos are permitted;
      (6)   Illuminated monument signs are permitted. Illumination shall be
internal or fully shielded to prevent glare;
      (7)   All existing freestanding "for lease" signs that serve the building
under consideration shall be removed and incorporated into the new monument
sign as a condition of monument sign approval.
   (C)   "For lease" signs may only be located on the monument sign for the
premises where space is available for lease. Such sign may take the place of a
tenant signage panel within the business center sign. The panel(s) may include
the name and telephone number of the owner or agent making the offer.
No such sign may be installed until a permit therefor has been issued by the
Village of Bingham Farms. Permits, when issued, will be valid for one year. The
Village Council may extend a permit for an additional period upon application
of the representatives of the office building.
   (D)   "For lease" signs not affiliated with monument signs, may be single or
double sided and not to exceed three feet vertical and four feet horizontal in
total area. No such sign may be installed until a permit therefor has been
issued by the Village of Bingham Farms. Permits, when issued, will be valid for
one year. The Village Council may extend a permit for an additional period upon
application of the representatives of the office building.
   (E)   Internal directory signs. Freestanding directory signs are permitted
within the interior of office sites, parks and complexes and shall not be
included in the maximum allowable square footage of identification signage for
the building or complex of buildings. Such signs may be up to 15 square feet
and 96 inches in height and may be internally illuminated. A plan for the
number and placement of internal directory signs shall be submitted for review
by the Planning Commission.
   (F)   Other conditions. 
      (1)   No signs shall have any moving parts or flashing illumination;
      (2)   No signs shall have illumination visible from any residentially
zoned property. Ground lighting building signs shall be subject to the review
and final approval by the Planning Commission;
      (3)   No signs shall be located so as to be hazardous to traffic safety;
      (4)   When located inside a building and visible from outside the
building, no sign shall be lit or in any manner illuminated by artificial
lighting nor be constructed of any light reflective materials;
      (5)   Signs on a property shall share common design elements such as:
         (a)   Materials;
         (b)   Color;
         (c)   Shape;
         (d)   Ratio of width to height;
         (e)   Method of illumination.
   (G)   Political signs shall be solely for the purpose of providing
information relating to the election of a person to public office, or to a
political party, or the expression of a political opinion, or to any manner to
be voted upon, and shall be permitted subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   Maximum area. Individual signs shall not exceed overall dimensions
of three feet vertical and four feet horizontal. Such sign may be either a
single- or double-faced flat surface. Permission to locate subject signs shall
be obtained from the owner or occupant of property on which the sign is
located. Failure to comply with this condition shall be cause for immediate
removal of that sign.
      (2)   Political signs shall not be attached to any utility pole, other
sign, other sign parts or landscaping, including trees.
      (3)   Political signs shall be removed within five calendar days after
the election or event to which they relate.
      (4)   Political signs shall not be erected in such a manner that they
will or reasonably may be expected to interfere with, obstruct, confuse or
mislead traffic. No signs shall be erected in the right-of-way.
   (H)   Signs not permitted.
      (1)   No other type of advertising signs or material, including but not
restricted to advertising flags, electric lights, panels, fluorescent
materials, pennants or similar paraphernalia, signs containing an audible
message or sound, or signs containing any obscene, indecent or illegal matter,
shall be used.
      (2)   No private signs, displays, exhibits or similar materials shall be
used or maintained on or over streets, rights-of-way, easements or public
utility poles and the like.
(O.C. § 5.83) (Am. Ord. 167, passed 10-23-00; Am. Ord. 182, passed 1-27-03; Am.
Ord. 223, passed 10-22-12; Am. Ord. 228, passed 9-23-13; Am. Ord. 233, passed
1-26-15; Am. Ord. 244, passed 6-26-17; Am. Ord. 245, passed 8-28-17; Am. Ord.
246, passed 1-22-18; Am. Ord. 273 passed 4-22-24)
§ 98.04 SIGNS IN COMMERCIAL ZONING DISTRICT (C-1).
   Signs in the Commercial District shall be subject to the following.
   (A)   Building identification wall signs shall be displayed flat against the
building and shall not project above the roofline of the building. Such signs:
      (1)   May be illuminated subject to the following:
         (a)   Illumination shall be internal or fully shielded to prevent
glare;
         (b)   Internally illuminated signs shall have a dark opaque background
with illuminated message only;
         (c)   Individually illuminated channel letter signs shall have
recessed electrical raceways;
         (d)   No illumination of wall signs is permitted where the building
faces a residential district.
      (2)   Permitted wall sign area.
         (a)   Total sign area shall not exceed 5% of the front wall area as
defined by the width and height of the subject building's front elevation.
         (b)   In no instance shall a single wall sign exceed 200 square feet.
         (c)   Maximum vertical dimension of any wall sign shall not exceed 12%
of the building height.
         (d)   Maximum horizontal dimension of any wall sign shall not exceed
15% of the building width.
      (3)   Placement of wall signs.
         (a)   A single "signature tenant wall sign" shall be permitted per 100
lineal feet of front building elevation. There shall not be more than one
signature tenant sign per building side. The Village Council may modify this
requirement for buildings larger than 200,000 square feet, as described in
division (F)(6) below.
         (b)   Signs shall be allowed on the Telegraph "front" and any side
with a public entrance. Signs facing a residential district shall not be
illuminated.
   (B)   One freestanding or monument business identification sign may be
permitted for every 300 feet of frontage on Telegraph subject to the following:
      (1)   A maximum of three monument signs shall be permitted per parcel.
There shall be at least one entrance driver per each monument sign.
      (2)   Monument signs shall display the name of the complex and may
include individual building addresses. In addition, such signs may also display
the names of not more than six signature tenants, financial institution branch
office tenants, restaurant tenants, leasing agents, or any combination of
these.
      (3)   Total sign area for freestanding signs shall not exceed one-third
of a square foot per lineal foot of parcel frontage up to a maximum of 200
square feet. Individual monument signs shall not exceed 100 square feet.
      (4)   Freestanding signs shall not exceed 15 feet above the grade of the
nearest public sidewalk and shall be situated on a masonry, metal or similar
base not less than 30 inches above grade. Post or pylon style signs are not
permitted.
      (5)   Freestanding signs shall be set back at least five feet from a
sidewalk and shall not occupy the clear vision area at the intersection of any
entrance drive and the sidewalk. For purposes of this provision, the CLEAR
VISION AREA is defined as a triangle 25 feet along both the sidewalk and the
driveway curb, beginning at their point of intersection.
      (6)   Monument signs shall have a dark opaque background with a white
message; all letters shall be in the same typeface. No logos are permitted. All
monument signs on the same site shall be of the same material and design.
      (7)   Illuminated monument signs are permitted. Illumination shall be
internal or fully shielded to prevent glare.
      (8)   All existing, freestanding "for lease" signs that serve the
building under consideration shall be removed and incorporated into the new
monument sign as a condition of monument sign approval.
   (C)   Necessary directional or regulatory traffic signs, each not more than
two square feet in area. The signs shall be mounted having an overall height no
higher than six feet above driveway grade.
   (D)   "For lease" signs may only be located on the monument sign for the
premises where space is available for lease. Such sign may take the place of a
tenant signage panel within the business center sign. The panel(s) may include
the name and telephone number of the owner or agent making the offer. No such
sign may be installed until a permit therefor has been issued by the Village of
Bingham Farms. Permits, when issued, will be valid for one year. The Village
Council may extend a permit for an additional period upon application of the
representatives of the office building.
   (E)   "For Lease" signs not affiliated with monument signs, may be single or
double sided and not to exceed three feet by four feet in total area.
   (F)   Internal directory signs. Freestanding directory signs are permitted
within the interior of office sites, parks and complexes and shall not be
included in the maximum allowable square footage of identification signage for
the building or complex of buildings. Such signs may be up to 15 square feet
and 96 inches in height and may be internally illuminated. A plan for the
number and placement of internal directory signs shall be submitted for review
by the Planning Commission.
   (G)   Other conditions. 
      (1)   No signs shall have any moving parts or flashing illumination;
      (2)   No signs shall be illuminated that face any residentially zoned
property;
      (3)   No signs shall be located so as to be a hazardous to traffic
safety;
      (4)   When located inside a building and visible from outside the
building, no sign shall be lit or in any manner illuminated by artificial
lighting nor be constructed of any light reflective materials;
      (5)   In the case of buildings larger than 200,000 square feet, the
Village Council may determine, based upon a recommendation from the Planning
Commission, whether the building qualifies as more than one building for
purposes of determining maximum allowable sign area. The Planning Commission
may determine that a principal building wing or similar architectural element
may be treated in the same manner as a separate building.
   (H)   Political signs shall be solely for the purpose of providing
information relating to the election of a person to public office, or to a
political party, or the expression of a political opinion, or to any matter to
be voted upon, and shall be permitted subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   Maximum area. Individual signs shall not exceed overall dimensions
of three feet vertical and four feet horizontal. Such sign may be either a
single- or double-faced flat surface. Permission to locate subject signs shall
be obtained from the owner or occupant of property on which the sign is
located. Failure to comply with this condition shall be cause for immediate
removal of that sign.
      (2)   Signs shall not be attached to any utility pole, other sign, other
sign parts or landscaping, including trees. Political signs shall be ground
signs.
      (3)   Signs shall not be erected in such a manner that they will or
reasonably may be expected to interfere with, obstruct, confuse or mislead
traffic. No sign shall be erected in the right-of-way.
      (4)   Signs shall be removed within five calendar days after the election
or event to which they relate.
   (I)   Signs not permitted.
      (1)   No other type of advertising signs or material, including but not
restricted to advertising flags, electric lights, panels, fluorescent
materials, pennants or similar paraphernalia, signs containing an audible
message or sound, or signs containing any obscene, indecent or illegal matter,
shall be used;
      (2)   No private signs, displays, exhibits or similar materials shall be
used or maintained on or over streets, rights-of-way, easements or public
utility poles and the like.
(O.C. § 5.84) (Am. Ord. 166, passed 10-23-00; Am. Ord. 182, passed 1-27-03; Am.
Ord. 207, passed 8-27-07; Am. Ord. 223, passed 10-22-12; Am. Ord. 228, passed
9-23-13; Am. Ord. 233, passed 1-26-15; Am. Ord. 244, passed 6-26-17; Am. Ord.
245, passed 8-28-17; Am. Ord. 246, passed 1-22-18; Am. Ord. 273, passed 4-22-
24)
§ 98.05 NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   All lawful signs existing at the time of the adoption of this amendment to
this chapter which would not be permitted under the new regulations of this
chapter as contained herein are declared to be nonconforming and as such shall
be subject to all regulations of the village zoning code.
(O.C. § 5.85) (Am. Ord. 233, passed 1-26-15; Am. Ord. 246, passed 1-22-18)
§ 98.06 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Clerk shall have the responsibility and authority to administer and
enforce all provisions of this chapter other than those provisions with powers
specifically reserved to the Planning Commission or the Village Council. The
inspection and notification responsibilities of the Clerk, under this section
may be performed by employees, agents or contractors of the village, appointed
by and under the supervision of the Clerk.
(Ord. 246, passed 1-22-18; Am. Ord. 273, passed 4-22-24)
§ 98.07 APPEALS AND VARIANCES.
   (A)   An appeal from the decision of the Clerk, or Planning Commission
pursuant to the terms of this chapter in respect to location, number, design,
size, materials, illumination erection, alteration, maintenance or removal of
signs, may be taken to the Village Council.
   (B)   The Village Council may review the decisions of the Clerk or Planning
Commission and grant variances from the requirements of this chapter. The
Village Council shall have the power and duty to hear, decide and grant or deny
the request variance from the provisions or requirements of this chapter only
where:
      (1)   The literal interpretation and strict application of the provisions
and requirements of this chapter would cause undue and unnecessary hardship to
the sign user because of unique or unusual conditions pertaining to the
specific building or parcel or property in question;
      (2)   The granting of the requested variance would not be materially
detrimental to the property owners in the vicinity.
      (3)   The unusual conditions applying to the specific property do not
apply generally to other properties in the village; and
      (4)   The granting of the variance will not be contrary to the general
objectives of this chapter moderating the size, number and obtrusive placement
of signs and the reduction of clutter. In granting a variance, the Village
Council may attach thereto such conditions regarding the proposed sign as it
may deem necessary to carry out the spirit and purpose of this chapter in the
public interest.
   (C)   A filing of an appeal with the village council shall serve to stay
further actions against the owner or erector of the sign in action for the
removal thereof, until the decision of the village council is rendered, unless
the Clerk certifies thereto that a condition exists which endangers the safety
of lives or property and constitutes a danger to the public well-being, in
which event such action shall proceed unless enjoined by a court of competent
jurisdiction.
   (D)   The Village Council shall make no decision except in a specific case
and after a hearing conducted by the Village Council. The concurring vote of a
majority of the membership of the Village Council (four members of the Village
Council) shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision or
determination of the Village Clerk or Planning Commission or to decide in favor
of an application of any matter upon which they are required to pass under this
chapter, including a request for a variance. A written notice of the time and
place of the public hearing shall be mailed by First Class Mail, postage
prepaid, at least ten days prior to the date of the hearing, to the owners of
record of all lots or parcels of land living within 500 feet of the property in
question. A proof of service of such mailing shall be filed prior to the
commencement of the hearing. The Village Council shall by resolution make the
necessary provisions requiring the applicant to pay the costs required relative
to the hearing of the appeal, including costs of mailing and administrative
expenses.
(Ord. 246, passed 1-22-18; Am. Ord. 273, passed 4-22-24)
§ 98.08 VIOLATIONS AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   A violation of this chapter shall constitute a municipal civil
infraction as set forth in §
32.01 et seq. of the Village Code. In addition, any sign which is located,
erected, altered or maintained in violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter is hereby declared to be a nuisance per se. If the Village Clerk or his
or her designee orders such violations to be abated and such order is not
obeyed, the Village Clerk may apply to any court of competent jurisdiction to
restrain the person against whom his or her order was directed from such
disobedience in violation; any such violation may be punished by the applicable
penalties as provided in §
32.01 et seq. or by utilizing remedies described in divisions (C)(1) and (2)
below.
   (B)   Compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall be the
responsibility of the owners of the real property upon which the sign is
located and such other persons as are responsible for the creation, existence
or maintenance of the violation condition.
   (C)   Remedies. Unsafe signs and other violations.
      (1)   Unsafe signs. When any sign becomes unsafe and an immediate danger,
the owner or lessee shall make such sign conform to the provisions of this
chapter, abate such condition or cause the sign to be removed with 24 hours of
receipt of a written notice from the Village Clerk or his or her designee. If
the order is not complied with within 24 hours, the Village Clerk or his or her
designee may abate such condition or remove sign at the expense of the owner or
lessee. If such expense is not paid, the village shall have a lien on the
property and such cost shall be added to the tax bill for property.
      (2)   Other violations. Signs must conform to all provisions of this
chapter. In the event of a violation of any provisions of this chapter and the
condition is not an unsafe sign governed by section §
98.07(C)(1) above, the Village Clerk or his or her designee shall give written
notice specifying the violation to the responsible parties as specified in §
98.07(B) to conform to the provisions of this chapter or to remove the sign.
Such written notice shall be sent by U.S. First Class Mail. Such notice shall
provide to the responsible party that a continued violation may result in a
municipal civil infraction citation and a violation will be adjudicated by the
Michigan District Court with jurisdiction for the Village at the time of the
violation. In the event the violation is not abated within 21 days from the
date of the notice and without a good faith effort to comply acceptable to the
village and there has not been an appeal of the decision, the Village Clerk or
his or her designee may revoke the sign permit, abate the condition, or remove
such sign at the expense of the owner or lessee. If such expense is not paid,
the village shall have a lien on the property and such cost shall be added to
the tax bill for the property.
(Ord. 246, passed 1-22-18)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Chapter
   
110.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
   
111.   PEDDLERS AND CANVASSERS
   
112.   DEALERS IN PRECIOUS METALS, GEMS AND OTHER PRECIOUS ITEMS
   
113.   CABLE COMMUNICATIONS
   
114.   RECREATIONAL MARIHUANA BUSINESSES
   
115.   BUSINESS LICENSES
   
116.   MASSAGE THERAPY ESTABLISHMENTS
CHAPTER 110: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
110.01   Definition
   
110.02   Furnishing minors
   
110.03   False information or representation
   
110.04   Persons under 21 years
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 DEFINITION.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR shall be construed in this chapter to mean any spirituous,
vinous, malt or fermented liquor, liquids and compounds, whether or not
medicated, proprietary, patented and by whatever names called containing ½% or
more of alcohol by volume which are fit for use for beverage purposes.
(O.C. § 9.81)
§ 110.02 FURNISHING MINORS.
   (A)   No person, either directly or indirectly, shall at any time sell,
furnish, give or deliver any alcoholic liquor to any person unless such person
shall have attained the age of 21 years.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not prohibit the following:
      (1)   The furnishing, giving or delivering of alcoholic liquor to any
person who has not attained the age of 21 years if said furnishing, giving or
delivering is by a natural or adoptive parent to his or her child within the
confines of said parent's home;
      (2)   The use of alcoholic liquor when actually used as an ingredient in
the preparation of foods;
      (3)   The furnishing, giving or delivering of alcoholic liquor to a
person who has not attained the age of 21 years if such furnishing, giving or
delivering is done at the direction of a physician or surgeon;
      (4)   The furnishing, giving or delivering of alcoholic liquor to a
person who has not attained the age of 21 years if such furnishing, giving or
delivering is in connection with a ceremony of an established religion.
(O.C. § 9.82)
§ 110.03 FALSE INFORMATION OR REPRESENTATION.
   (A)   No person shall furnish any false information or make any false
representation to any law enforcement officer or to any person engaged in
selling, furnishing, giving or delivering alcoholic liquor for the purpose of
purchasing or obtaining or offering or attempting to purchase or obtain any
alcoholic liquor for any person, including himself, under the age of 21 years.
   (B)   No person shall furnish any documentary evidence to any person under
21 years of age to be used by any such person for the purpose of obtaining or
purchasing or offering or attempting to purchase or obtain alcoholic liquor.
(O.C. § 9.83)
§ 110.04 PERSONS UNDER 21 YEARS.
   No person under the age of 21 years shall purchase or knowingly possess,
transport or have under his or her control in any motor vehicle without the
presence of a person over the age of 21 years any alcoholic liquor unless the
person is employed by a licensee under the Michigan Liquor Control Act, Public
Act 58 of 1998 (Extra Session), being M.C.L.A. §§ 436.1101 et seq. and is
possessing, transporting or having such liquor in a motor vehicle under his or
her control during regular working hours and in the course of his or her
employment.
(O.C. § 9.84)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A person less than 21 years of age who violates this chapter is liable
for the following civil fines and shall not be subject to the penalties
prescribed in §
32.03 of this code.
      (1)   For the first violation, a fine of not more than $25;
      (2)   For a second violation, a fine of not more than $50 or
participation in substance abuse prevention services as defined in Public Act
368 of 1978, § 6107, being M.C.L.A. §§ 333.1101 et seq. or M.C.L.A. § 333.6107
and designated by the Administrator of Substance Abuse Services, or both.
      (3)   For a third or subsequent violation, a fine of not more than $100
or participation in substance abuse prevention services as defined in Public
Act 368 of 1978, § 6107, being M.C.L.A. §§ 333.1101 et seq. or M.C.L.A. §§
333.6107 et seq.
   (B)   Any person under the age of 17 years who shall violate any of the
provisions of this chapter shall, upon apprehension, be taken to the Juvenile
Division of the Oakland County Probate Court or dealt with in such manner as
prescribed by the laws of this state.
   (C)   Any person 21 years of age or older who shall violate any of the
provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as
prescribed in §
32.03 of this code.
(O.C. § 9.85)
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS AND CANVASSERS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Registration required for persons representing charitable and
religious organizations
   
111.03   Unlawful act
   
111.04   License required
   
111.05   Application
   
111.06   Investigation and issuance
   
111.07   Badges
   
111.08   Transfer
   
111.09   Time limitations and restrictions on minors
   
111.10   Loud noises and speaking devices
   
111.11   Use of streets
   
111.12   Exhibition of license
   
111.13   Assignment of license
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CANVASSER. Any natural person, whether a resident of the Village of Bingham
Farms or not, traveling either by foot, wagon, automobile, motor truck or any
other type of conveyance, from place to place, from house to house or from
street to street, taking or attempting to take orders for sale of goods, wares
and merchandise, personal property of any nature whatsoever for future delivery
or for services to be furnished or performed in the future, whether or not such
individual has, carries or exposes for sale a sample of the subject of each
sale or whether he or she is collecting advance payments on such sales or not,
provided that such definition shall include any person who, for himself or
herself or for another person, hires, leases, uses or occupies any building,
structure, tent, railroad box car, boat, hotel room, lodging house, apartment,
shop or any other place within the village for the sole purpose of exhibiting
samples and taking orders for future delivery.
   NEWSBOYS. Persons traveling on an established route at the request, express
or implied, of their customers and salespersons calling on regularly licensed
business establishments are not to be considered within the definitions of
peddler or canvasser under this chapter.
   PEDDLER. Any natural person whether a resident of the village or not or any
firm, partnership, corporation or other business entity, traveling by foot,
wagon, automotive vehicle or any other type of conveyance, from place to place,
from house to house or from street to street carrying, conveying or
transporting goods, wares, merchandise, magazines, meats, fish, vegetables,
fruits, garden truck, farm products or provisions, offering and exposing the
same for sale or rent or making sales or rentals and delivering articles to
purchasers or renters or who without traveling from place to place shall sell
or rent or offer the same for sale or rent or offer the same for sale or rent
from a wagon, automotive vehicle, railroad car or other vehicle or conveyance,
and further provided that one who solicits orders and as a separate transaction
makes deliveries to purchasers or renters as a part of a scheme or design to
evade the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed a PEDDLER subject to the
provisions of this chapter. The word PEDDLER shall include the words HAWKER and
HUCKSTER.
(O.C. § 7.1)
§ 111.02 REGISTRATION REQUIRED FOR PERSONS REPRESENTING CHARITABLE AND
RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATIONS.
   Persons representing charitable, religious, eleemosynary, political or
philanthropic organizations shall register with the Village Clerk prior to
commencing any canvassing in the village. The registration shall include the
name of the person who will be canvassing in the village and the name of the
organization for which these activities are being conducted. Canvassers shall
provide proof to the Village Clerk of their authorization to represent said
charitable, religious, eleemosynary, political or philanthropic organization.
If registered with the Village Clerk under this section, the provisions of this
chapter shall not apply to said canvassers.
(O.C. § 7.1)
§ 111.03 UNLAWFUL ACT.
   It shall be unlawful for any peddler or canvasser, whether or not licensed
under the provisions of this chapter, to enter upon any private premises when
the same are posted with a sign stating “NO PEDDLERS ALLOWED” or “NO
SOLICITATION ALLOWED” or other words to such effect.
(O.C. § 7.2)
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.04 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of peddler or
canvasser as defined in this chapter within the corporate limits of the village
without first obtaining a license therefor.
(O.C. § 7.3)
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.05 APPLICATION.
   Applicants for a license under this chapter must file with the Village Clerk
a sworn application in writing on a form to be furnished by the Village Clerk,
which shall give the following information:
   (A)   Name and description of the applicant;
   (B)   Address (legal and local);
   (C)   A brief description of the nature of the business and the goods to be
sold or rented out;
   (D)   If employed, the name and address of the employer, together with the
credentials establishing the exact relationship;
   (E)   The length of time for which the right to do business is desired;
   (F)   If a vehicle is to be used, a description of the same, together with
license number or other means of identification;
   (G)   A photograph of the applicant, taken within 60 days immediately prior
to the date of the filing of the application, which picture shall be two inches
by two inches showing the head and shoulders of the applicant in a clear and
distinguishing manner;
   (H)   The fingerprints of the applicant and the names of at least two
reliable property owners of the County of Oakland, State of Michigan, who will
certify as to the applicant’s good character and business responsibility or, in
lieu of the names of references, any other available evidence as to the good
character and business responsibility of the applicant as will enable an
investigator to properly evaluate such character and business responsibility;
   (I)   A sworn statement as to whether or not the applicant has been
convicted of any crime, misdemeanor or violation of any municipal ordinance,
the nature of the offense and the punishment or penalty assessed therefor;
   (J)   Applicant shall file with his or her application a statement by a
reputable physician of Oakland County, Michigan, dated not more than ten days
prior to submission of the application, certifying the applicant to be free of
infectious, contagious or communicable disease;
   (K)   At the time of filing the application, a non-refundable application
fee in an amount established by resolution of the Village Council shall be paid
to the Village Clerk;
   (L)   Where applicable, the applicant shall show a current sales tax license
number issued by the State of Michigan.
(O.C. § 7.4) (Am. Ord. 214, passed 10-26-09)
§ 111.06 INVESTIGATION AND ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of such applicant, the Village Clerk shall cause such
investigation of the applicant’s business and moral character to be made as he
deems necessary for the protection of the public good.
   (B)   If as a result of such investigation the applicant’s character or
business responsibility is found to be unsatisfactory, the Village Clerk shall
endorse on such application his or her disapproval and his or her reasons for
the same and shall notify the applicant that his or her application is
disapproved and that no license shall be issued.
   (C)   If as a result of such investigation, the character and business
responsibility of the applicant are found to be satisfactory, the Village Clerk
shall endorse on the application his or her approval, execute a license
addressed to the applicant for the carrying on of the business applied for and,
upon payment of a prescribed license fee in an amount to be determined from
time to time by the Village Council, deliver to the applicant his or her
license. Upon application and good cause shown, license fees may be waived by
the Village Council. The Clerk shall keep a permanent record of all licenses
issued.
(O.C. § 7.5)
§ 111.07 BADGES.
   The Village Clerk shall issue to each licensee at the time of delivery of
his or her license a badge or other identification in a form to be determined
from time to time by the Village Council for each individual licensed under
this chapter. The badge or identification shall be worn constantly by the
licensee on the front of his or her hat or outer garment in such a way as to be
conspicuous during such time as said licensee is engaged in peddling.
(O.C. § 7.6)
§ 111.08 TRANSFER.
   No license, badge or other identification issued under the provisions of
this chapter shall be used or worn at anytime by any person other than the one
to whom it was issued.
(O.C. § 7.7)
§ 111.09 TIME LIMITATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS ON MINORS.
   No person under 12 years of age shall engage in any peddling or canvassing
as herein defined. No person under 17 years of age shall engage in any peddling
or canvassing during school hours, unless legally excused from school or for a
combined school and work period of more than eight hours in any one day. No
person shall engage in any peddling or canvassing between sundown and 8:00 a.m.
(O.C. § 7.8)
§ 111.10 LOUD NOISES AND SPEAKING DEVICES.
   No peddler or canvasser nor any person on his or her behalf shall shout,
blow a horn, ring a bell or use any sound device, including any loud speaking
radio or sound amplifying system upon any of the streets, alleys, parks or
other public places of the village where sound of sufficient volume is emitted
or produced therefrom to be capable of being plainly heard upon the streets,
avenues, alleys, parks or other public places for the purpose of attracting
attention to any goods, wares or merchandise which the licensee proposes to
sell or rent out.
(O.C. § 7.9)
§ 111.11 USE OF STREETS.
   No peddler or canvasser shall have any exclusive right to any location in
the public streets, nor shall any be permitted a stationary location, nor shall
he or she be permitted to operate in any congested area where his or her
operations might impede or inconvenience the public. For the purpose of this
chapter, the judgment of a police officer, exercised in good faith, shall be
deemed conclusive as to whether the area is congested or the public impeded or
inconvenienced.
(O.C. § 7.10)
§ 111.12 EXHIBITION OF LICENSE.
   Peddlers and canvassers are required to exhibit their licenses at the
request of any citizen.
(O.C. § 7.11)
§ 111.13 ASSIGNMENT OF LICENSE.
   Any person holding a peddlers and canvassers license issued by the village
may assign such license to any other approved applicant for such a license, and
the assignee may hold the license without the payment of license fees other
than the investigation fee provided herein.
(O.C. § 7.12)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of violating the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor punishable as prescribed in § 32.03 of this code.
(Am. Ord. 157, passed 6-23-97)
CHAPTER 112: DEALERS IN PRECIOUS METALS, GEMS AND OTHER PRECIOUS ITEMS
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Registration
   
112.03   Hours of operation
   
112.04   Expiration and renewal of certificate of registration
   
112.05   Revocation of certificate of registration
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENT or EMPLOYEE. A person who, for compensation or valuable consideration,
is employed either directly or indirectly by a dealer.
   CHIEF OF POLICE. The Chief of Police of the Village of Franklin.
   DEALER. Any person that in whole or in part engages in the ordinary course
of repeated and recurrent transactions of buying or receiving precious items
from the public in the village.
   GOLD. Elemental gold having an atomic weight of 196.967 and the chemical
element symbol of Au, whether found by itself or in combination with its alloys
or any other metal or substance.
   JEWELRY. An ornamental item made of a material that includes a precious gem.
   PLATINUM. Elemental platinum having an atomic weight of 195.09 and the
chemical element symbol of Pt, whether found by itself or in combination with
its alloys or any other metal.
   PRECIOUS GEM. Diamond, alexandrite, ruby, sapphire, opal, amethyst, emerald,
aquamarine, morganite, garnet, jadeite, topaz, tourmaline, turquoise or pearl.
   PRECIOUS ITEM. Jewelry, a precious gem or an item containing gold, silver or
platinum. PRECIOUS ITEM does not include the following:
      (1)   Coins, commemorative medals and tokens struck by or in behalf of a
government or private mint;
      (2)   Bullion bars and discs of the type traded by banks and commodity
exchanges;
      (3)   Items at the time they are purchased directly from a dealer
registered under this chapter, a manufacturer or a wholesaler who purchased
them directly from a manufacturer;
      (4)   Industrial machinery or equipment;
      (5)   An item being returned to or exchanged by the dealer from whom the
item was purchased and which is accompanied by a valid sales receipt;
      (6)   An item which is received for alteration, redesign or repair in a
manner that does not substantially change its use and returned directly to the
customer;
      (7)   An item which does not have a jeweler’s identifying mark or a
serial mark and which the dealer purchases for less than $5;
      (8)   Scrap metal which contains incidental traces of gold, silver or
platinum which are recoverable as a by-product;
      (9)   Jewelry which a customer trades for other jewelry having a greater
value and which difference in value is paid by the customer.
   SILVER. Elemental silver having an atomic weight of 107.869 and the chemical
element symbol of Ag, whether found by itself or in combination with its alloys
or any other metal.
(O.C. § 7.21)
§ 112.02 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   A dealer shall not conduct business in the village unless the dealer
has first obtained a variance from the Zoning Board of Appeals permitting such
retail sales activity and a certificate of registration from the Chief of
Police.
   (B)   A dealer shall apply to the Chief of Police for a certificate of
registration by paying a fee in the sum of $50 to cover the reasonable cost of
processing and issuing the certificate and by completing an application form,
disclosing the following information:
      (1)   The name, address and thumbprint of the applicant;
      (2)   The name and address under which the applicant does business;
      (3)   The name, address and thumbprint of all agents or employees of the
dealer. Within 24 hours after hiring a new employee, the dealer shall forward
to the local police agency the name, address and thumbprint of the new
employee.
   (C)   Upon receipt of the certificate of registration fee and an application
complying with the requirements of this code, and after processing the
application in accordance with the requirements of this code and the Precious
Metal and Gem Dealer Act, Public Act 95 of 1981, being M.C.L.A. §§ 445.481 et
seq., as amended, the Chief of Police shall issue the dealer a certificate of
registration.
(O.C. § 7.22)
§ 112.03 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   A dealer shall not be open to the public for the purchase, sale or receipt
of any precious item or other thing on Sundays or between the hours of 9:00
p.m. and 9:00 a.m. Monday through Saturday.
(O.C. § 7.23)
§ 112.04 EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL OF CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION.
   All certificates of registration issued before December 31, 1982, shall
expire on December 31, 1982. After December 31, 1982, all certificates of
registration shall expire December 31 next following their issuance. Unrevoked
certificates of registration may be renewed upon expiration by payment to the
Chief of Police of the annual renewal fee of $10 and without further
application.
(O.C. § 7.24)
§ 112.05 REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION.
   The Chief of Police shall revoke the certificate of registration issued
under the provisions of this chapter when the dealer has been convicted under
the Precious Metal and Gem Dealer Act, Public Act 95 of 1981, being M.C.L.A. §§
445.481 et seq., as amended or under Public Act 328 of 1931, §§ 535 et seq.,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 750.535 et seq. as amended, of a misdemeanor within one year
of the date of revocation or of a felony within five years of the date of
revocation. In cases where an agent or employee of a dealer has been so
convicted, the Chief of Police shall notify the dealer in writing, sent by
first class mail to the dealer’s business address. The dealer shall not permit
an agent or employee who has been so convicted to operate as a dealer in the
dealer’s business.
(O.C. § 7.25)
CHAPTER 113: CABLE COMMUNICATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
113.001   Franchise necessary
   
113.002   Definitions
Selection of Franchise
   
113.015   Request for proposal
   
113.016   Application process
   
113.017   Application fees
   
113.018   Criteria for selection of franchisee
   
113.019   Disclosure requirements
   
113.020   Award of franchise
   
113.021   Franchise agreement
Franchise Territory
   
113.035   Service area
   
113.036   Initial geographic coverage
Length, Renewal and Transfer of Franchise
   
113.050   Nonexclusivity of franchise
   
113.051   Length of franchise
   
113.052   Conditions for initial franchise validation
   
113.053   Transfer of ownership or control
   
113.054   Franchise renewal
   
113.055   Franchise termination
   
113.056   Termination procedure
   
113.057   Removal of system
   
113.058   Resolution of disputes
System Design and Specifications
   
113.070   Channel capacity
   
113.071   Lock-out device
   
113.072   Services to educational institutions
   
113.073   Timetable for establishment of educational services
   
113.074   Future educational facilities
   
113.075   Government access channels
   
113.076   Cost and maintenance of equipment
   
113.077   Public access channels
   
113.078   Leased access channels
   
113.079   Additional channel capacity
   
113.080   FM radio service
   
113.081   Automated channel
   
113.082   Program index
   
113.083   Additional services
   
113.084   Interconnection
   
113.085   Standby power
   
113.086   Underground and aboveground installations
   
113.087   Construction standards and technical requirements
   
113.088   System design changes
   
113.089   Maintenance of facilities, equipment
   
113.090   Subscriber privacy
   
113.091   Continuity of service
   
113.092   All channels emergency alert
   
113.093   Home security
Franchise Fee and Rates
   
113.105   Establishment of franchise fees
   
113.106   Payment of franchise fee
   
113.107   Renegotiation of franchise fees
   
113.108   Rates and charges for service
   
113.109   Revision of rates for services
   
113.110   Establishment of rates and charges subject to law
   
113.111   Refunds to subscribers and programmers
Administration and Regulation
   
113.125   Performance review
   
113.126   Security fund
   
113.127   Performance bond; letter of credit
   
113.128   Insurance
   
113.129   Indemnification
   
113.130   Foreclosure
   
113.131   Receivership
   
113.132   Reports
   
113.133   Other petitions and applications
   
113.134   Other business activities
   
113.135   Nondiscrimination requirements
   
113.136   Compliance with laws
   
113.137   Theft of services and tampering
   
113.138   Approval by Village Engineer
   
113.139   Public notice
   
113.140   Charges to security fund
   
113.141   Penalties and charges to tenants for service prohibited
   
113.142   Solicitation of subscribers
Cablecasting Board
   
113.155   Creation and membership of Board
   
113.156   Meetings
   
113.157   Duties and powers
   
113.158   Appeals
   
113.159   Authority of municipalities
Consumer Protection
   
113.170   Customer service
   
113.171   Cable service
   
113.172   Franchisee’s billings
   
113.173   Disconnect and downgrade charges
   
113.174   Late payment charges
   
113.175   Notice of programming or channel change
   
113.176   Notice of price increase or reduction of service
   
113.177   Franchisee’s communications
   
113.178   Disclosure of information on franchisee’s costs
   
113.179   Subscriber rebates
   
113.180   Liquidated damages
   
113.181   Remedies available
   
113.182   Appeal process
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 113.001 FRANCHISE NECESSARY.
   No person shall occupy or use the streets, sidewalks or other public rights-
of-way of the village for the purpose of operating a cable communications
system, nor operate such a system without a cable communications franchise.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESS CHANNEL. Any channel dedicated for use by a governmental institution,
educational institution or the public.
   ACCESS CHANNEL, EDUCATIONAL. Any channel or portion of a channel in which
educational institutions are the only designated programmers.
   ACCESS CHANNEL, GOVERNMENT. Any channel or portion of a channel to which
governmental agencies are the only designated programmers.
   ACCESS CHANNEL, LEASED. Any channel or portion of a channel made available
for a fee by an operator for programming by persons other than the franchisee.
   ACCESS CHANNEL, PUBLIC. Any channel or portion of a channel utilized for
programming on a nonprofit basis with no commercial purpose that is available
to the general public.
   ACTIVATED or ABILITY TO ACTIVATE. A function, service, channel or piece of
equipment that is in working order and may be operated or received by a
franchisee, subscriber, programmer, operator or user.
   BASIC SERVICE. Any service tier which includes the retransmission of local
television broadcast signals.
   BROADCAST. The over-the-air transmission of an electromagnetic audio or
video signal.
   CABLE. Either coaxial cable or fiber optic cable.
   CABLE. A TRUNK means a downstream distribution system which supplies cable
communications signals to the feeder line.
   CABLE CHANNEL or CHANNEL. A portion of the electromagnetic frequency
spectrum which is used in a cable system and which is capable of delivering a
television channel (as television channel is defined by the FCC by regulation).
   CABLE COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE or CABLE SERVICE. The one-way transmission to
subscribers of video programming or other programming service and subscriber
interaction, if any, which is required for the selection or use of such video
programming or other programming service.
   CABLE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM or CABLE SYSTEM. A facility, consisting of a set
of closed transmission paths and associated signal generation, reception and
control equipment that is designed to provide cable service which includes
video programming and which is provided to multiple subscribers within a
community, but such term does not include a facility that serves only to
retransmit the television signals of one or more television broadcast stations;
a facility that serves subscribers without using any public right-of-way; a
facility of a common carrier which is subject, in whole or in part, to the
provisions of the Communications Act of 1934, Title II, as amended and set
forth primarily at 47 USC 201 et seq., except that such facility shall be
considered a cable system (other than for purposes of of the Communications Act
of 1934, § 621(c), being 47 USC 541(c), as amended) to the extent such facility
is used in the transmission of video programming directly to subscribers,
unless the extent of such use is solely to provide interactive on-demand
services; an open video system that complies with the Communications Act of
1934, § 653, being 47 USC 573, as amended; or any facilities of any electric
utility used solely for operating its electric utility systems.
   CABLECAST. Transmission of programming and signals over a cable
communications system.
   CABLECASTING BOARD. The agency of the City of Birmingham, Village of Beverly
Hills, Village of Franklin and Village of Bingham Farms whose duties may
include the monitoring and reporting of and on the cable communications system.
   CAPABILITY. A function, service, channel or piece of equipment that has the
potential to be operated or received at some time in the future by a
subscriber, programmer, franchisee, user or operator.
   CITY COMMISSION. The City of Birmingham City Commission.
   COAXIAL CABLE. Copper or aluminum wire used to transmit cable communications
signals through the cable system.
   COMMUNITY SERVICE AGENCIES. The Birmingham-Bloomfield Art Association,
Common Ground, the Birmingham Community House and the Birmingham Center for
Continuing Education.
   COMPLETE WIRING. The time when cable and related equipment, facilities and
appurtenances are installed throughout the village so that service may be
provided to any person that may choose to become a subscriber.
   COMPLETION OF CONSTRUCTION. The time when all services offered in the
application and franchise agreement shall be accomplished, including but not
limited to stringing of cable throughout the community so that any subscriber
may immediately receive cable communications signal upon installation,
construction of all access facilities and required networks and are fully
operational.
   CONVERTER or SET TOP CONVERTOR. An electronic device which converts signals
to a frequency for use by the television receiver of the subscriber and by an
appropriate channel selector which also permits a subscriber to view all
signals, including the cable service delivered at designated cable channel
locations.
   DOWNSTREAM. Cable communications signals that travel on a cable from the
head end equipment or other location to the individual subscribers.
   DROP. A line or cable linking the feeder line to an individual subscriber.
   EFFECTIVE DATE OF THE FRANCHISE. The date on which the parties have signed
the franchise agreement or as otherwise specified in the franchise agreement.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Council.
   FEEDER LINE. The line or cable linking a main cable trunk line to a drop
serving an individual subscriber.
   FIBER OPTIC CABLE. High capacity cable made of glass or plastic threads
through which information is transmitted as pulsating light.
   FRANCHISE. The authorization granted by the village to construct, operate,
maintain, rebuild and/or retrofit a cable communications system in the village.
   GROSS REVENUES. All revenue derived directly or indirectly by the
franchisee, its affiliates, subsidiaries, parent companies and/or any person in
which the franchisee has a financial interest from or in connection with the
operation of a cable communications franchise authorized by the village. GROSS
REVENUES shall include but not be limited to basic subscriber monthly fees, pay
cable fees, installation and reconnection fees, converter fees, fees related to
internet access and leased access fees. GROSS REVENUES shall not include
advertising revenues, home shopping revenue and any taxes on services furnished
by the franchisee and imposed directly upon any subscriber or user by the
state, village or other governmental unit and collected by the franchisee on
behalf of such governmental unit.
   HEAD END. The electronic control center of the cable communications system
where, among other things, incoming cable communications signals are amplified,
filtered and converted before being delivered to the subscriber home.
   INITIAL GROUNDBREAKING. The first step in construction, either stringing of
cable or installation of a pole.
   INSTITUTIONAL SUBSCRIBER. Any public agency or institution, educational
institution, community service agency or school receiving institutional
services on the institutional subscriber network.
   INSTITUTIONAL SUBSCRIBER NETWORK. A cable communications network designed
principally for the provision of nonentertainment interactive services to
schools or public agencies for use in connection with the ongoing operations of
such institutions.
   INTERACTIVE SERVICES. Services provided to subscribers by which the
subscriber either receives information consisting of television or other
signals and transmits signals generated by the subscriber or equipment under
its control for the purpose of selecting what information shall be transmitted
to the subscriber or for any other purpose or transmits signals to any other
location for any purpose.
   INTERCONNECTION. The linking of separate cable communications systems by
microwave, cable or other means.
   LOCAL ORIGINATION CHANNEL. Any channel or portion of a channel on which the
franchisee is either the only designated programmer or has received programming
from a third party and which is utilized to provide television programs to
subscribers.
   MICROWAVE. A high-frequency transmission facility used to relay messages,
including cable communications signals from point to point by common carrier.
   MONITORING. Observing a communications signal or the absence of a signal,
where the observer is neither the subscriber nor the programmer, whether the
signal is observed by visual or electronic means.  MONITORING shall not include
a systematic, nonindividually addressed sweep of the system for the purpose of
verifying system integrity, controlling return pass transmissions or billing
for cable services.
   OPERATOR. The franchisee.
   PARENT CORPORATION or PARENT COMPANY. Any corporation of which the
franchisee is a subsidiary.
   PAY CHANNEL or PREMIUM CHANNEL. A channel in which television channels are
delivered to subscribers for a special fee or charge to subscribers over and
above the regular charges for basic subscriber services on a per program, per
channel or other subscription basis.
   PAY TELEVISION. The delivery over the cable communications system of video
and audio signals in intelligible form to subscribers for a fee or charge over
and above the charge for basic or full services on a per program, per channel
or other subscription basis.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, organization, partnership, association,
corporation, legal representative or other entity.
   POLE AGREEMENTS. The authorization from utility companies to the franchisee
for use of or space in their easements, equipment, poles or other facilities
for installation of equipment related to the cable communications system.
   PROGRAMMER. Any person who produces or otherwise lawfully provides program
material or information for transmission by means of the cable communications
system.
   PROPOSAL. An application filed with the Village Manager either in response
to the village’s request for proposal, or any additions or amendments thereto,
or submitted without such request.
   RECORDS. Any writing or other memorialization containing information
relating to the system, regardless of form or characteristics.
   RELATED PERSONS. Any agent or employee of an applicant or its parent
corporation; any person to whom an applicant or its parent corporation has paid
or has promised to pay any money or compensation of any kind whatsoever for
that person’s services in promoting the applicant’s proposal for the cable
communications franchise before the village, its employees, agents, servants
and/or elected or appointed officials or any community service agencies or
newspaper reporters in the Detroit Dominant Market Area; officers and directors
of any applicant or its parent corporation; persons owning 1% or more of any
class of outstanding stock or securities convertible into stock of an applicant
or its parent corporation; partners of an applicant; and the spouse, parent,
child or sibling of any such person described in the foregoing definitions.
   RESIDENTIAL SERVICES. Services delivered on the residential subscriber
network.
   SCHOOL DISTRICT. The school district of the village.
   SERVICE. All services delivered on the institutional or residential
subscriber network.
   STANDARD SERVICE DROP. The installation of the feeder cable to individual
subscribers.
   STRAND MAPPING. The designation on maps of where cables will be placed.
   STREET. The surface of and the space above and below a public street, road,
highway, freeway, path, public place, sidewalk, alley, boulevard, parkway,
drive or other easement held by the village and shall include other easements
or rights-of-way which shall be held by the village and which shall within
their proper use allow the village and a franchisee to the use thereof for the
purposes of installing or transmitting cable communications system
transmissions over poles, wires, cables, conductors, ducts, conduits, vaults,
manholes, amplifiers, appliances, attachments and other property as may be
ordinarily pertinent to a cable communications system.
   SUBSCRIBER. A recipient of services which are delivered over the cable
communications system.
   TAMPER or TAPPING. Observing a communication signal exchange when the
observer is neither of the communicating parties, whether the exchange is
observed by visual or electronic means, but shall not include monitoring.
   TELEVISION BROADCAST SIGNALS. Signals receivable in the Detroit Dominant
Market Area, including but not limited to those on channels 2, 4, 7, 9, 20, 38,
50, 56, 62.
   UPSTREAM. Cable communications signals traveling from subscribers to the
head end.
   USER. A person utilizing a cable communications system channel for purposes
of production and transmission of materials to subscribers.
(Ord. passed - -)
SELECTION OF FRANCHISE
§ 113.015 REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL.
   In selecting a franchisee pursuant to this chapter, the Village Council may
prepare a request for proposal to seek bids for a cable communication system to
be established under franchise by the Village Council. This request for
proposal may contain detailed information and instructions relating to the
preparation and filing of proposals, construction and technical standards
regarding the installation, operation and maintenance of a cable communications
system under the village’s franchise and the criteria to be used in evaluating
applicant proposals.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.016 APPLICATION PROCESS.
   (A)   The village shall only consider those applications for a franchise
that have been submitted on an application form approved by the Village
Council. Applications shall only be considered if submitted to the Village
Clerk’s office prior to any deadline authorized by the Village Council and if
accompanied by the application fees set forth in § 113.017.
   (B)   Any requests for proposal shall be sent to all operators that have
indicated, in writing, an interest in obtaining a franchise.
   (C)   Any notice soliciting the submission of applications shall be sent to
all persons who have previously indicated, in writing, an interest in obtaining
a franchise and shall be advertised in a local newspaper of general circulation
and at least two national trade magazines. Applications shall be opened no
earlier than 90 days after the initial publication date of the newspaper
notice.
   (D)   Distortion, falsehoods or misinformation by an applicant may be
grounds for elimination of the proposal if the village should choose.
   (E)   Any request for proposal shall clearly state that the Village Council
reserves the right to reject any and all bids. The village shall have the right
to negotiate with any person that has submitted a qualified application.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.017 APPLICATION FEES.
   (A)   Applications shall only be considered if accompanied by a cashier’s or
certified check in the amount of $10,000 of which 50% of the application fee
shall not be refundable in any case.
   (B)   If any applicant shall withdraw its application or cease to be
considered after initial screening, 50% of the application fee shall be
returned to the applicant without interest. The entire application fee of any
applicant which remains under consideration after initial screening shall be
nonrefundable.
   (C)   Revenues from application fees shall be used to offset the cost of
consulting services, if any, and administration of the franchise selection
process. If the costs of consulting services, if any, and other administrative
expenses shall exceed the amount of the application fee, then an applicant to
whom a cable communications franchise is awarded shall pay the excess costs and
expenses up to a maximum of $30,000.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.018 CRITERIA FOR SELECTION OF FRANCHISEE.
   Applicants for a cable franchise will be required to furnish information to
be evaluated according to the following criteria.
   (A)   Service priorities. System capability in terms of no cost or low cost
telecasting production facilities and service available to municipal and
educational institutions, community groups and individuals; system provisions
for two-way communications; and the maximum total channels provided by the
system.
   (B)   Installation plan. An installation plan that addresses the flexibility
needed to adjust to new developments, maintenance practices and services that
would be available to the subscriber and the community upon initial activation
and throughout the duration of the franchise.
   (C)   Rate schedule. Applicant's installation and subscriber rate schedule.
   (D)   Financial soundness. Evidence of the applicant regarding the
following:
      (1)   Its financial ability to assure completion of construction as
called for in the application and franchise agreement within 18 months of the
effective date of the franchise;
      (2)   Its ability to obtain all necessary and required permits and
authorizations from the federal, state and local governments;
      (3)   Its ability to sustain and enhance a fiscally sound system
throughout the duration of the franchise;
      (4)   Its ability to obtain the performance bond or letter of credit
specified in § 113.127 should it be awarded a franchise. Evidence of current
financial capability shall include but not be limited to the most recent three
years audited or reviewed financial statements of the applicant and of any
parent entities and a copy of the most recent published annual report and 10-
K report if the applicant is, or is a subsidiary of, a publicly held company.
      (5)   Demonstrated experience in operating a cable communications system
under local government franchise, the extent to which an applicant has
experience in operating a cable communications system under city, village,
township or county franchise.
      (6)   The extent to which the system presents and supports a program
whereby the school district and other educational institutions such as Oakland
Community College, Oakland University and Birmingham Center for Continuing
Education may benefit, utilize and develop educational programs for students
and subscribers; the extent to which the system provides an activated two-way
system and a plan to interconnect public schools within the school district
through a cable communications network.
      (7)   The extent to which the system will meet or exceed all of the
technical standards and specifications set forth in the most current FCC
Technical Standards Order.
      (8)   The extent to which the system offers at least alternate levels of
pay cable services, for the purpose of providing a pay cable channel that would
offer full service pay cable programming and a distinct pay cable channel that
would offer a minipay package designed and marketed for general audience and
family viewing.
      (9)   The extent to which the system includes a firm timetable for active
interconnection with other political subdivisions in the Detroit Dominant
Market Area.
      (10)   The extent to which the system offers system technology
sufficiently flexible and progressive to adapt to new services, including: home
security, energy management, meter reading, home computer for entertainment,
educational, business or personal purposes, two-way computer data transmission,
internet access and traffic signalization.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.019 DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any applicant for a franchise shall file with its application a sworn
statement setting forth in such detail as shall be satisfactory to the village
the identification and description of all relationships which such applicants
(or any related parties) may then have or may have had during the year prior to
the date of filing of such application, directly or indirectly, with the
village, its employees, agents, servants and/or elected or appointed officials,
including but not limited to the following:
      (1)   Written or oral arrangements or undertakings of any nature
whatsoever, including as vendor, vendee or the provider of services, credit or
counsel or otherwise;
      (2)   All lending relationships, whether as borrower or lender;
      (3)   All investing relationships as stockholder, partner, joint
venturer, coadventurer or otherwise or as the entity, vehicle or recipient of
such investment;
      (4)   All relationships entailing the granting or holding of security in
any property, tangible or intangible, real or personal;
      (5)   All relationships in which any valuable consideration shall have
been required, offered, received, paid or extended, whether in cash, in kind or
in services and whether contemporaneous or deferred in whole or in part; and
      (6)   All relationships involving the assertion of any claim of any
nature whatsoever, including administrative proceedings or litigation.
   (B)   Each applicant shall affirmatively undertake to advise the village
during the pendency of the application and prior to its rejection or acceptance
of any additional such relationships which shall come into being and of the
termination or other material change in any such relationships as shall have
been required to be disclosed prior thereto. Each franchisee shall also
affirmatively undertake to so advise the village on a continuing basis and
shall recertify the existence or nonexistence of all such relationships (other
than as a franchisee pursuant to this chapter) on each annual anniversary of
the franchise agreement under which such franchisee shall derive rights
pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.020 AWARD OF FRANCHISE.
   The Village Council shall award a franchise to an applicant only after a
public hearing on the application and proposal, notice of which hearing shall
be published in a local newspaper of general circulation at least 20 days
before the date of the hearing. Except as otherwise provided in § 113.051, all
contracts granting or giving any original franchise or extending or amending
any existing franchise shall be made by ordinance, which ordinance shall be
thereafter published in the manner prescribed by law.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.021 FRANCHISE AGREEMENT.
   (A)   An applicant awarded a franchise by ordinance shall execute a
franchise agreement, agreeing to the terms and provisions of this chapter.
Failure of a selected applicant to execute such an agreement within 30 days
from the Village Council’s demand therefor or to meet any deadlines outlined in
the franchise agreement and this chapter for completion of strand mapping, pole
agreements, initial ground breaking and all wiring phases shall be grounds for
immediate rescission of the authorizing ordinance, revocation of any rights the
applicant may have in the franchise and forfeiture of the applicant's security
fund. The franchisee shall, within 30 days after the execution of the franchise
agreement, apply for all necessary permits and authorizations for the
construction of the cable communications system.
   (B)   In addition to those matters required elsewhere in this chapter to be
included in the franchise agreement, the franchise agreement shall contain the
following express representations of the franchisee that:
      (1)   It accepts and agrees to all the enforceable provisions of this
chapter and any enforceable supplementary specifications as to construction,
technical standards, operation, maintenance and rate structures, which the
Village Council may include in the franchise agreement;
      (2)   It recognizes the right of the Village Council to make lawful
amendments to the franchise ordinance during the term of the franchise upon 30-
days' notice to the franchisee. If an emergency amendment becomes necessary,
the Village Council shall not be required to direct the amendment to the
Cablecasting Board for review, but the franchisee shall be given at least two-
hours' notice, orally or in writing, of the Village Council meeting at which
the emergency amendment is to be considered. It further recognizes and agrees
that the Village Council shall not be bound to renew the franchise at the end
of any franchise term, except as otherwise provided by law;
      (3)   It recognizes and agrees that it may be considered as a franchisee
for the purposes of this chapter;
      (4)   It recognizes and agrees that no franchise shall be exclusive.
   (C)   The franchise agreement may set forth the specific standards which the
franchisee must maintain in respect to signal quality requirements and
technical standards of construction, operation and maintenance of the system.
   (D)   The franchise agreement shall contain such further conditions or
provisions as may be negotiated between the village and the franchisee, except
that no such conditions or provisions shall be such as to conflict with any
provisions of this chapter or any other law. In the case of such conflict or
ambiguity between any terms or provisions of the franchise agreement and this
chapter, the words of this chapter shall be deemed to control.
(Ord. passed - -)
FRANCHISE TERRITORY
§ 113.035 SERVICE AREA.
   The franchise territory shall include the entire territorial limits of the
village and shall include any future area that shall become part of the village
during the term of the franchise, by annexation, consolidation, merger,
realignment, subdivision development or other means. Any portion of the village
which, during the term of the franchise, is annexed from the village or which
by consolidation, merger, realignment, subdivision development or other means
shall cease to be within the territorial limits of the village shall cease to
be included in the franchise territory.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.036 INITIAL GEOGRAPHIC COVERAGE.
   Cable communications service must be available for installation to all
residents within the village within 15 months of the effective date of the
franchise. Service in newly acquired territory, as defined in § 113.035, must
be available to residents within 12 months of annexation of the territory to
the village.
(Ord. passed - -)
LENGTH, RENEWAL AND TRANSFER OF FRANCHISE
§ 113.050 NONEXCLUSIVITY OF FRANCHISE.
   The Village Council may award a nonexclusive franchise to construct, erect,
operate and maintain in, upon, along, above, over and under the streets,
alleys, public ways and public places now laid out or dedicated and all
extensions thereof, and additions thereto, in the franchise territory, poles,
wires, cables, conductors, ducts, underground conduits, vaults, manholes,
amplifiers, appliances, attachments and other property and fixtures necessary
for the operation and maintenance of a cable communications system and to
furnish and to sell service from such system to the inhabitants of the entire
franchise territory pursuant to the terms of this chapter. The Village Council
specifically reserves the right to grant a similar franchise to any person at
any time.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.051 LENGTH OF FRANCHISE.
   The term of a franchise and all rights, privileges, obligations and
restrictions pertaining thereto shall not be more than 15 years from the
effective date of the franchise, as specifically set forth in the franchise
agreement. The franchise may be terminated sooner pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter or the franchise agreement. The village shall have the option to
extend the franchise for an additional five-year period. The decision to extend
the franchise under this section shall be made by resolution of the Village
Council at least six months prior to the expiration of the initial franchise
term and after a public hearing. Notice of the public hearing shall be given in
accordance with the provisions of § 113.139. A copy of the Village Council
resolution setting forth its decision shall be mailed to the franchisee no more
than five days after its passage.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.052 CONDITIONS FOR INITIAL FRANCHISE VALIDATION.
   (A)   Within 30 days after the effective date of the franchise, the
franchisee shall apply for all necessary permits and authorizations which are
required in the conduct of its business, including but not limited to any
utility joint use attachment agreements, microwave carrier licenses and any
other permits, licenses and authorizations to be granted by duly constituted
regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over the operation of cable
communications systems or their associated microwave transmission facilities.
The franchisee shall apply for all necessary and required permits and file all
necessary and required statements with the FCC within 30 days after the
effective date of the franchise.
   (B)   The franchisee shall complete strand mapping and shall commence
initial ground breaking within 60 days after the effective date of the
franchise.
   (C)   The franchisee shall complete pole agreements and shall begin
preparing the poles within 90 days after the effective date of the franchise
subject to the cooperation of the utility companies involved. All poles shall
be ready within 180 days after the effective date of the franchise subject to
the cooperation of the utility companies involved. The franchisee shall notify
the village of any failure on the part of the utility company to so cooperate
under this subsection.
   (D)   Within 120 days after the commencement of construction, activation and
installation of the system, the franchisee shall proceed to render cablecast
service to subscribers and the completion of the construction, activation and
installation shall be pursued with reasonable diligence thereafter. Service
shall be provided to not less than one-third of the franchise territory and the
subscribers located therein within six months from the effective date of the
franchise, and service shall be provided to not less than two-thirds of the
franchise territory and the subscribers located therein within 12 months from
the effective date of the franchise. Additional time for completing the
installation of service may be granted by the Village Council during the 12
months upon a proper showing of need, but in no event shall the elapsed time
for completing such installation exceed 15 months.
   (E)   Within 12 months from the effective date of the franchise or within
the times otherwise set forth in the franchise agreement, the franchisee shall
provide all equipment and all personnel required by this chapter and the
franchise agreement.
   (F)   Any required institutional network shall be activated and fully
operational in all local government buildings, libraries and community service
agencies specified in the franchise agreement within 12 months of the effective
date of the franchise. The institutional network shall be activated and fully
operational in all public schools in the school district located within the
franchise territory within 18 months of the effective date of the franchise
unless a shorter time period is specified in the franchise agreement.
   (G)   Failure on the part of the franchisee to commence and diligently
pursue each of the foregoing requirements and to complete each of the matters
set forth in this chapter shall be grounds for immediate rescission of the
authorizing ordinance, revocation of any rights the franchisee may have in the
franchise and forfeiture of the franchisee's security fund, performance bonds
and/or letter of credit; provided, however, that the Village Council, upon
formal application of the franchisee, in its discretion may extend the time for
the commencement and completion of construction, activation and installation
for additional periods if the franchisee, acting in good faith, experiences
delays by reason of circumstances beyond its control.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.053 TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL.
   (A)   A franchise shall not be assigned or transferred, either in whole or
in part, or leased or sublet in any manner, nor shall title thereto, either
legal or equitable, or any right, interest or property therein, pass to or vest
in any person without the prior written consent of the village. The proposed
assignee must show its qualifications and its financial responsibility as
determined by the Village Council and must agree to comply with all provisions
of the franchise. A franchise shall not be mortgaged, either in whole or in
part, without an agreement by the mortgagee to be subordinate to the
franchiser's right to receive franchise fees from the franchisee and without
the prior written consent of the village. The village shall be deemed to have
consented to a proposed transfer, assignment or mortgage if its refusal to
consent is not communicated in writing to the franchisee within 120 days
following receipt of written notice of a proposed transfer, assignment or
mortgage, accompanied by all information required by law, including this
chapter and the franchise agreement. Consent by the Village Council shall not
be unreasonably withheld.
   (B)   A franchisee shall promptly notify the village of any proposed change
in or transfer of or disposition of or acquisition by any other party of
control of the franchisee. The word “control” as used in this subsection is not
limited to major stockholders but includes actual working control in whatever
manner exercised. Every change in, transfer of or acquisition of control of the
franchisee shall make the franchise subject to revocation unless and until the
village shall have consented thereto, which consent shall not be unreasonably
withheld. For the purpose of determining whether it shall consent to such
change, transfer, disposition or acquisition of control, the Village Council
may inquire into the qualifications of the prospective controlling party, and
the franchisee shall assist the Village Council in such inquiry.
   (C)   The consent or approval of the Village Council to any transfer of a
franchise shall not constitute a waiver or release of the right of the village
in and to the streets, and any transfer shall by its terms be expressly
subordinate to the terms and conditions of the franchise.
   (D)   In the absence of extraordinary circumstances, the Village Council
shall not approve any transfer or assignment of a franchise prior to completion
of construction of the proposed system or any required upgrade thereof.
   (E)   The Village Council reserves the right to review the purchase price of
any transfer or assignment of the cable communication system.
   (F)   In no event shall a transfer of ownership be approved without the
transferee becoming a signatory to the franchise agreement.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.054 FRANCHISE RENEWAL.
   (A)   The franchise may be renewed by the Village Council upon application
by the franchisee pursuant to the procedures established in this section upon
the advice of the Cablecasting Board.
   (B)   At least 12 months prior to the expiration of the franchise, the
franchisee shall inform the Village Council in writing if it intends to seek
renewal of the franchise.
   (C)   After giving public notice, the Village Council shall proceed, upon
the advice of the Cablecasting Board, to determine whether the franchisee has
satisfactorily performed all obligations under the franchise. To determine
satisfactory performance, the Village Council shall consider technical
developments and performance of the system, programming, other services
offered, costs of services and any other particular requirements set out in
this chapter and the franchise agreement. The Village Council shall also
consider the records of the performance evaluation sessions required
hereinafter as well as the franchisee's annual reports made to the village as
required by this chapter. The Village Council shall also be entitled to
consider or compare the franchisee's performance with the performance of other
systems of comparable configuration nationally in arriving at its decision. The
Village Council shall also consider comments of subscribers to, and users of,
the system.
   (D)   Within four months of receiving notice from the franchisee of its
desire to renew the franchise, the Village Council shall hold a public hearing.
Subsequently, the village shall arrive at a decision on the eligibility of the
franchisee for renewal. Notice of the public hearing shall be given in
accordance with the provisions of § 113.139. Upon the finding by the Village
Council that the franchisee's performance is satisfactory, and that superior
service for subscribers may not be obtained from other companies or operators,
a renewal with any amendments shall be granted for a period of not more than 15
years and not less than five years as specifically set forth in the franchise
agreement. All contracts granting any franchise or renewing or amending any
existing franchise shall be made by ordinance, which ordinance shall be
thereafter published in the manner prescribed by law.
   (E)   Upon a finding that the franchisee's performance is not satisfactory
or that superior service for subscribers may be obtained from other companies
or operators, the Village Council may deny renewal. A new franchise may be
awarded at any time utilizing the procedures set forth in this chapter.
   (F)   If a franchise is denied renewal, the Village Council may require, at
its option, the non-renewed franchisee to temporarily continue service until
the execution of a new franchise agreement.
   (G)   The provisions of this section shall be applicable only to the extent
permitted by the renewal provisions of higher law.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.055 FRANCHISE TERMINATION.
   Any franchise granted by the village, pursuant to this chapter, shall be
revocable at the will of the village or for any material violation by the
franchisee of the provisions of this chapter or of the terms of the franchise
agreement. The procedure set forth in this chapter regarding franchise
termination shall be followed in revoking a franchise.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.056 TERMINATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Upon receipt by the Village Council of a petition seeking termination
of the franchise and signed by 5% of cable communications system subscriber
households in the Village or upon receipt by the Village Council of a written
report of the Cablecasting Board recommending investigation into the
possibility of franchise termination, the Village Council shall, by resolution,
direct the Cablecasting Board to:
      (1)   Investigate all areas of concern in the operation of the franchise;
      (2)   Hold public hearings to receive the viewpoint of the franchisee and
the general public;
      (3)   Report to the Village Council within a specified period of time
regarding the condition of the franchise; and
      (4)   Set forth the recommendations of the Cablecasting Board on
termination of the franchise. A copy of the Village Council resolution,
together with a copy of the petition and/or written reports of the Cablecasting
Board, shall be sent to the franchisee.
   (B)   At the direction of the Village Council, the Cablecasting Board shall
investigate and collect all relevant data regarding the operation of the
franchise. The Cablecasting Board shall hold at least one public hearing to
hear the comments and concerns of the general public and to hear the position
of the franchisee. Written notice of the first such hearing shall be mailed to
the franchisee at least 30 days prior to the scheduled hearing date. Written
notice of any subsequent public hearings shall be mailed to the franchisee at
least 15 days in advance. Public notice of each hearing shall be given in
accordance with the provisions of § 113.139.
   (C)   Upon completion of its investigation, the Cablecasting Board shall
prepare a written report outlining the scope of its investigation and the
information received and setting forth its recommendations regarding
termination of the franchise. A copy of the report shall be mailed to the
franchisee. The report shall be forwarded to the Village Council which shall
schedule a public hearing to hear and determine the issue of franchise
termination. Written notice of the public hearing shall be mailed to the
franchisee at least 30 days prior to the scheduled hearing date. Public notice
of the hearing shall be given in accordance with the provisions of § 113.139.
   (D)   The Village Council shall hear any interested person, shall consider
the issue and shall determine in its discretion whether to continue the
franchise, to continue the franchise for a specified period subject to
conditions or to terminate the franchise. If the Village Council decides to
terminate the franchise, it shall issue a written report within 15 days setting
forth its position and the date upon which the franchise shall be terminated.
If the Village Council decides to continue the franchise with conditions, it
shall issue a written report within 15 days setting forth the specific
conditions, establishing an appropriate timetable for accomplishment and review
of the objectives and establishing any necessary supervisory board. A copy of
the Village Council report shall be mailed to the franchisee.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.057 REMOVAL OF SYSTEM.
   At the expiration of the term, or any extension thereof, for which this
franchise is granted, or upon its termination as provided in this subchapter, a
franchisee shall forthwith, at the option of the village and upon notice by the
Village Council, remove at its own expense such portions of the cable
communications system owned by the franchisee as specified by the village from
all streets and public property within the village. If a franchisee fails to do
so, the village may have the work performed at a franchisee's expense after 30-
days' written notice to a franchisee. A letter of credit or bond, at the
village’s discretion, in the amount of $50,000 or in any greater amount
specified in the franchise agreement shall be furnished by a franchisee for the
specific performance of this section, not less than 30 days after the above
notice. Such letter of credit or bond, in the village's discretion, shall be
furnished in addition to and concurrently with the letter of credit or bond
required in § 113.127.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.058 RESOLUTION OF DISPUTES.
   (A)   Any disputes arising under this chapter or the franchise agreement
shall be settled either by commencement of a suit in county circuit court or by
compulsory arbitration at the option of the village. If a franchisee feels
aggrieved, it shall advise the village of any dispute it has arising out of
this chapter or a franchise agreement and shall demand that the village elect
whether the dispute is to be resolved by submitting it to compulsory
arbitration or by commencement of a suit in the county circuit court. The
village shall make its election in writing within 30 days from the receipt of
such notice.
   (B)   If the village elects to have the dispute resolved by compulsory
arbitration, it shall be settled pursuant to M.C.L.A. §§ 600.5001 et seq.,
M.S.A. §§ 27A.5001 et seq., with each of the parties appointing one arbitrator
and the two thus appointed appointing a third.
   (C)   If the village fails to make such an election, any dispute between the
parties may be resolved by filing of a suit in Oakland County Circuit Court.
(Ord. passed - -)
SYSTEM DESIGN AND SPECIFICATIONS
§ 113.070 CHANNEL CAPACITY.
   (A)   A franchisee shall construct, and thereafter operate and maintain, a
cable communications system that shall initially be capable of delivering the
minimum number of channels specified in the franchise agreement. Applicants may
provide greater channel capacity. A set top converter shall be provided by a
franchisee when required to enable subscribers to receive programming services.
Any fee charged by a franchisee for a set top converter shall be in accordance
with applicable law. A franchisee may also require a refundable deposit not to
exceed the franchisee's actual cost of the converter, but only if the
franchisee has required such deposit in adjacent cable systems. A franchisee
shall not be required to pay interest on the refundable deposit. The refundable
deposit may be required by a franchisee for each set top converter provided and
the responsibility for normal maintenance of the converter shall be that of the
franchisee, and no charges for the repair of the converter shall be made except
in cases of subscriber misuse. There shall be no charge for removal of the
converter.
   (B)   When required by federal law, a franchisee shall provide, as part of
its cable communications system, all television broadcast signals as presently
available or as may become available off the air in the village and the maximum
number of additional television signals consistent with the rules and
regulations of the FCC and all other applicable laws, rules or regulations. A
franchisee's system shall be designed, engineered and maintained so as not to
interfere with the television and radio reception of residents of the village
who are not subscribers to the system.
   (C)   A franchisee shall offer all channels and programming specified in its
application and the franchise agreement. Changes in service may be made only if
authorized by the Village Council and incorporated into an amended franchise
agreement except as otherwise provided by the franchise agreement or applicable
law.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.071 LOCK-OUT DEVICE.
   A franchisee shall provide, at no charge to subscribers, a lock-out
mechanism that prevents viewing of any pay channel. This mechanism shall be
provided upon request of the subscriber. A franchisee shall make all
subscribers, prior to installation, aware of the availability of this device.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.072 SERVICES TO EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS.
   A franchisee shall provide, at no charge throughout the term of the
franchise, such services, equipment and facilities devoted to educational use
as specified in the franchise agreement.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.073 TIMETABLES FOR ESTABLISHMENT OF EDUCATIONAL SERVICES.
   The educational services, equipment and facilities shall be furnished by a
franchisee within the time periods specified in the franchise agreement.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.074 FUTURE EDUCATIONAL FACILITIES.
   In addition to the currently existing educational facilities and buildings
benefitting from the provisions of § 113.072, the same services shall be
provided to all future such facilities and buildings. Such services may be
suspended to buildings no longer used for public purposes.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.075 GOVERNMENT ACCESS CHANNELS.
   A franchisee shall provide, at no charge throughout the term of the
franchise, such services, equipment and facilities devoted to village
governmental use as specified in the franchise agreement. Such services,
equipment and facilities shall be furnished within the time periods specified
in the franchise agreement.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.076 COST AND MAINTENANCE OF EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   When required by a franchise agreement, all maintenance, repair and
periodic update/replacement of the original equipment shall be provided by a
franchisee at no charge to the educational institutions or any other
governmental agency. The level of service provided shall be sufficient to
assure that each unit of equipment operates satisfactorily at least 95% of the
elapsed time desired for use during any 90-day period. Responsibility for
maintaining appropriate operating and failure statistics shall be that of the
institution or agency. A franchisee shall be notified promptly by the
institution or agency whenever a failure occurs and maintenance or repair
service is required.
   (B)   When required by a franchise agreement, any major additional equipment
which may be acquired and which is clearly not a replacement for originally
installed equipment may be provided through a franchisee at the lowest possible
cost for comparable equipment with acceptable quality. Lowest cost shall be
evidenced by competitive bids from at least three suppliers of such equipment,
each of whom have records of previous sales with acceptable performance. Such
equipment shall be warranted by a franchisee to the educational institution for
a period of not less than one year after installation of each unit of
equipment. During this warranty period, all maintenance, repair and
replacement, if necessary, shall be provided by a franchisee at no charge to
the institution in order to provide a minimum 95% level of service as described
above for the original equipment requirements.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.077 PUBLIC ACCESS CHANNELS.
   (A)   Throughout the duration of a franchise, a franchisee shall make
available, at no cost, such public access channels exclusively dedicated for
use by the public as specified in the franchise agreement. Priority in use of
the channel and public access playback facilities shall be given to residents,
taxpayers and persons affiliated with tax-exempt organizations as set forth in
the United States Internal Revenue Code, section 501(c)(3), within the village
and to residents, taxpayers and persons affiliated with the aforementioned
organizations in municipalities that enter into an agreement with the village
for cooperative use of the public access channel and its related studio and
facilities. Use of the public access studio and production equipment shall be
restricted to residents, taxpayers and persons affiliated with such
organizations.
   (B)   A franchisee shall provide such public access studios, facilities and
equipment as specified in the franchise agreement.
   (C)   In order that there is maximum opportunity for freedom of expression
by members of the public, public access programming shall be free from any
control by a franchisee as to program content, except as required by the FCC or
to protect a franchisee from liability under appropriate law to the extent such
exceptions are permitted by law.
   (D)   Reasonable rules and procedures governing use of and charges for use
of any public access channel shall be established by the Cablecasting Board
upon the approval of the Village Council.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.078 LEASED ACCESS CHANNELS.
   (A)   A franchisee shall make any unused channels available for lease to any
organization, group or individual on a first come, first served basis. At least
one channel must be available for leasing on a part-time basis.
   (B)   A franchisee shall not exercise program controls over leased channels,
but it shall adopt rules governing the leasing of channel space which:
      (1)   Provides for access on a first come, nondiscriminatory basis;
      (2)   Prohibits the presentation of lottery information and obscene or
indecent matter;
      (3)   Requires sponsorship identification;
      (4)   Specifies an appropriate rate schedule; and
      (5)   Permits public inspection of the record of the names and addresses
of all persons or groups requesting time, which record shall be retained for a
period of two years.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.079 ADDITIONAL CHANNEL CAPACITY.
   If any public, governmental or educational access channel is cablecasting
locally produced, non-duplicative programming Monday through Friday for eight
consecutive hours for ten consecutive weeks, a franchisee shall report that
fact to the Cablecasting Board. For purposes of this threshold, character
generator programming shall not qualify. The Cablecasting Board shall
investigate the need for the addition of a new channel or channels and file its
recommendations with the Village Council. After review of the Cablecasting
Board report, the Village Council may, in its discretion, require a franchisee
to make a new channel available within six months for any or all of the uses
and under the conditions specified in §§ 113.072, 113.076, 113.078 113.079.
Nothing in this section shall interfere with a franchisee's right to add
additional channels of the type described in such sections, provided that such
channels are operated in a manner consistent with those sections. Should a
franchisee choose to add such additional channels, it shall notify the Village
Council, in writing, of its intention, its plan and its timetable for doing so.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.080 FM RADIO SERVICE.
   A franchisee shall make available to all subscribers any FM stereo radio
service indicated in its proposal and the stereo audio portion of all channels
as available. A franchisee shall advise all subscribers of the availability of
this service, but shall not require that it be purchased.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.081 AUTOMATED CHANNEL.
   A franchisee shall provide a channel cablecasting automated time, weather,
stock, sports and news information. Such information may be displayed by means
of a character generator during normal cablecast hours.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.082 PROGRAM INDEX.
   During all cablecast hours, a franchisee shall provide a channel
continuously informing subscribers of the programs being cablecast on all other
operational channels. A franchisee shall actively seek and cablecast such
indexing information from access channel managers.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.083 ADDITIONAL SERVICES.
   If such services are generally available in the Detroit Metropolitan Area, a
franchisee shall make available such additional video, audio, radio, digital,
internet and other services as are requested by subscribers and/or programmers
who are willing to pay for such services, provided that such services are
technologically and economically appropriate. The village specifically reserves
the right, if authorized by law, to require a franchisee to furnish
nondiscriminatory access to its cable system for providers of internet access
service, subject to applicable law. This provision does not waive the village
or franchisee’s rights, obligations, claims, defenses or remedies regarding the
authority of such requirement. The franchisee shall be provided with reasonable
notice and an opportunity to be heard, including the right to present evidence
on the findings, if any, to be made by village with respect to such
requirement.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.084 INTERCONNECTION.
   (A)   A franchisee shall provide one-way and two-way interconnection
facilities to interconnect the system with other cable systems, the school
district and other political subdivisions as may be required by the Village
Council. Interconnection facilities may be effected by direct cable connection,
microwave length, satellite or any other appropriate method. Interconnection
facilities may be required for one, several or all channels of the system. Upon
receiving a directive to interconnect, a franchisee shall reasonably cooperate
in the interconnection if other systems express a willingness to share the cost
of such interconnection.
   (B)   Before the Village Council issues a directive requiring
interconnection, it shall notify a franchisee in writing of its consideration
of the issue and schedule a public hearing, not less than 15 days from the
notification date, at which a franchisee shall be provided an opportunity to
state its position on the issue. Notice of the hearing shall be given in
accordance with the provisions of § 113.139.
   (C)   Upon receiving a directive from the Village Council to interconnect, a
franchisee shall immediately initiate negotiations with the other affected
system or systems in order that the cost may be shared by the franchisees of
the affected systems for both construction and operation of the interconnection
link. A franchisee shall report to the Village Council monthly in writing
regarding the status of all negotiations and construction progress. The monthly
reports shall continue until the interconnection line is operational.
   (D)   A franchisee shall cooperate with any interconnection corporation,
regional interconnection authority, council of governments, county, federal or
state regulatory agency which may be established for the purpose of regulating,
facilitating, encouraging, financing or otherwise providing for the
interconnection of cable communication systems beyond the boundaries of the
individual political jurisdictions.
   (E)   Should a dispute arise over any matter regarding interconnection, it
shall be resolved in accordance with the provisions of this chapter on methods
of resolving disputes.
   (F)   The Village Council may grant reasonable extensions of time to
interconnect or rescind its request to interconnect upon petition by a
franchisee to the Village Council. The Village Council shall grant such request
if it finds that a franchisee has negotiated in good faith and has failed to
obtain an approval from the system of the proposed interconnection or that the
cost of the interconnection would cause an unreasonable or unacceptable
increase in subscriber rates.
   (G)   In order to assure future interconnection capability, a franchisee
shall meet the following initial technical requirements: use of standard
frequency allocations for cable communications signals, use of signal
processors at the head end for each cable communications signal, use of
adequate amplifiers spaced appropriately to enable two-way activation of the
total system and use of local origination equipment compatible with
videocassettes, videotapes, videodisks, video film chains and other various
video formats.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.085 STANDBY POWER.
   A franchisee shall install and maintain equipment capable of providing
standby power for head end, transportation and trunk amplifiers for a minimum
of four hours. The standby power equipment for the head end shall be
constructed so as to automatically notify the cable office when it is in
operation and to automatically revert to the standby mode when the AC power
returns. All utility safety regulations must be followed to prevent a standby
generator from powering the dead utility line.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.086 UNDERGROUND AND ABOVEGROUND INSTALLATIONS.
   (A)   A franchisee may lease, rent or in any other manner by mutual
agreement obtain the use of towers, poles, lines, cables and other equipment
and facilities from utility companies operating within the village and use
towers, poles, lines, cables and other equipment and facilities for the system,
subject to all existing and future laws, ordinances and regulations of the
village, the state and the United States of America. When and where
practicable, the poles used by a franchisee's distribution system shall be
those erected and maintained by utility companies operating within the village,
provided mutually satisfactory rental agreements can be reached. All utility
companies in the village shall cooperate with a franchisee and allow a
franchisee the use of their poles and pole line facilities whenever possible so
that the number of new or additional poles installed in the village may be
minimized.
   (B)   A franchisee shall have the right to erect, install and maintain its
own towers, poles, guys, anchors, underground conduits, amplifiers,
transformers, manholes and other equipment as may be necessary for the proper
construction and maintenance of the antenna site, head end and distribution
system, provided that the location and construction of towers, poles, guys,
anchors, underground conduits, amplifiers, transformers and other equipment,
manholes placed on village property and public rights-of-way shall be approved
in advance, in writing, by the Village Engineer. In cases of conflict,
preference shall be given to more essential utilities and services such as
water, power, steam, telephone, sanitary sewer, storm sewer, traffic signals,
street lighting and gas. If a franchisee violates the provisions in this
division, the Village Engineer may require a franchisee to remove any and all
equipment at its own cost.
   (C)   A franchisee shall have the right to establish terms, conditions and
specifications governing the form, type, size, quantity and location of
equipment belonging to other persons on its poles and shall have the further
right to charge a fair rental for attachment, space or spaces occupied by the
equipment and plant of such other persons, except that no rent shall be paid by
the village for its attachment to a franchisee's poles. The village shall pay
any reasonable additional costs incurred by a franchisee in providing space for
the village's attachments, including the reasonable cost of any necessary
rearrangements of a franchisee's equipment and plant to provide room for
village attachments. Upon expiration, termination or revocation of a franchise,
or should a franchisee wish to dispose of any of its poles being used by the
village, the village shall have the first option to purchase them in place for
a value equal to depreciated book value.
   (D)   In those areas of the village where transmission or distribution
facilities of all utility companies are or are scheduled to be placed
underground, a franchisee shall likewise construct, operate and maintain all of
its transmission and distribution facilities underground to the maximum extent
the then existing technology permits in accordance with the then management
edition of the National Electrical Safety Code, the Telephone System Practices
Governing Joint Attachment Practices and their successor documents, as well as
in conformance with all applicable laws, statutes, ordinances, regulations and/
or codes of the federal, state or municipal governments. If and when necessary,
amplifiers and/or transformers in a franchisee's transmission and distribution
lines may be in appropriate housings on the surface of the ground.
   (E)   All transmission and distribution structures, lines, poles, conduits,
fixtures and equipment erected by a franchisee in the village shall be located
so as not to endanger life or property or interfere with the normal use of
streets, alleys or other public ways and places so as to cause minimum
interference with the rights or reasonable convenience of the general public
and adjoining property owners and so as not to interfere with existing traffic
control, street lighting, gas, electric, telephone, water hydrant or other
public utility installations and so as to comply with the then current edition
of the National Electrical Safety Code and the Telephone System Practices
Governing Joint Attachment Practices and their successor documents, as well as
in conformance with all applicable laws, statutes, ordinances, regulations and/
or codes of the federal, state and municipal governments. If the Village
Engineer determines any of such equipment erected by a franchisee violates the
provisions outlined in this division, he or she may require a franchisee to
alter or remove any or all of the offending equipment.
   (F)   Prior to the commencement of construction, a franchisee shall file
with the village maps, plats and records of the locations and character of all
facilities to be constructed, including underground facilities and shall have
received prior approval from the Village Engineer for such construction. A
franchisee is required to maintain current and accurate maps, plats and
permanent records for public inspection and to file such documents with the
village annually.
   (G)   In the case of any disturbance of pavement, sidewalks, driveway, lawn
or other surfacing, a franchisee shall, at its expense, promptly replace and
restore all such surfacing to its original condition.
   (H)   The village may, upon reasonable notice, require a franchisee, at its
expense, to protect, support, temporarily disconnect, relocate or remove
facilities from a particular area of the village's streets if reasonably
necessary by reason of traffic conditions, public safety, street construction
or vacation, change or establishment of communication lines, tracks, traffic
signals, street lighting or by reason of other conditions. Reasonable notice
for this provision shall be construed to mean at least ten days, except in the
case of emergencies.
   (I)   A franchisee shall have the authority, upon prior approval of the
Village Council or designated representative, to trim any trees upon and
overhanging the streets, alleys, sidewalks and public places of the village so
as to prevent the branches of such trees from coming in contact with wires and
cables of a franchisee, except that at the option of the village, trimming may
be done by it, or under its supervision and direction, at the expense and
liability of a franchisee. In trimming any trees, a franchisee shall not go
upon private property without the consent of the owner. Any damage caused to
the property of building owners or users, or of any other person, by the
franchisee's negligence shall be repaired fully and promptly at a franchisee's
sole expense.
   (J)   Prior to the installation of any portion of the cable system in or
onto a building, a franchisee shall obtain from the Building Department a cable
communications installation permit at the request of and on behalf of the owner
of the building or premises. The permit shall be required to defray the costs
of an electrical inspection to insure compliance with applicable requirements
of the village. A franchisee shall be responsible for payment of applicable
permit fees to the village.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.087 CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS AND TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All of a franchisee's plant and equipment, including but not limited
to the antenna site, head end and distribution system, towers, house
connections, structures, poles, wire, cable, fixtures and appurtenances shall
be installed, located, erected, constructed, reconstructed, replaced, removed,
repaired, maintained and operated in accordance with good engineering
practices, performed by experienced pole line construction crews and so as not
to:
      (1)   Endanger or interfere with the safety of any persons or property;
      (2)   Interfere with improvements the village may deem proper;
      (3)   Interfere in any manner with the rights of any property owner; or
      (4)   Unnecessarily hinder or obstruct pedestrian or vehicular traffic on
village property.
   (B)   All of a franchisee's system, including all plant and equipment and
all construction, shall meet, at a minimum, all relevant and applicable
specifications as set forth in a request by the village for proposal, a
franchisee's application, this chapter and this code, when not preempted by
higher law. Such specifications, construction standards and performance
characteristics shall include, but not be limited to the following listed
construction and technical standards.
      (1)   Construction standards. Methods of construction, installation and
maintenance of the cable communications system shall comply with all applicable
laws and regulations.
      (2)   Technical standards. A franchisee shall comply with all the rules
and standards for cable communications operations as adopted by the FCC.
      (3)   Performance testing. 
         (a)   Performance requirements and standards specified in this
chapter, and in all FCC requirements and standards, shall be measured at the
time of initial testing as provided in subsection (B)(3)b. of this section to
ensure compliance with all specified requirements and standards for
construction. Measurements shall be taken and recorded as specified in the
Cable Television Information Center Specifications. All costs of such tests
shall be borne by a franchisee, including all costs associated with the hiring
of an independent supervising engineer pursuant to subsection (B)(3)j. of this
section.
         (b)   Initial proof of performance testing shall occur within 60 days
of the commencement of cable service to each section of the system franchise
area as delineated in a construction timetable which shall be submitted with a
franchisee's application and bid proposal and also included in the final
franchise agreement. Initial proof of performance shall also be tested within
30 days of the commencement of cable service to new subscribers on any
extension of the system not specified in the construction timetable and within
30 days after service has been extended to new subscribers upon any
reconstruction of the cable system.
         (c)   All measurements shall be made using instruments which are
appropriate for making each performance test. Such instruments shall be
sufficiently sensitive to measure each parameter accurately. The accuracy of
the instruments must meet those standards developed by the National Bureau of
Standards for Test Equipment. Such test equipment and instruments shall know a
correction factor for bandwidth and scale position where applicable. All
measurements shall be taken at test points to be designated in a franchisee's
application, which shall also be included in the franchise agreement.
         (d)   Tests and measurements to ensure compliance with the technical
standards shall be performed in a manner that is consistent with the provisions
of federal law and regulations.
         (e)   Performance requirements and standards specified in this
document, including all FCC requirements and standards and all local
performance guidelines, shall be measured annually to ensure compliance with
all specified requirements and standards. Measurements shall be taken and
recorded as specified in this subsection (B)(3). All costs of such tests shall
be borne by the franchisee.
         (f)   Routine proof of performance tests shall be made on a periodic
basis to ensure compliance with applicable performance standards. Measurements
shall be taken and recorded as specified in this subsection (B)(3). All costs
of such tests shall be borne by the franchisee.
         (g)   When complaints have been made or when other evidence exists
which, in the judgment of the Village Council, casts doubt on the reliability
or quality of cable service, the village shall have the right and authority to
compel a franchisee to test, analyze and report on the performance of the
system. The test or tests shall be made and the reports of such tests shall be
delivered to the village no later than 14 days after the Village Council
formally notifies a franchisee.
         (h)   The village’s rights under subsection (B)(3)g. of this section
shall be limited to requiring tests, analysis and reports covering specific
subjects and characteristics based on such complaints or other evidence when
and under such circumstances as the village has reasonable grounds to believe
that the complaints or other evidence require that tests be performed to
protect the public substandard cable service. All costs for such tests shall be
borne by the franchisee.
         (i)   Reports required pursuant to subsection (B)(3)g. of this section
shall include information setting forth the nature of the complaint or other
evidence which precipitated the special tests, what system component was
tested, the equipment used and procedures employed in such testing, the results
of the testing and the resolution of the complaint or problem. Any additional
information pertinent to the special test or specifically requested by the
village shall be reported.
         (j)   All performance testing shall be done under the supervision and
direction of a qualified engineer not on the permanent staff of the franchisee.
The engineer shall be selected by a franchisee and approved by the Village
Council or his or her designated representative after reviewing the
individual's professional qualifications and a statement, provided by the
engineer, indicating all associations or relationships of any nature which that
individual may currently have or may formerly have had with the franchisee. All
records of performance tests and their results shall be signed and certified by
the engineer who shall include in the records a copy of his or her
qualifications and of the statement.
   (C)   If, at any time, the cable communications system or any portion
thereof fails to comply with any of the standards set forth in this section,
the Village Engineer shall send written notice to a franchisee listing any
deficiencies and requiring a franchisee to repair, alter or correct the
deficiencies so as to meet all such standards. A franchisee shall have 30 days
after the date of the notice within which to correct the deficiencies. A
franchisee's failure to correct the deficiencies within 30 days shall subject
it to the penalties provided in § 113.140, unless the penalty is waived by the
Village Council upon a showing by a franchisee that it has made all reasonable
efforts to correct the deficiency but has been unable to do so due to the
occurrence of conditions beyond its control. If deficiencies in the cable
communications system remain after the 30-day period, the Village Council may
direct the Engineering Department to correct such deficiencies, and a
franchisee shall pay all reasonable costs associated therewith.
   (D)   Where the provisions of any codes or regulations referred to in this
section are in conflict, the more stringent provisions, as determined by the
Village Engineer, shall be deemed to apply.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.088 SYSTEM DESIGN CHANGES.
   A franchisee shall provide its cable system and all services as set forth in
the franchise agreement, including all exhibits thereto and all documents and
written material incorporated by reference therein.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.089 MAINTENANCE OF FACILITIES, EQUIPMENT.
   A franchisee shall upgrade its facilities, equipment and service so that its
system is as advanced as the current state of technology will allow, provided
that any necessary upgrade to its facilities, equipment or service is
economically appropriate. A franchisee shall install additional channel
capacity as required to keep channel capacity in excess of the demand therefor
by users. At all times, the cable system shall be no less advanced than any
cable system in the Detroit Dominant Market Area or than any other cable system
of comparable size excepting only those cable systems which are experimental,
pilot or demonstration. Such matters shall be a topic of discussion at all
review sessions. A franchisee shall submit a five-year plan for upgrading
facilities and equipment at each performance review session.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.090 SUBSCRIBER PRIVACY.
   (A)   No signals of a cable communications channel shall be transmitted from
a subscriber terminal for purposes of monitoring individual viewing patterns or
practices without the express written permission of the subscriber. The request
for such permission shall be contained in a separate document with a prominent
statement to be signed by the subscriber acknowledging his or her full
understanding of the provisions of the request and permitting the activity to
occur. No penalty shall be invoked for a subscriber's failure to provide such
an authorization. The authorization shall be revocable at any time by the
subscriber without penalty. Such authorization is required for each type or
classification of subscriber terminal signal planned; provided, however, that a
franchisee may keep such records of viewing or purchasing of services by
individual subscribers as are necessary for the billing of the individual
subscriber for such services.
   (B)   A franchisee shall not monitor or tabulate any records or test results
in any manner that would reveal the economic status, commercial product
preferences or opinions of individual subscribers or their families. A
franchisee shall not maintain or tabulate any data on the political, religious,
moral or social preferences or opinions of individual subscribers or their
families.
   (C)   A franchisee, or any of its agents or employees, shall not, without
the specific written authorization of the subscriber involved, sell or
otherwise make available to any party:
      (1)   Lists of the names and addresses of such subscribers; or
      (2)   Any list which identifies the viewing habits of subscribers.
   (D)   A franchisee shall be constantly alert to possible abuses of any legal
right of privacy or other legal rights of any subscriber, programmer or general
citizen resulting from any device or signal associated with the cable
communications system. The possibility of such abuse shall be discussed at
every scheduled review session.
   (E)   Devices such as electronic locks, scramblers, warning lights and
others designed to inhibit signals originating from a subscriber terminal shall
be provided by a franchisee for all two-way system subscribers. Such devices
shall additionally be provided as other privacy problems are identified, the
technology becomes available and reasonable financial arrangements can be made.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.091 CONTINUITY OF SERVICE.
   (A)   It shall be the right of all consumers and programmers to receive all
available services insofar as their financial and other obligations to a
franchisee are honored. If a franchisee elects to overbuild, rebuild, renovate,
modify or sell the system or the village gives notice of intent to terminate or
fails to extend or renew this franchise, a franchisee shall act so as to ensure
that all consumers and programmers receive continuous, uninterrupted service
regardless of the circumstances for a period not to exceed six months unless a
longer period is agreed to by the parties.
   (B)   Upon a change of franchisee, or if a new operator acquires the system,
a franchisee shall cooperate with the village, new franchisee or operator in
maintaining continuity of service to all consumers and programmers. During such
period, a franchisee shall be entitled to the revenues for any period during
which it operates the system and shall be compensated for reasonable costs
incurred in providing any services when it no longer operates the system.
   (C)   If a franchisee fails to operate the system for three consecutive days
without prior approval of the village or without just cause, the village may,
at its option, operate the system or designate an operator until such time as a
franchisee restores service under conditions acceptable to the village or a
permanent operator is selected. If the village fulfills this obligation for a
franchisee, the franchisee shall reimburse the village for all reasonable costs
or damages in excess of revenues from the system received by the village that
are the result of the franchisee's failure to perform.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.092 ALL CHANNELS EMERGENCY ALERT.
   A franchisee shall, in the case of any emergency or disaster, make its
entire system available without charge to the Village President or his or her
representative or to any other governmental or civil defense agency that the
village shall designate. The system shall be engineered to provide an emergency
alert system as set forth in the franchise agreement to allow authorized
officials to automatically override the audio signal on all channels and
transmit and report emergency information. The system shall provide for visual
transmission of emergency messages.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.093 HOME SECURITY.
   No home security program shall be promoted, nor shall a home security device
be installed, without the prior approval from the Police Chief and Fire Chief
of the overall home security system design. This provision shall include alarm
systems the purpose of which is to detect and warn monitoring agencies of
medical emergencies, fires or illegal entry. This section shall be interpreted
to cover the general plan and scope of activities, not individual service
hookups.
(Ord. passed - -)
FRANCHISE FEE AND RATES
§ 113.105 ESTABLISHMENT OF FRANCHISE FEES.
   (A)   As compensation for the use of the village's streets, public ways and
places and other facilities and for the right to construct, operate, maintain,
modify and reconstruct a cable communications system for the village's costs of
maintenance and supervision of the franchise and for the village's costs of
establishing and conducting the regulatory activities required by virtue of the
franchise, a franchisee shall pay to the village an amount equal to 5% of a
franchisee's gross revenues from all sources attributable to the operations of
the franchisee within the village. The franchise fee payment shall be in
addition to any tax, permit fee or other payment owed or service to be provided
to the village by a franchisee.
   (B)   For purposes of this chapter, gross revenues shall be calculated on an
accrual basis.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.106 PAYMENT OF FRANCHISE FEE.
   (A)   Payment of the franchise fee shall be made quarterly at the Village
Treasurer's office. Each payment shall be accompanied by a financial statement
in a standard form, approved by the Village Treasurer, setting forth the basis
for the computation and specifically showing the gross revenues attributable to
the franchise during the preceding quarter, as well as such other relevant
facts as may be required by the village.
   (B)   Each quarterly payment and accompanying financial statement shall be
filed in the Village Treasurer's office within 20 days after the last day of
the quarter for which the payment is due.
   (C)   A franchisee shall file, within 120 days of the close of the
franchisee's fiscal year, an annual report audited by a certified public
accountant of the annual gross revenues attributable to a franchisee's cable
communications operation in the village as well as such other items of
information as may be required of a franchisee. This requirement may be
modified by the Village Council in appropriate circumstances. Extension of such
period up to 30 additional days may be granted by the Village Council upon
request by a franchisee.
   (D)   The village shall have the right to inspect a franchisee's financial
records, such records to be kept or made available within the village, and the
rights of audit and recomputation of any amounts that may be determined to be
payable under this chapter. Any additional amount due the village as a result
of the audit shall be paid within 30 days following written notice to a
franchisee by the village, which notice shall include a copy of the audit
report. The cost of the village’s audit shall be borne by a franchisee if it is
properly determined that a franchisee's annual payments to the village for the
preceding year are increased thereby by more than 3%.
   (E)   If any franchise fee payment or recomputed amount is not made on or
before the applicable due date, a late payment fee of $250 and a monthly
service charge of 1.8% of the total unpaid amount shall be paid to the village
by the franchisee.
   (F)   No acceptance of any payment by the village shall be construed as a
release or as an accord and satisfaction of any claim the village may have for
further or additional sums payable as a franchise fee under this chapter or for
the performance of any other obligation of a franchisee.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.107 RENEGOTIATION OF FRANCHISE FEES.
   If the law permits a specified franchise fee greater than the franchise fee
set forth in this chapter, the village shall have the right to impose such
greater fee upon 30-days' written notice to a franchisee. If the law removes
all limitations on the amount of such fee, the village shall have the right to
increase such fee to 8%, or more if negotiated, upon 30-days' written notice to
a franchisee.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.108 RATES AND CHARGES FOR SERVICE.
   (A)   The Village Council shall be empowered to determine, fix and regulate
the charges or rates of the franchisee and from time to time to alter or change
such rates.
   (B)   The village shall fix and regulate rates for services which shall
include, but not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   Rates for the provision of basic service to subscribers,
residential or nonresidential;
      (2)   Rates for the provision of pay television service to subscribers;
      (3)   Rates for the connection and installation of services and for the
downgrade or disconnection and/or reconnection of such services;
      (4)   Rates for nonentertainment services, such as home security, utility
meter reading, data transmission, use of access channels, energy management,
traffic signalization and other services that may be introduced during the term
of the franchise.
   (C)   Initial maximum rates for services of the cable communications system
shall be those delineated in a franchise agreement. Initial maximum rates shall
not be increased during the period specified in a franchise agreement except as
otherwise permitted by law. If construction of the cable communications system
is not timely completed and activated as set forth in a franchise agreement,
and an extension is not granted by the Village Council, the rate guarantee
shall be extended one day for each day that construction remains incomplete and
inactivated beyond the specified construction and activation period.
   (D)   A franchisee shall have the right to conduct promotional campaigns
which permit new subscriptions to the system at lesser rates than those
applicable to earlier subscribers, provided those promotional rates shall be
equally available to all such new subscribers in the village.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.109 REVISION OF RATES FOR SERVICES.
   (A)   The Village Council, upon request of a franchisee or upon its own
initiative, may establish revised rates for services. The following procedures
are hereby adopted to provide for a method for the revising of rates:
      (1)   A franchisee shall file a petition with the Village Council, which
petition shall contain full and detailed information concerning the rate
revisions being requested and supporting financial documentation for such rate
revision;
      (2)   The Village Council shall establish the date and time for public
hearing on such rate revision request no less than 30 days from the date a
written request is formally received by the Village Council in a regularly
scheduled public meeting and shall render a decision on the request within 30
days following the public hearing;
      (3)   Notice of the public hearing shall be given in accordance with the
provisions of § 113.139;
      (4)   The Village Council may, at its option, employ a consultant or
consultants mutually acceptable to a franchisee to aid in the analysis of the
requested rate revision. Costs of such consultants shall be borne by a
franchisee;
      (5)   The village may renegotiate other provisions of the franchise at
such times as rate revisions are requested by a franchisee;
      (6)   Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prevent the village on
its own initiative from instituting proceedings to revise rates at the
village's expense.
   (B)   In making its determination with regard to the setting or revision of
rates, the Village Council may direct the Cablecasting Board to review and
report on the following items:
      (1)   The rate request and its supporting financial documentation;
      (2)   Comparative rates in metropolitan Detroit and the United States;
      (3)   Performance ratings and subscriber complaints;
      (4)   System expansion and franchise fee payments;
      (5)   Comparable services in metropolitan Detroit and the United States;
and
      (6)   Other items as it deems fit.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.110 ESTABLISHMENT OF RATES AND CHARGES SUBJECT TO LAW.
   The provisions of §§ 113.108 and 113.109 shall be applicable only if, when
and to the extent permitted by law.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.111 REFUNDS TO SUBSCRIBERS AND PROGRAMMERS.
   If a franchisee fails to provide any material service requested by a
subscriber or programmer in accordance with the standards set forth in this
chapter, a franchisee shall promptly refund all deposits or advance charges
paid for the service in question by the subscriber or programmer. This section
shall include discontinuance of service for each 24-hour period, as well as
lack of service after payment for initial hookup.
(Ord. passed - -)
ADMINISTRATION AND REGULATION
§ 113.125 PERFORMANCE REVIEW.
   (A)    In order to monitor a franchisee's performance and adherence to this
chapter and the franchise agreement, the village, through the Cablecasting
Board, and a franchisee may hold scheduled review sessions within 30 days after
the first, fourth, seventh and tenth anniversary dates of the effective date of
the franchise and each three years thereafter during the remaining initial term
of the franchise and any extension or renewal thereof. All such review sessions
shall be open to the public and notice thereof shall be published not less than
ten days nor more than 30 days before each review session in a local newspaper
of general circulation. The published notice shall specify the topics to be
discussed. Notice shall be given in accordance with the provisions of §
113.139.
   (B)   Unless waived by resolution of the Cablecasting Board in writing four
months prior to each scheduled review session, a franchisee shall submit to the
Cablecasting Board the results of an independent opinion survey which shall
elicit constructive criticisms and identify unmet needs among subscribers and
nonsubscribers in the franchise area. The Cablecasting Board shall establish
standards and controls with respect to the opinion survey, the preparation and
implementation of which shall be without expense to the village or the
Cablecasting Board and shall approve in advance the survey form and the person
conducting the survey.
   (C)   Special review sessions may be held at any time during the term of the
franchise by the village or by the Cablecasting Board upon not less than 30-
days' notice to a franchisee of the time and place of the review sessions and
the topics to be covered. All such review sessions shall be open to the public,
and public notice of the review sessions shall be given in accordance with the
provisions of § 113.139.
   (D)   All or any of the following topics may be designated for discussion
and review at any review session:
      (1)   Judicial and federal communications rulings;
      (2)   Rate structures;
      (3)   Application of new technology or new developments;
      (4)   System performance;
      (5)   System extension policy;
      (6)   Service provided;
      (7)   Programming offered;
      (8)   Customer complaints;
      (9)   Privacy;
      (10)   Amendments to the ordinance authorizing the franchise;
      (11)   Interconnection;
      (12)   Underground progress;
      (13)   Public, governmental and educational access programs and
performance;
      (14)   Studio facilities and service;
      (15)   Insurance;
      (16)   New services;
      (17)   Other topics may be added by either party. Members of the general
public may also request discussion of additional topics.
   (E)   The Cablecasting Board at its discretion may utilize the services of a
consultant to gain additional information for use during the review sessions. A
franchisee shall cooperate with such consultant and the Cablecasting Board in
all aspects of the performance review. In the event the consultant's review
reveals or leads to the discovery of a significant default or violation of the
franchise, the reasonable fees of such consultant relating to such default or
violation shall be borne by a franchisee.
   (F)   The Cablecasting Board shall, at the conclusion of all review
sessions, issue a public report to the Village Council announcing its findings
and recommendations for enforcement of or modifications to this chapter or the
franchise agreement.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.126 SECURITY FUND.
   (A)   Within 30 days after the effective date of franchises between a
franchisee and each of the Cablecasting Board’s member communities, a
franchisee shall deposit with the Cablecasting Board and maintain on deposit
through the term of the franchise the sum of $10,000. The sum shall stand as
security for the obligations of a franchisee to the member communities of the
Cablecasting Board and be administered by the Cablecasting Board as set forth
below:
      (1)   The faithful performance by it of all the provisions of this
chapter and the franchise;
      (2)   Compliance with all orders, permits and directions of any agency,
Council, board or department of the member communities having jurisdiction over
its acts or defaults under the franchise agreements; and
      (3)   The payment by the franchisee of any claims, liens and taxes due
the member communities which arise by reason of the construction, operation or
maintenance of the system.
   (B)   Within ten days after notice to it that any amount has been withdrawn
from the security fund, the franchisee shall pay to or deposit with the
Cablecasting Board a sum of money in the full amount withdrawn.
   (C)   If the franchisee fails to pay to the member communities any fees
within the time fixed in this chapter; or fails, after ten-days' written
notice, to pay to the member communities any taxes due and unpaid; or fails to
repay the member communities within such ten days, any damages, costs or
expenses which the member communities shall be compelled to pay by reason of
any act or default of the franchisee in connection with the franchise or fails
after three days notice of such failure to comply with any provisions of the
franchise which the member communities reasonably determines can be remedied by
a withdrawal from the security, the member communities may immediately withdraw
the amount thereof, with interest and any penalties, or liquidated damages from
the security fund. Upon such withdrawal, the member communities shall notify
the franchisee of the amount and date thereof.
   (D)   The security fund deposited pursuant to this section, including all
interest thereon, shall become the property of the member communities if the
franchise is rescinded or revoked by reason of the default of the franchisee.
The franchisee, however, shall be entitled to the return of such security fund,
or portion thereof, as remains on deposit at the expiration of the term of the
franchise, provided that there is then no outstanding default on the part of
the franchisee. Interest earned by the investment of the security fund shall
become part of the security fund and unless consumed by the payment of
penalties, fees or other charges under this chapter shall be returned to the
franchisee at the expiration of the franchise term, provided that there is then
no outstanding default on the part of the franchisee.
   (E)   The payment of a penalty from the security shall not constitute a cure
of any violation or any act of noncompliance. The rights reserved to the member
communities with respect to the security fund are in addition to all other
rights of the member communities whether reserved by this chapter or authorized
by law, and no action, proceeding or exercise of a right with respect to such
security fund shall affect any other right the member communities may have.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.127 PERFORMANCE BOND; LETTER OF CREDIT.
   (A)   Upon the effective date of the franchise agreement, at the village's
discretion, a franchisee shall file with the village a performance bond, in
favor of the village, in the sum of $250,000 or in any greater amount specified
in the franchise agreement, conditioned that the franchisee shall well and
truly observe, fulfill and perform each term and condition of this chapter and
the franchise agreement. This bond shall be maintained by the franchisee
throughout the construction period and until such time as determined by the
Village Council. At the request of the Village Council, additional
municipalities may be named as additional secured parties in such bond. In lieu
of all or part of the amount of such performance bond, at the village's
discretion, a franchisee shall file with the village an unconditional and
irrevocable letter of credit, in form and content satisfactory to the village,
in the sum specified in this section or in any greater amount specified in the
franchise agreement. Failure to furnish such bond or letter of credit and to
maintain the same in effect in the full amount required hereby during the
entire term of the franchise agreement and any extension or renewal thereof
shall constitute a violation of this section and a material breach of the
franchise agreement.
   (B)   If a franchisee fails to comply with any law, ordinance or regulation
governing the franchise, or fails to well and truly observe, fulfill and
perform each term and condition of the franchise, including the franchisee's
proposal, there shall be recoverable, jointly and severally, from the principal
and surety of the bond and/or from the letter of credit any damages or loss
suffered by the village as a result thereof, including the full amount of any
compensation, indemnification or cost of removal or abandonment of any property
of a franchisee, plus a reasonable allowance for attorney's fees and costs, up
to the full amount of the bond or letter of credit.
   (C)   The village may, upon completion of initial or subsequent
construction, waive or reduce the requirement of the franchisee to maintain
such bond or letter of credit. However, the village may require a performance
bond or letter of credit to be posted by a franchisee for any construction
subsequent to the completion of the initial service areas in a reasonable
amount and upon such terms as determined by the Village Council.
   (D)   The bond or letter of credit shall contain the following or
substantially similar endorsement: It is hereby understood and agreed that the
bond or letter of credit may not be canceled nor the intention not to renew be
stated until 30 days after receipt by the village, by registered mail, of a
written notice of such intent to cancel or not to renew.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.128 INSURANCE.
   (A)   A franchise shall maintain throughout the term of the franchise
insurance insuring the village and franchisee in the minimum amount of:
      (1)   Workers compensation, as required by all applicable federal, state,
maritime or other laws, including franchisee's liability with a limit of at
least $100,000 for each occurrence;
      (2)   Comprehensive general liability and extended coverage endorsement.
Including nonownership and hired car coverage as well as owned vehicles, with
minimum limits as follows:
         (a)   Bodily injury for each person, $1,000,000 and each occurrence,
$1,000,000;
         (b)   Property damage or each occurrence $500,000;
      (3)   Excess liability, bodily injury and property damage, $5,000,000 for
each occurrence.
   (B)   The insurance policies obtained by a franchisee in compliance with
this section must be approved by the Village Attorney as being in compliance
with this chapter and the franchise agreement within 30 days of the execution
of the franchise agreement. Certified copies of such insurance policies, or
certificates of insurance in lieu of the policies, along with written evidence
of payment of required premiums, shall be filed and maintained with the Village
Clerk during the term of the franchise. Such certified copies may be changed
from time to time to reflect any increase in liability limits. A franchisee
shall immediately advise the village of any litigation covered by the
insurance.
   (C)   Neither the provisions of this section nor any damages recovered by
the village thereunder shall be construed to limit the liability of a
franchisee under any franchise issued under this chapter or for damages.
   (D)   All insurance policies maintained pursuant to a franchise shall name
the village, its employees, agents, boards and officers as additional named
insured parties with respect to all actions, inactions, errors and omissions of
the franchisee, its agents or subcontractors and shall contain the following or
substantially similar endorsement: It is hereby understood and agreed that this
insurance policy may not be canceled by the insurer nor the intention not to
renew be stated by the insurer until at least 30 days after receipt by the
village, by registered mail, of a written notice of such intention to cancel or
not to renew.
   (E)   Each policy of insurance shall be noncancellable except upon giving
such notice to the village. If deemed appropriate by the Village Attorney, the
franchisee shall also provide an owners and contractors protective liability
policy.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.129 INDEMNIFICATION.
   (A)   A franchisee shall, at its sole cost and expense, fully indemnify,
defend and hold harmless the village, its officers, boards, Councils and
employees against any and all claims, suits, actions, liability and judgments
for damages, including but not limited to expenses for reasonable legal fees
and disbursements and liabilities assumed by the village in connection
therewith:
      (1)   In any way arising out of or through the acts or omissions of a
franchisee, its servants, agents or employees or to which the franchisee's
negligence shall in any way contribute with respect to any claim attributable
to the operation or existence of any part of the cable communications system;
      (2)   Arising out of any claim for invasion of the right of privacy, for
defamation of any person or the violation or infringement of any copyright,
trademark, trade name, service mark or patent or of any other right of any
person, excluding claims arising out of or relating to village programming;
      (3)   Arising out of a franchisee's failure to comply with the provisions
of any federal, state or local statute, ordinance or regulation applicable to
the franchisee in its business hereunder.
   (B)   The foregoing indemnity is conditioned upon the following:
      (1)   The village shall give a franchisee prompt notice of the making of
any claim or the commencement of any action, suit or other proceeding covered
by the provisions of this section;
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prevent the village from
cooperating with a franchisee and participating in the defense of any
litigation by its own counsel at its sole cost and expense;
      (3)   No recovery by the village of any sum by reason of the security
fund shall be any limitation upon the liability of a franchise to the village
under the terms of this section, except that any sum so received by the village
shall be deducted from any recovery which the village might have against a
franchisee under the terms of this section.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.130 FORECLOSURE.
   Upon foreclosure or other judicial sale of all or a substantial part of the
cable communications system or upon the termination of any lease covering all
or a substantial part of the cable communications system, a franchisee shall
notify the village of such fact. Such notification shall be treated as
notification that a change in control of the franchisee has taken place, and
the provisions of this chapter governing transfer shall apply.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.131 RECEIVERSHIP.
   A franchise granted under this chapter shall, at the option of the village,
cease and terminate 90 days after the appointment of a receiver, or trustee, to
take over and conduct the business of a franchisee, whether in receivership,
reorganization, bankruptcy or other action or proceedings, unless such
receivership or trusteeship shall have been vacated prior to the expiration of
such 90 days.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.132 REPORTS.
   (A)   On not less than 30-days' advance notice, the franchisee shall submit
reports on such matters as the village or Cablecasting Board may request from
time to time. All reports and records of the franchise required under this
chapter or the franchise agreement shall be furnished at the sole expense of
the franchisee. Any materially false or misleading statement or report made by
a franchisee under this chapter or the franchise agreement shall be deemed a
violation of this chapter and a material breach of the franchise agreement.
   (B)   A franchisee shall fully cooperate in making available at reasonable
times, and representatives of the Cablecasting Board and the Village President
or designated representatives shall have the right to inspect the books,
records, maps, plans and other like materials of a franchisee applicable to the
cablecasting system at any time during normal business hours within the
village. Where volume and convenience necessitate, a franchisee may require
inspection to take place on its premises within the village.
   (C)   The village and the Cablecasting Board, whenever consistent with its
public records ordinance and the state's Freedom of Information Act (M.C.L. §§
15.231 et seq., M.S.A. §§ 4.1801(1) et seq.), shall attempt to protect, within
reasonable limits, the privacy of a franchisee's financial records, unless such
records are otherwise available to the public.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.133 OTHER PETITIONS AND APPLICATIONS.
   Upon request by the village or the Cablecasting Board, copies of all
petitions, applications, communications and reports submitted by a franchisee
to the Federal Communications Council, Securities and Exchange Council or any
other federal or state regulatory Council or agency having jurisdiction in
respect to any matters affecting cable communications operations authorized
pursuant to the franchise shall be provided no later than the filing date for
such petitions, applications, communications and reports.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.134 OTHER BUSINESS ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   In the conduct of a business franchised under this subchapter, neither
a franchisee nor its officers, employees or agents shall directly or
indirectly:
      (1)   Sell, lease, repair, install or maintain; or
      (2)   Recommend for sale, lease, repair or maintenance television sets or
receivers.
   (B)   Nothing under this section shall be construed to prohibit a
franchisee, at a customer's request and without payment, from examining and
adjusting the customer's receiver set to determine whether reception
difficulties originate in the set or in the franchisee's system.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.135 NONDISCRIMINATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A franchisee shall not deny service, deny access or otherwise
discriminate against subscribers, channel users or general citizens on the
basis of race, color, religion, age, handicap, national origin or sex. A
franchisee shall comply at all times with all applicable federal, state and
local laws and regulations and all executive and administrative orders relating
to nondiscrimination.
   (B)   A franchisee shall strictly adhere to the equal employment opportunity
requirements of the FCC, federal, state and local regulations, as amended from
time to time.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.136 COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS.
   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter to the contrary, a
franchisee shall at all times comply with all laws and regulations of the
federal, state, county, city and village governments or any administrative
agencies thereof. If any such federal, state or county law or regulation shall
require a franchisee to perform any service or shall permit a franchisee to
perform any service or shall prohibit a franchisee from performing any service
in conflict with the terms of the franchise or of any law or regulation of the
village, then as soon as possible following its knowledge thereof, a franchisee
shall notify the Village Council of the point of conflict believed to exist
between such regulation or law and the laws or regulations of the village or
the terms of the agreement. The Village Council shall review the possible
conflict and determine what action, if any, it shall take regarding the point
of possible conflict.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.137 THEFT OF SERVICES AND TAMPERING.
   (A)   No person shall intentionally or knowingly:
      (1)   Damage or cause to be damaged any wire, cable, conduit, equipment,
apparatus or appurtenance of a franchisee or commit any act with intent to
cause such damage;
      (2)   Tap, tamper with or otherwise connect any wires or device to a
wire, cable, conduit, equipment, apparatus or appurtenances of a franchisee
with the intent to obtain or send a signal or impulse from the cable system
without authorization from or compensation to the franchisee or to obtain or
send cable television or other communication service with intent to obtain or
send cable television or other communication service with intent to defraud a
franchisee of any lawful compensation to which it is otherwise entitled.
   (B)   Each days violation of this section shall be considered a separate
offense.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.138 APPROVAL BY VILLAGE ENGINEER.
   Where provisions of this chapter require approval of the Village Engineer,
the Engineer shall grant approval only upon the Engineer's determination that
the proposed construction, installation or other activity for which approval is
required will not endanger or adversely affect the public health, safety or
welfare.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.139 PUBLIC NOTICE. 
   Unless otherwise specifically set forth in this chapter, minimum public
notice of any public hearing relating to a franchise shall be by publication,
at least once per week, in a local newspaper of general circulation beginning
15 days prior to the meeting.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.140 CHARGES TO SECURITY FUND.
   The village shall be entitled to be paid liquidated damages and may draw
upon the security fund, performance bond or letter of credit for the same as
follows:
   (A)   For failure to complete initial system construction and for all other
construction or activation obligations of a franchisee, including, without
limitation, upgrades of the system or provide services, equipment or personnel
in accordance with §§ 113.052, 113.072, 113.076 or 113.079, unless the Village
Council specifically approves the delay by motion or resolution, due to the
occurrence of conditions beyond the franchisee's control $2,500 per day for
each day or part thereof the deficiency continues;
   (B)   For failure to provide dates, documents, reports, information as
required by §§ 113.106, 113.125 and 113.132, $50 per day each violation occurs
or continues;
   (C)   For failure to test, analyze and report on the performance of the
system following a request pursuant to § 113.087, $50 per day for each day, or
part thereof, that such noncompliance continues;
   (D)   For failure to restore the cash deposit as required in § 113.126
within the specified ten days, $50 per day for each day, or part thereof, that
such violation continues;
   (E)   For failure to comply, after 30 days notice by the Village Engineer
with the standards set forth in § 113.087, $100 per day for each day, or part
thereof, that such violation continues, unless the penalty is waived by the
Village Council upon a showing by a franchisee that it has made a reasonable
effort to correct the deficiency but has been unable to do so, due to the
occurrence of conditions beyond its control;
   (F)   Except as otherwise provided in § 113.180, for any other violation or
default under the franchise agreement or this chapter, $100 per day for each
day that such violation or default continues.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.141 PENALTIES AND CHARGES TO TENANTS FOR SERVICE PROHIBITED.
   Neither the owner of any multiple-unit residential dwelling nor his or her
agent or representative shall penalize, charge or surcharge a tenant or
resident or forfeit or threaten to forfeit any right of such tenant or resident
or discriminate in any way against such tenant or resident who requests or
receives cable communications service from a franchisee operating under a valid
and existing cable communications franchise issued by the village.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.142 SOLICITATION OF SUBSCRIBERS.
   (A)   Neither a franchisee nor its agents or employees shall solicit
subscribers to the cable communications system by any threatening or harassing
means.
   (B)   Harassment shall include the following actions when undertaken with
the purpose of soliciting a cable communications subscription:
      (1)   Entry into a dwelling unit without an oral invitation to do so;
      (2)   A telephone call to a dwelling unit between the hours of 10:00 p.m.
and 7:00 a.m.;
      (3)   A telephone call to a dwelling unit, as defined in the village
zoning code, within three months of a prior rejection of a cable communications
subscription by any person residing at that dwelling unit, unless some person
residing therein has expressly indicated an interest in subscribing to the
cable communications system; and
      (4)   Visiting a dwelling unit, as defined in the village zoning code,
within three months of a prior rejection of a cable communications subscription
by any person residing at that dwelling unit, unless some person residing
therein has expressly indicated an interest in subscribing to the cable
communications system.
(Ord. passed - -)
CABLECASTING BOARD
§ 113.155 CREATION AND MEMBERSHIP OF BOARD.
   (A)   The City Commission of Birmingham and the Village Councils of Beverly
Hills, Bingham Farms and Franklin have established a Cablecasting Board. The
Board shall continue to consist of 13 members, seven who are residents of
Birmingham who shall be appointed by the city, four who shall be residents of
Beverly Hills who shall be appointed by that village, one who shall be a
resident of Bingham Farms who shall be appointed by that village and one who
shall be a resident or appointed official of the Village of Franklin who shall
be appointed by that village. Each member shall also appoint one alternate
representative. Members of the Board shall serve without compensation and for
such terms as their respective appointing authorities shall determine. The city
and the villages shall also have sole power to remove and/or replace their
respective appointees.
   (B)   Each of the Board’s member communities is encouraged to appoint an
elected or appointed official of that community to act as a liaison to the
Board, to attend Board meetings and to participate in Board discussions.
   (C)   The Birmingham School District and the Baldwin Library are each also
encouraged to appoint a representative to act as a liaison to the Board and to
participate in Board discussions regarding matters relevant to their respective
interests and constituencies.
   (D)   Seven members of the Board shall constitute a quorum and the
affirmative vote of a majority of the full Board shall be required for Board
action.
(Ord. passed - -) (Ord. 170, passed 6-25-01)
§ 113.156 MEETINGS.
   Meetings of the Cablecasting Board shall be held at the call of the
Chairperson and at such other times as the Board may determine, but not less
frequently than once a month. The Board shall adopt rules of procedures and
shall keep minutes of its meetings, which shall be a public record. A
representative of the franchisee may attend all open sessions of the Board and
shall be given a place on the agenda for all regular Board meetings and special
meetings when deemed appropriate by the Board in order to enable the franchisee
to make such reports as it may desire and to respond to questions from Board
members and the public.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.157 DUTIES AND POWERS.
   The Cablecasting Board shall perform the following roles and functions:
   (A)   Advise the Birmingham City Commission, Beverly Hills Village Council,
Bingham Farms Village Council and Franklin Village Council on matters related
to cable communications;
   (B)   Monitor the franchisee's compliance with the franchise agreement and
the cable communications ordinance;
   (C)   Conduct performance reviews as outlined in this chapter;
   (D)   Act as liaison between the franchisee and the public, hear complaints
from the public and seek their resolution from the franchisee;
   (E)   Advise the Birmingham City Commission, Beverly Hills Village Council,
Bingham Farms Village Council and Franklin Village Council on adjustments of
rates and services according to the procedure outlined in this chapter and to
regulate rates as authorized by the village and villages and permitted by law;
   (F)   Advise the Birmingham City Commission, Beverly Hills Village Council,
Bingham Farms Village Council and the Franklin Village Council on transfer,
renewal, extension or termination of a franchise and change of control of a
franchisee;
   (G)   Appropriate those moneys deposited in an account in the name of the
Cablecasting Board by the City of Birmingham, Village of Beverly Hills, Village
of Franklin and the Village of Bingham Farms for:
      (1)   The costs of any consulting and administrative expenses related to
the franchise selection process;
      (2)   The costs of any consulting and administrative expense related to
performance reviews;
      (3)   Enhancement of the cable access channels; and
      (4)   The costs of any consulting or administrative services under
contracts entered into by the Board and other expenses related to the
continuing duties and operation of the Cablecasting Board and submit an annual
budget to the Birmingham City Commission, Beverly Hills Village Council,
Franklin Village Council and Bingham Farms Village Council;
   (H)   Oversee the operation of the educational, governmental and public
access channels by:
      (1)   Establishing reasonable user fees;
      (2)   Developing policy guidelines for programming, scheduling and
utilization of equipment and facilities;
      (3)   Directing that programming related primarily to the promotion of a
business, trade or profession be discontinued or not delivered;
      (4)   Hearing and deciding conflicts between access channel users
regarding utilization of equipment, cablecasting time or facilities;
   (I)   Apprise the Birmingham City Commission, Beverly Hills Village Council,
Franklin Village Council and Bingham Farms Village Council of new developments
in cable communications technology;
   (J)   Hear and make recommendations to the Birmingham City Commission,
Beverly Hills Village Council, Franklin Village Council and Bingham Farms
Village Council on any request of a franchisee for modification of its
franchise obligations;
   (K)   Enter into contracts within the Board's budget and such other
contracts as may be authorized by the city and the villages;
   (L)    Administer contracts entered into by the Board and terminate such
contracts;
   (M)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, hear and decide all
matters and disputes relating to or arising under the customer service
standards and consumer protection provisions of this chapter, including the
assessment of liquidated damages for any violation of such standards or
provisions;
   (N)   Perform such other functions and duties as may lawfully be delegated
to it by the Birmingham City Commission, Beverly Hills Village Council,
Franklin Village Council and Bingham Farms Village Council and exercise such
additional powers and functions as may be necessary or proper to carry out the
duties expressly mandated in subsections (A) through (M) of this section or as
may be delegated under this subsection (N).
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.158 APPEALS.
   Any person jointly or severally aggrieved by a decision of the Cablecasting
Board shall have the right to appeal to the County Circuit Court on any matter
on which the Cablecasting Board has the power to render a final decision and
exercises such power.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.159 AUTHORITY OF MUNICIPALITIES.
   The Birmingham City Commission, Beverly Hills Village Council, Franklin
Village Council and Bingham Farms Village Council shall retain full authority
over all decisions pertaining to the issuance, extension or renewal of a
franchise, franchise transfer or change of control of a franchisee, franchise
termination or franchise purchase, appointments to the Cablecasting Board,
public access guidelines and bond or letter of credit reduction.
(Ord. passed - -)
CONSUMER PROTECTION
§ 113.170 CUSTOMER SERVICE.
   (A)   A franchisee shall maintain an office which provides the necessary
facilities, equipment and personnel to comply with the following customer
service standards under normal conditions of operation:
      (1)   Sufficient customer service representatives and toll-free telephone
line capacity during normal business hours to assure that a minimum of 90% of
all calls will be answered within 30 seconds and 90% of all calls for service
will not be required to wait more than 30 seconds after such call has been
answered before being connected to a service representative. All incoming
customer service lines shall not be simultaneously busy more than 3% of the
total time the cable office is open on any business day;
      (2)   Emergency toll-free telephone line capacity on a 24-hour basis,
including weekends and holidays;
      (3)   A franchisee shall maintain a presence within the franchise area
with adequate hours to meet public demand. The Cablecasting Board may require a
franchisee to alter or extend these hours if there is significant evidence
through subscriber complaints that the posted hours are not adequate. For
purposes of this provision only, “franchise area” may include neighboring
municipalities acting jointly under an intergovernmental agreement to which the
village is a party;
      (4)   An emergency system maintenance and repair staff capable of
responding to and repairing malfunctions on a 24-hour basis;
      (5)   An installation staff, normally capable of installing service to
any subscriber within seven days after receipt of a request, in all areas where
trunk and feeder cables have been activated.
   (B)   A franchisee shall furnish each subscriber at the time service is
installed or reinstalled and at least annually thereafter written instructions
and information regarding the franchisee's general policies and practices
applicable to subscribers including, without limitation, information regarding
products and services, prices and options, installation and service maintenance
policies, instructions for using the system, billing and complaint procedures
and such additional matters as may be required by law or as may reasonably be
required by the village or the Cablecasting Board. Such instructions and
information shall include the franchisee's business address, applicable phone
number and the name of the appropriate official or department of the franchisee
to whose attention the subscriber should direct a request for service, request
for billing adjustment or complaint. Such instructions or information shall
also include the name, business address and telephone number of the
Cablecasting Board's administrator and the name, business address and telephone
number of the Village Clerk or other designated village employee to whom the
subscriber can call or write for information regarding the terms, conditions
and provisions governing a franchisee's franchise if a franchisee fails to
respond within a reasonable period of time to the subscriber's complaint or
request for installation, service or billing adjustment.
      (1)   A franchisee shall furnish revised written instructions to each
subscriber whenever the instructions previously provided have been changed and
at least annually.
      (2)   The written instructions and information provided for in this
section shall be subject to the review and approval of the Cablecasting Board
which shall not withhold its approval unreasonably. The Board shall have the
power to compel changes in such materials if the board deems the same to be
incorrect or inadequate in any material respect, and a franchisee shall
promptly institute any changes so required by the Board.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.171 CABLE SERVICE.
   (A)   A franchisee shall interrupt programming service only with good cause
and for the shortest time possible and, except in emergency situations, only
after periodic cablecasting notice of service interruption for two days prior
to and on the same channel and at the same time as the anticipated
interruption. Programming services may be interrupted between 1:00 a.m. and 5:
00 a.m. for routine testing, maintenance and repair, without notification, any
night except Friday, Saturday or Sunday or the night preceding a holiday.
   (B)   A franchisee shall maintain a written log or an equivalent stored in
computer memory and capable of access and reproduction in printed form of all
subscriber complaints. Such log shall list the date and time of such
complaints, identifying the subscribers and describing the nature of the
complaints and when and what actions were taken by the franchisee in response
thereto. Such log shall be made available at a location convenient to the
village, reflecting the operations to date for a period of at least three years
and shall be available for public inspection during regular business hours. The
franchisee shall submit a copy of such log quarterly to the Cablecasting Board
for its review. For purposes of this section, COMPLAINT means any expression of
dissatisfaction or report of a failure or defect by a subscriber or other user
of the cable system to the franchisee relating to any product, service, price,
facility of the franchisee or action or omission of the franchisee relating to
the franchisee's status as a cable franchisee of the village.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, SUBSCRIBER PROBLEM means any malfunction
affecting a single subscriber; OUTAGE means a complete loss of picture and
sound affecting more than one subscriber; SYSTEM PROBLEM means any problem
other than an outage which affects more than one subscriber. With respect to
matters within a franchisee's control, a franchisee shall maintain a repair
force of technicians so as to resolve any subscriber request for service or to
repair any malfunction within the following time frames:
      (1)   For an outage. Within two hours, including weekends and holidays,
after receiving knowledge of such malfunction;
      (2)   For a subscriber problem. Next business day service and repair,
seven days a week, for all complaints and requests for repairs or adjustments.
In no event shall the response and repair time for calls received subsequent to
2:00 p.m. exceed 24 hours, including weekends and holidays, from the time of
receiving a subscriber’s request for service;
      (3)   For a system problem. Within 24 hours, including weekends and
holidays, of receiving a request for service identifying a problem concerning
picture or sound quality affecting any two or more subscribers.
   (D)   Upon receipt of a request for service, a franchisee shall establish a
four hour appointment window with the subscriber or adult representative of the
subscriber. A franchisee shall respond to the request for service within such
established appointment window.
      (1)   If access to the subscriber's home is not made available to a
franchisee's technician when the technician arrives during the established
appointment window, the technician shall leave written notification stating the
time of arrival and requesting that the franchisee be contacted again to
establish a new appointment window. In such case, the required response time
for the request for service shall remain the next business day from the time
the franchisee is contacted to establish the new appointment window.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a franchisee's technician
telephones the subscriber's home during the appointment window and is advised
that the technician will not be given access to the subscriber's home during
the appointment window, then the technician shall not be obliged to travel to
the subscriber's home or to leave the written notification referred to above,
and the burden shall again be upon the subscriber, or adult representative of
the subscriber, to contact the franchisee to arrange for a new appointment
window, in which case the required response time for the request for service
shall again be the next business day from the time the franchisee is contacted
to establish the new appointment window.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D) of this section, a
franchisee shall be deemed to have responded to a request for service under the
provisions of this section only when a technician arrives at the service
location, begins work on the problem and proceeds diligently to complete such
work.
   (F)   No charge shall be made to the subscriber for any service call unless
the problem giving rise to the service request can be demonstrated by a
franchisee to have been:
      (1)   Caused by subscriber negligence;
      (2)   Caused by malicious destruction of cable equipment; or
      (3)   A problem previously established as having been noncable in origin.
   (G)   All service personnel of a franchisee or its contractors or
subcontractors who have as part of their normal duties contact with the general
public shall wear on their clothing a clearly visible identification card
bearing their name and photograph. A franchisee shall account for all
identification cards at all times. Every service vehicle of a franchisee shall
be clearly identifiable by the public.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.172 FRANCHISEE’S BILLINGS.
   (A)   A franchisee's bills to its subscribers shall be clear, concise and
understandable and shall be itemized as to each charge reflected thereon. The
billing content in use by a franchisee as of the date of adoption of the
ordinance from which this subchapter is derived shall be subject to the
approval of the Cablecasting Board. Any modification of the content of a
franchisee's bills to subscribers shall also be subject to the Board's
approval.
   (B)   The Board shall not withhold its approval of the content of a
franchisee's bills unreasonably. If the Board disapproves of any of a
franchisee's bills to subscribers, it shall so notify the franchisee and shall
specify the basis for such disapproval. A franchisee shall then modify the
bills so as to remedy the defects specified by the Board. The modification
shall be implemented by a franchisee effective with the first billing after the
expiration of 45 days after receipt by the franchisee of the Board's notice of
disapproval, unless the Board extends such time.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.173 DISCONNECT AND DOWNGRADE CHARGES.
   (A)   A franchisee shall make no charge to any subscriber on account of
complete discontinuance of service. Except as may otherwise be provided by a
law which preempts this section, a franchisee shall make no charge to any
subscriber on account of a net downgrade of service whereby the subscriber
requests a lower tier of basic service and/or a reduction in premium service.
   (B)   A franchisee may only disconnect a subscriber if at least 45 days have
elapsed after the due date for payment of the subscriber's bill and a
franchisee has provided at least ten-days' written notice to the subscriber
prior to disconnection, specifying the effective date after which cable
services are subject to disconnection; provided, however, notwithstanding the
foregoing, a franchisee may disconnect a subscriber at any time if the
franchisee in good faith and on reasonable grounds determines that the
subscriber has tampered with or abused the franchisee's equipment or is or may
be engaged in the theft of cable services.
   (C)   A franchisee shall promptly disconnect any subscriber who so requests
disconnection. No period of notice prior to requested termination of service
may be required of subscribers by a franchisee. No charge may be imposed upon
the subscriber for any cable service delivered after the effective date of the
disconnect request. If the subscriber fails to specify an effective date for
disconnection, the effective date shall be deemed to be the day following the
date the disconnect request is received by a franchisee.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.174 LATE PAYMENT CHARGES.
   Late payment charges imposed by a franchisee upon subscribers shall be fair
and shall be reasonably related to a franchisee's cost of administrating
delinquent accounts. No late payment charge shall be imposed upon a subscriber,
and a subscriber shall not be deemed to be in arrears on a bill, until at least
45 days have elapsed after the due date specified on the bill; and, for
purposes of this section and the prior section, the due date specified on the
bill shall not be earlier than the first day of the monthly period to which the
bill is attributable.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.175 NOTICE OF PROGRAMMING OR CHANNEL CHANGE.
   Except as may otherwise be provided by federal law, a franchisee shall
provide at least 45-days' written notice to subscribers prior to discontinuing
any channel or programming service or to realigning any channel and shall
provide written notice of the same to the Cablecasting Board no later than the
franchisee's notice to subscribers. This provision shall not preclude the right
of the village to contest or prohibit any such action by a franchisee if and to
the extent such rights exists. The foregoing notice requirement shall not apply
in cases in which a programming service is discontinued because a nonaffiliated
provider thereof discontinues furnishing the same to a franchisee on less than
45-days' notice to a franchisee. In any such case a franchisee shall
nevertheless furnish notice to its subscribers and the Cablecasting Board
promptly upon a franchisee receiving notice of the discontinuance of the
programming service from such unaffiliated provider.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.176 NOTICE OF PRICE INCREASE OR REDUCTION OF SERVICE.
   Except as may otherwise be provided by federal law, a franchisee shall
provide at least 45-days' written notice to subscribers prior to implementing
any increase in subscriber rates or reduction in subscriber services and shall
provide written notice of the same to the Cablecasting Board no later than a
franchisee's notice to the subscribers. The provisions of this section shall
not preclude the right of the village to contest or prohibit any such action by
a franchisee if and to the extent such right exists.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.177 FRANCHISEE’S COMMUNICATIONS.
   Prior to or simultaneously with any communication made by a franchisee to
the general public or to a franchisee's subscribers announcing or explaining
any increase in subscriber rates or reduction in programming services, a
franchisee shall furnish a copy of such communication to the Cablecasting
Board. The copy of the communication required to be furnished to the Board
under this section shall be deemed to be a report under § 113.132 and hence
subject to the provisions of § 113.132.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.178 DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION ON FRANCHISEE’S COSTS.
   If a franchisee, in any communication to the general public, to the village,
to subscribers or to the Cablecasting Board, justifies a price increase or
reduction in service on the basis of increased costs to which the franchisee
has been subjected, a franchisee, on written request of the Board, shall
promptly furnish the Board with the underlying information on which such claim
of increased costs is based in such form as the Board may request. The
information furnished to the Board pursuant to this section shall be deemed to
be a report under § 113.132 and hence subject to the provisions of § 113.132.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.179 SUBSCRIBER REBATES.
   (A)   Upon a violation of the provisions of this subchapter by a franchisee
which results in a subscriber not receiving cable programming service or
receiving only significantly impaired service, the Board may order and direct a
franchisee to issue a rebate to such subscriber in any amount determined by the
Board to provide monetary relief to the subscriber substantially equal to the
subscriber's unliquidated detriment or loss resulting from such violation.
   (B)   Except for planned outages where subscribers are provided reasonable
notification in advance, upon a subscriber's request a franchisee shall provide
not less than a one-day credit for each day in which there is a period of four
hours or more during which the subscriber experienced an outage or significant
impairment of cable service not attributable to any action or omission of the
subscriber or to any defect in the subscriber's equipment. The credit specified
in this section shall be equal to 1/30 of the subscriber's total monthly bill
for all services and equipment multiplied by the applicable number of days, but
excluding any pay-per-view charges; provided, however, if such monthly bill
includes any charge for a pay-per-view program subject to such outage or
significant impairment, then the credit shall be increased by the amount of
such charge.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall be deemed to preclude a subscriber from
requesting and receiving from a franchisee a rebate greater than that provided
in divisions (A) and (B) of this section.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.180 LIQUIDATED DAMAGES.
   (A)   The Cablecasting Board may assess liquidated damages of up to $100 per
day against a franchisee for each day a franchisee is in violation of this
subchapter. The assessment may be levied against the security fund specified in
§ 113.126.
   (B)   Assessment of liquidated damages shall not constitute a waiver by the
village of any other right or remedy it may have under the franchise agreement
or applicable law, including the right to recover from a franchisee any costs
and expenses, including reasonable attorney's fees, which are incurred by the
village on account of a franchisee's violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.181 REMEDIES AVAILABLE.
   If the Cablecasting Board determines that a franchisee has violated this
subchapter, the Board may order appropriate rebates to subscribers as provided
in § 113.179 and/or assess liquidated damages against a franchisee as provided
in § 113.180. In addition, the village may pursue any additional or other legal
or equitable remedies available to it under the franchise agreement or any
applicable law.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.182 APPEAL PROCESS.
   A franchisee may appeal any action of the Cablecasting Board to the village
by submitting a written appeal within 21 days from the date of the Board's
action to which a franchisee objects. Upon such appeal, the Village Council
shall conduct a de novo review of the action of the Board being appealed and
shall set a hearing date within 45 days of the date of receipt of the appeal. A
franchisee may present any information, data or other evidence to the Council
either prior to or at the time of the hearing. Hearings shall be open to the
public and members of the public and members of the Board may also present any
evidence or information pertinent to the matter appealed. The Council shall
then determine whether to uphold, reverse or modify the action of the Board.
The appeal shall stay any further action on the matter appealed until the
appeal has been decided by the Council.
(Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER 114: RECREATIONAL MARIHUANA BUSINESSES
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   Marihuana establishments prohibited
Cross-reference:
   Recreational marihuana offenses, see §§
131.20 et seq.
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The words used herein shall have the definitions as provided for in
Initiated Law 1 of 2018, M.C.L. §§ 333.27951 et seq., as may be amended.
(Ord. 249, passed 11-26-18)
§ 114.02 MARIHUANA ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Prohibition. Pursuant to the Michigan Regulation and Taxation of
Marihuana Act, § 6.1, as set out in Proposal 18-1 at the State of Michigan
November 6, 2018 election, the village elects to prohibit marihuana
establishments within its boundaries.
   (B)   Penalty.
      (1)   Any person who disobeys, neglects, or refuses to comply with any
provision of this section, or who causes, allows, or consents to any of the
same shall be deemed responsible for the violation of this section. A violation
of this section is deemed to be a nuisance per se.
      (2)   A violation of this section is a municipal civil infraction, for
which the fines shall not be less than $100, nor more than $500, in the
discretion of the court. The foregoing sanctions shall be in addition to the
rights of the village to proceed at law or equity with other appropriate and
proper remedies. Additionally, the violator shall pay costs which may include
all expenses, direct and indirect, which the village incurs in connection with
the municipal civil infraction.
      (3)   Each day during which any violation continues shall be deemed a
separate offense.
      (4)   In addition, the village may seek injunctive relief against any
persons alleged to be in violation of this section, and such other relief as
may be provided by law.
      (5)   This chapter shall be administered and enforced by the Ordinance
Enforcement Officer of the village or by such other person(s) as designated by
the Village Council from time to time.
(Ord. 249, passed 11-26-18)
CHAPTER 115: BUSINESS LICENSES
Section
   
115.01   Definitions
   
115.02   Intent and purpose
   
115.03   Reservation of village’s rights
   
115.04   Unlicensed business
   
115.05   General business license required; application, procedures
   
115.06   Resisting, obstructing or opposing clerk
   
115.07   Leased business premises
   
115.08   Grounds for suspension and revocation
   
115.09   Limitations on obtaining another license
   
115.10   Scope of fees
   
115.11   Basic fee
   
115.12   Late fees
   
115.13   Costs of hearings
   
115.14   Additional costs
   
115.15   Civil actions for recovery
 
   
115.99   Penalty for violation
§ 115.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, the following words and phrases have the meanings
indicated.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The Village Clerk or other person designated to administer
this chapter by resolution of the Village Council.
   CONDUCTING BUSINESS.
      (1)   Pursuing a business, which is any form of activity that has for its
end the supplying of commodities.
      (2)   Acting as a merchant, which means any person who engages in or
conducts a business selling goods, wares and merchandise and who, for the
purpose of carrying on such business, uses, lists or occupies, either in whole
or in part, a room, building, structure or vacant property for the exhibition
of such wares and merchandise.
      (3)   Performing a trade, which means all other kinds of vocations,
occupations, enterprises, establishments and kinds of activity not included in
the definition of the term “merchant” or “business”.
      (4)   Is a transient merchant, which means any person who engages in or
conducts a business buying or selling goods, wares and merchandise and does not
have a mercantile establishment in the village. The term “transient merchant”
is synonymous with the term “peddler”. Auctioneers shall not be deemed to be
transient merchants.
   LICENSE. A general business license as provided for in this chapter, and a
licensee is the holder of a license.
   ORDINARY CARE. The degree of care that a reasonably careful person would use
under the same or similar circumstances. The failure to do something that a
reasonable careful person would do or the doing of something that a reasonably
careful person would not do under the circumstances constitutes a failure to
use ordinary care. Failure to exercise ordinary care shall be governed by the
factors and considerations applied to negligent acts and omissions under the
common laws of this state.
   PERSON. Includes person, persons, firm, corporation, company for profit and
not for profit, partnership, limited liability companies, sole proprietorship
and any business legal entities.
   UNREASONABLE DEMANDS. In relation to village services, that a person engaged
in business calls upon the village to provide services to or for the benefit of
the business activity and its invitees on a regular basis with a frequency or
to a degree that is so clearly in excess of that provided other similar
business establishments within the village as to lead a reasonable, prudent,
fair-minded person to the conclusion that the level of service is unreasonably
disproportionate or is unfair to the other recipients of village services.
   VILLAGE SERVICES. Shall mean police, fire, sewage disposal, water, streets,
ordinance enforcement, traffic control, and all other services provided for
persons who occupy real property in the village under the jurisdiction or
authority of the various village departments, village officials, village
agents, village boards and commissions, or the Village Council.
(Ord. 251, passe 8-26-19)
§ 115.02 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   The purposes of this chapter are to:
   (A)   Enable the village to render service more efficiently and effectively
to the business sector of the community;
   (B)   Conserve village funds by regulating the users of village services who
create unreasonable demands for services by failing to exercise due care in the
conduct and management of their businesses; and;
   (C)   Effectuate such purposes through the exercise of the police powers
granted by state law and by the Charter.
(Ord. 251, passed 8-26-19)
§ 115.03 RESERVATION OF VILLAGE'S RIGHTS.
   The village expressly reserves the right to modify the fees provided in this
chapter and to otherwise amend this chapter as the public interest may require,
subject however to the limitation and restrictions imposed by law.
(Ord. 251, passed 8-26-19)
§ 115.04 UNLICENSED BUSINESS.
   No person, as defined in this chapter required to obtain and maintain a
license under §
115.05, shall conduct business in this village unless the entity or person is
licensed nor shall, by actions taken within the village, aid or abet another in
the conduct of such unlicensed business.
(Ord. 251, passed 8-26-19)
§ 115.05 GENERAL BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION, PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Required. Every person, as defined in this chapter, conducting
business of a type regulated by the village licensing ordinance shall apply for
and obtain and thereafter maintain in full force and effect a general business
license (hereinafter "license") as provided for by this chapter, in addition to
complying with all other license, permit and certificate requirements imposed
by other village ordinances and all federal and state laws. All such persons
shall apply for a license forthwith if they are already conducting business
within this village and do not hold a license. All licensees shall apply for a
renewal license on or before its current license's expiration date, and all
others shall apply for a license at or before the time when they first take
possession of real estate or commence to conduct business within this village.
   (B)   Application. An application for a license shall be filed with the
administrator, on forms promulgated and furnished by the administrator,
supplying the following information with reference to the applicant and
certified as being correct to the best of the information, knowledge and belief
of the applicant or, if applicable, the agent making the application:
      (1)   The true name of the person and any assumed or trade name by which
such business is known or to be known.
      (2)   The address of the business premises;
      (3)   A description of the business to be conducted, specifying the
character of the goods and services to be purchased, sold, and offered for
sale;
      (4)   The numbers of persons employed or otherwise engaged in the
business on the premises;
      (5)   The hours during each day of the week the business will open for
business to the public;
      (6)   The full names, business addresses, business phone numbers and
email addresses, and residence addresses and phone numbers of the owners,
proprietors, officers, and managers of the applicant's business, including the
name and address of each officer if the applicant is a corporation, and the
names and addresses of all partners if a partnership; and
      (7)   A copy of all approvals from any federal, state or local entity
that is required for the licensee to operate its business.
   (C)   Review of application. The administrator shall review such application
and obtain from the applicant, in writing, such supplemental details concerning
the applicant, the subject business, or its impact upon village services as may
be necessary and appropriate to determine whether the licensee will be
conducting business in conformity with applicable state and federal laws and
with this chapter and all other ordinances of this village, and whether the
village should consider modifying the manner of providing village services to
the premises.
   (D)   Issuance of license; authority given licensee; term. The village shall
issue a general business license to an applicant when the village determines
that such person's business, as and where conducted or proposed to be
conducted, will not be in violation of federal laws, state laws, or village
ordinances and when the license fee prescribed in this chapter has been paid.
Such license shall authorize the licensee to conduct business in this village
in conformity with this chapter, as amended from time to time, and as described
in the application, and not otherwise, for the balance of the license year
ending on February 28 (or 29) at 12:00 midnight after the date the license is
issued, unless sooner suspended or revoked. The license year shall begin on
March 1 or each year.
   (E)   Certificate. The administrator shall issue to each licensee a suitable
certificate of licensing showing its expiration date. Each licensee shall cause
the certificate to be posted and maintained in a conspicuous portion of the
premises which is open to visitors and village officials. The person in charge
of a licensed premises shall display such certificate to all village officials
upon request.
   (F)   Renewal. A licensee desiring to continue to conduct business in
conformity with the most recent application may renew the license for an
additional one-year period by paying the renewal fee prescribed in this
chapter. Tender of such fee shall be deemed a certification that the facts
stated in the most recent application have not materially or substantially
changed. If the facts stated in the most recent application on file with the
administrator have materially and substantially changed, a new application
shall be filed and processed as provided in this section.
   (G)   Transfer. A licensee desiring to transfer his license to a new
location or to materially or substantially change the nature and scope of this
business shall file a new application and obtain a new license in conformity
with this chapter.
   (H)   Duty to exercise ordinary care. It shall be the duty of each person
required to obtain and maintain a license under this chapter to exercise
ordinary care to:
      (1)   Comply with the requirements of this chapter, all other village
ordinances, and all federal and state laws;
      (2)   To manage and conduct business as to avoid creating unreasonable
demands for village services; and
      (3)   To manage and conduct the licensed business as to avoid violating
the state consumer protection laws to an extraordinary degree.
   (I)   Compliance by person acquiring existing business. A license is not
assignable, and a person who acquires an existing licensed business
establishment must also comply with this chapter.
   (J)   Certification. The application shall contain the statement "I certify
under the penalties of law that I have read the foregoing document and that the
facts stated therein are true to the best of my information, knowledge and
belief" in bold print over his/her signature.
(Ord. 251, passed 8-26-19)
§ 115.06 RESISTING, OBSTRUCTING OR OPPOSING CLERK.
   No person, either on his/her own behalf or on behalf of another, shall
knowingly and willfully resist, obstruct or oppose the administrator in the
lawful performance of his/her duties under this chapter by actions taken within
the village, nor shall any person knowingly and willfully aid, abet, or
encourage another to do so while in this village.
(Ord. 251, passed 8-26-19)
§ 115.07 LEASED BUSINESS PREMISES.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the owner of any building within the
village from which space is leased for nonresidential use, and the
responsibility of any agent utilized by such an owner for such leasing
activities, to file on an annual basis with the Administrator, on a form
prescribed by the Clerk, a list of all tenants in such building and the
principal business of each tenant. Forms shall be available at the office of
the Administrator by November 1 of each year, and shall be completed and
returned no later than December 15.
   (B)   Any such owner or agent who shall fail to file the appropriate
documents as required in division (A) shall be determined to have committed a
municipal civil infraction and be subject to a fine for each violation.
(Ord. 251, passed 8-26-19)
§ 115.08 GROUNDS FOR SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Administrator may, in the exercise of sound discretion, revoke or
suspend, for any period of time, a license issued under this chapter when he/
she determines, after due notice and hearing, that any of the following facts
exist with reference to a license or a licensee:
      (1)   The applicant made intentional false statement of material facts or
intentionally withheld material facts in the license application process having
a substantial bearing upon the Clerk's decision to issue the license.
      (2)   The license was mistakenly or improvidently granted to a person who
was not entitled to a license when issued.
      (3)   A licensee has had a license suspended by action of the
Administrator on at least one prior occasion within the past 24 months and has
again committed one or more acts or omissions for which a suspension would be
warranted.
      (4)   Nonpayment of any required fees imposed by this chapter.
   (B)   All violations of this chapter which are not punishable by fine or
imprisonment may nevertheless be the basis for suspension, revocation, or
denial of a license or other remedial action by the Clerk.
(Ord. 251, passed 8-26-19)
§ 115.09 LIMITATIONS ON OBTAINING ANOTHER LICENSE.
   No licensee may obtain another license in this village during the period of
a suspension or for 12 months after revocation of a license.
(Ord. 251, passed 8-26-19)
§ 115.10 SCOPE OF FEES.
   The fees set forth in this chapter are imposed upon persons subject to the
requirements of this chapter and those individuals electing to avail themselves
of the benefits of this chapter, which fees shall be paid to the village and
credited to the general fund. All license fees, including the basic fee and
late fees, shall be determined by the Village Council by resolution.
(Ord. 251, passed 8-26-19)
§ 115.11 BASIC FEE.
   For receiving, filing or reviewing an application for a license and deciding
to grant or deny the license and maintaining the records thereof, the licensee
shall pay a basic fee to be set by resolution of the Village Council which is
due upon the filing of the application.
(Ord. 251, passed 8-26-19)
§ 115.12 LATE FEES.
   The Administrator may give notice to a person believed to be under a duty to
obtain an initial or a renewal license. If a person fails to apply for and
obtain a license within the time prescribed in this chapter, in addition to
paying the basic fee, there shall also be paid as a late fee an additional sum,
if paid within 30 days thereafter, and an additional late fee, if paid more
than 30 days thereafter.
(Ord. 251, passed 8-26-19)
§ 115.13 COSTS OF HEARINGS.
   Each licensee whose acts or conduct results in a hearing being conducted by
the Administrator wherein it is determined that the licensee has violated his
duties under this article shall pay a fee equal to the village's monetary costs
of the hearing, as determined by the Clerk in the same or a subsequent
proceeding, payable within ten days after the entry of the Clerk's decision
with reference thereto.
(Ord. 251, passed 8-26-19)
§ 115.14 ADDITIONAL COSTS.
   The administrator may, by rules, regulations, or orders, provide for the
recording, transcription, and copying of testimony, exhibits, or other evidence
received in the record and any documents in the possession or control of the
Administrator pursuant to this chapter and to charge the cost of furnishing
such to anyone requesting such and to require an advance deposit of the
reasonably estimated cost to be incurred by such request.
(Ord. 251, passed 8-26-19)
§ 115.15 CIVIL ACTIONS FOR RECOVERY.
   If any of the fees imposed by this chapter are not paid by the person for
whom due or if a licensee shall repeatedly violate this chapter, in addition to
all other remedial actions permitted by law and this chapter, the Village
Council may authorize the Village Attorney to commence and prosecute a civil
action in any court of competent jurisdiction in the name of the village for
injunctive relief and for the recovery of fees due the village.
(Ord. 251, passed 8-26-19)
§ 115.99 PENALTY FOR VIOLATION.
   Any person in violation of this chapter shall be responsible for a municipal
civil infraction and responsible for the payment of a fine set by council and
any other relief ordered by a court that is appropriate. Each day constitutes a
separate violation.
(Ord. 251, passed 8-26-19)
CHAPTER 116: MASSAGE THERAPY ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
Generally
   
116.01   Definitions
   
116.02   Exemptions
   
116.03   Change of location
   
116.04   Unlawful activities
   
116.05   Employees
   
116.06   Wearing apparel
   
116.07   Patronage of massage business by minors
   
116.08   Name of business
   
116.09   Advertising
   
116.10   Hours of operation
   
116.11   Sale or transfer
License
   
116.20   License required
   
116.21   Requirements and duties
   
116.22   Application investigation fee
   
116.23   Application; contents
   
116.24   Investigation; inspection
   
116.25   Issuance; denial
   
116.26   Appeal from denial
   
116.27   Transfer
   
116.28   Required facilities and maintenance
   
116.29   License fee
   
116.30   Expiration
   
116.31   Renewal
   
116.32   Display
   
116.33   Revocation and suspension
GENERALLY
§ 116.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   As used in this chapter, the following words and phrases have the
meanings indicated.
   (B)   The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this chapter,
shall have the meanings ascribed to the them in this section, except where the
context clearly indicates a different meaning.
      ADMINISTRATOR. The Village Clerk or other person designated to administer
this chapter by resolution of the village.
      MASSAGE. The treating of external parts of the body for remedial or
hygienic purposes, consisting of rubbing, stroking, kneading, adjusting, or
tapping with the hand or any instrument, electric, magnetic or otherwise, with
or without supplementary aids.
      MASSAGE FACILITY. Any Turkish bath facility, steam bath, sauna bath,
magnetic healing institute or any room, place, establishment or institution
where treatment of any nature for the human body is given by means of massage,
and where a massage, alcohol rub, fomentation, bath, physiotherapy,
manipulation of the body or similar treatment is given.
      MASSAGE SCHOOL. A school which is recognized by the state board of
massage, which requires for admission students with a tenth grade education or
its equivalent, which employs one or more competent licensed massagists as
instructors, and which has minimum requirements of a continuous course of study
in physiology, anatomy, massage theory, hydrotherapy, hygiene, ethics and
practical massage. For the purposes of this chapter, a correspondence school
shall not be construed to be a recognized school.
      MASSAGIST. Any person who administers to another person, for any form of
consideration, a massage, alcohol rub, fomentation, bath, electric or magnetic
massage procedure, manipulation of the body or other similar procedure. For
purposes of this chapter, the meaning of MASSAGIST shall incorporate the
meaning ascribed to this term as set forth in M.C.L. § § 333.17951 et seq., as
amended.
      STUDENT. Any person who, under the guidance of an instructor in a massage
school, is being trained or instructed in the theory, method or practice of
massage.
(Ord. 255, passed 6-22-20)
§ 116.02 EXEMPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   Physicians, surgeons, chiropractors, osteopaths, psychiatrists,
psychologists, clinical social workers, and family counselors who are licensed
to practice their respective professions in the state or who are permitted to
practice temporarily under the auspices of an association or establishment duly
licensed in the state, and clergymen.
   (B)   Nurses who are registered under the laws of this state and who
administer a massage in the normal course of nursing duties.
   (C)   A trainer of any athletic team who administers a massage in the normal
course of training duties.
   (D)   Barbers and cosmetologists who are duly licensed under the laws of
this state and who administer a massage in the normal course of their duties.
   (E)   Participants in growth seminars or sensitivity sessions provided such
seminars or sessions are conducted by a member of one of the exempted
professions defined in division (A) above.
   (F)   Individuals who hold a license from the state or are otherwise
authorized by the state to administer a massage.
   (G)   Massagists who meet the criteria as set forth in M.C.L. §§ 333.17951,
et. seq., as amended.
   (H)   Any establishment in which the persons mentioned in divisions (A)
through (F) above practice their respective professions.
   (I)   Massage therapists licensed pursuant to M.C.L. §§ 333.17951 et seq.,
as amended.
(Ord. 255, passed 6-22-20)
§ 116.03 CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   A change of location of any premises licensed under this chapter shall be
approved by the Village Administrator provided the requirements set forth in
this chapter, as well as all other provisions of this code and state law, are
complied with and the change of location fee in the amount set forth in the
schedule of fees, charges, bonds and insurance is paid to the village.
(Ord. 255, passed 6-22-20)
§ 116.04 UNLAWFUL ACTIVITIES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to massage any other person, or give or
administer any bath or for monetary gain or profit have any contact with a
person’s breasts, genital area or buttocks in a manner intended to arouse,
appeal to or gratify a person’s lust, passions or sexual desires. Any violation
of this section shall be grounds for the revocation of any license granted
pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 255, passed 6-22-20)
§ 116.05 EMPLOYEES.
   It shall be the responsibility of the holder of the license for the massage
facility, or the employer of any persons purporting to act as massagist, to
ensure that each person employed as a massagist shall first have obtained a
valid license pursuant to the provisions of M.C.L. §§ 333.17951 et seq., as
amended. All other employees who work closely with massage activities shall
provide annually the medical certificate required under §
116.23.
(Ord. 255, passed 6-22-20)
§ 116.06 WEARING APPAREL.
   Uniforms or garments covering the torso shall be worn by massagists or
employees attending patrons. Such uniforms or garments shall be of washable
material and shall be kept in a clean condition.
(Ord. 255, passed 6-22-20)
§ 116.07 PATRONAGE OF MASSAGE BUSINESS BY MINORS.
   No person licensed as a massagist shall massage or treat any person under
the age of 18 upon the licensed premises, except upon written order by a
licensed physician, osteopath or registered physical therapist, such order
being dated and in possession of the massagist giving the massage or treatment.
If the person under the age of 18 is accompanied by a parent or legal guardian
during the massage or treatment, this section shall not apply.
(Ord. 255, passed 6-22-20)
§ 116.08 NAME OF BUSINESS.
   No person licensed to do business as provided in this chapter shall operate
under any name or conduct their business under any designation not specified in
their license.
(Ord. 255, passed 6-22-20)
§ 116.09 ADVERTISING.
   No massage facility, massage school or similar business or massagist granted
a license under the provisions of this chapter shall place, publish or
distribute, or cause to be placed, published or distributed, any advertisement,
picture or statement which is known or through the exercise of reasonable care
should be known to be false, deceptive or misleading in order to induce any
person to purchase or utilize any professional massage services.
(Ord. 255, passed 6-22-20)
§ 116.10 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No massage facility or massage school shall be open to the public for
business between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m.
(Ord. 255, passed 6-22-20)
§ 116.11 SALE OR TRANSFER.
   (A)   Upon the sale or transfer of any interest in a massage facility,
massage school or similar business, or the sale or transfer of any stock
ownership of more than 10% in such establishment, the license shall be null and
void. A new application shall be made by any person desiring to own or operate
the massage facility, massage school or similar business.
   (B)   Any sale or transfer of any interest in an existing massage
establishment, or the sale or transfer of any stock ownership of more than 10%
in such establishment, or any application for an extension or expansion of the
building or other place of business of the massage establishment shall require
inspection and shall require compliance with §
116.28. A fee to be set by the Village Council shall be payable for each
application involving extension or expansion of the building or other place of
business of the massage establishment.
(Ord. 255, passed 6-22-20)
LICENSE
§ 116.20 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall practice or engage in the business of a massagist within the
village without first having obtained a license pursuant to M.C.L. §§ 333.17951
et seq., as amended, which is incorporated into this chapter by reference. No
person shall operate the business of a massagist or conduct, operate and carry
on a massage facility, massage school, or similar business within the village
without first having applied for and obtained a massagist’s license issued
pursuant to this chapter, and complying with all regulations and requirements
as set forth in this chapter, nor shall any person employ as a massagist any
person who does not hold a current unrevoked license as required by M.C.L. §§
333.17951 et seq., as amended. No person shall practice massage for
compensation without obtaining and maintaining in effect a license as a
massagist as required by M.C.L. §§ 333.17951 et seq., as amended.
(Ord. 255, passed 6-22-20)
§ 116.21 REQUIREMENTS AND DUTIES.
   It shall be the responsibility of an owner, operator, manager or licensee
under this chapter in charge of or in control of a massage facility, massage
school or similar business to ensure that each person employed or engaged by
them in such business as a massagist shall have first obtained a valid
massagist license pursuant to M.C.L. §§ 333.17951 et seq., as amended. Any
owner, operator, manager or person in charge of or in control of a massage
facility, massage school or similar business, who allows any such person to
perform, operate or practice within a massage facility, massage school or
similar business shall be in violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 255, passed 6-22-20)
§ 116.22 APPLICATION INVESTIGATION FEE.
   Any person desiring to obtain a license to operate a massage facility,
massage school or similar business shall make application to the Administrator.
The application fees shall be payable to the Village Treasurer at the time the
application is filed; and shall be in addition to any other license, permit or
fee required by this code.
   (A)   An application to obtain a license to operate a massage facility,
massage school or similar business shall be accompanied by an investigation fee
in the amount set forth in the schedule of fees, charges, bonds and insurance,
no part of which shall be refundable.
   (B)   An application for a license to allow an individual to perform massage
services shall be accompanied by an investigation fee in the amount set forth
in the schedule of fees, charges, bonds and insurance, no part of which shall
be refundable.
(Ord. 255, passed 6-22-20)
§ 116.23 APPLICATION; CONTENTS.
   Any applicant for a license required by this chapter shall submit the
following information.
   (A)   The full name and present address of the applicant or applicants.
   (B)   The two previous addresses immediately prior to the present address of
the applicant and dates of residence.
   (C)   A description of service to be provided.
   (D)   The location and mailing address of the proposed establishment.
   (E)   If the applicant is a corporation, the names and residence addresses
of each of the officers and directors of such corporation, and of each
stockholder owning more than 10% of the corporation.
   (F)   If the applicant is a partnership, the names and residence addresses
of each of the partners, including limited partners.
   (G)   Written proof, such as a birth certificate or sworn affidavit, that
the applicant is at least 18 years of age.
   (H)   Individual applicant’s height, weight, sex, color of eyes and hair.
   (I)   One portrait photograph at least two inches by two inches and a
complete set of the applicant’s fingerprints, which shall be taken by the
Police Chief or his agent.
   (J)   Business, occupation or employment of the applicant for the three
years immediately preceding the date of application.
   (K)   A certificate from a medical or osteopathic doctor stating that the
applicant has, within 30 days immediately prior thereto, been examined and
found to be free of any contagious or communicable disease.
   (L)   A statement as to whether or not such person, in previously operating
in this or another city or state under license, has had such license revoked or
suspended and the reason therefor, and the business activity or occupation
subsequent to such action of suspension or revocation.
   (M)   All criminal convictions other than traffic violations and the reasons
therefor.
   (N)   The application signed and sworn to by the applicant.
   (O)   If an application for a license to conduct a massage facility, the
names and qualifications of all persons who are intended to give massages in
the proposed facility.
   (P)   A statement allowing the Police Chief or his or her designee to
conduct a criminal background check of the applicant, and the officers and
directors of the applicant.
   (Q)   Such other identification and information necessary to discover the
truth of the matters set forth in the application.
(Ord. 255, passed 6-22-20)
§ 116.24 INVESTIGATION; INSPECTION.
   (A)   The application for a license under this chapter shall be presented to
the Village Clerk. The application shall be referred to the Police Chief, who
shall have a reasonable time in which to investigate the application and the
background of the applicant. Based upon such investigation, the Police Chief or
his or her representative shall render a recommendation as to the approval or
denial of the license to the Administrator.
   (B)   The Police Chief shall recommend denial of an application for a
license under this chapter if the character, reputation, integrity or physical
or mental condition of the applicant or his or her employees is found to be
inimical to the health, safety, moral or general welfare of the public. In
making such determination, the Police Chief shall consider:
      (1)   Criminal history. All applicants’ convictions, the reason therefor,
and the demeanor of the applicant subsequent to his or her release.
      (2)   License and permit history. The license and permit history of the
applicant; whether such person has previously operated in this city or state or
in another city or state under a license or permit has had such license or
permit revoked or suspended; the reason therefor; and the demeanor of the
applicant subsequent to such action.
      (3)   Application contents. Any information set forth in the application.
   (C)   The Building Department, the Fire Department and County Health Officer
shall inspect the premises proposed to be devoted to the massage facility,
massage school or similar business and shall make within a reasonable time
separate recommendations to the Administrator concerning compliance with the
requirements of this code.
(Ord. 255, passed 6-22-20)
§ 116.25 ISSUANCE; DENIAL.
   The Administrator, or his or her designee, after receiving such
recommendations, shall grant a license to the applicant if all requirements for
a massage facility, massage school or similar business described are met,
unless it appears that the record of such applicant reveals a conviction of a
felony or crime of moral turpitude.
(Ord. 255, passed 6-22-20)
§ 116.26 APPEAL FROM DENIAL.
   Any person denied a license required by this chapter by the Administrator or
his or her designee may appeal to the Village Council in writing, stating
reasons why the license should be granted. The Village Council may grant or
deny the license after a public hearing, and such decision shall be final. The
Village Council may elect on its own motion to review any determination of the
Administrator granting or denying a license.
(Ord. 255, passed 6-22-20)
§ 116.27 TRANSFER.
   All licenses issued under this chapter shall not be transferable.
(Ord. 255, passed 6-22-20)
§ 116.28 REQUIRED FACILITIES AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   No license to conduct a massage facility, massage school or similar
business shall be issued until an inspection of the licensed premises by the
village reveals that the establishment complies with each of the following
requirements:
      (1)   A recognizable and readable sign is posted at the main entrance
identifying the establishment as a massage facility or massage school. All such
signs shall comply with the sign requirements of this code.
      (2)   All provisions of the village building, plumbing, fire and
electrical codes have been fulfilled.
      (3)   Hot and cold running water are provided.
      (4)   Adequate dressing, locker and toilet facilities are available,
including a minimum of one dressing room containing a separate locker with lock
for each patron to be served, as well as a minimum of one toilet and one wash
basin, are available. If male and female patrons are to be served
simultaneously at the establishment, separate dressing and separate toilet
facilities are provided for male and female patrons.
      (5)   All walls, ceilings, floors, pools, showers, bathtubs, steam rooms,
and all other physical facilities for the establishment are in good repair.
      (6)   A minimum of one separate wash basin is provided for the use of
employees and it is located as close as practicable to the area devoted to the
performance of massage services.
      (7)   Material safety data, as required by the state (M.C.L.A. §§
408.1001 et seq.), shall be kept and maintained by the massage facility,
massage school, or similar business. The data on the sheets shall be current
and made available to the Fire Department upon application for a license and/or
inspection.
      (8)   If organic materials, oils, lotions, or other products are used by
the massage facility, massage school or similar business, all linens must be
laundered off site at a facility duly licensed to launder such items. If the
materials, oils, lotions or other products are not organic, laundering of
linens can be performed on site.
   (B)   Every massage facility, massage school or similar business licensed
under this chapter shall, during the period of its license, comply with the
following:
      (1)   All facilities required by division (A) shall continue in
existence.
      (2)   All walls, ceilings, floors, pools, showers, bathtubs, steam rooms,
and other facilities shall be kept in good repair and maintained in a clean and
sanitary condition. Wet and dry heat rooms, steam or vapor rooms, steam or
vapor cabinets, shower compartments and toilet rooms shall be thoroughly
cleaned each day the business is in operation. If available, bathtubs and
showers shall be cleaned after each use.
      (3)   Clean and sanitary towels shall be provided for each patron. No
common use of towels or linens shall be permitted.
      (4)   Soap or detergent shall be provided at all wash basins and sanitary
towels placed in a permanently installed dispenser shall be provided at all
wash basins utilized by employees.
      (5)   Material safety data sheets, as required by the state, (M.C.L.A. §§
408.1001 et seq.) shall be kept and maintained by the massage facility, massage
school or similar business. The data on the sheets shall be current and made
available to the Fire Department upon application for a license and/or
inspection.
      (6)   If organic materials, oils, lotions, or other products are used by
the massage facility, massage school or similar business, all linens must be
laundered off site at a facility duly licensed to launder such items. If the
materials, oils, lotions or other products are not organic, laundering of
linens can be performed on site.
(Ord. 255, passed 6-22-20)
§ 116.29 LICENSE FEE.
   Any person granted a license to operate a massage facility, massage school
or similar business by the Administrator or Village Council shall pay to the
Village Treasurer a fee in an amount as shall be set by the Village Council
from time to time.
(Ord. 255, passed 6-22-20)
§ 116.30 EXPIRATION.
   Each license issued under the provisions of this chapter shall expire on
December 31 next following its date of issuance, unless previously suspended or
revoked.
(Ord. 255, passed 6-22-20)
§ 116.31 RENEWAL.
   Application to renew a license to operate a massage facility, massage school
or similar business shall be filed at least 15 days prior to the date of its
expiration. A license shall be renewed provided the applicant submits a sworn
affidavit that the matters contained in the original application have not
changed.
(Ord. 255, passed 6-22-20)
§ 116.32 DISPLAY.
   Every person to whom a license shall have been granted under this chapter
display the license in a conspicuous place so that it may be readily seen by
persons entering the premises where the massage, bath or treatment is given.
(Ord. 255, passed 6-22-20)
§ 116.33 REVOCATION AND SUSPENSION.
   (A)   No license issued under this chapter shall be revoked until after a
hearing shall have been held before the Village Council to determine just cause
for such revocation. The Administrator or his or her designee may order any
permits suspended pending such hearing, and it shall be unlawful for any person
to operate as a massage facility, massage school or similar business, depending
upon the particular type of permit which has been suspended, until the
suspended permit has been reinstated by the Village Council. Notice of such
hearing shall be given in writing and served at least five days prior to the
date of the hearing thereon. The notice shall state the grounds of the
complaint against the licensee and shall state the time and place where such
hearing shall be held.
   (B)   Such notice shall be served upon the license holder by delivering the
same to such person or by leaving such notice at the place of business or
residence of the license holder in the custody of a person of suitable age and
discretion. If the license holder cannot be found, and the service of such
notice cannot be made as herein provided in this section, a copy of such notice
shall be mailed, postage fully prepaid, addressed to the license holder at
their place of business or residence at least five days prior to the date of
such hearing.
(Ord. 255, passed 6-22-20)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
   
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
   
131.   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES
   
132.   DANGEROUS WEAPONS; EXPLOSIVES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Disorderly conduct; unlawful assembly
   
130.02   Religious worship disturbance
   
130.03   Public peace disturbance
   
130.04   Gambling
   
130.05   Preservation of public property
   
130.06   Dangerous weapons
   
130.07   Loitering
   
130.08   Public intoxication
   
130.09   Hours of operation
   
130.10   State law, misdemeanors
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 DISORDERLY CONDUCT; UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      TUMULTUOUS CONDUCT. Conduct that results in or is likely to result in
serious bodily injury to a person or substantial damage to property.
      UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY. An assembly of five or more persons whose common
object is to commit an unlawful act, or a lawful act by unlawful means. Prior
concert is not necessary to form an unlawful assembly.
   (B)   Disorderly persons.
      (1)   A person is a disorderly person if the person is any of the
following:
         (a)   A person of sufficient ability who refuses or neglects to
support his or her family.
         (b)   A common prostitute.
         (c)   A window peeper.
         (d)   A person who engages in an illegal occupation or business.
         (e)   A person who is intoxicated in a public place and who is either
endangering directly the safety of another person or of property or is acting
in a manner that causes a public disturbance.
         (f)   A person who is engaged in indecent or obscene conduct in a
public place.
         (g)   A vagrant.
         (h)   A person found begging in a public place.
         (I)   A person found loitering in a house of ill fame or prostitution
or place where prostitution or lewdness is practiced, encouraged, or allowed.
         (j)   A person who knowingly loiters in or about a place where an
illegal occupation or business is being conducted.
         (k)   A person who loiters in or about a police station, police
headquarters building, county jail, hospital, court building, or other public
building or place for the purpose of soliciting employment of legal services or
the services of sureties upon criminal recognizances.
         (l)   A person who is found jostling or roughly crowding people
unnecessarily in a public place.
      (2)   When a person, who has been convicted of refusing or neglecting to
support his or her family under this section, is then charged with subsequent
violations within a period of two years, that person shall be prosecuted as a
second offender, or third and subsequent offender, as provided in section 168,
if the family of that person is then receiving public relief or support.
   (C)   Prohibitions. No person shall engage in the following:
      (1)   Engage in fighting or tumultuous conduct;
      (2)   Make unreasonable noise and continue to do so after being asked to
stop;
      (3)   Disrupt a lawful assembly of persons;
      (4)   Obstruct vehicular or pedestrian traffic;
      (5)   Participate in an unlawful assembly;
      (6)   Make any open or indecent exposure of his or her person or the
person of another;
      (7)   Solicit or accost any person for the person of committing any
unlawful or immoral acts;
      (8)   Sell, offer for sale, give away, exhibit or possess any obscene,
lewd, indecent or immoral book, pamphlet, paper, picture, statuary, image or
representation; or
      (9)   Commit an assault and/or battery
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.02 RELIGIOUS WORSHIP DISTURBANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to disturb or disquiet any congregation
or assembly met for religious worship by making any noise or making any profane
discourse or engaging in any indecent behavior in or near the place of worship
as to disturb the solemnity of the meeting.
(O.C. § 9.3)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.03 PUBLIC PEACE DISTURBANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to act in a violent, boisterous,
turbulent, quarrelsome, indecent or disorderly manner, to use profane, obscene
or vulgar language, to commit any act or to do anything to disturb the good
order, peace and dignity of the village, its inhabitants or other persons.
(O.C. § 9.4)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.04 GAMBLING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain any common gambling
house or gaming room or to permit on any premises owned, occupied or controlled
by him or her any apparatus or device used for gaming or gambling or to use
such apparatus or device or to assist any other person to use same for gaming
or gambling purposes. It shall be unlawful for any person to have in his or her
possession any policy or pool slips, tickets or any paper which is marked
additionally with any kind of rotation indicating any form of gambling, and the
possession of such writing or device shall constitute prima facie evidence of
intention to use same for gambling.
(O.C. § 9.5)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.05 PRESERVATION OF PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to destroy, injure or deface or in any
manner interfere with or hinder the use of any public building or any public
property whatsoever.
(O.C. § 9.6)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.06 DANGEROUS WEAPONS.
   (A)   No person shall within the village possess any machine gun, sawed off
shotgun or any instrument or weapon of the kind commonly known as a black-jack,
sling shot, sand club, sandbag, switch-blade knife or metal knuckles, nor any
instrument, attachment or appliance for causing the firing of any firearm to be
silent or intended to lessen or muffle the noise of the firing of any firearms
except as is otherwise permitted by law.
   (B)   No person shall within the village possess, with intent to use
unlawfully against another, an imitation pistol or a dagger, dirk, razor,
stiletto, knife or other dangerous weapon.
(O.C. § 9.7)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.07 LOITERING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter by sitting, standing, or
otherwise positioning themselves in any public or private place in a manner
that obstructs or interferes with the lawful, free and uninterrupted passage of
persons, vehicles or other forms of conveyance to, from or at any location in
the village.
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.08 PUBLIC INTOXICATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to be intoxicated in a public place and
either endangering directly the safety of another person or of property or
acting in a manner that causes a public disturbance.
(O.C. § 9.9)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.09 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No use which generates business traffic, such as the treatment of patients
or the reception and servicing of customers or clients, shall be permitted
during the hours between 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. in the Professional Services
Zone District. This shall not prohibit the use of an office or laboratory by
individuals during these hours.
(O.C. § 9.11)
§ 130.10 STATE LAW, MISDEMEANORS.
   Every act prohibited by state law as a misdemeanor is prohibited and
violations may be punished as a misdemeanor as prescribed in § 32.03 of this
code.
(O.C. § 9.10) (Am. Ord. 157, passed 6-23-97)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Any person or persons violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be punished as
prescribed in § 32.03 of this code.
(Am. Ord. 157, passed 6-23-97)
CHAPTER 131: CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES
Section
Generally
   
131.01   Possession, sale and the like prohibited generally
   
131.02   Dispensing by authorized persons
   
131.03   Hypodermic syringes, needles and the like; possession prohibited;
exceptions
   
131.04   Hypodermic syringes, needles and the like; sale prohibited
   
131.05   Fraud and deceit in obtaining controlled substances, syringes and the
like
   
131.06   Fraud and deceit in sale prohibited
   
131.07   Applicability of provisions restricting possession of controlled
substances
   
131.08   Commitment of addicts
   
131.09   Loitering about places where controlled substances are illegally
stored or kept
Recreational Marihuana
   
131.20   Definitions
   
131.21   Minor in possession of marihuana
   
131.22   Personal use and cultivation
   
131.23   Possession with intent to deliver
   
131.24   Consumption while operating; operating under the influence
GENERALLY
§ 131.01 POSSESSION, SALE AND THE LIKE PROHIBITED GENERALLY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess, sell, offer for sale,
distribute, administer, dispense, prescribe or give away any controlled
substance as defined in M.C.L.A. § 333.7104, the Michigan Public Health Code
(Public Act 368 of 1978, Art. 7, being, M.C.L.A. §§ 333.1101 et seq.), as
amended, provided that nothing contained in this section shall be deemed to
prohibit the possession, sale, offer for sale, distributing, administering,
dispensing or prescribing of any controlled substance in a manner or under such
circumstances as are permitted in said Public Health Code.
(O.C. § 9.31)
§ 131.02 DISPENSING BY AUTHORIZED PERSONS.
   A manufacturer, wholesaler, apothecary, medical doctor, osteopathic
physician, dentist, veterinarian, chiropodist, public or private hospital,
sanitarium or institution maintained or conducted in whole or in part for the
treatment of disability, disease, inebriety or drug addiction may purchase,
receive, possess, sell, distribute, prescribe, administer or dispense a
controlled substance, provided he, she or they shall have complied with all
provisions as required by the United States Internal Revenue Code, as the same
now exists or may be hereafter amended, and the said Michigan Public Health
Code. No medical doctor, osteopathic physician or other person specified in
this section in any manner authorized to prescribe a controlled substance shall
prescribe such substances for his or her own use, nor shall any druggist honor
such a prescription. All controlled substances obtained pursuant to this
section shall be kept in the original package or container in which they were
received; provided, that this requirement should not be construed to apply to
any duly licensed medical doctor, osteopathic physician, dentist, veterinarian
or chiropodist or to any authorized person or persons acting directly under
their supervision or control.
(O.C. § 9.32)
§ 131.03 HYPODERMIC SYRINGES, NEEDLES AND THE LIKE; POSSESSION PROHIBITED;
EXCEPTIONS.
   No person shall at any time have or possess a hypodermic syringe or needle
or any other instrument or implement adapted for the use of controlled
substances by subcutaneous injection or intracutaneous injection or any other
manner or method of introduction and which is possessed for that purpose,
unless such possession is authorized by the certificate of a licensed medical
doctor or osteopathic physician issued within the period of one year; provided,
that the prohibition contained in this section shall not apply to
manufacturers, wholesalers, jobbers, licensed medical technicians,
technologists, nurses, hospitals, research teaching institutions, clinical
laboratories, medical doctors, osteopathic physicians, dentists, chiropodists,
veterinarians, pharmacists and embalmers in the normal legal course of their
respective business or profession, nor to persons suffering from diabetes,
asthma or any other medical condition requiring self injection.
(O.C. § 9.33)
§ 131.04 HYPODERMIC SYRINGES, NEEDLES AND THE LIKE; SALE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, furnish, supply or give away
any empty gelatin capsules or hypodermic syringe or needle or other instrument
or implement adapted for the use of controlled substances by subcutaneous
injection or intracutaneous injection or any other manner or method of
introduction to any person known to be a nonmedical habitual user of controlled
substances. For the purpose of this subsection a NONMEDICAL HABITUAL USER OF
CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES shall mean any person who uses a controlled substance
merely to satisfy a craving for such substance and who does not have a
legitimate medical need for such substance.
(O.C. § 9.34)
§ 131.05 FRAUD AND DECEIT IN OBTAINING CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES, SYRINGES AND THE
LIKE.
   Any fraud, deceit, misrepresentation, subterfuge, concealment of a material
fact or the use of a false name or the giving of a false address for the
purpose of obtaining any controlled substance or hypodermic syringe or needle
or other instrument or implement or empty gelatin capsules or false statement
or any prescription blank shall be deemed a violation of this section. No
person who shall have obtained the possession of any controlled substance,
hypodermic syringes, needles or other instruments or implements adapted for the
use of such substance or empty gelatin capsules pursuant to the terms of this
section shall use the same or permit or authorize their use for any purpose
other than that specifically authorized in the prescription or order by means
of which such possession was obtained.
(O.C. § 9.35)
§ 131.06 FRAUD AND DECEIT IN SALE PROHIBITED.
   Any fraud, scheme, device, trick, deceit, misrepresentation, subterfuge or
any other form of concealment for the purpose of obtaining money or any other
thing of value by the sale, furnishing, supplying or giving away of any
substance represented to be a controlled substance, when the same may or may
not be the same, shall be deemed a violation of this chapter.
(O.C. § 9.36)
§ 131.07 APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS RESTRICTING POSSESSION OF CONTROLLED
SUBSTANCES.
   The provisions of this chapter restricting the possession of controlled
substances or hypodermic syringes, needles or other implements or instruments
adapted to the use of such substances by means of subcutaneous injection or
intracutaneous injection or any other manner or method of introduction or empty
gelatin capsules shall not apply to common carriers or warehousemen or their
employees engaged in the lawful transportation or storage of such drugs,
syringes, needles or capsules or to public officers or employees while engaged
in the performance of their official duties nor to temporary incidental
possession on the part of employees or agents of persons lawfully entitled to
possession.
(O.C. § 9.37)
§ 131.08 COMMITMENT OF ADDICTS.
   No person shall unlawfully use or be addicted to the unlawful use of any
controlled substance. Any such unlawful use or addiction shall be deemed a
violation of this section. Any nonmedical habitual user of a controlled
substance, as defined in § 131.04, who shall make voluntary application to the
judge of the district court may, upon the presentment of a certificate executed
by a practicing physician in the State of Michigan stating that he or she is a
nonmedical habitual user of a controlled substance, be committed, at the
discretion of the court, to any correctional or charitable institution,
hospital, sanitarium or institution authorized for the treatment of disease or
inebriety or drug addiction. Whenever the medical officer or head of such
institution shall certify to the committing judge or court that any person so
committed has been sufficiently treated or gives any other reason which is
deemed by such judge or court to be adequate and sufficient, the court may, in
accordance with the terms of commitment, discharge the person so committed or
return him or her to await further action of the court. Any addicted person who
does not make voluntary application for treatment as provided in this section
shall be deemed to be in violation of this section.
(O.C. § 9.38)
§ 131.09 LOITERING ABOUT PLACES WHERE CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES ARE ILLEGALLY
STORED OR KEPT.
   No person shall knowingly loiter about, frequent or live in any building,
apartment, store, automobile, boat, boathouse, airplane or other place of any
description whatsoever where controlled substances, hypodermic syringes,
needles or other instruments or implements or empty gelatin capsules are used,
sold, dispensed, furnished, given away, stored or kept illegally.
(O.C. § 9.39)
RECREATIONAL MARIHUANA
§ 131.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions are derived
from M.C.L. §§ 333.27951 et seq., the Michigan Regulation and Taxation of
Marihuana Act, and said definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CULTIVATE. To propagate, breed, grow, harvest, dry, cure, or separate parts
of the marihuana plant by manual or mechanical means.
   MARIHUANA. All parts of the plant of the genus cannabis, growing or not; the
seeds of the plant; the resin extracted from any part of the plant; and every
compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of the plant
or its seeds or resin, including marihuana concentrate and marihuana-infused
products. For purposes of this subchapter, MARIHUANA does not include:
      (1)   The mature stalks of the plant, fiber produced from the stalks,
oil, or cake made from the seeds of the plant, any other compound, manufacture,
salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of the mature stalks, except the
resin extracted from those stalks, fiber, oil, or cake, or any sterilized seed
of the plant that is incapable of germination;
      (2)   Industrial hemp; or
      (3)   Any other ingredient combined with marihuana to prepare topical or
oral administrations, food, drink, or other products.
   MARIHUANA ACCESSORIES. Any equipment, product, material, or combination of
equipment, products, or materials, which is specifically designed for use in
planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing,
compounding, converting, producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing,
packaging, repackaging, storing, containing, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise
introducing marihuana into the human body.
   MARIHUANA CONCENTRATE. The resin extracted from any part of the plant of the
genus cannabis.
   MARIHUANA-INFUSED PRODUCT. A topical formulation, tincture, beverage, edible
substance, or similar product containing marihuana and other ingredients and
that is intended for human consumption.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership
of any type, trust, or other legal entity.
   PROCESS or PROCESSING. To separate or otherwise prepare parts of the
marihuana plant and to compound, blend, extract, infuse, or otherwise make or
prepare MARIHUANA CONCENTRATE or MARIHUANA-INFUSED PRODUCTS.
   PUBLIC PLACE. A place to which the public or a substantial group of persons
has access, and includes, but is not limited to, highways, streets, parking
lots, transportation facilities, schools, public places of amusement,
restaurants, coffee shops, parks, and playgrounds.
(Ord. 250, passed 1-28-19)
§ 131.21 MINOR IN POSSESSION OF MARIHUANA.
   (A)   Offense. It shall be unlawful for a person under 21 years of age to
possess, consume, purchase, or otherwise obtain, cultivate, process, transport,
or sell marihuana.
   (B)   Penalty.
      (1)   A person under 21 years of age who possesses no more than 2.5
ounces of marihuana or who cultivates no more than 12 marihuana plants shall be
subject to the following penalties:
         (a)   For a first violation:
            1.   A civil infraction, and if less than 18 years of age, by a
fine of not more than $100 or community service, forfeiture of the marihuana,
and completion of four hours of drug education or counseling; and
            2.   If the person is at least 18 years of age, by a fine of not
more than $100 and forfeiture of the marihuana;
         (b)   For a second or subsequent violation:
            1.   If the person is under 18 years of age, a civil infraction, a
fine of not more than $500 or community service, forfeiture of the marihuana,
and completion of eight hours of drug education or counseling; and
            2.   If the person is at least 18 years of age, by a fine of not
more than $500 and forfeiture of the marihuana; or
      (2)   If the minor is in possession of marihuana in an amount greater
than 2.5 ounces, the penalty shall be $500 and/or 93 days in jail.
(Ord. 250, passed 1-28-19)
§ 131.22 PERSONAL USE AND CULTIVATION.
   (A)   Personal use. A person may not possess, use or consume, internally
possess, purchase, transport, or process more than 2.5 ounces of marihuana,
except up to and including 15 grams of marihuana may be in the form of
marihuana concentrate.
   (B)   Personal residence. Within the person's residence, a person may not
possess, store, or process more than 10 ounces of marihuana and any marihuana
produced by marihuana plants cultivated on the premises or grow, possess,
cultivate, or process more than 12 marihuana plants for personal use.
   (C)   Visible cultivation. A person shall not cultivate marihuana plants if
the plants are visible from a public place without the use of binoculars,
aircraft, or other optical aids, or outside of an enclosed area equipped with
locks or other functioning security devices that restrict access to the area.
   (D)   Assist person under the age of 21 years. A person may not assist
another person who is under 21 years of age or younger in any of the acts
described in this section.
   (E)   Storage at residence. A person shall not possess more than 2.5 ounces
of marihuana within a person's place of residence unless the excess marihuana
is stored in a container or area equipped with locks or other functioning
security devices that restrict access to the contents of the container or area.
   (F)   Consumption in a public place. A person shall not consume marihuana in
a public place or smoke marihuana where prohibited by the person who owns,
occupies, or manages the property.
   (G)   Transferring to another person. A person may not give away or
otherwise transfer marihuana except as follows:
      (1)   The transfer is without remuneration;
      (2)   Up to 2.5 ounces of marihuana may be transferred, except that not
more than 15 grams of marihuana may be in the form of marihuana concentrate;
      (3)   The transferee is a person 21 years of age or older; and
      (4)   The transfer is not advertised or promoted to the public.
   (H)   Penalty. The penalty for violations involving the explicit limits of
the offenses set out in this section is a civil infraction with a fine of not
more than $100 and forfeiture of the marihuana.
   (I)   Penalties involving more than the allowed amount. A person who does
any of the following is responsible for a civil infraction and may be punished
by a fine of not more than $500 and forfeiture of the marihuana:
      (1)   Possesses more than 2.5 ounces, of which 15 grams are in
concentrate form;
      (2)   Possesses more than 10 ounces in his or her residence;
      (3)   Cultivates more than 12 plants;
      (4)   Delivers without remuneration to a person at least 21 years of age
over 2.5 ounces of marihuana including and up to not more than 15 grams of
marihuana concentrate; or
      (5)   Possesses with intent to deliver more than 2.5 ounces of marihuana
including and up to 15 grams of marihuana concentrate.
(Ord. 250, passed 1-28-19)
§ 131.23 POSSESSION WITH INTENT TO DELIVER.
   (A)   Offense. A person shall not possess, cultivate, or deliver without
remuneration to a person who is at least 21 years of age more than five ounces,
up to and not more than 30 grams of which are in the form of concentrate.
   (B)   Penalty. The penalty for violating this section shall be a
misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of up to $500 and/or 93 days in jail, and
shall be subject to imprisonment if the violation was habitual, willful, and
for a commercial purpose, or the violation involved violence.
(Ord. 250, passed 1-28-19)
§ 131.24 CONSUMPTION WHILE OPERATING; OPERATING UNDER THE INFLUENCE.
   (A)   Consumption while operating. A person shall not consume marihuana
while operating, navigating, or being in physical control of any motor vehicle,
aircraft, snowmobile, off-road recreational vehicle, or motorboat, or smoke
marihuana within the passenger area of a vehicle upon a public way.
   (B)   Operating under the influence of marihuana. The offense of operating
under the influence of marihuana shall be prosecuted under the Motor Vehicle
Code located at M.C.L. §§ 257.1 et seq. and its relevant provisions and
penalties which was adopted by the village at §
70.01.
   (C)   Penalties. The penalty for consumption while operating set out in this
section is a misdemeanor and is punishable by $500 and/or 93 days jail.
(Ord. 250, passed 1-28-19)
CHAPTER 132: DANGEROUS WEAPONS; EXPLOSIVES
Section
Weapons
   
132.01   Handguns; flourishing
   
132.02   Long guns and air guns
Explosives
   
132.15   Definition
   
132.16   Storage
   
132.17   Detonations
   
132.99   Penalty
WEAPONS
§ 132.01 HANDGUNS; FLOURISHING.
   No person other than an officer in the discharge of his or her duty or a
person otherwise authorized by law shall draw, handle or flourish a revolver,
pistol or handgun in any public place or on private property, other than within
a dwelling, within the Village of Bingham Farms.
(O.C. § 9.61)
§ 132.02 LONG GUNS AND AIR GUNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to flourish, fire, discharge, shoot,
propel or use a rifle, air gun, pellet gun, shotgun or other such projectile
weapon within the limits of the village unless specifically authorized or
licensed to do so by the Village Council, and the discharge or use of any of
the articles described in this section for the purpose of hunting birds,
animals or game of any kind shall, if such act is performed within the limits
of the village, constitute a violation of this code.
(O.C. § 9.62)
EXPLOSIVES
§ 132.15 DEFINITION.
   The term EXPLOSIVE when used herein shall mean dynamite, gunpowder,
nitroglycerine or other combustible materials or compounds which are or can be
used for blasting, but shall not include small arms ammunition, petroleum
products designed for fuel or lubrication or fireworks permitted under the laws
of the State of Michigan.
(O.C. § 9.171)
§ 132.16 STORAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to store any explosives or explosive
materials within the village, except as authorized by regulations of the
Department of Public Safety of the State of Michigan.
(O.C. § 9.172)
§ 132.17 DETONATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to detonate any explosive within the village.
(O.C. § 9.173)
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   Any person or persons violating any of the provisions of this subchapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be punished
as prescribed in § 32.03 of this code.
(Am. Ord. 157, passed 6-23-97)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
   
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
   
151.   DEMOLITION OF STRUCTURES
   
152.   VILLAGE PLANNING
   
153.   RESERVED
   
154.   ENGINEERING DESIGN STANDARDS
   
155.   SOIL REMOVAL AND LANDFILLS
   
156.   SUBDIVISIONS
   
157.   ZONING CODE
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Building Code
   
150.01   Administration and enforcement
   
150.02   Enforcing agency
   
150.03   Violations and enforcement
   
150.04   Conflicting ordinances repealed
   
150.05   Code appendix enforced
   
150.06   Designation of regulated flood prone hazard areas
   
150.07   Construction site maintenance
Swimming Pools
   
150.20   Findings
   
150.21   Definitions
   
150.22   Necessity for permit
   
150.23   Form of application
   
150.24   Fence and yard requirements
   
150.25   Sanitary measures
   
150.26   Hot tub regulations
   
150.27   Penalty
Street Address Identification
   
150.40   Intent and purpose
   
150.41   Street address identification regulation
   
150.42   General regulation
Property Maintenance Code
   
150.55   Adoption
   
150.56   Insertions
   
150.57   Amendments
Rental Property License
   
150.70   Purpose
   
150.71   Definitions
   
150.72   Required; limits on remedy
   
150.73   Application fee
   
150.74   Issuance, revocation; appeal
   
150.75   Inspections by building official
   
150.76   Penalties, sanctions and remedies for code violations
BUILDING CODE
§ 150.01 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   The village assumes and shall be responsible for administering and enforcing
the Single State Construction Code Act, Act No. 230 of the Public Acts of 1972,
as amended, and the Building, Electrical, Plumbing, Mechanical and all other
sections of the State Construction Code prepared and promulgated as provided in
that Act (referred to in this chapter as the State Construction Code and Act
and elsewhere in the code as the Building Code) within the boundaries of this
village.
(Ord. 171, passed 7-23-01)
§ 150.02 ENFORCING AGENCY.
   The Village Council, the Zoning Board of Appeals, the Village President,
Clerk, administrative personnel and consultants, personnel of the City of
Southfield Building Department with whom the village has contracted, and
officers of the Franklin-Bingham Police Department that perform acts or provide
services in the administration of the State Construction Code and Act, are
hereby designated as the enforcing agency to discharge the responsibility of
the village to administer and enforce the State Construction Code and Act.
(Ord. 171, passed 7-23-01; Am. Ord. 200, passed 7-24-06)
§ 150.03 VIOLATIONS AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Violations of the State Construction Code and Act shall be municipal
infractions related to the use or occupancy of land, with violations punishable
by a civil fine of up to $500 plus costs, all of which shall be established and
enforceable as provided in Act No. 12 of the Public Acts of 1994, as amended,
and may be enforced by the village with the same power and authority it
possesses for violations of village ordinances, with the village to retain any
fines imposed upon a finding of responsibility.
   (B)   In addition, a person determined to be responsible shall pay damages
and expenses incurred by the village in responding to a violation, including
any costs in securing or placing a structure or property in a safe condition.
Each occurrence of a violation of the State Construction Code and Act, and/or
each day a violation exists, shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   Violations of the State Construction Code and Act are considered to be
a nuisance per se, with such violations and correction of any conditions
resulting from violations, subject to abatement by and injunctive or other
appropriate order of a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (D)   Violations of the State Construction Code and/or Act subject the
violator to village enforcement through one or more of the remedies provided in
this section, and the election by the village to pursue one form or remedy does
not waive or restrict the village's option to pursue other remedies at the same
time or later.
(Ord. 171, passed 7-23-01)
§ 150.04 CONFLICTING ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   All ordinances or parts of ordinances conflicting with the provisions of §§
150.01 through 150.03 are hereby repealed.
(Ord. 171, passed 7-23-01)
§ 150.05 CODE APPENDIX ENFORCED.
   Pursuant to the provisions of the State Construction Code, in accordance
with § 8b(6) of Act 230, of the Public Acts of 1972, as amended, Appendix G of
the Michigan Building Code shall be enforced by the Village Council, the Zoning
Board of Appeals, the Village President, Clerk, administrative personnel and
consultants, personnel of the City of Southfield Building Department with whom
the village has contracted, and officers of the Franklin-Bingham Police
Department.
(Ord. 200, passed 7-24-06)
§ 150.06 DESIGNATION OF REGULATED FLOOD PRONE HAZARD AREAS.
   The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Flood Insurance Study (FIS)
entitled "Flood Insurance Study, Oakland County, Michigan, and Incorporated
Areas," and dated September 29, 2006, the Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMS)
panel numbers of 26125C0518F, and 26125C0519F, and dated September 29, 2006 are
adopted by reference and declared to be part of § 1612.3 of the Michigan
Building Code.
(Ord. 200, passed 7-24-06)
§ 150.07 CONSTRUCTION SITE MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Definitions. The following word, when used in this section, shall have
the meaning ascribed to it in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning.
      FENCE. A chain-link barrier not less than six feet high with privacy
screening of adequate strength to resist wind pressure.
   (B)   General. Wherever a building or structure is erected, altered,
repaired, removed or demolished, the operation shall be conducted in a safe
manner and suitable protection for the general public shall be provided.
   (C)   Equipment storage. All construction equipment and materials shall be
stored in an orderly fashion and in compliance with the state construction
code.
   (D)   Airborne materials. All construction shall provide control for on-site
dust, soil and any other airborne materials so that such materials remain on
the job site.
   (E)   Construction site fences.
      (1)   Every area of construction located five feet or less on the site
from the street lot line shall be enclosed with a fence to prevent the entry of
unauthorized persons.
      (2)   Every area of construction containing an excavation of 42 inches or
greater on a site shall be enclosed with a fence to prevent the entry of
unauthorized persons.
      (3)   For every excavation and/or area of construction located more than
five feet from the street lot line and/or less than 42 inches in depth, a
barrier shall be erected where required by the building official. All barriers
shall be of adequate strength to resist wind pressure as required by the
building official.
      (4)   All fences or barriers required under this section shall remain
until a temporary certificate of occupancy is issued.
(Ord. 258, passed 11-23-20)
SWIMMING POOLS
§ 150.20 FINDINGS.
   It is determined that outdoor swimming pools may endanger the public health
and safety unless carefully regulated and supervised.
(O.C. § 8.51)
§ 150.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HOT TUB. Any structure or container designed to hold water, whether partly
or wholly above or below grade, located partly or wholly outside a permanent
enclosed and roofed building, designed to hold water to a depth of greater than
12 inches when filled to capacity, intended for immersion of the human body,
which is equipped with a whirlpool or other pulsating device and a permanent
cover or lid. A hot tub shall be considered an accessory structure under the
village zoning code.
   PERSON. All individuals, groups of individuals, co-partnership,
associations, firms or corporations. The singular shall include the plural and
the masculine and the feminine.
   SWIMMING POOL. Any structure or container, whether partly or wholly above or
below grade, located partly or wholly outside a permanent enclosed and roofed
building, designed to hold water to a depth of greater than 12 inches when
filled to capacity, intended for immersion of the human body, whether for
swimming or wading or both.
(O.C. § 8.52)
§ 150.22 NECESSITY FOR PERMIT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct or maintain an outdoor
swimming pool without first making application to the Building Department and
obtaining a permit therefore.
(O.C. § 8.53)
§ 150.23 FORM OF APPLICATION.
   Application for such permit shall show the name of the owner, the location
of the proposed swimming pool, the manner in which its use shall be supervised,
the safety precautions to be made to protect those making use thereof or who
might be endangered thereby, information showing the size, depth and capacity
of such swimming pool and shall be accompanied by such other information
necessary for the protection of the public health and safety as may be required
by the Building Department. There shall be also filed with the Building
Department a plot plan of the property showing the location of such swimming
pool thereon and a detailed plan for such swimming pool, which shall contain
full information as to the type, height and location of the fence surrounding
such swimming pool and the number of gates therein. Approval of the county and
state authorities having jurisdiction over swimming pools shall be obtained
before applying for a permit. Proof that such approval has been obtained shall
be filed with the Building Department at the time application is made for a
permit.
(O.C. § 8.54)
§ 150.24 FENCE AND YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   All swimming pools shall be completely enclosed by a wall or fence of not
less than four feet in height. Any wall shall be of wood, brick or masonry and
any fence shall be of wrought iron or aluminum; all openings in any such wall
or fence shall be equipped with gates which can be securely locked. All such
swimming pools, including any pool decking shall comply with side and rear yard
setback requirements as stipulated in the village zoning code.
(O.C. § 8.55) (Am. Ord. 225, passed 6-24-13)
§ 150.25 SANITARY MEASURES.
   Any outdoor swimming pool shall not be used unless adequate public health
measures are periodically taken to insure that the use thereof will not cause
the spread of disease. The water of all swimming pools shall be sterilized by
chlorinated water. The current standards set by the State Department of Public
Health and the Oakland County Department of Public Health to protect public
health in the use of such swimming pools are adopted and made a part of this
chapter. There shall be no connection between any swimming pool and any public
sanitary or storm sewer or combination thereof. Water connections to such
swimming pool shall be made to a potable supply and transferred to the pool in
a potable condition.
(O.C. § 8.56)
§ 150.26 HOT TUB REGULATIONS.
   (A)   All hot tubs or similar structures shall be equipped with a permanent
lid or cover which shall be securely locked at all times the hot tub is not in
use. The lock shall be operated only by a combination or key.
   (B)   No person shall install or maintain a hot tub without a permit from
the Building Official. The application for such permit shall show the name of
the owner, proof that the hot tub complies with division (A) of this section,
the location where such hot tub will be placed which shall comply with all
zoning regulations for the zone district in which the property is located and
such other information necessary for the protection of the public safety as may
be required by the Building Department. Upon receipt of all information
required, the Building Official shall issue a permit for the installation of a
hot tub.
(O.C. § 8.58)
§ 150.27 PENALTY.
   Each day on which any such violation of this chapter continues shall
constitute a separate offense. Any swimming pool, installed, operated or
maintained in violation of provisions of this chapter shall constitute a
nuisance, and the village may maintain any proper action for the abatement of
such nuisance.
(O.C. § 8.57)
STREET ADDRESS IDENTIFICATION
§ 150.40 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   The intent and purpose of this chapter is to establish the requirement
that all owners and/or occupiers of nonresidential properties located in the
(PS) Professional and C-1 Districts on any main thoroughfare within the
village, display, upon the all buildings and structures, affixed street address
numbers clearly visible from the fronting road. Similar information shall be
required to be displayed at or near the primary entrance drive.
   (B)   This section addresses the manner by which such display shall be
affixed to or posted so as to promote, to the greatest extent possible, the
safety and welfare of the public by assuring that such entities as the Police
and Fire Departments and/or emergency medical service providers and rescue
personnel are readily able to identify a location in case of any emergency.
   (C)   The regulations are structured to eliminate unnecessary traffic
hazards created by drivers trying, unsuccessfully, to identify a location with
inadequately small, obstructed or obscured address identification displays.
   (D)   These regulations are based on the pattern of past and proposed future
development within the business districts of the village. The regulation
regarding size, format and placement of the subject address identification
display is based predominantly on the density of the business district. The
regulations have been formatted to promote ease of recognition of address from
the adjoining thoroughfare.
   (E)   This section may require elimination of, or alteration to, certain
existing displays along main thoroughfares which contain information other than
the street address numbers and name of the owner or occupant of the premises
and/or fail to conform to provisions calculated to the greatest extent possible
to eliminate hazards brought about by distracting displays.
(Ord. 168, passed - -)
§ 150.41 STREET ADDRESS IDENTIFICATION REGULATION.
   All nonresidential buildings located along any main thoroughfare, including
but not limited to U.S. 24, Telegraph Road, within the village shall display
street address numerals in the following manner:
   (A)   One display of address numerals shall be affixed to each building at a
location visible from the fronting road:
      (1)   In the (PS) Professional District, such address identification
display shall be ten square feet in area and between 16 and 18 inches in
height;
      (2)   In the (C-1) Commercial District, such address identification
display shall be a minimum of ten square feet in area, but not exceeding 30
square feet in area;
      (3)   All address numerals shall appear in a contrasting color to the
building or background to which they are affixed;
      (4)   All address numerals shall appear flat against the building and
shall not project above the roofline;
   (B)   Each building shall also have a double-sided freestanding address
identification display located within ten feet of the right-of-way in a visible
location at or near the main or primary entrance drive:
      (1)   Such display shall be installed perpendicular to the fronting
roadway and shall be three square feet in area with dimensions of one foot
vertical by three feet horizontal. No such sign shall exceed 42 inches in
height;
      (2)   The freestanding sign shall consist of white numerals on a black or
similarly dark background;
   (C)   All address numerals shall be maintained so as to remain in a legible,
functional condition.
(Ord. 168, passed - -)
§ 150.42 GENERAL REGULATION.
   All identification displays situated on nonresidential property located
along a main thoroughfare within the village are subject to approval by the
Village Council and are subject to all applicable laws and ordinances.
(Ord. 168, passed - -)
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
§ 150.55 ADOPTION.
   The International Property Maintenance Code, 2009 Edition, as published by
the International Code Council, is hereby adopted by reference as an ordinance
and Property Maintenance Code of the Village of Bingham Farms with the
insertions and amendments in §§
150.56 and
150.57.
(Ord. 173, passed 11-26-01; Am. Ord. 215, passed 11-23-09)
§ 150.56 INSERTIONS.
   The following sections of the International Property Maintenance Code, 2009
Edition, are completed by inserting the following information:
   (A)   101.1 Title. Insert “Village of Bingham Farms, referred to as the
‘Village’.”
   (B)   103.5 Fees. Insert “As adopted by resolution of the Village of Bingham
Farms Council.”
   (C)   112.4 Failure to comply. Insert $75 and $500 as the minimum and
maximum fines.
   (D)   302.4 Weeds. Insert “eight (8) inches.”
   (E)   304.14 Insect Screens. Insert “May 1 to September 30.”
   (F)   602.3 Heat Supply. Insert “September 30 to May 1.”
   (G)   602.4 Occupiable work spaces. Insert “September 30 to May 1.”
(Ord. 173, passed 11-26-01; Am. Ord. 215, passed 11-23-09)
§ 150.57 AMENDMENTS.
   The following sections of the International Property Maintenance Code, 2009
Edition, are amended, deleted and additional sections and sentences added as
follows:
   (A)   103.1 General. Amended to read:
         The Village President, Clerk, and consultants and personnel of other
local governments with whom the village has contracted with for ordinance or
code enforcement purposes, including the City of Southfield Building Department
and Village of Beverly Hills Code Enforcement Department, shall constitute the
Department of Property Maintenance Inspection and shall all be considered as a
code official, with the Village Clerk being the code official responsible for
the department records.
   (B)   103.2 Appointment. Amended to read:
         The Village Council may appoint other code officials by resolution.
   (C)   103.2 Deputies. Deleted.
   (D)   106.3 Prosecution of violation. Amended by adding the following
sentence to the end of the section:
         Violations of this code shall be municipal civil infractions as
provided for and subject to the definitions, fines, penalties, remedies and
procedures in Chapter 32 of the Bingham Farms Village Code.
   (E)   106.6 Enforcement options. Added to read:
         In addition to or in lieu of the actions or proceedings authorized in
this code for violations, a code official may institute and utilize any other
applicable administrative and enforcement proceedings provided for in the
Bingham Farms Village Code.
   (F)   106.7 Enforcement cost recovery. Added to read:
         The Village’s administrative and legal costs, fees and expenses that
are incurred as a result of an unlawful act in violation of this code shall be
a joint and several responsibility of, and be paid to the Village by, the owner
of the real estate in violation and such other persons that are responsible for
the violation. Costs under this section are in addition to the other fines and
penalties under this § 106. Payment of fines, penalties, fees, costs and
expenses shall be secured by a lien upon the real estate in violation, which
may be assessed and collected as a delinquent special assessment on the tax
rolls as provided by law.
   (G)   110.5 Application of other ordinances. Added to read:
         Demolition notices and orders based on this code may be included in
notices, orders and proceedings under other applicable provisions of the
Bingham Farms Village Code.
   (H)   111.2 Membership of the Board. Amended to read:
         The Village of Bingham Farms Council shall serve as the Board of
Appeals for purposes of this code.
   (I)   111.7 Court Review. Amended to read:
         Any person having the right to appeal to the Board of Appeals shall
have a limited right to appeal a Board of Appeals decision to the Oakland
County Circuit Court, in the manner required by law, no later than 21 days
after the date of the meeting at which the decision of the Board of Appeals is
made. The scope of review on appeal is limited to the record of the Board of
Appeals and correction of errors of law by the Board of Appeals.
(Ord. 173, passed 11-26-01; Am. Ord. 215, passed 11-23-09)
RENTAL PROPERTY LICENSE
§ 150.70 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to protect the public health, safety
and welfare in buildings intended for human habitation and accessory structures
as hereinafter provided by:

      (1)   Establishing minimum standards for exterior property areas,
exterior structure, interior structure, basic facilities, light and
ventilation, occupancy requirements and fire safety. These standards are
designed to be reasonably high, but at the same time, practical and attainable,
but should not be interpreted as a guarantee to the tenant;

      (2)   Fixing the responsibility of owners of every building or structure
used or intended for use or occupancy, in whole or in part, as a rental unit;
and

      (3)   Providing for administration, enforcement and penalties.

   (B)   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to all existing rental
units. Any new building construction or additions to existing structures in the
village must comply with the requirements of the building code as amended. The
minimum standards required under this code are designed to prevent fire hazard,
structural deterioration, inadequate light, air and heat, and unsanitary and
over crowded conditions, which constitute a menace to the safety, health and
welfare of the tenants in a rental unit and/or the surrounding area.
(Ord. 186, passed 10-27-03)
§ 150.71 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.

   LANDLORD.  The owner, lessor, or sublessor of the rental unit, or the
property of which it is a part and, in addition, a person authorized to
exercise any aspect of the management of the premises, including a person who,
directly or indirectly, acts as a rental agent, receives rent, other than a
bona fide purchaser, and who has an obligation to deliver the receipts to
another person.

   RENTAL UNIT.  A non-owner occupied structure, or part of a structure, used
as a home, residence, or sleeping unit by a person or household unit, or any
grounds, or other facilities or area promised for the use of a residential
tenant, whether for remuneration or not, but without limitation, apartment
units, boarding houses, rooming houses, mobile home spaces and single and two
family dwellings.
(Ord. 186, passed 10-27-03)
§ 150.72 REQUIRED; LIMITS ON REMEDY.
   It is the duty of every landlord to acquire a rental property license from
the building department before allowing any person or persons to occupy a
rental unit. A separate license is required for each rental property. A
landlord shall be licensed with the village to be entitled to rents and/or to
evict tenants and/or occupants residing and/or located on the premises.
(Ord. 186, passed 10-27-03)
§ 150.73 APPLICATION FEE.
   Every landlord seeking a rental property license under this subchapter shall
make an application to be accompanied by an annual fee, per unit, which shall
be established by council resolution, payable to the Village. Such application
shall state his/her name and address, the name and address of the managing
agent if applicable, and identify the number of tenants occupying the property.
(Ord. 186, passed 10-27-03)
§ 150.74 ISSUANCE, REVOCATION; APPEAL.
   (A)   The Village Clerk shall issue a license under this section upon
certification from the building official that:

      (1)   The applicant's property is not in violation of any ordinance of
the village; and

      (2)   The applicant provides a full legal description of all parcels of
property he or she rents.

   (B)   The Village Clerk is hereby empowered to revoke a license issued under
this section if it is discovered that the applicant has either:

      (1)   Misrepresented himself or herself or the state of the property; or

      (2)   His or her property is or becomes violative of any of the
ordinances of the Village; and the building official has given a 30 day notice
to cure to the property owner/tenant, which cure has not been effective after
the expiration of the 30-day cure.

   (C)   The Village Clerk shall maintain a registry of each rental property
located within the Village, recording the address of the rental property, the
number of rental units located on the rental property, the name, address and
telephone number of the landlord and the name, address and telephone number of
the property manager, if different than the landlord.
(Ord. 186, passed 10-27-03)
§ 150.75 INSPECTIONS BY BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   (A)   The building official, or such other persons as the building official
may designate, is hereby authorized to make inspections of premises licensed
under this subchapter.

   (B)   The building official shall inspect rental property not less than:

      (1)   Prior to occupation of any premises which has been vacated;

      (2)   Every two years for multiple dwellings and rooming houses;

      (3)   Prior to the issuance or renewal of a rental property license for a
single or two-family rental property;

   (C)   An applicant for a license under this subchapter shall consent to such
inspections to determine the condition of the apartment building, multiple
unit, multiple dwelling, rooming house, dwelling or dwelling units within the
village. For the purpose of making such inspections, the building official or
his or her authorized representative is hereby authorized, upon seven days
notice, to enter rooming houses and rental dwelling units. The landlord, tenant
or person in charge of an apartment building, multiple dwelling, rooming house
or rental dwelling unit shall give the building official or his or her designee
free access to the premises.
(Ord. 186, passed 10-27-03)
§ 150.76 PENALTIES, SANCTIONS AND REMEDIES FOR CODE VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   A person violating this section shall be responsible for a municipal
civil infraction. The following civil fines shall apply in the event of a
determination of responsibility for a municipal civil infraction:

      (1)   The civil fine for a first offense violation shall be in an amount
of $150, plus costs for each offense;

      (2)   The civil fine for any offense which is a repeat offense shall be
in an amount of $300, plus costs for each offense.

   (B)   Each act of violation, and each day upon which any such violation
shall occur, shall constitute a separate offense.

   (C)   In addition to any penalties provided for in this code, any equitable
or other remedies available may be sought.

   (D)   In addition to ordering the defendant determined to be responsible for
a municipal civil infraction to pay a civil fine, costs, damages and expenses
the judge or magistrate shall be authorized to issue any judgment, writ or
order necessary to enforce, or enjoin violation of, this code.

   (E)   The judge or magistrate shall also be authorized to impose costs,
damages and expenses as provided by law.
(Ord. 186, passed 10-27-03)
CHAPTER 151: DEMOLITION OF STRUCTURES
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Short title
   
151.02   Purpose
   
151.03   Definitions
Demolitions Required
   
151.15   Structures to be demolished
   
151.16   Demolition orders
   
151.17   Repair permits
   
151.18   Appeals
   
151.19   Enforcement
Demolition Permits
   
151.30   Permit required
   
151.31   Permit process
   
151.32   Permit approval applications
   
151.33   Expiration of permit
Demolition Work Standards
   
151.45   Explosives prohibited
   
151.46   Site security
   
151.47   Hazardous excavated areas
   
151.48   Protection of village streets
   
151.49   Disposal of debris
   
151.50   Soil erosion and sedimentation control
   
151.51   Restoration of property
   
151.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Village of Bingham
Farms Demolition Ordinance.”
(Ord. 165A, passed 7-24-00)
§ 151.02 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is adopted for the purpose of requiring the demolition of
certain structures in the village to supplement Building Code requirements and
conditions for demolition permits and work and to establish municipal civil
infraction penalties for violations which the village finds are necessary to
protecting and promoting the public health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. 165A, passed 7-24-00)
§ 151.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING. A structure that provides or was intended or designed to provide a
facility or shelter for use or occupancy by person, animals or properly.
   BUILDING CODE. The Building Code that is being administered and enforced in
the village as provided under the State Construction Code Act of 1972, as
amended.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. The person or persons administering and enforcing the
Building Code.
   CLERK. The Village Clerk.
   DEMOLISH or DEMOLITION. The removal or dismantling of all or part of a
structure.
   PERSON. A natural person, company, corporation, partnership, joint venture,
voluntary association, organization or other form of legal entity.
   STRUCTURE. Any material or assembly of materials that is built or
constructed on land so as to be attached to or part of that land.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Bingham Farms.
(Ord. 165A, passed 7-24-00)
DEMOLITIONS REQUIRED
§ 151.15 STRUCTURES TO BE DEMOLISHED.
   The following structures shall be demolished:
   (A)   Structures that have been or are built without a required permit under
the Building Code;
   (B)   Incomplete structures, the Building Code permit for which has expired,
been suspended or revoked;
   (C)   Structures that in the opinion of the Building Official are so old,
dilapidated, out of repair or for any other reason in a condition that is
dangerous, unsafe, unsanitary or otherwise unfit for human use or occupancy.
(Ord. 165A, passed 7-24-00)
§ 151.16 DEMOLITION ORDERS.
   When a structure must be demolished as provided in § 151.15, the Building
Official or Clerk shall give a written notice and order to the owner of the
property upon which the structure is located that:
   (A)   Describes the property and why the structure must be demolished;
   (B)   Establishes a deadline for the owner to either apply for a demolition
permit under §§ 151.30 et seq., a repair permit under § 151.17 or to appeal the
order under § 151.18.
(Ord. 165A, passed 7-24-00)
§ 151.17 REPAIR PERMITS.
   A person that wants to repair rather than demolish a structure may apply for
a repair permit. Such an application shall be made to the Clerk and, in
addition to any documents or plans required by the Building Code, shall include
a plan for the necessary repairs that includes a timetable and proof of
financial ability to complete required repairs within that time frame and
demonstrates that the repairs proposed are reasonable and that upon completion
the structure would be made safe, sanitary and fit for human use and occupancy.
Upon village approval of a repair permit, the applicant must immediately apply
for and secure a Building Code repair permit from the Building Official.
(Ord. 165A, passed 7-24-00)
§ 151.18 APPEALS.
   A person aggrieved by an order under § 151.16 or denial of a repair permit
under § 151.17 may appeal the order or decision to the Village Council, who,
upon completion of the appeal hearing, may affirm, modify or reverse the
demolition order or repair permit decision. Appeals of repair permit denials
shall be filed with the Clerk within 14 days of the repair permit denial.
(Ord. 165A, passed 7-24-00)
§ 151.19 ENFORCEMENT.
   Except where the structure presents an imminent danger and threat to persons
or property during the pendency of any timely repair permit application and
appeal, village enforcement of a demolition order shall be stayed. Failure to
comply with a demolition order or repair permit and any conditions that are
imposed by the Village Council in an appeal subjects the violator to the
penalties provided for in §§ 151.45 et seq. and allows the village to cause the
structure to be demolished and removed with the property restored as provided
by law.
(Ord. 165A, passed 7-24-00)
DEMOLITION PERMITS
§ 151.30 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No persons shall demolish a structure without first applying for and
obtaining demolition permit approval by the village and issuance of a Building
Code demolition permit as provided in this subchapter.
(Ord. 165A, passed 7-24-00)
§ 151.31 PERMIT PROCESS.
   Demolition permits must be approved for issuance by the village prior to
applying for a Building Code demolition permit. Village approval will be given
after all of the permit application requirements in § 151.32 have been
satisfied. Upon permit approval by the village, the applicant must apply for
and secure a Building Code demolition permit from the Building Official.
(Ord. 165A, passed 7-24-00)
§ 151.32 PERMIT APPROVAL APPLICATIONS.
   Applications for permit approval by the village shall be made to the Clerk
by providing the following:
   (A)   An application fee of $100;
   (B)   A site plan drawn to scale and showing the property and the location
of the structure and all utilities to which it is connected. The site plan
shall also show soil erosion and sedimentation control measures and the
implementation sequence for same;
   (C)   The length of time the demolition work will take. A description of the
manner in which the demolition will be accomplished by reference to the types
and amounts of equipment and identity of any contractors that will be
performing the work.
(Ord. 165A, passed 7-24-00)
§ 151.33 EXPIRATION OF PERMIT.
   If work for which a permit has been approved does not commence within three
months of village approval or the work is started and then abandoned for a
period of more than one month, the permit approval shall automatically expire
and cease to be valid for any purpose.
(Ord. 165A, passed 7-24-00)
DEMOLITION WORK STANDARDS
§ 151.45 EXPLOSIVES PROHIBITED.
   The use of explosives for the demolition of structures within the village
limits is prohibited.
(Ord. 165A, passed 7-24-00)
§ 151.46 SITE SECURITY.
   When demolition will require more than one working day, the structure(s)
must be temporarily fenced when work ceases. Fences shall be suitable to
prevent access to the structure and have appropriate warning signs indicating
danger.
(Ord. 165A, passed 7-24-00)
§ 151.47 HAZARDOUS EXCAVATED AREAS.
   All excavated areas, holes, swimming pools or basements must be kept free of
standing water, filled or fenced. If new construction will not begin within six
months, the hazardous areas shall be filled and the surface stabilized.
(Ord. 165A, passed 7-24-00)
§ 151.48 PROTECTION OF VILLAGE STREETS.
   Unloading and loading of tracked demolition equipment shall not be done on
public pavements. Loading and removal of debris shall be done without damaging
or obstructing village streets. Repair of any damage to the pavement resulting
from equipment or debris removal shall be the responsibility of the persons
performing the work and the property owner.
(Ord. 165A, passed 7-24-00)
§ 151.49 DISPOSAL OF DEBRIS.
   No demolition debris shall be buried, burned or otherwise disposed of on
site. All demolition debris shall be removed from the site within seven days of
demolition and lawfully disposed of.
(Ord. 165A, passed 7-24-00)
§ 151.50 SOIL EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL.
   During and following the demolition activities, adequate soil erosion and
sedimentation controls must be provided to protect adjacent properties and the
village's drainage system from soil erosion and deposition of sediment.
(Ord. 165A, passed 7-24-00)
§ 151.51 RESTORATION OF PROPERTY.
   Upon completion of the demolition, the disturbed areas of the site shall be
graded, seeded and mulched or the soil stabilized in a manner that has been
approved by the village. The site shall be mowed and cared for so as not to be
detrimental to the neighborhood or adjacent properties.
(Ord. 165A, passed 7-24-00)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Municipal civil infraction. Municipal civil infraction violations of
this chapter shall be municipal civil infractions related to the use or
occupancy of land with violations punishable by a civil fine of up to $500,
plus costs, all of which shall be established and enforceable as provided in
Public Act 12 of 1994, being M.C.L.A. §§ 600.8701 et seq., as amended. In
addition, a person determined to be responsible shall pay damages and expenses
incurred by the village in responding to a violation, including any costs in
securing or placing a structure or property in a safe condition.
   (B)   Separate offenses. Each occurrence of a violation, and each day a
violation exists, shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   Injunctive relief. Violations of this chapter are considered to be a
nuisance per se, with such violations and correction of any conditions
resulting from violations, subject to abatement by and injunctive or other
appropriate order of a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (D)   Election of remedies. Violations of this chapter subject the violator
to village enforcement through one or more of the remedies provided in this
subchapter, and the election by the village to pursue one form or remedy does
not waive or restrict the village’s option to pursue other remedies at the same
or later time.
   (E)   Enforcement. This chapter may be enforced by the Building Official,
Clerk and officers of the Franklin-Bingham Police Department.
(Ord. 165A, passed 7-24-00)
CHAPTER 152: VILLAGE PLANNING
Section
   
152.01   Village Planning Commission established
   
152.02   Village Planning Commission membership
   
152.03   Officers, committees, meetings, procedures
   
152.04   Employees, contracts, consultants, expenditures, restriction
   
152.05   Village Master Plan
   
152.06   Duties and responsibilities of Planning Commission
§ 152.01 VILLAGE PLANNING COMMISSION ESTABLISHED.
   In accordance with the Michigan Planning Enabling Act, Public Act 33 of
2008, as amended, the Village Planning Commission is hereby established, to
have the powers and duties provided in that Act and this chapter. The Village
Planning Commission existing on the effective date of Ord. 219 shall be the
Village Planning Commission provided for in this chapter and its members shall
continue to serve with their existing terms continued.
(O.C. § 5.301) (Am. Ord. 219, passed 6-27-11)
§ 152.02 VILLAGE PLANNING COMMISSION MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   Membership. The Planning Commission shall consist of seven members,
one of whom shall be a member of the Village Council, appointed by resolution
of the Village Council, to serve as a member ex officio. The six remaining
members shall not hold any other municipal office, nor shall they be employees
of the village, except that one of the appointed members may be a member of the
Village Zoning Board of Appeals. All members of the Planning Commission shall
be qualified electors of the village and shall serve without compensation.
   (B)   The membership of the Planning Commission shall be representative of
the entire geography and important segments of the village such as the
economic, governmental, educational, and social development of the village, in
accordance with the major interests that exist, such as agriculture, natural
resources, recreation, education, public health, government, transportation,
industry, and commerce.
   (C)   The term of the ex officio member shall correspond with the member’s
term of office as a Council member. The term of the remaining members shall be
three years or until his or her successor takes office, except that the
respective terms of two of the members first appointed shall be for one year
and three for two years so that to the extent possible, the terms of office
will expire in different years. A vacancy on the Commission occurring otherwise
than through the expiration of a term shall be filled for the remainder of the
expired term.
   (D)   The Village Council may remove a member of the Planning Commission for
misfeasance, malfeasance or nonfeasance in office upon written charges and
after a public hearing. Before casting a vote on a matter on which a member may
reasonable be considered to have a conflict of interest, the member shall
disclose the potential conflict of interest to the Planning Commission. The
member is disqualified from voting on the matter if so provided by the Planning
Commission bylaws or by a majority vote of the remaining members of the
Planning Commission. Failure of a member to disclose a potential conflict of
interest constitutes malfeasance in office.
   (E)   For purposes of this chapter, CONFLICT OF INTEREST shall have the
meaning as defined in the Planning Commission bylaws and in the absence of such
definition, means when a member of the Planning Commission or a member of their
family has a proprietary or financial interest in an issue or matter that is
before the Planning Commission beyond that which is experienced by the public
in general, or when the member may receive or gain a financial benefit as a
result of a vote on such issue or matter.
(O.C. § 5.302) (Am. Ord. 219, passed 6-27-11; Am. Ord. 240, passed 12-29-16)
§ 152.03 OFFICERS, COMMITTEES, MEETINGS, PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall elect a Chairperson and Secretary from
among its members and create and fill such other offices, it considers
advisable. An ex officio member of the Commission is not eligible to serve as
Chairperson. The term of each officer shall be one year, with opportunity for
reelection.
   (B)   The Planning Commission may appoint advisory committees whose members
are not members of the Planning Commission.
   (C)   The Planning Commission shall hold at least four regular meetings each
year and its first meeting of each calendar year, shall adopt and provide
public notice of its regular meetings for that year in accordance with the Open
Meetings Act, as amended. Unless it would result in less than four meetings in
a calendar year, a meeting need not be held if pending matters do not warrant a
meeting.
   (D)   Unless the Planning Commission Bylaws provide otherwise, a special
meeting of the Planning Commission may be called by the Chairperson or by two
other members, upon written request to the Secretary, who shall provide for
written notice of the special meeting to Planning Commission members not less
than 48 hours before the meeting.
   (E)   The business that the Planning Commission may perform shall be
conducted at a public meeting of the Planning Commission held in compliance
with the Open Meetings Act, as amended. Public notice of the time, date, and
place of a regular or special meeting shall be given in the manner required by
that Act.
   (F)   The Planning Commission shall adopt bylaws for the transaction of
business, and shall keep a public record of its resolutions, transactions,
findings and determinations.
(O.C. § 5.303) (Am. Ord. 219, passed 6-27-11)
§ 152.04 EMPLOYEES, CONTRACTS, CONSULTANTS, EXPENDITURES, RESTRICTION.
   The Commission may appoint such employees as it may deem necessary for its
work, whose appointment, promotion, demotion and removal shall be subject to
the same provisions of law as govern other corresponding civil employees of the
municipality. The Commission may also contract with village planners,
engineers, architects and other consultants for such services as it may
require. The expenditures of the Commission, exclusive of gifts, shall be
within the amounts appropriated for the purpose by the Village Council which
shall provide the funds, equipment and accommodations it deems necessary for
the Village Planning Commission's work.
(O.C. § 5.304)
§ 152.05 VILLAGE MASTER PLAN.
   The Planning Commission shall have the following powers, duties and
responsibilities in accordance with any applicable provisions of the Michigan
Planning Enabling Act, Public Act 33 of 2008, as amended, with respect to the
Village Master Plan:
   (A)   Prepare, review and update a Master Plan as a guide for development
within the village’s planning jurisdiction.
   (B)   Promote public interest in and understanding of the Master Plan,
including consultation and advice concerning promotion and implementation of
the Master Plan.
   (C)   Review the Master Plan at least every five years and determine whether
to commence the procedure to amend it.
(O.C. § 5.305) (Am. Ord. 219, passed 6-27-11)
§ 152.06 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF PLANNING COMMISSION.
   In addition to those related to the Village Master Plan, the Planning
Commission shall have the following powers, duties and responsibilities in
accordance with the applicable provisions of the Michigan Planning Enabling
Act, Public Act 33 of 2008, as amended, (referred to in this section as
“Planning Act”), this chapter, and other applicable laws:
   (A)   Prepare an annual written report to the Village Council concerning the
Planning Commission’s operations and the status of planning activities,
including recommendations regarding actions by the Village Council related to
planning and development.
   (B)   Carry out duties and responsibilities authorized or required by the
Michigan Zoning Enabling Act, Public Act 110 of 2006, as amended, and the
Michigan Planning Enabling Act, Public Act 33 of 2008, as amended, except the
annual preparation of a capital improvements program under Section 65 of the
Planning Act, which is the responsibility of the Village Council under the
Village Charter and from which the Planning Commission is therefor and hereby
exempted.
   (C)   Provide recommendations to the Village Council on programs for and
financing of public structures and improvements.
   (D)   Exercise all powers and duties of a zoning commission, as previously
and hereby confirmed as transferred, to the Planning Commission, as provided in
the Michigan Zoning Enabling Act, Public Act 110 of 2006.
   (E)   Review and take action on public construction as described in Sections
61 and 63 of the Planning Act.
   (F)   Review and provide recommendations to the Village Council on
subdivision ordinances and plats as described in Section 71 of the Planning
Act.
   (G)   Take actions authorized, required or requested by any village
ordinance or Village Council resolution.
   (H)   Prepare special studies and plans, as deemed necessary by the Planning
Commission or Village Council and for which appropriations of funds have been
approved by the Village Council, as needed.
   (I)   Accept gifts for the exercise of its functions.
   (J)   With the Planning Commission’s prior approval, members may attend
planning conferences, meetings or institutes and hearings on pending village
planning legislation. Any village payment or reimbursement of fees, costs or
expenses for attendance, housing and travel expenses must be approved by the
Village Council as part of its annual budge appropriations for the Planning
Commission or separately.
   (K)   Request and receive information necessary to the Planning Commission’s
performance of its functions from public officials.
(Ord. 219, passed 6-27-11)
 
CHAPTER 153: RESERVED
CHAPTER 154: ENGINEERING DESIGN STANDARDS
Section
   
154.01   General standards
   
154.02   Application
   
154.03   Sanitary sewers
   
154.04   Storm sewers
   
154.05   Water main
   
154.06   Retention basins
   
154.07   Grading and rear yard drainage
   
154.08   Site improvement plans
 
   
154.99   Penalty
Cross-reference
   Sewer service, see
Ch. 52
   Water service, see
Ch. 51
§ 154.01 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   The following engineering design standards for construction projects in the
village are intended to provide a reasonable and proper basis for the design
and construction of subdivision, site condominium and other project site
improvements, including sanitary sewer, storm sewer, water main, paving,
retention basins and site grading.
(O.C. Ch. 57(part)) (Am. Ord. 268, passed 9-19-22)
§ 154.02 APPLICATION.
   This section applies to all projects.
   (A)   Standard details and specifications for the village shall be a part of
these engineering design standards.
   (B)   Complete improvement plans for all projects shall be submitted prior
to review and approval of any portion thereof.
   (C)   Where improvements relate to a proposed plat, a copy of the proposed
plat shall be submitted with the engineering drawings.
   (D)   Plans submitted shall be on 24-inch by 36-inch white prints having
blue or black lines and shall be neatly and accurately prepared. Judgement
should be exercised in the design, layout and presentation of proposed
improvements.
   (E)   For projects or subdivisions having more than one sheet of plans, a
general index plan having a scale of 1" = 100' shall be provided showing the
overall project or subdivision and indicating the size and location of all
improvements shown in the detailed plans. Street names, street and easement
width, lot lines, lot dimensions, lot numbers and ownership shall be shown on
all plans. Utilities shall be located in accordance with the village standards.
Side or rear lot easements shall have a minimum width of 12 feet. Utilities in
easements shall be kept at least three feet away from side or rear lot lines.
Utilities shall parallel lot lines.
   (F)   A separate grading plan must be submitted for the entire site. For all
projects, the minimum scale shall be 1" = 100'. Superimposed on this grading
plan shall be two-foot contours of the area, including the area at least 100
feet outside of the project.
   (G)   Engineering plans having a scale of 1" = 50' horizontal and 1" = 5' or
1" = 10' vertical shall be provided. Sanitary sewers and water mains shall be
shown on the same sheet. Plan and profile views are required on all sanitary
sewer mains and on some water mains.
      (1)   Plan view is required on all water mains. A profile view of water
mains is required only on 16-inch and larger mains or when unusual ground
contours occur. Profile views must be located below the plan view.
      (2)   Storm sewer and pavement shall be shown on the same sheets. Plan
and profile views are necessary for all storm sewers except catch basin leads.
Plan view is necessary on all paving. Show top of curb line on profile.
      (3)   In the profile view, all crossings of utilities must be shown. When
a water main crosses a sewer, indicate an invert elevation for the water main.
Minimum vertical clearance between utilities shall be 18 inches. Sand backfill
is required between utilities. Generally only one plan and profile view per
page will be accepted.
   (H)   Profiles of sewers shall indicate the size, class of bedding, top
elevations of all manholes, length between manholes, slope and the existing and
proposed ground elevations above the route of the sewer. The inverts of all
sewers shall be given at manholes. The location of compacted porous backfill
required shall be indicated on the plan and profile.
   (I)   Elevations shall be on U.S.G.S. datum indicated at two-inch intervals.
Permanent bench marks for the work shall be indicated for all structures.
   (J)   Finished elevations shall be indicated for all structures.
   (K)   All plans submitted shall bear the seal of the registered professional
civil engineer responsible for the design.
   (L)   Street names shall be approved by the approving agency. All street
name and traffic-control signs on public or private roads are to be installed
by and at the expense of the developer. All street signs of private roads must
conform to standard village requirements if located in the village right-of-
way.
   (M)   The project engineer shall forward plans for water and sewer to the
village office for approval prior to going to the Oakland County DPS for
permits. Plans should then also be forwarded to any public utility and state
and other county agency whose facilities or rights-of-way may be affected by
the proposed construction.
   (N)   For any plat, a mylar copy, a minimum of three-mils thick, of the plat
accurately reduced to a scale of 1" = 200' shall be furnished to the village
prior to final plat approval.
   (O)   Signed contracts for all improvements shall be submitted to the
Village Engineer at least 14 days prior to the proposed start of construction.
A preconstruction meeting between the Village Engineer and the contractor shall
be scheduled at least seven days prior to the proposed start of construction.
Inspections are done by the Village Engineer and must be requested with at
least 48-hours’ advance notice.
   (P)   A two-year maintenance and guarantee bond in an amount set by and
acceptable to the village shall be furnished to the village prior to the
acceptance of the improvements by the village.
   (Q)   All public improvements must be staked under the supervision of a
registered civil engineer or land surveyor according to the most current
approved plans. All plans used by the contractor for construction must be
stamped “Approved” by the Village Engineer and must be on site and available
when the contractor is working.
   (R)   A 24-inch by 36-inch mylar copy, a minimum of three-mils thick, of all
as-built drawings of sanitary sewer, storm sewer, water main, retention basin,
paving and grading shall be provided prior to acceptance of the improvements by
the village. In all cases, the utilities installed must be extended to the
boundaries of the development to provide for future extensions.
   (S)   Insurance:
      (1)   Prior to the construction of subdivision and/or project
improvements, the contractor shall procure and maintain, during the term of the
project, public liability and property damage insurance with a responsible
insurance company which meets the approval of the village, in such amounts as
will be adequate to protect the public, the village, individual members of the
Village Council and all parties of interest and shall not be less than the
limits set forth herein.
Type of Insurance Limits
Type of Insurance                        Limits
Worker’s compensation and employer’s As required by laws of state
liability
Public liability and property damage
Bodily injury                            Each occurrence: $500,000
                                        Aggregate: $1,000,000
Property damage                          Each occurrence: $250,000
                                        Aggregate: $500,000
Owners and contractors protective liability and property damage
Bodily injury                            Each occurrence: $1,000,000
Property damage                          Each occurrence: $250,000
                                        Aggregate: $500,000
                                        Or combined single limit: $1,000,000
Motor vehicle (including owner, hired and non-owned vehicles)
Bodily injury                            Each occurrence: $500,000
Property damage                          Each occurrence: $200,000
                                        Or combined single limit: $1,000,000
 
      (2)   Policies shall be made available to the village for examination as
to their validity and any undesirable exclusions deemed improper by legal
opinion rendered to the village regarding same. Underground construction, where
applicable, shall be specified in the coverage. Certificates of coverage signed
by the insurance carriers shall include a guarantee that 30-days’ written
notice shall be given by the insurance carrier to the village prior to the
cancellation of, or any change in, the respective policies. In the event that
the insurance is canceled, operations shall cease prior to the cancellation
date and shall not resume until evidence is provided that proper insurance is
again in effect. Additional named insured under owners and contractors
protective public liability and property damage insurance shall include the
village, individual members of the Village Council, the village consulting
engineer and members of his or her staff, village employees and agents for the
village and parties of interest.
   (T)   The proprietor shall obtain, or cause his or her contractor(s) to
obtain, all permits, post all required bonds and pay all required fees for each
and all departments having jurisdiction over the lands and rights-of-way
involved in his or her project before work can commence. Proper notification
shall be given each governmental agency and utility company prior to the
beginning of construction. The village and the Village Engineer shall require a
minimum 48-hour notice prior to the commencement of any construction.
   (U)   The as-built plans furnished by the project engineer shall contain a
statement certifying that all surface grades, roads and structures are in
conformance with the approved plans. The statement shall be signed by a
registered professional engineer prior to acceptance of any improvements by the
village.
(O.C. § 5.701) (Am. Ord. 268, passed 9-19-22)
§ 154.03 SANITARY SEWERS.
   (A)   Plan submittal procedure. For village approval of sanitary sewer
plans, the applicant shall furnish the Village Clerk with four sets of the
sanitary sewer plans along with any required fees and deposits. The Clerk will
then stamp three sets as authorized to be reviewed, and the applicant will
submit these copies to the Village Engineer for review, comments and/or
approval. A detailed cost estimate must be submitted also at this time. The
reviewing engineer shall review the plans for conformity to the standards set
forth herein and certify that they are consistent with the overall utility
plans of the village. After his or her review, he or she will return one of the
sets with appropriate comments to the applicant and one to the Village Clerk.
The applicant, after making any changes requested on the set of plans returned
to him or her, shall submit a sufficient number of the revised plans to the
Village Engineer for final approval. The Engineer shall review these revised
plans for conformity to the comments mentioned heretofore and, if they have
been properly done, will transmit a sufficient number of sets to other local
and state reviewing agencies.
   (B)   Design standards.
      (1)   The following notes shall appear on the plans:
         (a)   All workmanship and materials shall be in accordance with the
current standards and specifications of the village and Oakland County DPW. All
sanitary sewer construction shall have competent full-time inspection provided
by the local unit of government. Construction deposits and inspection deposits
as set by the village must be made prior to the beginning of any work.
         (b)   It shall be the contractor’s responsibility to verify and/or
obtain any information necessary regarding the presence of underground
utilities which might affect this project.
         (c)   All trenches under or within four inches of existing and/or
proposed pavement shall be sand backfilled to the elevation shown on plans (95%
maximum weight density).
         (d)   Downspouts, weep tile, footing drains or any conduit that
carries storm or ground water shall not be allowed to discharge into this
sanitary sewer.
         (e)   No sewer installation or portion thereof shall have an
infiltration exceeding 200 gallons per inch diameter per mile of pipe length
per 24-hour period.
         (f)   Each wye or end of house lead shall contain factory installed
premium joint material of a type suitable and approved for use with house lead
joint specified.
         (g)   Whenever existing manholes or sewer pipes are to be tapped,
drill holes at four inches center to center around the periphery of the opening
to create a plane of weakness joint before breaking section out. Non-shrink
grout shall be used to seal the opening and a concrete collar shall be poured
12 inches thick around the pipe and extended 12 inches beyond the opening.
         (h)   For the purpose of testing infiltration, a temporary 12-inch
deep sump shall be provided in the first manhole above the connection. Sump
shall be filled in by the contractor after successful completion of the
infiltration test up to the standard fillet provided for the flow channel. At
all connections, provide a water-tight bulkhead with a one-inch diameter pipe
through the bulkhead for measuring infiltration immediately upstream.
         (i)   All house leads shall extend to the property line or the
easement line.
         (j)   At all connections to sewer interceptor system shall be inserted
the following note: The contractor shall provide copies to the Village of
Oakland County DPW tap permit and the receipts for the required inspection
deposits at least 48 hours prior to the start of construction.
      (2)   Prior to starting any sanitary sewer design, the applicant is
encouraged to make use of maps and information available at the village office.
It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to verify utility locations.
      (3)   The following table of minimum slopes for sanitary sewers shall be
adhered to:
Size Minimum slope
Size    Minimum slope
8-inch  @ .40%
10-inch @ .28%
12-inch @ .22%
15-inch @ .16%
18-inch @ .12%
21-inch @ .10%
24-inch @ .08%
NOTE:   The minimum allowable size of a sanitary lateral is eight inch
diameter. The last upstream run of sewer must be at a slope of 0.60 or
greater.
 
      (4)   A note or detail shall show the type of bedding upon which the
sewer pipe shall be installed. Class “B” bedding is the minimum bedding
allowable.
      (5)   The house lead installed with the lateral sewer shall be a minimum
of six inches in diameter.
      (6)   (a)   Sanitary sewer manholes spaced as follows:
 
Diameter of sewer      Maximum manhole spacing
8 inches to 21 inches  400 ft
24 inches to 30 inches 450 ft
36 inches to 42 inches 500 ft
48 inches and larger   600 ft
 
         (b)   Sanitary sewers may be placed in an easement in front of the
lot. The sewer should be within 15 feet of the right-of-way line. In general,
sanitary sewers will not be approved in the rear lot easement. Sanitary sewer
manholes must be watertight and shall be precast sections with modified grooved
tongue joints with rubber gaskets. Bolted watertight covers shall be used on
all manholes.
      (7)   The following information shall be indicated on the sanitary sewer
profile:
         (a)   Length of run between manholes;
         (b)   Type of pipe between manholes;
         (c)   Class of pipe between manholes;
         (d)   Size and slope of sewer between manholes;
         (e)   Class of bedding;
         (f)   Top and invert elevation of all manholes;
         (g)   Existing and proposed ground elevation above the route of the
sewer;
         (h)   A logical numbering system for manholes shall be included;
         (i)   Sand backfill stationing shall be indicated on the profile;
         (j)   The plan view shall show length and size of sewer and ties to
the property lines.
      (8)   Provide a minimum depth from top of curb (or road center line if
uncurbed) to the top of any sanitary sewer of 8½ feet at local control points
or a minimum of nine feet at locations where the sewer elevation is parallel to
the road grade. In all cases, the sewer shall be deep enough to serve, by
gravity, a standard depth basement.
      (9)   Each wye or end of house connection shall have an airtight or
watertight plug with the same type of joint as the main sewer. The wye or end
of house connection shall be marked by setting a one-inch by two-inch by six-
foot oak, ash or cedar stake vertically above the end of the lead. A clay pipe
shall be set enclosing the surface end of the marking stakes.
      (10)   Sanitary sewer pipe shall conform to the following current
tentative American Society for Testing and Materials Specifications.
         (a)   Concrete sewer pipe, ASTM designation: C14XM (extra strength,
modified so that minimum crushing strength requirements for all sizes up to and
including 12 feet diameter shall be 2400 lb. per lineal foot when tested in the
three-edge bearing method).
         (b)   Reinforced concrete sewer pipe, ASTM designation: C76.
         (c)   Extra strength clay pipe, ASTM designation: C-700.
         (d)   Composite ABS plastic and Pearlite concrete truss pipe material
as manufactured by Metal Products Division of Armco Steel Corporation or equal
shall conform to the requirements of ASTM D-2680-74 or latest revision thereof.
         (e)   PVC pipe and fittings shall conform to requirements of ASTM D-
3034 (SDR 35), latest revision. Deflection of pipe shall be limited to a
maximum of 5.0%.
      (11)   The sanitary sewer shall be installed on the opposite side of the
street from the watermain.
      (12)   House leads shall have compacted sand backfill to within three
feet of the edge of the side of the road.
      (13)   External drop connections are required at new manholes where the
outlet pipe is 18 inches or more below the inlet pipe.
      (14)   Where conditions require tunneling or boring, consult the Village
Engineer for specific requirements.
   (C)   As built plans. Prior to the acceptance of any sewer system and prior
to the removal of the outlet bulkhead (except under extenuating circumstances
as may be approved by the Oakland County DPW Director) as-built plans shall be
provided to the Oakland County DPW and to the Village Engineer.
(O.C. § 5.702) (Am. Ord. 268, passed 9-19-22)
Cross-reference:
   Sewer service, see
Ch. 52
§ 154.04 STORM SEWERS.
   (A)   Submittal procedure. For village approval of storm sewer systems, the
applicant shall furnish the Village Clerk with four sets of the storm sewer
plans along with any required fees and deposits. Concurrently, a detailed
estimate of cost must be submitted. The Clerk will then stamp three sets as
authorized to be reviewed, and the applicant will submit these copies to the
Village Engineer for review, comments and/or approval. Detailed storm sewer
design computations and the drainage area map showing the various areas
contributing to the points of inlet shall be provided. The Village Engineer
shall check the plans for conformity to the standards set forth herein, after
which he or she will return one of the sets with appropriate comments. The
applicant, after making any changes requested on the set of plans returned to
him or her, shall submit three sets of revised plans to the Village Engineer
for final approval. The Village Engineer shall review these revised plans for
conformity to the comments mentioned heretofore, and if they have been properly
made, will return one approved copy to the applicant. The applicant shall
obtain approval of the Oakland County Road Commission, the County Drain
Commission, MDOT or any other agency where applicable.
   (B)   Design standards.
      (1)   The following notes shall appear on the plans:
         (a)   All workmanship and materials shall be accordance with the
current Bingham Farms standards and specifications as adopted by resolution of
the Village Council;
         (b)   It shall be the contractor’s responsibility to verify the
existence and location of all underground utilities;
         (c)   All sewer trenches under or within four inches of existing or
proposed pavement or road shoulder to be backfilled with thoroughly compacted
sand to grade (95% maximum unit weight);
         (d)   All storm sewers shall be installed on a Class “B” bedding;
         (e)   Joints for all storm sewers shall be plain joints with:
            1.   Modified grooved tongues with rubber gaskets;
            2.   Rubber gasket joints; or
            3.   Bituminous joints (Dewitt #10). Sewers 27 inches in diameter
and larger shall have inside mortar pointing.
      (2)   Storm drainage systems shall be designed for a minimum of a ten-
year storm. The rational method for arriving at storm sewer runoff shall be
used. An “n” value of 0.013 shall be used, except for uncoated and unpaved
corrugated metal pipe where 0.025 shall be used. The design engineer shall
provide design assumptions and calculations. The initial T is generally 20
minutes for residential areas and 15 minutes for high runoff areas. The Project
Engineer shall use judgment in arriving at proper imperviousness factors.
      (3)   Sufficient capacity shall be provided in the storm sewer system to
take fully developed upstream drainage into the system. When a storm sewer is
designed to provide capacity for upstream areas, the hydraulic gradient shall
remain in the pipe. If a storm sewer is designed to take on-site drainage only,
the hydraulic gradient must be no higher than one foot below ground. When the
hydraulic gradient is above the top of the sewer pipe, the design elevation of
the hydraulic gradient shall be indicated on the profile at each manhole. If
the height of the hydraulic gradient exceeds two feet above the top of the
pipe, rubber joints shall be used.
      (4)   Manholes shall be located at:
         (a)   Changes in alignment in the main sewer;
         (b)   Points where the size of the sewer changes;
         (c)   Points where the slope of the sewer changes;
         (d)   The junction of sewer lines;
         (e)   Street intersections or other points where catch basins or
inlets are to be connected.
      (5)   (a)   Manhole spacing for storm sewers shall be as follows:
 
Diameter of sewer           Maximum manhole spacing
12 inches to 15 inches      350
18 inches to 30 inches      400
36 inches to 48 inches      500
54 inches and 60 inches     550
66 inches and 72 inches     650
6 feet, 6 inches and larger 1,000
 
         (b)   The minimum size of a public storm sewer is 12-inch diameter.
Catch basin leads may tap directly into sewers 48 inches and larger.
      (6)   The following information shall be indicated on the storm sewer
profile:
         (a)   Length of run between manholes;
         (b)   Type and class of pipe between manholes;
         (c)   Size and slope of sewer between manholes;
         (d)   Class of bedding;
         (e)   Top elevation of all manholes;
         (f)   Top of curb line/pavement/ground surface;
         (g)   Plus or minus top of curb elevations at 100 feet stations;
         (h)   Existing and proposed ground elevations above the route of the
sewer;
         (i)   A logical numbering system for manholes shall be as included;
         (j)   Invert elevations of all sewers at manholes.
      (7)   (a)   The following table of minimum slopes for storm sewers shall
be adhered to in order to provide a design velocity greater than 2½ feet per
second:
Size Minimum slope
Size      Minimum slope
12 inches .32%
15 inches .24%
18 inches .20%
21 inches .14%
24 inches .12%
27 inches .10%
30 inches .10%
36 inches .08%
42 inches .06%
48 inches .05%
54 inches .04%
60 inches .04%
 
         (b)   The maximum desired velocity of storm sewers is 12 feet per
second. Greater velocities may be allowed for unusual conditions.
      (8)   Where possible, provide a minimum of three feet of cover from the
top of curb (or road centerline) to the top of any storm sewer. All catch basin
leads within a street shall be a C-76 IV minimum, including the leads to the
manhole. Under drain pipe shall be a six feet minimum and shall be fabric
wrapped.
      (9)   A prefabricated bar screen shall be used on all storm sewer
openings 12 inches in diameter and larger. The bar screens shall be constructed
according to an approved separate enlarged detail in the drawings and shall be
designed to be sturdy, permanent, easily maintained, nonclogging and shall have
clear openings of no more than six inches.
      (10)   In general, catch basins shall be located as follows:
         (a)   At the radius return of street intersections. When drainage is
required to go around corners, 150 feet maximum distance along the street
between a high point and a corner catch basin is allowed;
         (b)   At all low points in streets;
         (c)   At intermediate points along the street such that there is a
maximum of 500 feet of drainage from a previous intercepting catch basin to
this catch basin;
         (d)   At a location to provide a maximum of 800 feet of drainage from
two directions.
      (11)   Standard rear yard catch basins shall be provided at all low
points in easements. The minimum size storm sewer from these catch basins is 12
inches in diameter. The minimum slope for rear yard swales is 0.5%. The
intermediate catch basin shall be four feet in diameter with a two-foot sump.
Where used, the under drain trench shall be completely filled with gravel to
finish grade. Intermediate catch basins are required where rear yard pipe
changes direction by more than 30 degrees. All catch basins shall be located
within four feet of lot corners. Twelve feet side yard easements to the street
shall be included at all catch basins. Beehive type covers are required for
yard catch basins. Additional rear yard drainage requirements are listed under
§
154.07.
      (12)   Headwalls and inlet structures shall be placed at all culverts and
storm drain inlets and outlets.
      (13)   Finished easement elevations shall be indicated on the plans.
      (14)   Improved open drains may be permitted upon special circumstances,
with Village Engineer approval.
         (a)   Oakland County Drain Commission and DNR approvals must also be
obtained if they have jurisdiction.
         (b)   Adequate culverts are required at all roads crossing a drain.
Minimum length of culvert is 60 feet or equal to the street right-of-way,
whichever is greater. End sections, curtain walls and energy deflectors shall
not be considered as part of this minimum length. A curtain wall and/or
deflector is required at all culvert ends. Six-inch thick unreinforced concrete
rip-rap (or approved equal) is required on all slopes at culvert crossings.
This rip-rap must be anchored by a footer a minimum of two feet deep on the
ends and edges where washing conditions may occur.
         (c)   Maximum side slope on a drain is three horizontal to one
vertical.
         (d)   Open drains must have slope protection (riprap) at bends with a
radius of 500 feet or less and other points designated by the Village Engineer.
         (e)   The drain bottom and slopes, to the hydraulic gradient line,
must be seeded or sodded. The remainder of the easement may be seeded. The
village will not accept the work until all turf is established.
         (f)   Specific drain cross-section and velocity control measures will
be determined by the Village Engineer on an individual basis.
         (g)   An easement of at least 20 feet wider than the widest point from
top of bank to top of bank is to be recorded on the plat and/or dedicated. The
easement line must be fenced if side slopes are steeper than one on five. The
treatment shall be consistent in the whole development.
      (15)   Allowable joints:
         (a)   Modified grooved tongue with rubber gasket;
         (b)   Tongue and groove with rubber gasket;
         (c)   Tongue and groove with cold mastic joints (Dewitt #10).
   (C)   Post Construction Stormwater Requirements. As a requirement of the
NPDES Stormwater Discharge Permit and the Villages Municipal Separate Storm
Sewer System Permit, the village accepts the following Oakland County Standards
for Post-Construction StormWater Runoff:
      (1)   The Oakland County Water Resources Commissioners Stormwater
Engineering Design Standards, as amended from time to time, are hereby adopted
by the Village for Bingham Farms in this chapter for the control and treatment
of stormwater runoff.
      (2)   These standards are developed in accordance with the existing
“Village of Bingham Farms Engineering Design Standards.”
      (3)   All permanent and temporary stormwater management BMPs, constructed
as part of the requirements of this section, are subject to these standards.
      (4)   These standards also apply to any activities which may affect the
quantity or quality of a private or stormwater conveyance system or any
waterway within the village. Any person(s) engaged in activities that may
result in excessive quantities or pollutants entering any stormwater conveyance
systems or waterways may be subject to the remedies for violation of this
section. Examples of such pollutants may include, but are not limited to,
debris, concrete washings, de-icing materials, fertilizers, heavy metals,
automobile fluids, topsoil, yard wastes, and commercial or light industrial
wastes.
      (5)   Natural swales and channels should be preserved, whenever possible.
If channel modification must occur, the physical characteristics of the
modified channel will meet the existing channel in length, cross-section,
slope, sinuosity, and carrying capacity. Streams and channels will be expected
to withstand all events up to the two-year storm without increased erosion.
      (6)   The construction plan review and approval shall demonstrate
compliance with the Oakland County performance standards. The village will
pursue enforcement if the site is not constructed in accordance with the
approved construction plan.
      (7)   The village reserves the right to adopt alternative standards as
appropriate. The Village Administrator shall have the authority to grant
waivers and variances from specific control provisions of the stormwater
management standards due to site-specific conditions, but only if the variance
(s) are as restrictive as the Oakland County Standards.
      (8)   The post construction stormwater requirements in this chapter
supersede any other post construction stormwater requirements found in other
village ordinances.
      (9)   Long-term operation and maintenance through maintenance agreements
of all structural and vegetative best management practices (BMPs) must be
implemented to meet the performance standards. The maintenance agreements must
allow for BMP inspection, the ability to perform necessary maintenance
neglected by the BMP owner or operator, and to track the transfer of operation
and maintenance responsibility of the BMP.
(O.C. § 5.703) (Am. Ord. 268, passed 9-19-22)
Cross-reference:
   Sewer service, see
Ch. 52
§ 154.05 WATER MAIN.
   (A)   Plan submittal procedure. For village approval of water main plans,
the applicant shall furnish the Village Clerk with four sets of the water main
plans along with any required fees and deposits. Concurrently, a detailed
estimate of cost must be submitted. The Village Clerk shall stamp three sets as
authorized to be reviewed, and the applicant will submit these copies to the
Village Engineer for review, comments and/or approval. The Village Engineer
shall review the plans for conformity to the standards set forth herein and
certify that they are consistent with the overall utility plans of the village.
After his or her review, he or she will return one of the sets with appropriate
comments to the applicant and one to the Village Clerk. The applicant, after
making any changes requested on the set of plans returned to him or her, shall
submit ten sets of the revised plans to the Village Engineer. The Village
Engineer shall review these revised plans for conformity to the comments
mentioned heretofore, and, if they have been properly made, will transmit eight
sets to other local and state reviewing agencies for issuance of construction
permits.
   (B)      Design standards.
      (1)   The following notes shall appear on the plans where applicable:
         (a)   Cast iron water main 16 inches and smaller in diameter shall be
made in accordance with the current USAS Specification A 21.6 or A 21.8 except
as to joints. Double thickness cement-lined pipe will be required.
         (b)   Joints for cast iron watermain shall be James B. Clow and Sons,
Inc., “Bell-Tite Joint,” U.S. Pipe and Foundry Company “Tyton Joint” or
approved equal.
         (c)   Ductile iron water main 24 inches and smaller shall be made in
accordance with the current ANSI-A-21.51 specification for ductile iron pipe.
Double thickness cement-lined pipe shall be used.
         (d)   Joints for ductile iron pipe shall be push-on type joints.
Fittings, valves and appurtenances may have push on, mechanical or flange type
joints.
         (e)   All prestressed concrete pressure pipe shall be manufactured and
delivered in accordance with current A.W.W.A. Standards C-301. Design of
reinforcing mesh for this specification shall be submitted for approval prior
to manufacture of pipe.
            1.   Prestressed concrete cylinder pipe with rubber and steel
joints shall be used for 16-inch through 20-inch diameter water mains.
            2.   Prestressed concrete embedded cylinder pipe with rubber and
steel joints shall be used for 24-foot diameter and larger water mains.
         (f)   All cast iron fittings and specials shall conform to all the
requirements of the Detroit Water and Sewerage Department Supply Specification
5-193 or latest revision thereof and shall be mechanical joints or push-on type
joints.
         (g)   All water mains shall be installed with a minimum cover of 5½
feet below finish grade. When water mains must dip to pass under a storm sewer
or sanitary sewer, the sections which are deeper than normal shall be kept to a
minimum length by the use of vertical 11¼° bends properly anchored.
         (h)   All workmanship and materials shall be in accordance with the
current Bingham Farms standards and specifications.
         (i)   All trenches under or within four feet of existing or proposed
pavement shoulders shall be backfilled with thoroughly compacted sand to grade
(95% maximum unit density).
         (j)   Village standard valve is right hand open.
         (k)   Hydrants to be Muller No. 24015, East Jordan Iron Works or 6 BR
Traffic Type, with two 2½-inch hose outlets and one- to 33/4-gpumper outlet.
Threads to be Detroit Fire Department Standards. Hydrants shall have mechanical
joint shoes only.
         (l)   The contractor shall disinfect and pressure test all new water
main construction.
         (m)   Before any water main will be accepted by the village, it must
be inspected and pass a pressure test of 150 psi for one hour for sizes 12
inches and under, 150 psi for two hours for sizes larger than 12 inches. Water
loss shall not exceed 50 U.S. gallons per inch of diameter per mile of pipe in
24 hours.
         (n)   Before any fire hydrants will be accepted by the village, the
fire hydrant must be brush coated with Rustoleum #1210 fire hydrant red paint
or approved equal.
      (2)   At all open drain crossings, a separate enlarged scale view is
required. A 5½-inch minimum clearance between the bottom of the drain and the
top of the water main is required. All water mains within the drain right-of-
way must be cast iron, ductile iron or prestressed concrete.
      (3)   In general, eight-inch mains shall be installed on the majority of
streets in single-family residential areas. Hydrant runoffs may be six-inch
diameter. Water mains shall be ductile iron, cast iron or prestressed concrete
mains. Cast iron or ductile iron mains must be used for hydrant assemblies and
drain crossings. The minimum size allowed in major roads is 12 inches. Twelve-
inch mains are considered to be the minimum size in commercial, office and
multiple-family residential, except in a looped system of 1,500 feet or less,
where eight-inch mains may be permitted. Water mains are to be looped whenever
possible. The ability to serve at least 1,200 gpm in single-family detached
residential, 2,000 gpm in apartment and similar complexes, institutional and
school areas, and at least 3,000 gpm in office and commercial areas is
essential. Profile view is required for 16 inches and larger water mains.
      (4)   Gate valves shall be spaced not to exceed 800-foot intervals on
distribution lines. They shall be spaced such that not more than three valves
need to be turned off to isolate any section of the water main. Sufficient
valves shall be placed such that not more than 26 homes shall be out of service
within such section of water main which can be so isolated. Where possible,
gate valves shall be located at street intersections five feet from the
intersecting street right-of-way line. All dead end mains shall be valued. In
high density, commercial or other areas, valves shall be located to provide for
not more than one hydrant out of service during any given main break.
      (5)   In single-family residential areas, hydrants shall be installed
along the water main so that all units are within 300 feet of a hydrant. In all
other areas, units must be within 250 feet of two hydrants. Hydrants shall be
installed at the ends of all dead end water mains. When near a street
intersection, hydrants shall be located 15 feet from the intersecting street
right-of-way line. In other areas, hydrants shall be located at the center of
the lot.
      (6)   When connecting to an existing water main, a tapping sleeve and
gate valve in well will be required unless connection to the existing main can
be made without interrupting service on the main. Only mechanical joint tapping
sleeves shall be used.
      (7)   On all water mains that may be extended in the future, install a
gate valve and minimum ten foot stub and plug for future connection.
      (8)   The plans shall indicate the finish grades of all hydrants and gate
well rims.
      (9)   Ten-state standards require that all water mains have minimum of
ten feet clearance between the sanitary sewer and storm drains.
      (10)   A minimum clearance of 18 inches shall be maintained between the
bottom of the water main and the top of the sanitary sewer unless special
measures are approved by the Village Engineer to comply with ten-state
standards.
(O.C. § 5.704) (Am. Ord. 268, passed 9-19-22)
Cross-reference:
   Water service, see
Ch. 51
§ 154.06 RETENTION BASINS.
   (A)   Plan submittal procedures. For village approval of retention basins,
the applicant shall furnish the Village Clerk with three sets of retention
basin plans and one set of calculations and charts, along with any required
fees and deposits. Detailed cost estimates shall be submitted concurrently. The
Clerk shall stamp two sets as authorized to be reviewed, and the applicant will
submit these copies along with the set of calculations and charts to the
Village Engineer for review, comments and/or approval. The Village Engineer
shall check the plans for conformity to the standards set forth herein and
certify that they are consistent with the design standards of the village,
after which, he or she will return one of the sets with the appropriate
comments to the applicant. The applicant, after making any changes requested on
the set of plans returned to him or her, shall submit three sets of the revised
plans to the Engineer for final approval. The Village Engineer shall review
these revised plans for conformity to the comments mentioned heretofore and, if
they have been properly made, will return one approved copy to the applicant.
The applicant shall obtain approval of the Oakland County Road Commission, the
DNR and any other agency where applicable.
   (B)   Design standards.
      (1)   Storm water retention is necessary for all developments in the
village. Waiver of this requirement will be considered by the Village Council
upon submittal of a request for waiver, in report form, stating the reasons why
a retention basin should not be necessary. Such report shall include maps,
charts and calculations prepared by a registered professional engineer,
registered in Michigan.
      (2)   Retention basins shall be designed to retain storm water for the
developed site. The applicant is not required to retain water from off-site
areas in the drainage district.
      (3)   Retention basins shall be designed to retain ten-year storm for all
sites. The Oakland County Drain Commission method shall be used. The basin
shall have a one-foot freeboard above the high water elevation and an emergency
high water overflow spillway.
      (4)   The basin shall be designed to store all runoff in excess of
agricultural runoff. A rule of thumb for determining agricultural runoff is 0.2
cfs/acre of imperviousness. It is recommended that the project engineer meet
with the Village Engineer before design is begun.
      (5)   The retention basin shall be completely fenced if side slope is one
on six or steeper. The fence shall be a six-foot high chain link. The gate
shall be 12 feet wide, double opening. The fence specifications should have all
detail information.
      (6)   The minimum side slope and beret requirements are:
         (a)   Three on one with ten feet beret area at the fence; or
         (b)   Four on one with a two feet beret area at the fence.
      (7)   If the three on one side slope is used for the retention basin, a
ramp will be necessary from the beret area to the bottom of the basin. The
minimum slope on the ramp shall be four on one. The width of the ramp shall be
20 feet at the beret area and 12 feet at the bottom of the basin.
      (8)   The bottom of the basin shall have a minimum slope of 1.0%. As an
alternate method, a 12-foot wide cunette may be constructed. A CUNETTE is a
small channel to concentrate small flow to obtain desirable velocities. The
minimum slope of the cunette shall be 0.30. The cunette shall be constructed of
six-inch thick unreinforced grade “A” concrete. The cunette shall have a cross
slope of three feet from the edge to the center. A two-foot deep footer shall
be installed along both outer edges. The cunette shall extend from inlet pipe
(s) to outlet pipe.
      (9)   The entire retention basin must be seeded or sodded. The village
will not approve the basin until turf is established. Soil erosion control
measures shall remain in place at the basin’s outlet until the turf is
established.
      (10)   Concrete rip-rap or approved equal is required at all pipe
entrances to the basin. The minimum width of the riprap shall be twice the
outside diameter of the pipe. The rip-rap shall extend from bottom of the basin
to the top of slope. Three types of materials may be used:
         (a)   Fieldstone or broken concrete of four-inch minimum thickness and
one-square foot minimum area. Broken concrete or stone shall be mortared to
form a monolithic slab with minimum thickness of four inches;
         (b)   Poured Grade “A” concrete of four-inch minimum thickness; or
         (c)   Maccaferri gabions, river type, reno mattress, size as
designated on the plans and installed per manufacturer’s recommendations.
      (11)   All pipe entering a retention basin shall have either a headwall
or end section at the end of the pipe. Bar screens must be installed on all
open ends of pipe 12 inches or larger in diameter.
      (12)   An overflow system must be provided. When possible, the overflow
shall outlet into an adequate storm sewer. There are two alternate methods:
         (a)   Using an overflow pipe. The invert elevation of this pipe shall
be above the maximum storage elevation of the basin;
         (b)   A low corner overflow. One corner of the basin shall be set at
an elevation higher than the maximum storage elevation of the basin. A defined
overflow route shall be shown, located on applicant’s property. All gates
constructed directly in front of a paved roadway shall have a “Road Ends” sign
fastened securely to the gate. Scotchlite on 0.080 aluminum Michigan Manual of
Uniform Traffic-Control Devices, sign W14-2a (30-inches by 30-inches), is
required.
      (13)   Where the drain outlet for the retention basin is not deep enough
to completely dewater the basin, pumps must be installed. The pumps shall be
installed in duplicate, with each pump capable of handling the flow. Controls
shall be set in the receiving water to regulate the flow. The controls may be:
         (a)   Electrodes placed inside a galvanized pipe stilling well at a
location adequately protected from the back water curve during discharge;
         (b)   A bubbler system in a stilling well protected as in division (1)
above. The operating controls and pump shall be set in a pump house with
adequate dimensions for working area. The pump house and wetwell must be
located inside the fenced area. Complete specifications for the pumps and
controls and performance curves for the pumps called for and must be submitted
to the Village Engineer for approval. A building permit is required for all
electrical work and for concrete structures. A manhole with inside diameter of
six feet is required between the lift station and the outlet. The discharge
lines shall be ductile iron. They shall enter the manhole, and a storm sewer
shall be installed from the manhole to the outlet. Flap gates shall be
installed on the lines from the lift station. The manhole cover shall be
E.J.I.W. No. 8247A hinged type or equivalent. A two-foot deep sump in the
manhole is required.
      (14)   The pump house and the gate(s) to the retention basin shall be
locked at all times. It shall be the owner’s responsibility to provide a lock
and keys necessary to ensure that the basin is closed until final acceptance by
the village and then furnish three key sets to the village when completed.
      (15)   A silt trap and bar screen shall precede a pumped outlet from the
retention basin. The screen clear opening shall be two-inches minimum.
      (16)   Aboveground, enclosed pump stations are preferred. Belowground
stations will be considered, using either fiberglass or concrete chambers.
Metal structures below ground are not to be used.
      (17)   Duplex pumps must be designed to a peak discharge equaling the
maximum outlet rate established by the Village Engineer when the retention area
is at the overflow elevation (point of minimum static head).
(O.C. § 5.705) (Am. Ord. 268, passed 9-19-22)
§ 154.07 GRADING AND REAR YARD DRAINAGE.
   (A)   Plan submittal procedure. For village approval of grading and rear
yard drainage, the applicant shall furnish the Village Clerk with three sets of
plans, along with any required fees and deposits. Detailed cost estimates shall
be submitted concurrently. The Village Clerk will stamp two sets as authorized
to be reviewed, and the applicant will submit these copies to the Village
Engineer for review, comments and/or approval. The Village Engineer shall
review the plans for conformity to the standards set forth herein and certify
that they are consistent with the Village Master Drainage Plan, after which he
or she will return one of the sets to the applicant with the appropriate
comments. The applicant, after making changes requested on the set of plans
returned to him or her, shall submit three sets of the revised plans to the
Engineer for final approval. The Village Engineer shall review these revised
plans for conformity to the comments mentioned heretofore and, if they have
been properly made, will return one approved copy to the applicant.
   (B)   Design standards. A grading plan is required for all developments.
Rear yard storm drainage systems are required for all residential projects.
      (1)   Grading plan. A residential development grading plan provides all
necessary information for the building contractor to establish his or her house
elevation and finish grade his or her lot so that good drainage is provided.
Specific items to be included are:
         (a)   List bench mark descriptions and elevations to be used for the
development. These must not be disturbed during construction. In nonresidential
areas, each site must have storm drainage provided to it and will be required
to have internal drainage. Provide two benchmarks within 1,000 feet of the
property;
         (b)   The practical scale for residential subdivision grade plans is
1" = 100'. This scale requires repetitive labeling to be kept to a minimum and
lettering to be small and neat.
         (c)   The grading plan shall be designed to ensure that if a failure
occurs in the storm system, water will drain away in overland swales without
flooding houses.
         (d)   Show the proposed earth elevation at the house, the first floor
elevation of the house unit and top of curb elevation at the center of each lot
to hundredths of a foot. Earth elevations at the house exterior are to be
placed in rectangular boxes drawn to dimensions comparable to a typical house
to be built in the development. These boxes are to be placed on each lot
according to the front yard setback.
         (e)   The proposed earth elevation at the house shall meet the
following condition: on lots with rear to front drainage, the earth elevation
shall be no lower than one foot above the highest point at the road elevation.
         (f)   Rear yard drainage is required in all residential developments.
         (g)   Indicate rear yard catch basins. Show the proposed castings and
invert of pipe elevation for all catch basins and manholes to the hundredths.
Catch basins are required to be at a lot corner and the catch basin elevation
shall be the only proposed elevation shown at that corner.
         (h)   Indicate perforated plastic rear yard underdrains and tees for
sump pumps where they are called for in the storm sewer plans. Use different
symbols for plastic underdrains and concrete storm sewer.
         (i)   All existing and proposed ground elevations are to be in tenths
of a foot.
         (j)   Show proposed ground elevations at all corners and grade high
points on the side property lines.
         (k)   Rear yard swales shall be no longer than 500 feet before being
intercepted by a catch basin and shall have a minimum slope of 1%. Rear yard
swales shorter than 300 feet may have a minimum slope of .6%.
         (l)   All positive low points shall have a catch basin. Storm sewer
runs from positive low points must be 12 inches or more in diameter plain joint
with pea gravel trench fill in a modified trench with fabric wrap.
         (m)   Show both the existing and proposed ground elevation at lot
corners at the subdivision boundaries. Proposed elevations shall be equal to or
lower than existing.
         (n)   Show the proposed side yard swale elevation between all houses.
This elevation must be a minimum of .5 feet below the lower adjacent earth
elevation at the house.
         (o)   Where topography prevents rear yard drainage from being
practical, rear to front drainage may drain only the specific lot in question
and the lot directly behind it. Other bordering lots shall not drain across
this lot. Lots with rear to front drainage must have swales shown around the
house with swale slopes of 1% minimum. The following swale elevations shall be
shown:
            1.   The high point of the swale(s) located generally behind the
house, a minimum of ten feet from the house and .5 feet below the earth
elevation at the house;
            2.   The swale elevation located even with the back of the house;
            3.   The swale elevation located even with the front of the house.
         (p)   All drainage directions on the lot shall be indicated with
arrows.
         (q)   Additional elevations and slopes shall be shown under special
conditions and as required by the Village Engineer.
      (2)   Rear yard storm drainage systems and footing drain outlets. The
following details and specifications will be required in all residential
projects:
         (a)   A rear yard drain shall be located in a drainage easement
provided along the rear or side lot lines as necessary. This easement shall
give access to every lot adjacent and shall total not less than 12 feet wide.
The storm sewer and under drain shall be located three feet from the property
line in the easement. Where abutting unplatted property, it shall be located
four feet from the property line.
         (b)   When under drain is used, it should be fabric wrapped and in a
fabric lined trench.
         (c)   Catch basins shall be located:
            1.   At all bends of 30° or greater;
            2.   At positive low points;
            3.   So that rear yard swales shall be no longer than 500 feet
before being intercepted by these catch basins. The minimum slope of these
swales shall be 1%;
            4.   So that rear yard swales at a minimum slope of .6% shall be no
longer than 300 feet before being intercepted by these catch basins.
         (d)   The rear yard drains must be placed with a minimum slope of .4%.
         (e)   The intermediate catch basin shall be four feet diameter and
shall have a minimum 24-inch sump. A trap is not required for these basins. The
catch basin cover shall be an E.J.I.W. No. 3000 with Type N Grate.
         (f)   No rear yard storm drainage shall be constructed until rear yard
grading is completed and approved.
         (g)   Soil erosion controls must be in place prior to work start. If
required, a soil erosion permit from Oakland County must be in hand before work
is commenced.
(O.C. § 5.706) (Am. Ord. 268, passed 9-19-22)
§ 154.08 SITE IMPROVEMENT PLANS.
      (A)   (1)   General requirements. These standards reflect the current
requirements of the village. These standards are not intended as a substitute
for good engineering judgment. All plans submitted for site plan review shall
be prepared and sealed by a registered civil engineer. Elevations must be on
U.S. G.S. Datum. Any changes required shall be made on the original drawings
and three sets of plans resubmitted for approval. Site improvement plans
submitted for review prior to a building permit application must be accompanied
by a deposit for engineering review. Detailed cost estimates for improvements
must be submitted concurrently with the plans. Plans shall be drawn to a scale
of 1" = 50' horizontal if the site is three acres or greater. A scale of 1" =
20' horizontal is required on sites less than three acres. All profile views
shall be drawn with a scale of 1" = 5' vertical. All site improvement plan
sheets shall be 24-inches by 36-inches.
      (2)   Additional requirements. In addition to all information required
under the village zoning code for site plan submittal, the following items must
be shown on the prepared plan:
         (a)   The legal property description;
         (b)   The bench marks used these may be obtained from the Village
Engineer;
         (c)   Existing grades on a 50-foot cross-section to a minimum of 50
feet beyond the site property line and sufficient intermediate grades to
determine such things as ditches, swales, adjacent pavement, buildings and
other important features;
         (d)   All existing topography;
         (e)   Off-site topography, adjacent building grades, paved parking
areas or drives (indicate direction of drainage), drains, culverts and other
pertinent features. Show typical cross-sections of existing drains or swales;
         (f)   Existing and proposed easements;
         (g)   Existing utilities (size, depth, location), manholes (rim and
inverts), culverts;
         (h)   Street rights-of-way, existing and proposed;
         (i)   Proposed topography of the site;
         (j)   Proposed surface drainage;
         (k)   Proposed elevations should be underlined or boxed in to
differentiate from existing elevations. It is expected that all hard surface
elevations, such as foundation tops, pavement and structures, be in hundredths
of a foot and all ground elevations be in tenths of a foot;
         (l)   A quantity list for all public improvements;
         (m)   A location map;
         (n)   Details of items proposed and standard notes.
   (B)   Retention. Storm retention is generally necessary for all
developments. Retention may be provided by retention basins, storage in paved
areas, or other best management practices. Storage in paved areas is most often
economical where the proposed parking area is not small in relation to the
proposed building roof area. Runoff from the roofs must be routed so that it
can be stored. Restricted catch basin covers must be used to provide storage in
the paved areas. Manhole covers with two vent holes often meet discharge
requirements. The covers are designed to let the allowable discharge of water
into the storm system. Flow calculations must be submitted for the restricted
covers specified. The flow should be calculated for the maximum storage head.
For retention basin design, see §
154.06.
   (C)   Drainage. All sites shall have internal storm drainage. Where
required, storm sewer systems shall be sized to carry off-site drainage. For
all projects, storm calculations are to be submitted, drainage districts must
be shown and the hydraulic gradient calculated. A profile view may be required
for storm sewers. The first catch basin above the public system or outlet must
be sumped and trapped.
   (D)   Grading.
      (1)   The site plan should give proposed grades at all high points,
grade-breaks and low points. It should show existing and proposed grades around
the perimeter of the site and at site corners. The proposed exterior grades at
building corners and the proposed finish floor elevation shall be shown to
hundredths of a foot.
      (2)   All building grades shall be established such that there is
positive drainage from the building to the designated drainage course. The
perimeter grades shall remain the same or be lower than existing grades, unless
tributary drainage is provided for by extending the storm sewer and installing
catch basins at the property line.
   (E)   Public water mains.
      (1)   The project engineer shall arrange a meeting with the Village
Engineer and the Chief of the Fire Department to discuss specific fire
protection needs. Fire protection line must be sized to provide the following
flows:
         (a)   3,000 G.P.M. from two hydrants for nonresidential projects;
         (b)   2,000 G.P.M. from two hydrants for multi-family and
institutional.
      (2)   Public water mains are required for fire protection purposes. The
standard size line is a minimum of 12 feet in diameter. If a looped system is
less than 1,500 feet in length, an eight-inch line may be used. Hydrant leads
longer than 60 feet must be eight inches in diameter and have an eight-inch
gate valve and well installed at the tee. In either case, cast iron pipe is
required.
      (3)   No part of the exterior of the buildings, other than dwellings,
shall be further than 250 feet from a hydrant. Distances are to be measured
along the shortest feasible exterior route (never measured through buildings)
for laying hose. Fire hydrants must be located at least 25 feet from any
exterior wall of any masonry building and at least 50 feet from any exterior
wall of frame or equivalent construction, including brick and stone veneer.
High density and high rise developments shall be provided with sufficient
valves and hydrants so located as to provide emergency exterior fire coverage
in case of water main breaks.
      (4)   All public mains must be centered in clear 12-foot wide easements
given to the village. Written descriptions of the easements will be prepared by
the project engineer and presented to the village for examination before
recording. Prior to plan approval, the project engineer shall supply a written,
detailed estimate of the cost for the water main. All public water mains
require Michigan Department of Health construction permits.
   (F)   Public sanitary sewers. If more than one building is to be served by a
sanitary sewer line, an eight-inch minimum size public sewer must be built. A
profile view is required on all sanitary sewers. All public sewers must be
centered in clear 12-foot wide easements given to the village. Written
descriptions of the easements must be prepared by the project engineer and
presented to the village for examination before recording. The Project Engineer
shall supply a written, detailed estimate of cost for the sanitary sewer prior
to plan approval. All public sanitary sewers require Michigan Department of
Health construction permits.
   (G)   Plans. Village design standards shall be used for design of all public
utility construction. One as-built Mylar copy, a minimum of three-mils thick,
of all public utility plans shall be provided to the Village Engineer prior to
final acceptance of the improvements by the village.
   (H)   Private agreements for public utilities. If a public utility is
required to be built, the following procedures must be followed before a
building permit is issued for the site: A contract for construction of
municipal improvements must be prepared and fully executed by the owner. The
agreement shall be submitted to the Village Engineer for examination. The owner
shall deposit with the Village Clerk cash, certified check or irrevocable bank
letter of credit in an amount acceptable to the village to ensure the
construction of all public improvements. The owner shall submit cash for
required fees and deposits. The agreements will be presented to the Village
Council for their approval.
   (I)   Widening lanes. Widening lanes may be required to preserve the safety
and capacity of existing roadways. In general, concrete shall be used for the
widening lane if the existing pavement is concrete. Full-depth asphalt pavement
may be used in other locations with the approval of the Village Engineer.
   (J)   Right-of-way permits. The following notes must appear on the plans as
applicable. Please adjust wording of note to apply to the specific site.
      (1)   For any work within public rights-of-way, the contractor must
secure a permit and arrange for inspection from the Village or County Road
Commission or MDOT.
      (2)   Site improvements shall be inspected and approved prior to issuance
of a certificate of occupancy. Call Village Engineer at least 48 hours ahead
for an inspection.
   (K)   Roads. All private roads within a development shall conform with the
minimum road standards and specifications of the village. In cases where
specific village standards have not been established, Oakland County Road
standards shall apply.
   (L)   Standards for parking lot and drive paving for all residential and
office developments. Pavement shall consist of the following minimum design
granular soil subbase, base courses and wearing surface courses.
      (1)   Subbase. Six-inch compacted thickness of MDOT Granular Material
Class II shall be placed except where existing soils consist of approved
granular material.
      (2)   Base course options. 
         (a)   Four-inch compacted thickness of bituminous aggregate, MDOT
Spec. 4.00, Mixture No. 500.
         (b)   Six-inch compacted thickness crushed limestone.
         (c)   Eight-inch compacted thickness of 22A gravel.
         (d)   Five-inch compacted thickness of bituminous aggregate MDOT
Mixture No. 5, with no granular subbase.
         (e)   Eight-inch crushed limestone with no granular subbase.
      (3)   Wearing courses.
         (a)   Three-inch compacted thickness of bituminous aggregate MDOT
Mixture No. 1100, 20AA where placed over gravel and limestone base courses.
         (b)   One and one-half-inch compacted thickness of bituminous
aggregate MDOT Mixture No. 1100, 20AA where placed over bitzuminous aggregate
base courses.
      (4)   Concrete pavement alternative. Six-inch thick plain concrete
pavement, MDOT Spec. 4.50, Mixture 35P with no granular subbase required.
      (5)   Minimum parking space size. See the village zoning code for minimum
parking space size.
(O.C. § 5.707) (Am. Ord. 268, passed 9-19-22)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate §
154.02(T) shall be deemed responsible for a municipal civil infraction and upon
determination of responsibility shall be punished pursuant to §
32.03 and shall be fined for a first offense in the amount of $500 and $1,000
for each repeat offense.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (A) of this section, any person who
shall violate any provision of this chapter shall be deemed responsible for a
municipal civil infraction and upon a determination of responsibility shall be
punished pursuant to §
32.03 of this code.
(Am. Ord. 157, passed 6-23-97; Am. Ord. 268, passed 9-19-22)
CHAPTER 155: SOIL REMOVAL AND LANDFILLS
Section
   
155.01   Definition
   
155.02   Permit required
   
155.03   Procedure on application for permit
   
155.04   Payment of filing fee
   
155.05   Investigation and hearing
   
155.06   Notice of hearing on application
   
155.07   Payment of permit fee on issuance of permit
   
155.08   Deposit of bond and certificate of insurance
   
155.09   Consideration by Village Council
   
155.10   Excavations
   
155.11   Stripping operations
   
155.12   Dumping operations
   
155.13   Revocation and suspension of permit
   
155.14   Expiration of permit
   
155.99   Penalty
§ 155.01 DEFINITION.
   The word SOIL as used herein shall include topsoil, subsoil, sand, gravel,
rock, stone and heavy aggregate, earth or any other material proposed to be
removed from or dumped on land within the village limits. It shall be unlawful
to remove soil from beneath any water surface or to dump soil onto any water
surface without the specific approval of the Village Council.
(O.C. § 5.381)
§ 155.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to dump on or remove or strip any soil
from any land within the village without first securing a permit from the
Village Council. No permit is required for the removing, grading or leveling of
the aforesaid materials if carried on for the immediate use or development of
the land upon which the soil is found or pursuant to a building permit issued
by the Building Inspector; provided, however, that where soil is removed from
the location where found to another location, a permit is required. No permit
is required for the dumping of 20 cubic yards of soil or less within one
calendar year upon land improved with an occupied residence, provided that such
soil is used for landscaping and/or general grounds maintenance. Any person who
shall violate this section shall be deemed responsible for a municipal civil
infraction and, upon a determination of responsibility, shall be punished
pursuant to § 32.03. The fine for violations of this section shall be $500 for
a first offense and $1,000 for each repeat offense.
(O.C. § 5.382) (Am. Ord. 157, passed 6-23-97)
§ 155.03 PROCEDURE ON APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   The application for a permit shall be filed with the Village Clerk in
quadruplicate, shall set forth the following information and shall be
accompanied by the following data:
   (A)   An identification of the applicant;
   (B)   The residence and business address of the applicant, including all
members of any firm or partnership or all officers and directors of any
corporation applying;
   (C)   A complete description and location of the property to which the
license is to apply prepared by a registered civil engineer or land surveyor;
   (D)   An estimate of the approximate number of cubic yards to be removed or
dumped, this computation to be made by a registered civil engineer or land
surveyor;
   (E)   A statement of the manner in which it is proposed to dump or excavate
and remove the soil, including the slope of the sides and the elevation of the
bottom of any excavation and the kind of equipment proposed to be employed in
the proposed dumping or removal;
   (F)   The route which the applicant proposes to use over the public streets
and over private property in transporting such materials;
   (G)   The experience of the applicant in the placement and removal of soil
and the name, address and past experience of the person to be in charge of the
proposed operations;
   (H)   The location of the place and the name, address of persons and firms
to whom the soil from an excavation is to be sold or delivered;
   (I)   Whether or not any similar permit issued to applicant has been revoked
and, if so, the circumstances of such revocation;
   (J)   The time within which such excavation or dumping is to be commenced
after the granting of said permit and the time when it is to be completed;
   (K)   Such further information as the Village Engineer or Village Council
may request;
   (L)   A topographic map of the property on which the proposed work is to be
done showing a ten-foot contour and covering an area having a radius of 300
feet from the exterior boundaries of the site;
   (M)   A resident homeowner wishing to landscape the property upon which a
single-family residence is located and requiring more than 20 cubic yards of
soil to be dumped or removed may request a waiver of any or all of the
foregoing requirements and of the fees required by this chapter. The request
should be accompanied by data indicating the extent of the work to be done and
acknowledgments from owners of property adjoining the petitioner's indicating
that they have been informed of the proposed work. The Village Council upon
determining that the proposed work will not cause problems or effect a major
grade change may grant a waiver of any or all of the above requirements and/or
the payment of any fee as a condition of obtaining a permit.
(O.C. § 5.383)
§ 155.04 PAYMENT OF FILING FEE.
   At the time of filing the application for permit, the applicant shall pay a
filing fee of $150, said sum is to be used to defray the cost of engineering
services, investigations, publication charges and other miscellaneous expenses
occasioned by processing such application.
(O.C. § 5.384)
§ 155.05 INVESTIGATION AND HEARING.
   Upon the filing of an application for a permit, two copies thereof shall be
delivered to the Village Building Inspector. The Village Building Inspector
shall make an investigation of the facts set forth in the application and shall
make a report of his or her investigation, together with his or her
recommendations, to the Village Council. The Council shall act upon said
application at a hearing set by the Council. Such hearing may be continued from
time to time as the circumstances may require.
(O.C. § 5.385)
§ 155.06 NOTICE OF HEARING ON APPLICATION.
   Notice of hearing on the application shall be given by the Village Clerk by
publishing a notice thereof in a local paper designated for that purpose at
least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing and by mailing a copy
thereof addressed to the applicant and to the owners of the property, as appear
on the last assessment rolls of the County of Oakland, within 500-feet radius
of the exterior boundaries of the proposed site, at least five days prior to
the date set for the hearing. The notice shall contain a statement of the time
and place of the hearing, the name of the applicant, a general description of
the premises where the applicant proposes to do the work and a general
statement of the size and nature of the proposed excavation or dumping area.
(O.C. § 5.386)
§ 155.07 PAYMENT OF PERMIT FEE ON ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   At the time of the issuance of the permit, the applicant shall pay a permit
fee to cover the expenses of inspection of $.01 for each cubic yard estimated
in the application to be removed or dumped. At any time that the number of
cubic yards removed or dumped equal the number of cubic yards set forth in the
estimate filed with the original application, the permit granted shall
terminate and no further materials may be removed from or dumped on the site
until a new application has been filed and a permit granted in the same manner
as the original application and permit. The fees and/or costs heretofore
mentioned in this chapter shall not exempt the applicant from payment of any
fees and/or costs required by the City of Southfield or the Village of Bingham
Farms under any other ordinances.
(O.C. § 5.387)
§ 155.08 DEPOSIT OF BOND AND CERTIFICATE OF INSURANCE.
   Prior to the issuance of a permit, the applicant shall provide the village
with a surety bond, in an amount to be fixed by the Village Council, inuring to
the benefit of the Village of Bingham Farms conditioned upon the applicant
faithfully performing all of the conditions and requirements under which the
permit is issued. The applicant shall also provide the certificate of a
licensed insurance company, in an amount reasonably relevant to the proposed
work to be done, insuring the village and the public against any loss or damage
to persons or property arising directly or indirectly from the operations of
the applicant or any persons acting in his or her behalf in carrying on any
work connected directly or indirectly with the issuance of said permit.
(O.C. § 5.388)
§ 155.09 CONSIDERATION BY VILLAGE COUNCIL.
   (A)   The Village Council shall approve the issuance of a permit only upon
determining that all provisions of this chapter have been complied with, that
the information provided by the applicant indicates that the proposed work will
be performed expeditiously and in such manner as to not adversely affect the
health, welfare and safety of the public and will create no nuisance or hazard.
   (B)   Any permit shall be denied if it appears from the investigation
thereof that the project would remove lateral and subjacent support of the
adjacent land and result in a nuisance dangerous to public safety or that it
otherwise would in any manner endanger the public health, morals and prevent
the preservation of natural resources or be detrimental to the general public
welfare.
(O.C. § 5.389)
§ 155.10 EXCAVATIONS.
   (A)   Any person to whom a permit is issued authorizing the making of an
excavation shall comply with the following:
      (1)   All vehicles transporting soil or other materials from such
excavation over the public streets of the village shall travel only directly
over such route as may be directed by the Village Road Commissioner to be least
dangerous to public safety, cause the least interference with general traffic
and cause the least damage to the public street;
      (2)   The bottom of any such excavation shall not be lower than the level
thereof as set forth in the application;
      (3)   If the Village Building Inspector determines that any excavation
will present a dangerous condition if left open, he or she shall order that
such excavation be enclosed by a chain link or wire mesh fence completely
surrounding the portion of the site where the excavation extends, said fence to
be not less than five feet in height complete with gates which shall be kept
locked when operations are not being carried on. Barbed wire shall not be used.
So-called “snow fencing” is permitted where the excavation is intended for
installation of utilities or for residential construction;
      (4)   Any soil that may be deposited on any public street or place from
any vehicle transporting such materials from any such excavation shall be
immediately removed in a manner satisfactory to the Village Road Commissioner
at the expense of the person to whom the permit is issued;
      (5)   Any road used for the purpose of ingress and egress to the
excavation site which is located within 300 feet of occupied residences shall
be kept free of dust by hard topping with concrete, bituminous substance or
chemical treatment;
      (6)   Except where the excavation is made for the purpose of residential
construction or the installation of utilities, the slopes of the banks of the
excavation shall in no event exceed a minimum of five feet to one foot (five
feet horizontal and one foot vertical), and where ponded water results from the
operation, this slope must be maintained and extended into the water to a depth
of three feet;
      (7)   Where work authorized by a permit results in a body of water being
formed, the permittee shall place appropriate “KEEP OUT - DANGER” signs around
said premises not more than 100 feet apart. Such excavation shall not be
allowed to remain longer than 90 days from date of issuance of permit;
      (8)   No permanent cut or excavation shall be made closer than 50 feet
from the nearest street or highway right-of-way nor nearer than 40 feet to the
nearest property line; provided, however, that the Village Council may
prescribe more strict requirements in order to give sublittoral support to
surrounding property where soil or topographic conditions warrant it;
      (9)   No person shall operate a gravel or sand mining pit;
      (10)   During the period in which excavation is being made, no person,
firm or corporation shall allow puddles or pools of water to form and become
stagnant.
   (B)   The Village Council shall require such other performance standards
where, because of peculiar conditions, it deems it necessary for the protection
of health, safety, morals, preservation of natural resources and well being of
the citizens of the village.
(O.C. § 5.390)
§ 155.11 STRIPPING OPERATIONS.
   Any person to whom any permit is issued for the removal of soil shall comply
with the following:
   (A)   No soil or other material shall be removed below a point six inches
above the mean elevation of the centerline of the nearest existing proposed
street or road established or maintained by the village, county or state,
except as required for the installation of utilities and pavements;
   (B)   No soil shall be removed in such a manner as to cause water to collect
or to result in a place of danger or a menace to the public health. The
premises shall at all times be graded so that surface water drainage is not
interfered with;
   (C)   Sufficient top soil shall be stockpiled on said site so that the
entire site, when operations are completed, may be recovered with a minimum of
six inches of top soil, and the replacement of such top soil shall be made
immediately following the termination of the removal operations. In the event,
however, that such removal operations continue over a period of time greater
than 30 days, the operator shall replace the stored top soil over the stripped
areas as he or she progresses;
   (D)   The Village Council shall impose such other and further requirements
as it deems necessary in the interest of the public health, safety, morals,
preservation of natural resources and general welfare of the citizens of the
village.
(O.C. § 5.391)
§ 155.12 DUMPING OPERATIONS.
   Any person to whom any permit is issued for dumping operations shall comply
with the following:
   (A)   Within six months following dumping, this land upon which the dumping
has taken place must be graded in such manner as to prevent the collection of
water, to provide drainage and to leave the ground surface fit for the growing
of turf;
   (B)   No soil or other material shall be dumped on the spillways or flood
plains of any natural or artificial streams or water courses or any area
between the upper and lower banks of such streams or watercourses, except on
the approval of the Village Council after a public hearing and on a
satisfactory showing that such dumping will not result in damage to other
property within the limits of the Village of Bingham Farms and will not be
detrimental to the public health, safety, preservation of natural resources or
welfare;
   (C)   Waste and rubbish dumping shall meet the requirements of this section
and all other requirements of the Charter and this code of ordinances.
(O.C. § 5.392)
§ 155.13 REVOCATION AND SUSPENSION OF PERMIT.
   Any permit issued under this chapter may be revoked or suspended for failure
to comply with any of the provisions hereof. Revocation of such permit shall be
made only upon a hearing granted to the holder of the permit held before the
Village Council after five-days' notice to such permit holder stating the
grounds of complaint against permittee and giving the time and place where such
hearing will be held. If Village Council shall determine that protection of the
public health, safety or welfare requires it, the Village Council may suspend
any permit granted hereunder pending the hearing. Such revocation or suspension
of any permit shall be in addition to the penalties provided herein.
(O.C. § 5.393)
§ 155.14 EXPIRATION OF PERMIT.
   In the event that any work for which a permit has been granted is not
commenced within three months from the date of granting the permit or in the
event work is started on excavations pursuant thereto and said work is
abandoned for a period of three months, the permit shall automatically expire
and cease to be valid for any purpose.
(O.C. § 5.394)
§ 155.99 PENALTY.
   Unless otherwise specified, any violation of the provisions of this chapter
shall be deemed to be hazardous to the health and welfare of the residents of
the Village of Bingham Farms and constitute a nuisance per se. Any person
violating the provisions hereof shall be punished as prescribed in § 32.03 of
this code. In addition to the municipal civil infraction penalty, a violation
of the provisions of this chapter may be enforced through action brought by the
village in the Circuit Court for the County of Oakland, Michigan, for abatement
of the violation.
(O.C. § 5.395) (Am. Ord. 157, passed 6-23-97)
CHAPTER 156: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
Subdividing Platted Lots
   
156.01   Authorization to divide platted parcels of land
   
156.02   Procedure for dividing lots
   
156.03   Access to lots in plats
Subdividing Unplatted Lands
   
156.20   Purpose
   
156.21   Council approval; procedure and requirements
   
156.22   Standards for private easement roads
   
156.23   Procedure
   
156.24   Application; required information
   
156.25   Procedure when construction required
   
156.26   Additional material to be filed
   
156.27   Final approval, submission by Clerk
   
156.28   Permits and fees
SUBDIVIDING PLATTED LOTS
§ 156.01 AUTHORIZATION TO DIVIDE PLATTED PARCELS OF LAND.
   A lot, outlot or other parcel of land in a recorded plat may be further
partitioned or divided into not more than four parts in accordance with the
provisions of Public Act 288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 through
560.293, and the procedure therefor established herein, subject to the
following minimum lot standards, to-wit:
   (A)   The minimum lot size of any lot, outlot or other parcel of land in a
recorded plat shall be in accordance with the applicable requirements of the
village zoning code , except when the partitioning or dividing of such land is
for the immediate development and use of such divided or partitioned land in
conjunction with the adjoining lot, outlot or parcel in conformity with the
requirements of the village zoning code ;
   (B)   Any such lot, outlot or parcel that is of minimum lot size that has
sewer or water available to it shall be connected to such facilities prior to
when such partition or division or suitable provision is made for any
connection by filing of a cash bond with the village to assure same.
(O.C. § 5.421)
§ 156.02 PROCEDURE FOR DIVIDING LOTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to divide or partition any lot, outlot
or other parcel of land in a recorded plat except in accordance with the
following procedure.
   (A)   The applicant shall deliver a written instrument fully executed in
form legally sufficient for recording with the County Register of Deeds to the
Council for its approval. Such instrument shall contain the legal description
of the partition or division of the parcel described therein. Accompanying such
instrument shall be a policy of title insurance issued by a company doing title
work in Oakland County, which policy of title insurance shall disclose that the
person or persons executing the instrument are the owners in fee title to the
property described. If the division or partition of the parcel will result in a
minimum lot size less than the requirements of the applicable provisions of the
village zoning code , then the applicant shall deliver in addition a fully
executed affidavit in form legally sufficient for recording with the County
Register of Deeds and signed by all persons who have a legal or equitable
interest in the parcel acknowledging that they understand and agree the
partitioned or divided parcel or parcels may not thereafter be developed or
used separately but only in conjunction with the adjoining parcels of land,
such to be covenant running with the land and such land to be and remain in
common ownership.
   (B)   The review by the Village Council shall be to determine that the
public health, safety and welfare will not be injured by such partition or
division.
   (C)   The applicant shall pay the cost of recording such instrument or
instruments as the case may be.
   (D)   The applicant shall also submit a plan or drawing drawn to scale by a
registered engineer or surveyor showing the subject property, including
dimensions, and also adjoining property for at least 300 feet in all directions
from subject property so as to adequately portray the relationship of subject
and adjoining property. All existing buildings and structures shall be located
on said plan or drawing. The Village Council may also require the applicant to
furnish it with such additional data as will enable the Village Council to
decide the matter.
(O.C. § 5.422)
§ 156.03 ACCESS TO LOTS IN PLATS.
   Access to lots in any plat recorded in the village, subject to approval by
the Village Council, may be by a delineated private way or by private easement.
The village shall assume no responsibility or liability for the maintenance
and/or accessibility of any such private way or easement delineated on such
approved plat.
(O.C. § 5.423)
SUBDIVIDING UNPLATTED LANDS
§ 156.20 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter is enacted in order to maintain an orderly development of
the community and provide for the health, safety and welfare of the residents
and property owners of the village and to regulate the division and
partitioning of land in the village which is not otherwise subject to platting
procedures and requirements.
(O.C. § 5.600)
§ 156.21 COUNCIL APPROVAL; PROCEDURE AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall partition or divide any parcel of land within the
corporate limits of the village until such division is approved by the Village
Council. To this end, all plans and applications for such shall be submitted to
the village for review and approval, for consideration of the general layout,
accessibility to parcels divided and compliance with all code requirements of
the village. The application and plans shall be referred to the Planning
Commission and to the Village Engineer for their comments and approval prior to
placing the application on the agenda of the Village Council.
   (B)   All divisions of unplatted land shall meet the following requirements.
      (1)   Any parcel of land resulting from a division of lands pursuant to
this subchapter which does not abut a public road shall abut a private road
which shall be constructed in accordance with the village engineering design
standards and shall be located in an easement not less than 60 feet wide,
except in the case where one residentially zoned parcel is split into two such
parcels, one of which does not abut a public road, there shall be provided a
driveway easement of not less than 20 feet in width to a public road. If any
property which has been split subject to this exception is at any later date
split again, the exception will not apply and a private road shall be required
pursuant to the terms of this section.
      (2)   The minimum parcel size in area and the minimum front lot line
width of any parcel of land shall be in compliance with the applicable
requirements of the zoning ordinance. The minimum lot size in area shall be
exclusive of all dedicated road rights-of-way.
      (3)   Any due or unpaid taxes or special assessments upon the property
shall be paid.
      (4)   All parcels resulting from a land division pursuant to this
subchapter shall be provided with access to water, sewer, electrical and
communication utilities adjacent to said parcels in public roads or in
easements granted to the village or to the Oakland County Department of Public
Works.
(O.C. § 5.601)
§ 156.22 STANDARDS FOR PRIVATE EASEMENT ROADS.
   (A)   All single-family residential private easement roads serving 16 units
or less but more than one unit shall be constructed in conformance with current
Oakland County Road Commission Standards for full depth asphalt roads or
equivalent concrete roads and shall be located on perpetual easements for
roadway and public utility purposes. Private easement roads for developments
with lots exceeding 1½ acres and having a minimum frontage of 200 feet may be
constructed with open ditch drainage.
   (B)   All other single-family residential and all commercial multiple-family
or other private easement roads shall be in conformance with current Oakland
County Road Commission standards for full depth asphalt or concrete with curb
and gutters and storm drainage and shall be located on perpetual easements for
roadway and public utility purposes.
(O.C. § 5.602)
§ 156.23 PROCEDURE.
   Persons seeking approval of a land division shall:
   (A)   File an application for a parcel split with the village and pay the
required fees and deposits;
   (B)   Provide proof of ownership or written consent of owner;
   (C)   Provide drawings of the proposed land division, drawn on 24-inch by
36-inch sheets, sealed by a registered civil engineer and shall be eligible for
recording under Public Act 228 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 through
560.293.
(O.C. § 5.603)
§ 156.24 APPLICATION; REQUIRED INFORMATION.
   (A)   Thirteen copies of the division plan prepared by a registered civil
engineer in a scale of at least 1” = 100' shall be submitted to the Village
Clerk who shall forward nine copies to the Planning Commission, three copies to
the Village Engineer for review and shall retain one copy.
   (B)   The plans shall include the following information:
      (1)   Parcel identification number and/or legal description;
      (2)   A location map showing the general relationship area the proposed
property division to the surrounding area within one-half mile in a scale not
less than 1” = 2000';
      (3)   Proposed lines of division and dimensions;
      (4)   Locations, widths and names of existing or prior easements of
record, public and private;
      (5)   Location of existing sanitary sewers, water mains, storm drains and
other underground facilities;
      (6)   Topography drawn at contour intervals of four feet covering the
parcel and an area 100 feet beyond the parcel boundaries in all directions;
      (7)   Location of significant natural features such as streams, wetlands,
slopes over 20%, stands of trees, scenic views and geologic features. Location
of individual trees, apart from stands of trees, having a caliper of 12 inches
or greater shall be indicated within the area of proposed road construction;
      (8)   Proposed easements for utilities;
      (9)   Layout of any private road indicating easement width and
connections to adjoining rights-of-way;
      (10)   Locations of proposed home sites, including elevations;
      (11)   Delineation of any proposed road right-of-way to be dedicated to
the village or the Oakland County Road Commission;
      (12)   Provisions for storm drainage and retention;
      (13)   Each parcel shall have one lot line designated as the front lot
line for the purposes of applying the village zoning ordinance to said parcel.
(O.C. § 5.604)
§ 156.25 PROCEDURE WHEN CONSTRUCTION REQUIRED.
   Upon reviewing concept approval by the Village Council, the owner may
proceed with preparation of construction plans if such are required in
accordance with the village engineering design standards. Upon completion of
the construction of roads and utilities and a statement from the Village
Engineer that they are in accordance with the plans approved by the Village
Council, the owner can request final approval by the Council.
(O.C. § 5.605)
§ 156.26 ADDITIONAL MATERIAL TO BE FILED.
   The following information shall be submitted to the Village Clerk at least
14 days prior to the Council meeting at which final approval of an application
is to be considered:.
   (A)   Eight copies of recorded land survey;
   (B)   Two copies of recorded road maintenance agreements, if any;
   (C)   Two copies of recorded deed restrictions and easements, if any.
(O.C. § 5.606)
§ 156.27 FINAL APPROVAL; SUBMISSION BY CLERK.
   If the provisions of this chapter and other applicable code provisions have
been complied with, the Village Council shall give final approval to the land
division. Upon approval, the Village Clerk shall submit a copy of the recorded
survey to the Oakland County Equalization Department to acquire a tax split and
Sidwell numbers for the new parcels.
(O.C. § 5.607)
§ 156.28 PERMITS AND FEES.
   (A)   No building or occupancy permits shall be issued by the Building
Department for the use of any parcel of land which has resulted from a division
or partition without the approvals required by this chapter.
   (B)   Fees to be charged pursuant to this chapter shall be as set by
resolution of the Village Council.
(O.C. § 5.608)
CHAPTER 157: ZONING CODE
Section
   
157.01   Zoning ordinance incorporated by reference
§ 157.01 ZONING ORDINANCE INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   On December 16, 2019, the Village Council approved a new version of
the zoning ordinance. It is easy to read and better organized with many
hyperlinks. It includes searchable words and phrases, vivid diagrams and charts
that clarify and illustrate the zoning code.
   (B)   The new zoning ordinance is hereby incorporated by reference as if set
forth in full herein. Hard copies of the zoning ordinance can be reviewed in
the village office weekdays during regular office hours. A digital version of
the zoning ordinance can be accessed at: https://www.binghamfarms.org/
government/master_plan/index.php
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
Table
   
I.   FRANCHISES
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Granting to MCI Metro Access Transmission Services, Inc.,
150      11-27-95    a Delaware Corporation, a franchise to construct and
                     operate a telecommunications system for a term of five
                     years.
                     Granting to Metropolitan Fiber Systems of Detroit, Inc., a
154      2-24-97     Delaware Corporation, a franchise to construct and operate
                     a telecommunications system for a term of five years.
                     Granting to Consumers Energy Company, a franchise to lay,
259      1-25-21     maintain and commercially operate gas lines and facilities
                     and to conduct a local gas business for a period of 10
                     years.
 
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Michigan Compiled Laws Annotated
References to Michigan Compiled Laws
References to Michigan Statutes Annotated
References to Old Code of Ordinances
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MICHIGAN COMPILED LAWS ANNOTATED
M.C.L.A. Section Code Section
M.C.L.A. Section    Code Section
73.23 et seq.       92.01
78.24a              Adopting Ordinance
123.731–123.786   52.01,
                    52.40
247.183             96.026
287.321 et seq.     94.07
287.651 et seq.     94.13
324.910 et seq.     96.032
324.11103 et seq.   50.01
333.1101 et seq.    110.99,
                    131.01
333.6107            110.99
333.7104            131.01
333.12751–333.127552.20
408.1001 et seq.    116.28
436.1101 et seq.    110.04 
445.481 et seq.     112.02,
                    112.05
460.701 et seq.     96.032
484.4               96.030
                    156.01, 156.23600.5001 et seq.
560.101–560.293    
                    113.058
600.5001 et seq.    113.058
600.8701 et seq.    96.048,
                    151.99
600.8709            32.04
750.50(1)           94.04
750.50(2)           94.11
750.57              94.13
750.467             94.13
750.471             94.13
750.493d            95.09
750.535 et seq.     112.05
                    
 
REFERENCES TO MICHIGAN COMPILED LAWS
M.C.L. Section Code Section
M.C.L. Section    Code Section
15.231 et seq.    54.03,
                  113.132
41.806a           33.01
257.1 et seq.  131.24
257.1–257.923   70.01
323.1 et seq.     52.81
324.20101 et seq. 33.01 ,
                  33.03
                  116.01,
                  116.02,
333.17951 et seq. 116.05,
                  116.20,
                  116.21
333.27951 et seq. 114.01,
                  131.20
460.1301 et seq.  54.01
460.1317          54.03
484.310           54.02
769.1f            33.01
                  
 
REFERENCES TO MICHIGAN STATUTES ANNOTATED
 
M.S.A. Section    Code Section
3.521 et seq.     52.81
4.1801(1) et seq. 113.132
27A.5001 et seq.  113.058
                  
 
REFERENCES TO OLD CODE OF ORDINANCES
Old Code Section 2002 Code Section
Old Code Section 2002 Code Section
1.12             30.05
1.31             30.15
1.32             30.16
1.33             30.17
1.34             30.18
1.35             30.19
1.36             30.20
1.37             30.21
1.38             30.22
1.39             30.23
1.40             30.24
1.41             30.25
1.42             30.26
1.43             30.27
1.44             30.28
1.45             30.29
2.1              50.01
2.2              50.02
2.3              50.03
2.4              50.99
2.7(1)           51.13
2.7(2)           51.99
2.21             51.01
2.22(1)          51.02
2.22(2)          51.03
2.22(3)          51.04
2.22(4)          51.05
2.23             51.06
2.24             51.07
2.26             51.09
2.41             52.01
2.42(1)          52.02
2.42(2)          52.03
2.42(3)          52.04
2.42(4)          52.05
2.42(5)          52.06
2.43             52.20
2.44             52.21
2.45             52.22
2.46             52.23
2.47             52.24
2.48             52.25
2.49             52.07
2.50             52.99
2.81             52.40
2.82(1)          52.41
2.82(2)          52.43
2.82(3)          52.44
2.82(4)          52.45
2.83             52.48
2.84             52.49
2.85             52.50
2.86             52.51
4.1              96.001
4.2              96.002
4.3              96.003
4.4              96.004
4.5              96.005
4.6              96.006
4.7              96.007
4.8              96.008
4.9              96.012
4.10             96.008
4.11             96.010
4.12             96.011
5.81             98.01
5.82             98.02
5.83             98.03
5.84             98.04
5.85             98.05
5.301            152.01
5.302            152.02
5.303            152.03
5.304            152.04
5.305            152.05
5.381            155.01
5.382            155.02
5.383            155.03
5.384            155.04
5.385            155.05
5.386            155.06
5.387            155.07
5.388            155.08
5.389            155.09
5.390            155.10
5.391            155.11
5.392            155.12
5.393            155.13
5.394            155.14
5.395            155.99
5.421            156.01
5.422            156.02
5.423            156.03
5.600            156.20
5.601            156.21
5.602            156.22
5.603            156.23
5.604            156.24
5.605            156.25
5.606            156.26
5.607            156.27
5.608            156.28
5.701            154.02
5.702            154.03
5.703            154.04
5.704            154.05
5.705            154.06
5.706            154.07
5.707            154.08
6.1              95.01
6.2              95.02
6.3              95.03
6.4              95.04
6.5              95.05
6.6              95.06
6.7              95.07
6.8              95.08
6.9              95.20
6.10             95.21
6.11             95.22
6.12             95.09
7.1              111.01,
                 111.02
7.2              111.03
7.3              111.04
7.4              111.05
7.5              111.06
7.6              111.07
7.7              111.08
7.8              111.09
7.9              111.10
7.10             111.11
7.11             111.12
7.12             111.13
7.21             112.01
7.22             112.02
7.23             112.03
7.24             112.04
7.25             112.05
8.51             150.20
8.52             150.21
8.53             150.22
8.54             150.23
8.55             150.24
8.56             150.25
8.57             150.26
8.58             150.26
9.3              130.02
9.4              130.03
9.5              130.04
9.6              130.05
9.7              130.06
9.9              130.08
9.10             130.10
9.11             130.09
9.31             131.01
9.32             131.02
9.33             131.03
9.34             131.04
9.35             131.05
9.36             131.06
9.37             131.07
9.38             131.08
9.39             131.09
9.61             132.01
9.62             132.02
9.81             110.01
9.82             110.02
9.83             110.03
9.84             110.04
9.85             110.99
9.101            94.01
9.102            94.02
9.151            31.01
9.152            31.02
9.153            31.03
9.171            132.02
9.172            132.16
9.173            132.17
9.181            91.01
9.182            91.02
9.183            91.03
9.184            91.04
9.185            91.04
9.186            91.04
9.201            92.01
9.202            92.02
9.203            92.03
9.204            92.04
9.205            92.05
9.206            92.06
9.221            90.01
9.222            90.02
9.223            90.03
Ch. 57 (part)    154.01
                 
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
                     113.001, 
                     113.002, 
                     113.015-
                     113.021, 
                     113.035, 
                     113.036, 
                     113.050-
                     113.058, 
–      - - -       113.070-
                     113.093, 
                     113.105-
                     113.111, 
                     113.125-
                     113.142, 
                     113.155-
                     113.159, 
                     113.170-
                     113.182
                     50.01, 
132      10-28-92    50.04-
                     50.06
133      9-23-91     30.01
135      1-30-92     52.08 
138      1-25-93     30.02
140      9-27-93     92.01
142      - - -       50.01, 
                     50.03
144      1-24-94     30.04
148      3-27-95     51.10–
                     51.12
149      - - -       12-20-93
150      11-27-95    TSO-I
151      - - -       96.075–
                     96.084
154      2-24-97     TSO-I
156      5-27-97     30.03
                     91.99, 
                     96.012, 
                     111.99, 
                     130.10, 
157      6-23-97     130.99, 
                     132.99, 
                     153.08, 
                     154.99, 
                     155.02,;
                     155.99
                     32.01–
                     32.05, 
158      6-23-97     50.02, 
                     50.99, 
                     51.99
159      8-4-97      96.060–
                     96.062
159A     9-25-00     96.061
                     95.35–
160      8-25-97     95.37, 
                     95.99
161      11-27-97    51.08
163      2-28-00     96.045–
                     96.049
                     53.01–
                     53.05, 
                     53.20-
164      4-17-00     53.23, 
                     53.35-
                     53.55, 
                     53.65-
                     53.71
                     151.01–
                     151.03, 
                     151.15-
                     151.19, 
165A     7-24-00     151.30-
                     151.33, 
                     151.45-
                     151.51, 
                     151.99
166      10-23-00    98.04
167      10-23-00    98.03
168      - - -       150.40–
                     150.42
169      11-27-00    96.025–
                     96.035
170      6-25-01     113.155
171      7-23-01     150.01–
                     150.04
                     52.80–
172      10-22-01    52.84,
                     52.99, 
                     Ch. 52, App.
173      11-26-01    150.55–
                     150.57
174      5-28-02     51.08
175      6-24-02     70.01
176      7-22-02     30.35–
                     30.40
177      8-26-02     92.01
178      8-26-02     51.09, 
                     52.07
                     94.01–
                     94.15, 
                     94.25-
179      8-26-02     94.29, 
                     94.40-
                     94.45, 
                     94.99
180      10-28-02    Adopting Ordinance
182      1-27-03     98.02 -
                     98.04
183      1-27-03     91.04
186      10-27-03    150.70 -
                     150.76
                     97.01 -
187      11-24-03    97.03,
                     97.05
                     93.01 -
189      8-23-04     93.10,
                     93.12
190      9-27-04     51.09;
                     52.09
192      11-22-04    97.04,
                     97.05
195      9-26-05     95.10
                     150.02,
200      7-24-06     150.05,
                     150.06
202      1-22-07     97.02,
                     97.03
                     95.35–
205      6-25-07     95.37,
                     95.99
207      8-27-07     98.04
                     52.57,
212      12-22-08    52.59,
                     Ch. 52, Apps. A -
                     C
                     157.007,
213      10-26-09    157.050,
                     157.051
214      10-26-09    111.05
215      11-23-09    150.55–
                     150.57
217      2-22-10     33.01–
                     33.06
219      6-27-11     152.01–
                     152.06
223      10-22-12    98.03,
                     98.04
225      6-24-13     150.24
227      6-24-13     93.11,
                     93.12
228      9-23-13     98.03,
                     98.04
230      3-24-14     96.045 -
                     96.047
233      1-26-15     98.01 -
                     98.05
239      9-26-16     95.21
240      12-29-16    152.02
241      12-29-16    91.01,
                     91.04
243      6-26-17     91.04
244      6-26-17     98.03,
                     98.04
245      8-28-17     98.03,
                     98.04
246      1-22-18     98.01 -
                     98.08
249      11-26-18    114.01,
                     114.02
250      1-28-19     131.20 -
                     131.24
                     115.01 -
251      8-26-19     115.15,
                     115.99
                     52.40 -
                     52.42,
                     52.46,
252      12-16-19    52.47,
                     52.51 -
                     52.68,
                     52.99
                     116.01 -
255      6-22-20     116.11,
                     116.20 -
                     116.33
258      11-23-20    150.07
259      1-25-21     TSO I
                     10.05,
260      4-26-21     10.06,
                     10.09,
                     10.11
                     30.03,
                     31.01,
261      4-26-21     31.02,
                     32.03,
                     32.04,
                     33.01
262      4-26-21     91.04
264      10-25-21    30.36
267      9-19-22     52.40 -
                     52.68
                     154.01 -
268      9-19-22     154.08,
                     154.99
269      11-28-22    34.01
271      9-19-23     54.01 -
                     54.08
                     98.02 -
273      4-22-24     98.04,
                     98.06,
                     98.07
276      5-20-24     93.04
277      8-26-24     96.011
                    
 
